06-08-2021||Calcutta||From none to nine||I t was the year 1978 when both the Labony Estate post office and I made Salt Lake our home. The township in those days was a far cry from the bustling place that it is today. Except for Sector I and some parts of Sector II, there was hardly any habitation in the other areas. The major landmarks were Karunamoyee Housing Estate on the southern fringe and PNB at the entry point. All nearby areas were known by tank numbers! I was a student in those days and my mother sent me to the post office to buy a few aerogrammes. I still remember I used to walk to Salt Lake Post office from our AE Block home. Who knew that one day I would be joining the department of posts! In those days, the township had very few post offices. The Salt Lake Post Office near PNB was the first post office, later rechristened as Bidhannagar sub post office. Incidentally it is still housed in the same rented building at AB33. In the early days, a mail peon would fetch mail from the Sreebhoomi post office and carry it on a bicycle to Salt Lake post office. Labony Estate, Sech Bhawan and AE Market post offices were established thereafter. CC Block post office was the first in the township to have its own spacious departmental building. It was inaugurated by Prasanta Sur, the then UD minister, government of West Bengal, on July 5, 1984. The government in those days had decided that along with a market in every sector there would also be a post office. Sech Bhawan Post office was set up in a state government building and later converted into a delivery post office. By now, Salt Lake had quite a few post offices but as more and more residents started moving in, demand grew manifold and the inadequate postal service could not cope with the mounting pressure. One must remember this was before the advent of e-mail and the only means of communication were letters and phone calls. Moreover, with attractive interest rates the residents made a beeline for small savings. Sech Bhawan and CC Block Post offices did delivery work but with restrictions on recruitment, the postmen were a scarce resource and the few who were on duty could not cover all the areas for delivery. When the Purbachal Housing Estate came up, again a huge clamour grew for a new post office in that area. By then, I had already joined the Indian Postal Service for 11 years and at that time, was director, Calcutta region. A large delegation came to meet me at my Yogayog Bhawan office and handed over a memorandum, demanding a post office in Purbachal. Eventually we could manage to find space inside the society and a post office was set up. The Purbachal post office was inaugurated by the then finance minister of West Bengal Asim Dasgupta in a grand function on July 30, 1998 in the presence of the then chairman of Bidhannagar municipality Dilip Gupta. The residents of Purbachal were very happy and thanked me profusely for the brand-new post office. A record number of savings bank accounts were opened on the first day! At present, there are nine post offices in Salt Lake. In my various interactions with the senior postmen in the township, I have been told that in those days the residents of Salt Lake were mostly educated and prominent bureaucrats and professionals. Therefore, the staff had to be courteous and provide cutting-edge service. In the early 80s, Salt Lake was also a tony address with a sizable number of working couples. The postmen had such friendly relationship with the residents that they would leave an informal intimation and the residents would pick up their letters or parcels at their convenience, a practice which was formalised much later. It is unfortunate that such personal relationships are a thing of the past. A post office needs reasonable space to provide all its services to the customers. In Salt Lake, CC Block post office offers all services such as Aadhaar enrolment, speed post, saving bank and ATM facility because it is housed in its own building. Over the years, many Post Masters General have tried to modernise the rented post office buildings with limited budget and provide a pleasant public space. Ergonomics and comfort for customers on public premises was a foreign concept in our country. Public offices are dark and dingy because we rarely do town planning and when a planned township does come up, the planners fail to earmark land for public utilities such as post offices. However, in Salt Lake a plot was allotted for the post office and we can look forward to a new and modern Sech Bhawan post office building soon! “The post-office is a wonderful establishment! The regularity and dispatch of it! If one thinks of all that it has to do, and all that it does so well, it is really astonishing!” So said Jane Austen, the famous novelist. In the present age, people may or may not share her views as communication has undergone a sea change and citizens may not need postal services frequently but the post office in its modern avatar, with E-com delivery and India Post Payments Bank, has reinvented itself and remains a mandatory public utility. Mailmen to the rescue The pandemic showed us how relevant the post office is even today. During the nation-wide COVID-19 lockdown in 2020 when the entire country shut down, the post offices remained open. In such a scenario, as director general (postal services), based in Delhi, I was finding it extremely difficult to connect the country and ensure delivery in the absence of passenger flights, trains and road transport, which had closed operations. One day I got a frantic call from a Covid-19 test kit manufacturer who wanted to send his samples to some hospitals in Delhi and Mumbai for testing. We arranged to send those essential goods by cargo flights and from the airports to the hospitals by our red mail vans. Soon we arranged logistics that connected the entire country with cargo flights and mail vans, and were despatching Covid-19 test kits, medicines, PPEs, masks etc all over the country, including Calcutta. Across Salt Lake, during the time, postal employees provided free home delivery of medicines as well as pension to the elderly residents of the township as a gesture of appreciation and gratitude to this unique township! When I bid adieu to my service and came back to my CG Block home last year from Delhi, some of my friends and neighbours conveyed their appreciation for this service of the post office to the senior citizens. This probably was the best parting gift for me. Arundhaty Ghosh joined the Indian Postal Service in 1986. From 2014 to 2018, she was the chief post master general of the West Bengal circle. She retired from service in 2020 as director general, postal services, the highest rank in postal services, as the second Bengali in the chair after Ganendra Prosad Roy in 1925, who happened to be the first Indian in the post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
06-08-2021||Calcutta||CA Block girl in top 10 of statistical service||Sutapa Ghosh of CA Block has made it to the top 10 of the Indian Statistical Service (ISS) merit list for 2020. The result was announced by the Union Public Service Commission last Friday where her name featured as the 10th on the list. There were just 17 seats for the general category candidates out of 47 vacant seats. But mention that to her and she protests: “There are far less seats in other years, often just three or four for the general category. So 17 was a lot.” Sutapa is happy and relieved in equal measure. “I have been taking the UPSC selection tests since 2016, along with Staff Selection Commission, State Bank of India and such government service recruitment exams. I got through in my fifth attempt,” says the 29-year-old. This was her last chance as she could not appear for the 2021 written tests. Candidates in the general category can appear in the examination till the age of 30. “This year, the written round was scheduled on July 16, 17 and 18 while I had been called to Delhi on July 19 for the interview for the 2020 exam. Since this was my first call-up for the interview, I realised I must have done well in the written round and decided to skip this year’s test,” said Sutapa. Though this was the first time that she appeared for the interview, she had gone to Delhi another time for the ISS interview. “That was in April, when the original exam date was scheduled. I had just checked into a hotel in Delhi in the morning when a message came with the information that lockdown had been announced in the city and our interview the day after had been cancelled. I had to book the next day’s flight immediately and left for the airport that evening itself for fear of not getting transport in the morning,” she recalls. This time, on July 19, there were about 130 candidates who had been called to Delhi. “I could answer whatever was asked,” she recalls, adding that she met Preetam Sen of Bansdroni there who has come fifth. She still does not know how much she scored as the marks have not been declared. “The merit list is declared about a week after the interview round, so I was checking the website regularly.” Big data dreams Sutapa knew she wanted a career dealing with data. “I liked mathematics at the Plus II level. But higher studies in the subject restricts one’s employment option to research and teaching. So I chose statistics for graduation,” she said, about her decision to enrol with statistics honours at Lady Brabourne College in 2013. A Masters degree followed from Calcutta University in 2015. She spent a few years working as a data analyst in a private company and also in a public sector bank. But her heart was set on UPSC. “I realised that a full-time job was hindering my preparations. So two years ago, I decided to quit.” She did not enrol anywhere for tuitions. “I focused on the class notes of my university professors, solved test series online and followed the YouTube and website lectures of Shalabh sir, a professor in the department of mathematics and statistics, IIT Kharagpur,” she said. The written round of ISS, held over three days, involves six papers, of which four are on statistics. “Of these four, two are two-hour objective tests while the other two are three-hour tests with descriptive pattern questions. One has to also take a three-hour English test and a three-hour general studies test involving history, geography, current affairs, economics and polity.” Sutapa believes it was lucky that the written tests got pushed back from July to October last year because of the pandemic. “I could prepare better,” she smiles. There has been no celebration yet due to an illness in the family. But Sutapa is looking forward to the upcoming two-year training period. “The institute is in Greater Noida. I hope they allow us to attend the training in person. I don’t know what will happen in this Covid situation.” Though there are as many as 40 government departments that has statistics departments, the ministry of statistics and programme implementation is where most ISS officers are posted. “I will then have to deal with gross domestic product estimates, rates of inflation and employment, livestock census etc.” But she would not look so far ahead right now. “The house is in a mess. Now that I have free time, I am trying to arrange and organise things,” says the girl who clearly has a mind organised enough to take on the challenges of big data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Dutta cries foul as club helmed by him fetes Bose||Bidhannagar MLA Sujit Bose was felicitated at the BF Block premises of Bidhannagar Swimming Association on Sunday. While felicitations have been happening regularly ever since Bose, also the fire and emergency services minister, won the seat for the fourth time, what raised eyebrows was the name of Salt Lake Maitri Sangha as the organiser of the event. The club has for years been helmed by Sabyasachi Dutta, who was the local councillor before the civic board’s tenure ended. Dutta had contested against Trinamul Congress’s Bose on a BJP ticket in the recent Assembly election. Bose chose to play down the incident. “There is nothing to be surprised about if residents of Bidhannagar decide to felicitate their representative. What has happened is a realistic scenario. Many of their members were present. I had attended Maitri Sangha’s culture programmes before but this is the first time that they felicitated me,” he told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Kripa Shankar Sharma, a CF Block resident who is a founder-member of the swimming club as well as of Maitri Sangha, said outsiders were running Maitri Sangha. “Sabyasachi turned the club into his personal fiefdom. No elections were ever held,” he alleged. Dutta, in turn, alleged that Maitri Sangha was being “hijacked by Sujit Bose and company”. “I am still the president. Neither I nor the club’s secretary attended the programme. Ninety per cent of those present were not even members of the swimming association,” Dutta said. Sharma said Bose had promised to help with both the swimming pool and the club. “Why can’t this club be like the top swimming clubs of Calcutta? It’s been 18 years that a court-appointed receiver has been controling the club after a member filed a case of financial irregularity. The building is falling apart. Annual membership has remained stuck at Rs 400. The club is running out of fees raised from seasonal members. The reins of management need to return to members’ hands to turn around the club’s condition,” Sharma said. He plans to hand over the court case documents to the minister to sort things out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Kin of affected refuse Covid test offer ||Several households in Salt Lake are refusing to undergo Covid tests despite multiple families members displaying symptoms. “Our department is conducting door-to-door surveys, through which we are identifying houses where multiple residents are displaying symptoms,” said an an official of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s health department. “But when we send over teams of health workers, these families are refusing to get themselves tested. We cannot force them. This is a worrying trend.” Although the number of fresh Covid cases in the corporation area is now hovering around 15-20 a day, multiple members of the same family are testing positive, said the official. Meanwhile at least four new micro-containment zones have been earmarked in different wards of the corporation by the district administration on Monday. The four are in different blocks of Salt Lake, the official said. Of the new buildings identified as micro-containment zone, one is in BC Block, another in AC Block and a third in FC Block. A first floor apartment of the Meghnad Saha Abasan in AF Block has also been identified as a micro-containment zone. The total number of containment zones in the planned area of Salt Lake is now 12. Last week it was 11 but some houses in the older list are now off the radar. The civic body still has the highest number of containment zones as compared to the district’s municipalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Students protest low Board marks||Many students who were awarded Board examination marks through internal assessment are highly dissatisfied with the scores and are agitating, along with their parents, at their schools. Owing to Covid-19 restrictions, Board exams were cancelled earlier this year and students of Class X and XII were given marks on the basis of earlier assessments in previous classes and some internal marking system. But when the marks were finally handed over to the students, there were was an uproar. Parents and students of National English School in Baguiati protested outside the school on July 26. As many as 50 students and their parents demanded a meeting with the principal to talk about their dissatisfaction over the internal marking system. Shrishti Mata, one of the students of the school, said: “As per my internal assessment and previous report cards, I should get an aggregate of 95 to 96 per cent. But I have been given 87 per cent. This is not fair and I don’t know how this has happened. Something is definitely wrong. Not just me, there are students in my class who should be getting 95 per cent and above. But they have all got below 85 per cent. They are all good students and have never scored below 90 per cent in any class. Then how can the average be less than 85 per cent?” Not just students, parents have also found other errors in the marksheets. “My daughter had scored 98 per cent in English. But the marks have been entered as 89 per cent. This is definitely an error made by the school authorities. They are the ones who sent the marks to the board. How can they make such silly mistakes?” said Soma Saha, a resident of Baguiati. Mousumi Saha, principal of National English School, said: “We have requested the parents to calm down. Yes, there may have been an error and it will be looked into. I have asked the guardians to submit written applications and mention exactly how many marks were allocated for each subject. We will take this up with the Board. All applications will be looked into individually.” It’s not just private schools. Some students of government schools have also complained of being given lower marks. At BD Block’s Bidhannagar Government High School, “four or five students” have applied for marks revision. “For one of them, a Class X student, it was indeed a clerical error on our part and we have forwarded the correction to the authorities. She is a sincere student and after revision, may even be a topper,” said head master Reyaz Ahmed. Matters are not as smooth in other schools. “When it comes to internal assessment one expects teachers to be sympathetic towards the children since this year has been a chaotic year. But the opposite has happened. The girls in my class have got very low marks. I don’t know which college will grant us admission under such circumstances,” said Sreemita Sarkar, a student of Deshapriya Balika Vidyamandir in Rabindra Palli, Kestopur. “We have met the principal but even if marks are reviewed college admission dates will long be over by then,” she added. Some students from Ramakrishna Sarada Mission Sister Nivedita Girls’ School complained of similar fate. As many as 50 of them and their parents gheraoed the school, seeking a review of marks. Saheli Chakraborty, a Class X student, said: “There is no Plus II facility in my school. But my internal marks are so low that I am not even able to collect admission forms from other schools for Class XI. Which school will take me in if their cut-off is high? I’ve got 75 per cent. That is too low it seems to take admission into any other school.  But my internal marks were much higher.” Authorities at Deshapriya Balika Vidyamandir and Ramkrishna Sarada Mission Sister Nivedita Girls’ School have assured agitated guardians of a second look at the marking system. However, with college admissions fast approaching the deadline, the question remains how long their wait is going to be. Are students you know happy with their Board exam results this year? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Court rap for illegal Salt Lake buildings||Calcutta High Court has criticised both the state government and the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) for their indifferent attitude towards carrying out an order of the court, asking them to take action against persons who allegedly constructed buildings illegally by grabbing plots owned by the state urban development department and to take steps to demolish the buildings. The order came following a public interest litigation by the residents of Nabapalli, Shantinagar and Naobhanga areas under BMC wards 35 and 36, alleging that a good number of buildings were coming up in their areas illegally on state-owned plots. On July 19, appearing for the residents, advocate Bilwadal Bhattacharya claimed before the court that a good number of illegal buildings had already been constructed on state-owned land and neither the state urban development department nor the municipal corporation was taking any action in these regards. “Complaints had already been lodged with the police, the department concerned and the corporation by my clients. But due to reasons unknown, no one is ready to stop the land grabbers,” Bhattacharya claimed. The lawyer claimed that the promoters did not bother to keep space even for the entry of fire brigade vehicles in the areas behind the buildings. Bhattacharya also claimed that 28 such new buildings were still vacant while flats in other buildings had been sold to others. Hearing the plea, the division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal had directed the state and corporation to identify the buildings and demolish them. The bench also asked the government and the civic body to initiate legal measures against the persons grabbing government property. But on July 30, when the matter came up for hearing again, Bhatacharya claimed that no step had been taken yet. State advocate general Kishore Datta told the court that correspondence between the state urban development department and the BMC had already started so the court order could be obeyed. But the acting chief justice said that the government and the civic authority were “more interested in writing letters to each other. It seems that they are not at all interested in taking legal action against the offenders”. Justice Bindal said: “The court cannot be a mute spectator even after noticing the irregularities. Respondents must take steps.” The bench fixed August 9 for the next hearing of the case when both the state and civic body would have to file compliance reports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
06-08-2021||Calcutta||‘Hakim can’t help Hidco get market’||Putting Firhad Hakim at the helm of the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) will not help in finding investors for land as the market is in recession. The view was put forth by Gautam Deb, housing minister in the Left Front regime who was the first chairman of Hidco. “Recession is for everyone. Even if Mamata Banerjee is made the chairperson, it will not help Hidco find a market,” he said. In course of his speech at the launch of his book Forging an Audacious City on the birth of New Town, the former minister praised chief minister Mamata Banerjee for letting a bureaucrat steer New Town and not ministers. For the last 10 years, Debashis Sen, an IAS officer, was the chairman cum managing director of Hidco. Hidco has now been transferred to the administrative jurisdiction of the housing department. Sen will continue as its managing director.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Fruit orchard on empty plot offer to BMC||The food processing and horticulture department has requested the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation to earmark a plot where a fruit orchard can be set up. Subrata Saha, the minister of state, food processing and horticulture department, said last week that they were keen to plant fruit-bearing trees in Salt Lake, New Town and Rajarhat as such trees attract a lot of birds and the “fruits can be enjoyed and shared by the residents”. Saha was speaking at a Vanmahotsav programme organised by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation at the newly-inaugurated CK Park near Tank 9. According to Saha, his department wants to focus on a different plantation strategies. “The forest department conducts avenue plantation and most of those trees are not fruit-bearing. We want to plant more trees that yield fruits in Salt Lake, New Town and Rajarhat in open spaces as we feel that they provide a ready habitat for birds and can be consumed by residents and visitors alike,” said Saha. The department has also promised to donate around 5,000 saplings of different fruit trees including pomegranate, guava, papaya, mango and custard apple among others to the civic body. Krishna Chakraborty, the chairperson of the corporation’s board of administrators, said that they would plant these trees in “secured” locations. “We will ensure that we can protect the saplings and then plant them in areas earmarked by us. Purbachal is one such complex that has large open spaces and we are looking for other spots as well,” said Chakraborty. She has asked civic officials to earmark a large plot suitable for an orchard in both Salt Lake and Rajarhat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
06-08-2021||Calcutta||The Telegraph Salt Lake turns 16 this week||General Age- Sixteen is the age of majority in countries like Vietnam, Cambodia, Cuba and Kyrgyzstan. It is the age for obtaining a learners driver’s licence in places like the US, Canada and Australia. Sweet 16 is a coming-of age party, usually for girls, when they turn 16. In the West, these parties can be lavish ones thrown to celebrate the teenager’s entry into adulthood. Weight- The British use a measure of 16 ounces in a pound. The Chinese, too, used to have 16 liangs in one jin in measurement. 16/8 intermittent fasting- A popular weight-loss programme, this involves eating during an eight-hour window and fasting for the remaining 16 hours of the day. Many people prefer to eat between noon and 8pm, having to simply skip breakfast while enjoying an early dinner and snacks in between. Wildlife Spider- The longest lived spider recorded was called Number 16. She was a wild female trapdoor spider that lived in Australia and was studied by researchers. While the average age of such spiders is within 20 years, Number 16 was about 43 when she died in 2016, probably killed by a parasitic wasp sting. Animals in war- Over 16 million animals served in World War I. They were used for transport, communication and companionship. Eyes- Mantis shrimp possibly have the most complex eyes in the animal kingdom. While humans have three types of cones in our eyes, allowing us to see the colours red through violet, Mantis shrimp have 16 types of cones, giving them an advanced colour recognition system. History Louis XVI was the only French king to be executed. He and his wife Marie Antoinette were seen as a symbol of tyranny while the masses suffered from food scarcity and his 1793 death by the guillotine during the French revolution brought an end to more than a thousand years of continuous monarchy. Sports and entertainment Chess- A chess set contains 16 pawns and each player starts the game with a total of 16 pieces. Sixteen Going on Seventeen Is a song from the iconic 1965 film The Sound of Music. Sung by 16-year-old Liesel and 17-year-old Rolfe, it describes how Liesel, at the threshold of womanhood, looks to Rolfe for guidance as he’s a year older. Tu kitne baras ki is a song from the 1980 film Karz where Rishi Kapoor asks the age of Tina Munim and she replies “sola” (16). Rendered by Lata Mangeshkar and Kishore Kumar, the song is about budding romance. Solva Sawan was actress Sridevi’s debut in Bollywood and she was, incidentally, 16 years old during the making of the film. The 1979 romantic drama also starred Amol Palekar. Fairy tales- In the oft-retold story of the Sleeping Beauty, a princess is cursed to sleep for a 100 years when she reaches her 16th birthday. The princess, called Talia and Aurora in different versions of the tale, can only be awakened by a prince who loves her. Culture Sola singar- it is traditionally believed that when an Indian woman dresses up, it takes 16 items to complete her look. While the 16 can vary, they usually include bindi, kajal, flowers in the hair, mang tika, earrings, nose ring, necklaces, armlets, bangles, henna, hathphool, finger rings, waistbands, anklebells, toerings and perfume. Sholo aana - is a Bengali idiom that means pure, unadulterated. It originates from the old concept of an anna, that was a unit of currency equal to 1/16th of a rupee. Sixteen annas thus meant an entire rupee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Warning as hospitals in Calcutta see rise in admission of Covid patients||Several private hospitals in Calcutta are witnessing a slow rise in the admission of Covid patients. Health officials, too, said they were noticing an uptick in Covid admissions and warned people not to drop their guard, though there was no indication yet of a fresh wave of infections. Officials of several hospitals said the number of Covid admissions had dropped in the middle of July but had been rising steadily since. Others said admissions were not going up but the number of patients in the Covid wards was not declining either. “We are observing a rise in the admission of Covid patients in some private hospitals. However, we have to see the trend for a few more days to say definitively that the numbers are steadily rising again,” an official of the state health department said on Thursday. At Peerless Hospital, during the peak of the epidemic’s second wave in May, all 175 beds were occupied. From there the patient count had dropped below 10. In the last week of July, there were 17 patients. On Thursday, the count stood at 27. “We are getting Covid patients from everywhere, from Alipore in Calcutta to Jhargram and Midnapore,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Narayan Memorial Hospital in Behala would have around 100 patients in its Covid wards in May. A couple of days back, there were no patients..On Thursday, there were three Covid patients. Woodlands Hospital, too, has been witnessing a rise in admissions. “We have been seeing a spurt since last week. It’s been going up and down over the last few weeks. We feel it’s a prolonged second wave,” said Rupali Basu, the managing director of Woodlands. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, all 261 Covid beds were occupied during the peak of the second wave. “Covid admission started dropping gradually in June. But it’s not going down any more over the last couple of weeks. The count is hovering between 15 and 18,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, of Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. Doctors said the virus was still active and spreading but facing resistance because of the immunity a section of the population developed following infection and vaccination. “It is too early to say whether this is an indication of a fresh wave. It seems immunisation and herd immunity are putting up a stiff fight against the coronavirus. More vaccination is the only way ahead, along with personalprotections,” said physician Amitabha Saha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||State govt will try to reopen schools and colleges after Durga Puja vacation, says Mamata Banerjee||The state government will try to reopen schools and colleges “on alternate days” after the Puja vacation, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday. “After the Puja vacation, we will try to reopen schools and colleges on alternate days,” Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna following a meeting with the state's global advisory board on Covid-19, headed by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee. “Diwali is in early November. The state government is considering the possibility of reopening schools and colleges after that,” an official in the education department said. Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, who attended the meeting at the state secretariat, said the chief minister had informed them that the state government was considering the possibility of reopening schools. In Bengal, schools affiliated to the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education had resumed in-person classes for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. But the classes were suspended on April 21 following the state government’s decision to bring forward the summer vacation because of a renewed rise in the number of Covid cases. Students of Classes III to VIII and those in colleges and universities have been away from campuses since March 2020. An official in the education department said: “Education in schools has taken a major hit. Attending classes on digital platforms is not possible for a large section of students as they cannot afford a smartphone or a data pack. So reopening schools is a must, but the possibility of infection through assembly cannot be ruled out. Therefore, the government is exercising caution.” The state has around 59,000 primary and 18,000 secondary schools, close to 550 colleges and more than 40 universities. The colleges have been asked to start receiving online applications for admission to first-year classes on August 2. Classes will start on October 1. A college principal said that since a good number of students encountered digital hurdles and were unable to attend classes on online platforms, in-person classes should resume at the earliest. “We are more worried about students pursuing science and engineering. Their studies are suffering because they cannot access laboratories and workshops. They are eagerly looking forward to resumption of in-person classes,” he said. The headmaster of a school in central Calcutta said reopening of campuses, particularly for Classes X and XII, was required so the students could undergo as many internal assessments as possible. “If the Class X and XII board exams are cancelled next year, too, the scores in the internal assessments will determine their board performance,” he said. “As the schools did not conduct enough internal tests when they reopened briefly earlier this year and restricted themselves to conducting classes and practicals, the exam-conducting bodies did not have enough data while evaluating the students. While preparing the HS results, the higher secondary council gave 40 per cent weightage to a student’s performance in the Class X board exams and 60 per cent to Class XI annual exam marks,” he said. The secondary education board prepared Madhyamik mark sheets this year awarding equal weightage to a candidate’s performance in Class IX annual exams and internal formative assessments of Class X. In July last year, Mamata had said the state government might reopen schools and colleges on September 5 if the Covid situation improved. That did not happen as cases kept rising.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccination to remain suspended at 152 centres of Calcutta Municipal Corporation||Covid vaccination will remain suspended from Friday at 152 vaccination centres of the civic body that administered Covishield because the authorities have run out of doses, officials said on Thursday. Forty other centres of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will continue administering Covaxin. Of the 152 common vaccination centres (CVCs), 102 are primary health centres. Officials said the primary health centres would continue offering other services such as outdoor clinics. The remaining 50, which were opened only to administer Covid vaccines, will remain shut till further orders. “We have run out of Covishield doses. We will not administer any Covishield doses from Friday. Administration of Covishield will resume once fresh stocks arrive,” said a CMC official. Fresh Covishield doses are expected to arrive on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Bus breaks Covid protocol, teacher on board lodges complaint||A 31-year-old teacher from Arambagh who travels in “non-stop” government buses connecting Calcutta to districts, with reduced seats following Covid protocol, dialled the police emergency number on Thursday to report that the bus was illegally picking up passengers, leading to crowding. Police stopped the bus near Fort William and prosecuted the driver and his help under the disaster management act. Pratiksha Goswami, the teacher, said she had booked the bus ticket through an online portal, like she usually does. “The website clearly shows the seating arrangement. The seats where people cannot sit are marked in grey. I had booked my seat like other days. The bus is supposed to travel non-stop from Arambagh till Esplanade, the destination,” she told The Telegraph. When she boarded the bus, she found someone else occupying her seat. “When I approached the conductor, I was told to sit elsewhere. It was disappointing to see that despite the best efforts of the government to make Covid rules, people were breaking them. I sat in another seat. But the bus kept stopping and picking up passengers, which was illegal,” she alleged. Goswami clicked a few photographs of how passengers were made to sit side by side, violating the government notification that clearly mentions public vehicles can run with only 50 per cent occupancy. Goswami said she was aware that people who did not have smartphones found it difficult to book seats online. For them, bus conductors usually keep a few seats vacant. “But that number is very limited. What happened today was a gross violation,” she said. On reaching Santragachhi, Goswami dialled 1901 — a women’s distress helpline. They responded almost immediately, she said. Cops tried to stop the bus once it came down the Santragachhi flyover but the driver allegedly sped past the policeman. A few hundred metres away, the police again apparently tried to stop the bus but failed once more. Finally, when the bus came down the Vidyasagar Setu and was entering the city through Kidderpore Road, it was forced to stop by a number of police vehicles that blocked its way. The police evacuated the bus and shifted the passengers to other vehicles to reach Esplanade, which was not far. Goswami lodged a complaint with Maidan police station and the driver and the help were prosecuted. The driver told the police that it was difficult to run bus services with half capacity given the fuel prices. Several officers The Telegraph spoke to said the police had not been prosecuting buses for ferrying passengers over the 50 per cent limit. “If we start prosecuting for crowding, we will have to stop almost every second bus, which will only cause a lot of inconvenience to the people,” said an officer. “Today’s prosecution was based on a specific complaint,” a senior officer said. Citizens who depend on public transport are sometimes forced to board crowded buses because of limited public vehicles and restrictions on local trains in the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||JEE results to be announced on Friday||The results of the JEE exams — the entrance tests for engineering, architecture and pharmacy courses across Bengal — will be announced on Friday. The results, in the form of downloadable rank cards, will be available on the board's websites, www.wbjeeb.nic.in and www.wbjeeb.in, from 3.30pm on Friday. The board had conducted the tests in-person across 274 centres on July 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Time for minority voices to be heard, says bishop of Calcutta diocese of Church of North India||The death of Father Stan Swamy has taught “minorities to be alive” and unite or else “your voice will not be heard”, Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India, said on Thursday. Father Stan, a Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist, died in judicial custody last month while waiting for bail. He was 84 and ailing. Reverend Canning said Father Stan was a Christian priest but his work was “not only for Christians” but for “the tribals who are downtrodden”, in one way “minority”, and he came forward to give them “new life” and tell them they had rights in their own land. Father Stan was condemned so that “tribals do not know their rights”, said Reverend Canning. On Thursday, the Bengal Christian Council, affiliated to the National Council of Churches in India, had called a meeting in remembrance of Father Stan. At the event at St Paul’s Cathedral, a minority forum was inaugurated with a call to all minorities to come together. Speaking on the occasion, Reverend Canning said: “They (the tribals) should not be like us, they will be like tribals all the time. They will be like servants lifelong…. This is the cause why Father Stan… was killed…. It was not a normal death.” Later, on the sidelines of the event, the bishop said: “His death has taught us that the minority voice is not heard even many years after Independence. So we have to be united. It is a matter of great sadness that even after so many years… we are having to talk about minority rights. It is a matter of shame. After so many years the people of India have failed to provide minorities their place.” At the inauguration of the minority forum, Bishop Canning, also the president of the Bengal Christian Council, said “minorities are dying in jail and nobody is hearing”. Other people are getting bail but not the minorities, he said, asking: “Why? Where are we living? Is there a place for the minorities in the country or not?” In the audience were many priests of the Calcutta diocese and representatives of several communities. “…Father Stan’s life, death, has taught us to be alive, minorities have to be alive, otherwise like Father Stan, you will be in trouble tomorrow…. Tomorrow your turn is coming… Your voice will not be heard. Nobody will care for you. You will die, not maybe in jail, but somewhere else. You will be killed. This is the status of minorities in India,” said the bishop. “Father Stan’s death has taught us, as minorities, please be united…. His blood is saying to us today ‘please minorities, come together, be united. Otherwise, you will be treated as I am treated’”. A statement issued on Thursday by Reverend Canning, and read out at St Paul’s Cathedral, said: “...The prevailing circumstances call for a deep introspection on part of the minorities in India to discern the sign of the times and come together in a Forum with renewed vigour to move forward to make our voices heard, to safeguard our Constitutional rights and responsibilities and let us start this from Bengal, the birthplace of Renaissance in India. “Today, as we are standing in the crossroads we feel that such an extraordinary situation calls for an extraordinary action/initiative. “We, the Christians of Bengal, under the umbrella of Bengal Christian Council… as justice and peace loving citizens, strongly condemn such inhuman and mindless acts on part of the central law enforcing agencies (under the current dispensation) and denial of the fundamental freedom of life and liberty enshrined in the Indian Constitution to an individual who belonged to the minority community.” The statement said: “This is our fond hope, our cherished desire and our fervent prayer that we, the minorities in India take lesson from the life of Father Stan Swamy in the rapidly changing scenario of our country and move on till we reach our goal of justice, peace, fraternity, feeling of brotherhood/sisterhood, mutual care and concern and integrity of creation.” Earlier, the bishop said the minority forum, of which he is convener, “will see that our voice is heard”. “Will see that we are noticed, we are respected.” The forum will hold seminars, conferences and workshops on minority rights. “Minorities will decide tomorrow who will form the government, provided all minorities come together,” the bishop said. Like a pledge, the audience repeated after Bishop Canning: “We will teach Article 29 and 30 (to) every minority person in Bengal and in India. And we will fight for our rights, together. We will not be selfish. We will work for everybody.” The articles guarantee certain rights to the minorities. Also present on Thursday was Reverend Sameer Khimla, the bishop of the Durgapur diocese, and Angelina Mantosh Jasnani, the president of the Catholic Association of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Health panel refuses to change rate cap of diagnostic tests||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Tuesday refused to change the cap on the rates of various diagnostic tests - which it had announced in July, despite objections from private hospitals. The commission held a virtual meeting with various private hospitals on Thursday to discuss the objections raised by the hospitals. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said after the meeting that the ceilingwould remain unchanged and urged private hospitals to think about ways to offer affordable treatment. “The advisory (on the ceiling) that we have issued will remain in force,” said Banerjee. “We have fixed a cap on 15 out of 250 pathological tests. Only two or three hospitals have problems with the rates fixed by us. Another four or five have problems with the rates of one or two items. The rates being charged by other hospitals are within the limits,” Banerjee said. The commission will meet the hospitals on the issue once more the week after next. Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, which had written to the commission against the cap, said Thursday’s meeting was inconclusive. “The hospitals will keep charging the rates they charge till the next meeting, where we are expecting a conclusion,” said Barua, who is also the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. He said the association wanted to know from the commission the mechanism based on which the caps were fixed. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, said the rates charged by hospitals and diagnostic centres cannot be the same. “A diagnostic centre collects samples throughout the day and runs all the samples in a machine together. In a hospital, often a machine has to be run with one or two samples. Running a machine with 10 samples and running it with one sample costs the same. A hospital cannot wait to test the sample the next day, when more such samples will be collected, because often a patient’s life is at stake,” he said. At the meeting, the chairman asked hospitals to consider how they can offer treatment to people at affordable rates. “There have been instances of patients’ families leaving the hospital without paying the bills. That happens because the families cannot afford to pay…. People are forced to keep dues (because of the rates),” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Fake call centre busted in New Town, six arrested||Six men were arrested for allegedly operating a fake call centre from a rented apartment inside a New Town housing complex on Thursday. The group cheated both foreign nationals as well as people across the country to the tune of Rs 5 crore, police said. An officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate said that the men used to call people in US and Canada, among others, posing as officials of major software providers like Microsoft and inform them that their computer data and operating system have been compromised and an urgent upgrade of software is required. “The victims would be asked to download a software which would allow the men remote access to the computer. Once the victim would enter the payment gateway to transfer the fee for the services, these men would alter the amount with a much higher number,” the officer said. This apart, these men would also pose as officials of mobile network providers and would offer people money in exchange for space to install 5G mobile-towers. “The men would offer Rs 10 lakh as installation fees and then Rs 30,000 as a monthly rent for the space needed for the mobile tower. A person who would agree would be asked to deposit Rs 25,000 as processing fee. All communications would stop once the victim would transfer the sum,” said the officer. The officer said that they have checked all the bank accounts used by the group and found that they had been opened with fake documents. “It is evident that there are more people involved in the racket. The people who were making the calls were only at the front, but there are those who collected the phone numbers, opened bank accounts and withdrew cash. We are we are trying to locate them,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Businessman loses Rs 84 lakh after bank account hacked||A city businessman has lodged a police complaint alleging he was duped of Rs 84 lakh by someone who hacked into his online banking portal, police said. An officer of Hare Street police station said: “Preliminary inquiry suggests that the fraudsters had reported loss of a SIM card that actually belonged to the complainant and got a new SIM card issued.” The SIM card that was deactivated was registered with a current account in the name of Shivam Arora, 30, the police said. “It appears that the original SIM card was deactivated to ensure that Arora did not receive any text message from the bank when money was transferred out of his account and so that the fraudsters got time to transfer the amount through multiple accounts and e-wallets,” the officer said. It is not clear whether the money that was transferred out of the complainant’s bank account had been withdrawn through ATMs or only had been transferred through multiple accounts. In majority of such cases, the transferred money is first sent into bank accounts or e-wallets that are opened using fake identity documents and then withdrawn using ATM cards of the respective bank accounts, said a senior officer. A woman, who had been admitted to a private hospital along EM Bypass last week, was allegedly molested by a male nurse, the patient’s family has alleged. The victim’s father had dialled 100 to alert Calcutta police headquarters in Lalbazar and the accused was arrested. Police said according to the complaint registered with Anandapur police station, a male nurse had allegedly molested the woman when she was semiconscious because of the effect of medicines. “She woke up and started screaming seeing him. Her father dialled 100. Anandapur police station received an alert from Lalbazar and the duty officer went to the hospital,” said a senior police officer. The victim gave a written complaint against the hospital staff member and based on that a case under section 354A of the Indian Penal Code that deals with outrage of modesty, was registered with Anandapur police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Police rescue 2 girls from train in Bilaspur, one arrested||Police rescued two teenagers onboard Howrah-Mumbai Duronto Express in Bilaspur, Chhattisgarh, and arrested a young man who was allegedly taking the two to Mumbai with the lure of jobs in Bollywood. The girls are from Baduria in North 24-Parganas, about 50km from Calcutta. The police said the two were missing since July 27 and the parents had lodged a diary with Baduria police station a day after. Within hours of the complaint, the police reached the house of a young man of the same village, who the girls often spoke to. The man’s family told the police he had left for Mumbai in the morning. “By the time we learnt he would be taking the Howrah-Mumbai Duronto, it was late in the afternoon. The train had already left Howrah station,” said a senior officer of Baduria police station. “We collected a photograph of one of the teenagers and got in touch with GRP after drawing up a specific case.” At Howrah station, officers from GRP told the district police that after Tatanagar, the train’s next stop would be Bilaspur junction. That would be around 6pm. The details of the case and the photograph of one of the teenagers were immediately forwarded to GRP officers in Bilaspur. “While speaking to the GRP team in Bilaspur we gave them an exact description of how the two teens were dressed based on what their parents told us,” the officer said. “The train had a stoppage time of 10 minutes at Bilaspur is all we knew.” Armed with a team of lady officers, GRP scanned the train when it chugged into the Bilaspur station and finally spotted the two teenagers and arrested the youth. A team of officers from Baduria left for Bilaspur later and brought the three back on Wednesday. The youth has told the police that he worked as a painter in Mumbai and was taking the two for a guided tour of the country’s economic capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Man impersonating as government official arrested||A man who was allegedly masquerading as a government official and used his “stature” to demand free food from at least one dhaba along EM Bypass, was arrested on Wednesday night. Golam Rabbani, 40, was arrested on charges related to impersonating a government official, cheating and criminal conspiracy. Officers of Pragati Maidan police station found a car parked outside the Bypass Dhaba well past 9pm on Wednesday. The car had two boards attached to it. “One read ‘National Crime Control Bureau deputy director’, while the other said ‘member, Supervisory Committee of Waqf Board’. On enquiring with the organisations, we found both were false,” said an officer of Pragati Maidan police station. The National Crime Control Bureau is an NGO, the police said. A senior officer said the eatery authorities complained that the owner of the car was in the habit of demanding free food citing his “official” position. “Rabbani would allegedly threaten the eatery with dire consequences if they did not supply food to him even after it was closed to the public, post-8pm.” The city police have arrested several impostors in the past few weeks who had mostly been posing as police officers to cheat others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Affidavit on frontline workers’ compensation sought||Justice Harish Tandon of Calcutta High Court on Thursday asked the government to file an affidavit on the number of frontline workers treating or nursing Covid patients, who had been compensated. The order followed a writ petition that stated they were not getting the money.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
