07-08-2021||Calcutta||ICSE council to conduct two examinations for ICSE and ISC students this year||The ICSE council will conduct two examinations, one at the end of each semester, for both the ICSE (Class X) and the ISC (Class XII) students in the academic year 2021-22. The first semester exam will be conducted in November on the portion of the syllabus specified for that period in the reduced syllabus for the ICSE and ISC exams for this academic year. It will be an MCQ-based, online exam, a circular issued by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) said. The second semester exam will be conducted in March or April next year on the portion specified for the second semester. The exam will be conducted online or offline, depending on the pandemic situation. The “semester-wise bifurcated theory syllabus for Classes X and XII” is available on the council website under the head “Publications”. The circular, signed by Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the council, and addressed to principals, carries details of the “modified assessment plan” for the ICSE and the ISC. It says that each of the two end-semester exams will have equal weightage during the computation of the board results. The council had to cancel both the ICSE and ISC board exams this year because of the pandemic. “In view of the continuing pandemic situation in the country and the disruption in educational activities brought about due to extended lockdowns, and the various alternate modes of syllabus transaction that need to be adopted, due to the closure of schools, the CISCE had carried out an extensive exercise of syllabus review,” Arathoon said. The question papers for each semester exam will carry 80/100 marks for the ICSE and 70/80 marks for the ISC, according to the maximum marks now allocated to the theory component of the subjects, the circular says. For the ISC results, in addition to the exams conducted at the end of each of the two semesters, the candidates will be assessed on practical/ project work, the circular says. It adds that if the situation permits, the ISC practicals will be conducted with visiting examiners setting the practical question papers based on guidelines and instructions from the council. “In case the situation is not conducive due to the pandemic, and candidates are unable to come to their respective schools to take the practical examination... (online/virtual mode) will be exercised,” the circular says. For the ICSE, in addition to the semester exams the candidates will be evaluated on the basis of “internal assessments”, whose weightage remains unchanged, the circular says. The council has asked the schools to ensure that all the candidates finish the stipulated practical/ project work/ internal assessment as specified in the reduced syllabuses for the ICSE and the ISC. “Schools must maintain a record of all work done by candidates for practical/ project work/ internal assessment. The CISCE may ask schools to send sample/s of work done by the candidates, should the need arise,” the circular says. It says the council will “not be conducting the Class IX and XI examinations during the academic year 2021-22”. “There is no change in the syllabus for Classes IX and XI,” the circular adds. Arathoon told The Telegraph: “The exam by the council will ensure uniformity as far as question papers and assessment is concerned across schools in the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta airport goes under water for hours after a spell of heavy rain ||The city airport went under water for hours after a spell of heavy rain on Friday morning. Some of the aircraft parking bays were flooded, forcing passengers getting off planes to wade through water to board buses on their way to the terminal, airport officials said. Toilets in the arrival area of the terminal could not be used because of backflow of water. Outside, too, the approach road to the terminal was flooded, causing traffic snarls. An official who has been working at the airport for many years said the facility was no stranger to waterlogging during the monsoon or after a spell of heavy rain but the situation had rarely been so bad. Water finally receded in the afternoon. “Passengers of aircraft which were parked near the terminal building had no problem in boarding or getting off as they could access aerobridges. But those who had to take a coach to reach the terminal or the aircraft had to wade through water,” said an official of an airline. A south Calcutta resident who had gone to the airport to receive a relative said the parking booth was flooded. “There was a long queue as vehicles were moving slowly. Many arrival passengers were inconvenienced because they could not use the washrooms.” Airport officials blamed Metro construction and lack of proper pumping system of municipalities surrounding the airport for the waterlogging. Metro Railway’s underground station at the airport is under construction. Airport officials said the work had left some of the drains blocked, causing water to flow back into the airport. The deep trenches dug for the Metro work were all submerged and the water was pumped out into the airport side, the officials said. “We have asked the Metro authorities to install more pumps. They should pump the water out of the airport premises,” said airport director C. Pattabhi. A Metro official said no drains were blocked because of Metro work. "We have diverted all utilities. The airport authorities would not have handed us the site had we not done so,” the official said. An official of Dum Dum Municipality, which is in charge of areas around the airport, said they were aware that rainwater was accumulating in the airport compound as well as the roads leading to it. “We tried to pump out some of the water that had accumulated on the road leading to the airport from gate 2.5 (on Jessore Road) but could do little as VIP Road was getting flooded,” the official said. Another official said: “We could not do much because the drains around the airport had got clogged by construction materials that accumu-lated because of the Metro work.” Harinder Singh, the chairperson of Dum Dum Municipality's board of administrators, said they were not responsible for maintenance of the airport premises. “We tried to drain out as much water as we could from Jessore Road, which leads to the airport. There was not much water there. We know there was water inside the airport but that is not under our jurisdiction. It is maintained by the Airports Authority of India (AAI),” said Singh. Traffic headed to the airport through VIP Road in the morning was badly hit because the Haldiram’s and Chinar Park crossings were under knee-deep water.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||Strike leaves Multiple pumps in Calcutta low on stocks||Multiple pumps in Calcutta ran out of fuel by Friday afternoon and many others were running low on stocks after a flash strike by oil transporters cut off the supply line. The city and its adjacent areas receive their stock of petrol and diesel from Indian Oil Corporation’s depot at Mourigram in Howrah. Private transporters, who carry the fuel by oil tankers, resorted to flash strike on Wednesday, protesting a tender floated by the public sector oil company to pick truckers for the next five years. Even though IOC has sought help from the state administration and has written to chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi, there was uncertainty on possible refills anytime soon unless the company can make alternative arrangements. Uma Service Station in Dhakuria, one of the busier pumps in south Calcutta, had run out of normal petrol when this newspaper visited around 4pm. “Petrol out of stock, inconvenience regretted,” a poster greeted motorists. Premium petrol, a tad costlier than the normal fuel, and diesel were available. “We ran out of stock in the morning. We are not sure when we will get a refill,” said an employee. The GQ Mondal Service Station at Behala Chowrasta, 200m from DH Road, had run out of petrol on Thursday night. “The diesel stock is running low and should be exhausted by the evening,” the manager of the pump said around 3.30pm. At pumps where fuel was available, many motorists opted for a full tank instead of a partial refill. “Half the cars are going in for a full tank,” said an employee at a pump in Tollygunge. “We have a day’s stock left.” Pumps owned and operated by fuel companies were better off. One such pump, at the intersection of AJC Bose Road and Shakespeare Sarani, one of the busiest in Calcutta, had long and separate queues of two-and four-wheelers waiting for fuel. “We did not have any supply issues,” said an employee. Two tanks came to the pump for a refill on Friday. An IOC official said a section of transporters had put up a blockade at the gate of the terminal preventing the entry of tank trucks for loading of petroleum products. The protesters are also obstructing entry of personnel into the premises for official work. The agitation appears to be a fall-out of the tender IOC is floating to transport petrol or diesel from the Howrah terminal by tankers. Such a tender is floated every five years for deployment of tank trucks. The tender was due from April 2020 but it was deferred because of requests from existing transporters on account of the pandemic. However, IOC has finalised a similar tender for oil depots located in  Siliguri, Durgapur, Haldia and Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||High court gives schools freedom on fee default action||A division bench of the high court on Friday modified its earlier order and gave 149 private schools that take no aid from the government the liberty to act against students who fail to pay half the outstanding fees within three weeks. The schools can even strike the names of such students off the rolls. The division had on November 18 — it was then headed by Justice Sanjiv Banerjee — waived 20 per cent of the tuition fees and several other charges levied by schools for the period when classes are held online because of the Covid pandemic. That order restrained the school authorities from barring students from taking part in online classes and writing online exams for failing to pay the fees on time. On Friday, the bench — now comprising Justice I.P. Mukerji and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya — held that the schools would have the liberty to take any step against a student for not paying at least 50 per cent of the dues within three weeks. “Within three weeks from the date, at least 50 per cent of the claimed amount should be paid, irrespective of any dispute with regard to the claim of the school,” the order says. The court said a student’s name could be struck off the rolls if the parent did not pay at least half the claimed amount in the stipulated period. “We permit the school and teaching institutions to suspend instructions to the students in all forms including name of students from the roll of students”. “For those students who have taken the school final and higher secondary examinations and qualified, a direction to be made to the respective boards to suspend their qualification and certificates till the school fees are paid,” the order says. Vineet Ruia, the main petitioner in the case, said the order needed clarification. “The order did not make it clear whether 50 per cent of the actual fees would have to be paid or 50 per cent of reduced fees (as directed by Justice Banerjee), in the three-week period.” Across schools, hundreds of parents have defaulted on fee payment. Many of them have been hit hard financially because of the pandemic but schools say there are many willful defaulters as well. Ruia had last year filed a case on behalf of parents of students of private schools claiming that the institutions were not allowing students to participate in online classes or to sit in exams because of non-payment of fees. On July 4, the schools moved the high court alleging that the guardians were not even paying the fees fixed by the court. Friday’s order comes on that prayer. Parents said they would challenge the order in the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||Duped of  Rs 24 lakh for son’s medical seat||A 42-year-old man was arrested on Friday from his rented accommodation in Salt Lake’s Sector III for allegedly duping a Delhi resident of Rs 24 lakh by promising a medical degree for his son. Navin Kumar Sharma, who hails from Haryana, was picked up from his house by a team of Delhi police, which was accompanied by cops from the Bidhannagar commissionerate. An officer of the Delhi team said Sharma had met a man several months back who wanted his son to be a doctor. Sharma told the man, a resident of Rajouri in Delhi, that he could not only secure a seat for his son at a medical college but would also ensure that he got the degree “no matter what his performance was”, the officer said. “Sharma then told the man that he would need to pay a total of Rs 1.5 crore, which would include the course fee and a ‘donation amount’,” the officer said. “The victim paid Sharma Rs 24 lakh in installments. He, however, could not secure a seat for his son. After a few months, Sharma switched off his cellphone and stopped all communication with him. It was then he realised that he had been duped and lodged a police complaint.” The complainant had given the cops the number from which Sharma used to call him. “We placed the number under surveillance but it was switched off for the past few months. A few days back when it was switched on, we zeroed in on this location here,” the officer said. Delhi police got in touch with their counterparts at the Bidhannagar commissionerate and they rounded up Sharma from his rented accommodation. Sharma was produced in a Salt Lake court and is being taken to Delhi on a transit remand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||Offline ICSE and ISC compartment examinations to start on August 16||The offline ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) improvement and compartment examinations will start on August 16, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations announced on Friday. The exams for the ICSE will end on September 2 and those for the ISC on September 7. The council has published the timetable on its website and issued safety instructions to be followed by the examinees. “The results of the Compartment and Improvement Examinations will be declared around September 20, 2021,” Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the council, said. The examinees must return the original copies of their previous statement of marks and pass certificate to the council through their school. “On receipt of the same, the revised statement of marks and the pass certificates, if applicable, will be sent to the candidates’ school. These marks will reflect their updated marks in the subject/s for which he/ she appeared,” the council said. “The marks obtained by the candidates in the improvement examination shall be considered their final marks.” Candidates who are unable to take the improvement examination will be marked absent, and the marks already awarded to them will remain unchanged. “Candidates are required to bring their own writing stationery/ art material and avoid sharing the same with other candidates,” the council said. “Candidates must use face masks/ cover and carry their own hand sanitiser. The use of gloves is optional.” The examinees must reach the exam centre well ahead of time to ensure staggered movement and smooth entry, the council said. This year's ICSE and ISC candidates have been awarded scores on the basis of past exam marks, project and practical work, and their schools' overall performance in board exams in the recent past. Those unhappy with their scores and those who failed in certain subjects were eligible to register for the compartment and improvement exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||Presidency Alumni Association awards Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee||Nobel Laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, an alumnus of Presidency College, was conferred the Atul Chandra Gupta Distinguished Alumnus Award 2020 by the Presidency Alumni Association on Friday evening at his home in Ballygunge. Although the alumni association had decided to confer the award on the occasion of the Presidency’s Foundation day on January 20, 2020, Banerjee was not available for the occasion. The award ceremony could not be conducted later because of the pandemic. Alumni association president Sutirtha Bhattacharya and vice-president Bivas Chaudhuri handed the award plaque to Banerjee. The economist said in a video message that studying at Presidency “was like discovering heaven all of a sudden”. “At Presidency, I found myself in the company of like-minded people. I met friends who took interest in the subjects that also interested me…. It was like discovering heaven all of a sudden. I am reminiscing those times. I am happy to receive the honour,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||Nurses of government hospitals withdraw their agitation||Nurses of government hospitals withdrew their agitation on Friday after being told by the state health department that their demand for a pay hike had been sent to the state finance department. The nurses had been taking turns in joining a sit-in at SSKM Hospital for the past 11 days demanding pay parity with state government employees with similar qualifications in other departments. They cancelled their plan to organise a rally on Chowringhee on Friday after receiving an invitation to meet the state’s junior health minister, Chandrima Bhattacharya, in the afternoon. Bhattacharya told Metro that the state pay commission would now have to take a call on the issue. “We sent our proposal to the state pay commission (which functions under the finance department) in March. It is no longer in our hands. Now, we have to wait for the pay commission’s decision.” When asked whether the health department had recommended a pay scale revision for the nurses, Bhattacharya said: “Why else would we send a file to the pay commission?” Bhaswati Mukherjee, the secretary of Nurses Unity, the association of nurses that had been spearheading the protests, said the junior health minister told them that a recommendation for the pay revision had been sent to the state pay commission. “The minister told us they had already sent a file recommending a revision of our pay grade to the state’s pay commission. We asked her how much time it could take for the revision to take effect. She said it would be known within three or four months,” Mukherjee said. The state pay commission makes recommendations for pay revision of state government employees to the finance department, which takes the final call. Mukherjee said since the movement of nurses demanding an end to alleged pay disparity had been going on for years and the nurses had protested time and again, they were ready to wait for another four months. “We trust the government will do the needful. We are calling off the sit-in and will wait for four months. We are thankful to the state government for thinking about our demand,” Mukherjee said on Friday evening. Nurses in the government sector have been putting up with pay discrimination for years, they alleged. A nurse with a diploma should be entitled to Level-12 pay but they get Level-9 pay. Nurses across all categories — diploma-holder, BSc-degree holder, experienced, fresher — get less than what they should be entitled to, the nurses alleged. “An engineering diploma-holder gets Level-12 pay. There is a difference of nearly Rs 8,000 between levels 9 and 12. We want an end to this discrimination,” said a protesting nurse. The “pay disparity”, she said, has been there for years and nurses have protested against it time and again. The latest round of protests started on July 26, when the nurses began a sit-in demonstration inside the SSKM Hospital compound. Before that they had written to the chief minister listing their demands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||Giant potholes 'grow' on roads across all three sectors of Salt Lake||Giant potholes have formed on roads across all three sectors of Salt Lake. Residents and regular commuters said the potholes had formed before the onset of the monsoon but they have become wider and deeper following the recent spells of downpour. According to the residents this newspaper spoke to, the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has not even done what it usually does — a basic repair work. Some said no major repair work had been carried out by the civic body over the past couple of years. “We are not getting a stretch of dry weather to carry out repairs. We will do the needful as soon as we get a week of dry weather,” said an official in the road repairs and upkeep department of the civic body. At least two bikers met with accidents recently after their two-wheelers skidded while they tried to negotiate craters. Among the worst-affected stretches is a 1-km road in front of the Geographical Survey of India headquarters. “Some of the potholes are so deep that traffic police had to place guardrails to ensure that motorists do not run into them,” said Bikash Choudhary, a resident of DL Block. The situation is similar in front of the administrative building in DJ Block, where the office of the sub-divisional officer of Bidhannagar is located. “We have notified the corporation but no repairs have been carried out yet,” said a resident of the neighbouring BJ Block. The stretch that leads to Tank Number 8 from Karunamoyee, too, is in a bad shape.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||West Bengal JEE board cuts down on lengthy counselling process||The state JEE board has cut down the lengthy counselling process so that engineering classes can start by September. The board has scrapped the practice of an engineering aspirant getting testimonials verified at a reporting centre before seeking admission to a college. Last year, the centralised counselling had started on August 12 and continued till October 28. This year, the process will start on August 13 and be completed on September 11, a board official said. The admissions can take place faster because the engineering aspirants can now get their documents verified at the college, chosen through centralised counselling. The state JEE results were announced on Friday. A total of 65,170 candidates had written the test in-person on July 17 and 64,850 received rank cards. During registration, the candidates have to upload documents such as Class X and XII mark sheets on the counselling portal developed by the board. Earlier, the candidates had to go to reporting centres for verification of documents after locking their choice of institute, a board official said. Last year, the board had virtual reporting centres so a candidate did not have to physically go to one because of the pandemic. “But this, too, would delay the admission process,” said a board official. “This year, the institutes will themselves work as the reporting centres, enabling the institutes to start classes early,” said Malayendu Saha, chairman, JEE board. An official of the higher education department said that because of the lengthy counselling process last year, BTech classes at Jadavpur University and Calcutta University could only start in January 2021. “Since 487 of the 1,253 BTech seats at JU and 89 of the 237 at CU had remained vacant after the three-phased centralised counselling by the JEE board, both universities had to conduct counselling independently to fill the vacant seats. Classes could only start in January. This year, the board wants to complete the admission early so that these institutes — even if they hold counselling independently to fill vacant seats — can start classes in November,” said the official. A JU teacher said candidates could quit the university after taking admission in NITs, which have better infrastructure, this year, too. “Wrapping up the three-phased centralised counselling early is a wiser proposition. This would enable JU to undertake decentralised counselling to manage the inevitable vacancies and start classes early,” he said. JEE board chairman Saha said that after the counselling process would end on September 11, the institutes should take about a week to complete the admission. “We are creating an opportunity so they can start the classes as early as possible. We want the students of Bengal to study in the engineering institutes of the state as much as possible,” said Saha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
07-08-2021||Calcutta||Teenager arrested impersonating an IPS officer||An 18-year-old boy was arrested on Thursday for allegedly impersonating an IPS officer. Ankit Kumar Singh, police said, was allegedly sending text and WhatsApp messages to people saying they had police cases against them and that he could help them “settle” the cases if they paid |him. The police said he had been using 29 different mobile phone sets for the past few weeks to contact his “targets”. “He had masked his Internet protocol (IP) address hoping that was enough to avert the police glare. He would introduce himself as Mohammad Nooral Hossain, IPS cyber cell police officer of the city police,” said a senior officer in Lalbazar. Sources in Lalbazar said there was no IPS officer of the name attached with Calcutta police at present. The police said they had received a complaint on July 31 based on which a case was drawn up at cyber police station in Lalbazar. During investigation, the cops found that Singh, a resident of Bally in Howrah. One mobile phone, two SIM cards and a few forged documents were seized from his possession, an officer said. The police have found that Singh had been extorting anything between Rs 2,000 and Rs 1 lakh from his victims. He was produced before the court on Friday where he was remanded in police custody till August 13. Calcutta police had recently arrested another man who had allegedly introduced |himself as an officer of the enforcement directorate and contacted a Trinamul Congress MP claiming he had a case against him with the central agency and that he could help the MP get rid of the charges if the latter agreed to pay him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
