08-08-2021||Calcutta||Fuel supply restored to most filling stations in Calcutta||Fuel supply was restored to most filling stations in Calcutta by evening after oil transporters called off their flash strike. The strike was called by transporters who ferried fuel from Indian Oil Corporation’s depot at Mourigram in Howrah. Multiple pumps in Calcutta ran out of fuel by Friday afternoon. On Saturday, many of them got their supply of petrol and diesel. Some, however, were dry till at least afternoon on Saturday. A pump at Dhakuria was out of petrol till at least 1pm. Another at Maniktala had a ‘No Petrol’ poster around the same time. “Normality restored at Mourigram Terminal. Strike withdrawn by Transporter on request of IndianOil Management,” said an official of Indian Oil. Private transporters, who carry the fuel by oil tankers, resorted to flash strike on Wednesday, protesting a tender floated by the public sector oil company to pick truckers for the next five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
08-08-2021||Calcutta||Schools plan to change question pattern for Classes X and XII||Several schools in the city are planning a change in the question pattern of the mid-term exams of Classes X and XII. The schools plan to include multiple choice questions (MCQs) in the exams that would test a student’s understanding of the texts and concepts of a subject. This comes after the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations on Friday announced two semesters and an exam at the end of each semester would be conducted by the council. The exam in November will be entirely an MCQ-based online examination, the council said. Several schools have mid-term exams scheduled in September. The teachers said they would have to work out the question paper in a way that would prepare the student to face the November exam. Even the teaching method has to be MCQ oriented, where at the end of each chapter students will have to be given as many questions as possible, said a teacher. Teachers said MCQs would mean more “thorough reading of the text” with no portion that can be classified as “less important” from the exam point of view. “MCQ means no one knows from where a question will be asked. The question paper in the school exam will also have to be such that there are ‘close options’ where the student has to work out, analyse, apply their knowledge and then answer,” said The Heritage School principal Seema Sapru. “While setting the question papers we have to ensure that there is at least one close but not the correct option which will make the student think and apply their knowledge,” said Joeeta Basu, economics teacher at St Xavier’s Collegiate School. Several principals said they would hold a meeting with departmental heads in the coming week to discuss how the question paper would be modified for the approaching school exam. “A new method of examination will have to be devised in keeping with the council's circular. We are planning to include MCQs for boys to get practice before November," said John Stephen, the acting principal of La Martiniere for Boys. “Usually, we have one section of short answers and another of subjective answers in the exam. We will have a meeting on Monday to decide on how much of MCQs have to be included,” he added. Schools like Loreto House, Calcutta Boys’ School, Sri Sri Academy, Loreto Convent Entally are some of the others which said on Saturday that they were planning a change in the question pattern. “MCQs involve a higher level of learning because answers can be similar at first glance,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, the principal of Loreto Convent Entally. Many principals said the new method would mean more preparation for the teachers as well, both in terms of teaching and setting question papers. “Teachers will have to be more in-depth,” Gomes said. Basu said after the end of each chapter students would have to be given “lots of questions”. Sri Sri Academy that had already included short quiz and continuous assessment said these activities would become an integral part now. “At the end of each topic or chapter there are short quizzes or assessments to test the child’s understanding before moving to the next portion,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. Teachers in some schools said a specimen question paper from a council before the school exams would help them understand the pattern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
08-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jab buffer stock dilemma between CMC and State Health Dept||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation had asked the state’s health department for “a buffer stock of one lakh Covid vaccine doses”. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of corporation’s board of administrators, said on Saturday that this could help plan the CMC’s vaccination programme better and reduce chaos outside the vaccination centres. But the health department has never had a large enough stock itself to be able to provide the CMC the protection of any buffer stock, he added. Hakim’s statement on Saturday comes at a time when 152 Covid vaccination centres of the CMC had stopped vaccination from Friday owing to unavailability of Covishield vaccines. Forty other centres are administering Covaxin. Long queues of people outside CMC’s vaccination centres have been a common sight across the city. “I had asked the health secretary to give us (the CMC) a buffer stock of one lakh doses. But even he does not have that much stock of vaccine with the health department that he can give the CMC a buffer stock,” Hakim said. “We do not know the night before as to how many doses we can administer the next day. As a result, we are having problems in distributing the coupons to recipients.... We are having difficulty in managing the vaccination programme.” Officials managing Covid vaccination centres of the CMC said people standing in queues to take jabs could be informed early as to how many doses would be administered if the information was available with the officials in advance. At present, people get to know how many doses would be administered after standing in a queue for four-five hours. It is then that some of them realise doses would get exhausted before their turn came. “People are harassed as they have to wait in the queue without any knowledge whether they will get the vaccine or not. We could have displayed the number of doses to be administered the next day in a notice board if we ourselves had the clarity,” said one CMC doctor who is in charge of vaccination in a part of Calcutta. Hakim added that the CMC would require more vaccine doses as its centres did not vaccinate only Calcuttans but many from the neighbouring districts as well because their home districts did not have enough vaccination centres  compared to Calcutta. A CMC official said they had found that between 25 per  cent and 30 per cent of those who had taken the jabs from CMC’s centres were not residents of Calcutta. “The CMC will not turn away anyone who is not a resident of the city as it is bound to vaccinate anyone from the country,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
08-08-2021||Calcutta||Man from Cossipore cheats dozen youths by promising govt jobs||A 30-year-old man from Cossipore allegedly cheated at least a dozen youths of several lakhs by claiming to be “very close” to Firhad Hakim, the transport and housing minister, and promising them government jobs. Ayan Barua’s name cropped up after one of those allegedly duped lodged a police complaint. The police are looking for him. “The accused has duped at least a dozen. The amounts varied between Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000 as first instalment,” said a senior officer of Cossipore police station. Hakim said: “I am not aware of who has cheated whom by taking my name or claiming to be close to me. But one must realise this is not the way the government offers jobs to aspirants.” A man has been arrested for allegedly making forged visas and selling them to people who were apparently unable to get visas from the respective embassies, police said. A Delhi police team jointly raided a Haridevpur apartment with Calcutta police on Friday and arrested Nand Kishore Prasad. Cops seized at least 83 passports and a document that resembles a Russian visa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
08-08-2021||Calcutta||Reduced higher secondary syllabus to stay for next year||The Bengal higher secondary council has announced that it will continue with the reduced syllabus and changed question pattern for the higher secondary exams and Class XI annual exams next year. Since uncertainty looms over the reopening of schools amid the Covid pandemic, the council has decided to continue with the curtailed syllabus. A notice addressed to all the heads of institutions from the council’s secretary-in-charge Tapas Mukherjee on Friday said: “I am to inform you that the council has decided to continue with the reduced syllabus and changed question pattern for Class XI annual examination and higher secondary examination for 2022.” The school education department had in November last year announced that the syllabus would be slashed by 30 to 35 per cent because on-campus classes could not be held. An official of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education said it is still not clear when schools can reopen , which is a must for covering the whole syllabus, because the threat of the pandemic has not subsided. “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday that the state government will try to reopen schools on alternate days after the Puja vacation in November, subject to improvement in situation. Even if that were to happen, a substantial number of classes would be missed by then and it would not be sufficient for covering the syllabus. So, we are going ahead with the reduced syllabus,” he said. Based on the reduced syllabus, the council had in February released topic-wise division of marks for each subject for the HS 2021 exams. “This distribution would be continued in the hope that the exams would be held next year with the situation turning conducive,” the official said. In 2021, despite the council announcing the distribution of marks, the exams — scheduled for June — could not be conducted following a renewed surge in Covid cases. In the absence of on-campus exams, the council gave 40 per cent weightage to a student’s performance in the Class X board exams and 60 per cent to Class XI annual exam marks and the combined weightage was added to 30-mark practical or 20-mark project to arrive at the final marks of an HS 2021 candidate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
08-08-2021||Calcutta||CISCE: Students opt to write in-person improvement examinations||Students in many ICSE and ISC schools have opted to write in-person improvement examinations to better their scores because they felt the “imputed marks” did not do justice to their board results. In most schools, ISC-cleared students have opted for improvement tests and most of them are academically strong, principals said. The schools assessed the request of candidates for improvement exams before forwarding it to the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE). The number of applications for improvement exams at the ISC level is seven in Don Bosco School, Park Circus, four each in La Martiniere for Boys, St Xavier’s Collegiate School, St James’ School, Sri Sri Academy, five in Delhi Public School New Town, two in Our Lady Queen of the Missions School in Salt Lake and one in Calcutta Girls’ High School. Two students opted for the improvement exam at the ICSE level in Assembly of God Church School, Park Street. “Some good students did not score as we expected them to but not all of them have opted for improvement,” said Sister Sherly Sebastian, the principal, Our Lady Queen of the Missions School in Salt Lake. School marking is “strict” and many students put in their best efforts after the pre boards. But they did not get an opportunity to write the exams this time, she said. The council had cancelled the ICSE and ISC exams this year because of the pandemic. “Some students are not satisfied with their imputed marks,” said John Stephen, the acting principal of La Martiniere for Boys. Schools, however, did not forward all the requests that came from students “When students came to us wanting to apply for an improvement exam we studied their results in the past two years (XI and XII). We noticed a huge deviation from the marks they have scored in school,”said Sri Sri Academy principal Suvina Shunglu. The council had extended the date to apply for improvement tests from August 1 to August 4. Candidates “who are not satisfied with the result awarded to them using the CISCE’s Scheme for ICSE & ISC Year 2021 Examinations, may get themselves registered” for the improvement exams, it said. On Friday, the council published the timetable for both improvement and compartment exams scheduled from August 16. Many ISC students of various schools have also applied for “dispute resolution” to check any calculation error in their marks. “Students have been enquiring as to when they will receive the marks because the college applications have started,” said Sonali Sen, the principal of Delhi Public School New Town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
08-08-2021||Calcutta||City markets coming back to life||Slowly but surely, the markets are coming back to life. Bolstered by vaccines and tired of staying home, several Calcuttans are returning to their favourite places. Finding a parking slot at malls is a tough task and a walk across Gariahat pavements is not as breezy as it was a couple of months ago. Retailers said business was on the rise and with the festive season two months away, footfall would only go up. Metro stations are busy even during the non-peak hours. Around 2 lakh people are taking the trains every day. Stations closer to markets, like Kalighat and Shyambazar, are back to being busy even during non-peak hours. People’s incomes have not gone up suddenly. But having stayed indoors for such a long time, people have some spare cash that they can spend. Retailers and mall staffers said purchase was need-based last year. But this time, people are visiting malls for an outing like they did before. Familiar feel Late afternoon on Friday, the pavements in Gariahat were busy. A handful of hawkers were still sitting idle, some of them fidgeting with their phones. But many were busy. A walk along the pavement from Traders’ Assembly to Ballygunge AC Market meant wriggling past buyers. Bargaining bouts, typical of the hawkers’ enclave that sells everything from trinkets to crockeries, were back at many stalls. A woman wanted a couple of doormats at a stall. The shopkeeper started by asking for Rs 400. The woman offered Rs 250. The deal was finally settled at Rs 310. At a stall right in front of Traders’ Assembly, three women were checking out bags. Two of them bought a bag each after around scouring nearly half of the stock. “Things are not as gloomy as they used to be. When I reopened in the middle of June, I would be busy swatting flies for most of the day. Making the first sale would often take three to four hours. That has changed. But the Puja rush has not started yet,” said Bappa Pal, who sells crockeries. A bulk of the customers at Gariahat comprised mothers of children at schools in and around the Gariahat-Ballygunge area and female college students. With schools and colleges shut, that clientele is largely absent. Swapan Saha, who sells earrings, trinkets and imitation jewellery, said he would sell stuff worth Rs 3,000 to 4,000 on an average day two months before the Puja till 2019. “Now, it is around Rs 1,000. But after reopening last year, or even a month ago, I would struggle to get two to three customers every day. So, I am not complaining,” he said. Malls Around 6pm on Friday, only a few slots were remaining at the parking area on the second floor of South City Mall. “You will not get any after half an hour,” said a security guard manning the entry point from the parking lot. Though not packed to the hilt, the mall was still busy. “Sale” posters adorned almost every store. People, young and old, kept moving in and out of the stores with bags in hand. Ditto at Quest Mall an hour later. “Things have been looking bright for the past few weeks. The festive season rush has just started. People are buying in bulk, after a long time,” said Krishnendu Tiwari, the manager of a premium menswear store. “Before the pandemic, our daily sales volume in July would be around Rs 1 lakh. Last month, it was around Rs 70,000, which is not bad at all, considering the circumstances,” he said. An employee of a kids apparel store in Quest Mall said people had started Puja shopping. “Last year, buying was low-volume. Even for kids, people bought only one or a pair of clothes. That seems to have changed. People are buying in bulk,” said the man. Many retailers said they noticed a change in the buying pattern. Purchase was entirely utility-driven in June and a better part of July. Now, retailers said they were getting flying customers as well. “Friday and Saturday are the best days for business. On Sundays, the mall footfall is huge but that does not translate into business. But it is a relief to see so many people,” said a repre¬ sentative of a chain of bags and accessories, with stores at South City and Mani Square.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
