09-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid chokes cash for poor students||A number of students whose education depends on donations as their parents are too poor to afford their studies have quit school or are on the verge of doing so as many sponsors have withdrawn support during the Covid pandemic. Some of the schools have extended a helping hand by offering concessions but are not sure how long they can do so. The heads of two schools said they had approached other sponsors but the response had not been encouraging. About 50 students from Nursery to Class X at a private school in the city were dependent on sponsors. “With contributions drying up, some had dropped out,” a school official said. At another school, of the 25 students who were being supported, the donations for 15 have remained uninterrupted. The school had to offer concessions to the other 10, an official said. In most cases, sponsors help by paying tuition fees and for books, exercise books, stationery and data recharge. “Some of the sponsors have withdrawn support and so naturally the education of children has been impacted. Some of the students have gone back to their native place and have no contact with the school. There are some who still show some drive. The school lets them continue regardless of whether they have paid their fees or not,” said Sadaf Hashmi, school coordinator at St Stephen's School in central Calcutta. “We had a strength of 700 students before the pandemic. That has come down to 400…,” she said. At Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur, in South 24-Parganas, about 70 children were studying with help from sponsors before the pandemic. A section of them has since dropped out as help has been withdrawn, said headmaster Chandan Maity. “Individuals as well as organisations used to contribute. Thanks to their support, the students could buy books and stay in the hostel,” Maity said. The headmistress of a madarsa in Murshidabad said tuition became more necessary during the pandemic, which has shut down classrooms, for her students because there is none at home to help them with studies. “A few of my students got Rs 500 to Rs 600 a month to pay for the tuition and to buy books. We tried to arrange funds for them, but several times of late they did not get any help,” said Murshida Khatun, the headmistress of Debkunda Sk. Abdur Razzak Memorial Girls High Madarsah. “The parents of the girls are masons or daily wage earners. They are not in a position to provide an extra Rs 500 or Rs 1,000 for their daughters’ education. But we cannot keep approaching the supporters because we understand many of them have their own limitations now,” said Khatun. Just before the lockdown was announced last year, she said, a sponsor in Bangalore had asked for a list of 25 girls whom they would like to support. “They never got back,” she said. “The number of supporters has reduced. At the beginning of the session, we wrote to all our supporters but most of them did not respond. We cannot keep asking because we understand the strained condition everyone is in,” said Harshita Dasani, principal, Chowringhee High School. Dasani said three parents had wanted to withdraw their children, one of whom is in Class X, from school. “We retained them by giving them a 50 per cent concession on fees and convinced the parents to pay the rest. But it is a strain on the school funds because there are many other parents who do not pay the fees,” said Dasani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
09-08-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College to start first-year UG classes on September 10||St Xavier’s College will start first-year undergraduate classes on September 10, an official of the Park Street institution said, well ahead of the state-aided colleges where classes are to start on October 1. St Xavier’s College started receiving application forms for undergraduate courses on June 22. At the state-aided colleges, submission of filled-in forms started on August 2. “First-year classes must start early for the syllabus to be completed on time,” said Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College. “Considering that the state higher secondary council, CBSE and the ICSE council published their Class XII board results in July on respective dates, August 10 happens to be the last date of applying. Once we are through with the publication of the merit list, classes will start latest by September 10,” Father Savio told Metro. “An early start of the first-year classes is a must to cover the syllabus and conduct the semester exams on time.” The decision as of now is that classes will be held online, as a precaution against Covid. The college, while drawing up the merit list for the undergraduate courses, is giving 75 per cent weightage to the Class XII board result aggregate and 25 per cent to the board marks in the subject in which an aspirant wants to study honours. St Xavier’s University, New Town, will start its undergraduate classes on digital platforms on August 9. The Park Street college is waiting for an advisory from the state government about the resumption of in-person classes. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said on Thursday that the government would consider reopening schools and colleges after Puja if the Covid situation remained under control. “As the state government is exploring the possibility of reopening colleges in November (Diwali is in early November), we will soon start sending circulars to the students to get themselves vaccinated. Vaccination with two doses will be mandatory in the event of resumption of on-campus classes,” said Father Dominic Savio. If students face constraints in getting vaccinated, he said, the college will arrange for their inoculation. The college had in June arranged for free vaccination of the students who were in the intermediate semester in the second and third year. “If the state government allows reopening of college in late October, it will not be possible to get all students fully vaccinated by then. We have to keep in mind that there is an acute shortage of vaccines all over because of erratic supply. If we don’t start alerting students now, they won’t be able to take the jabs in time,” said an official of St Xavier’s College. The National Institute of Technology, Durgapur, and IIM Calcutta have announced that the research scholars and students who are being allowed to return to the campus will have to be fully vaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
09-08-2021||Calcutta||Prices of several vegetables rise in Calcutta over the past 10 days||The prices of several vegetables have shot up in Calcutta over the past 10 days because of a supply crunch that traders said was a result of heavy rain that damaged crops in south Bengal. The prices of onions, cucumber, brinjal, green chilly, cabbage, pumpkin and ladies finger have increased between Rs 10 and Rs 15 per kg during the period. Heavy rain in south Bengal has destroyed crops in the fields and pushed prices up, vegetable sellers in the city said. The Alipore Met office said Bengal had received more than usual rain in July. In the first week of August, too, the downpour was more than usual. A member of the state government’s task force on prices of essential commodities said the vegetable prices would remain high for at least another fortnight. Not just the rain, the member said, the rising diesel price, too, is responsible for pushing up vegetable prices. A resident of Behala’s Bakultala, who buys vegetables from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation-run market near his home, recounted his experience: “I purchased pointed gourds for Rs 35 a kg just 10 days back. Today, the price was Rs 45 a kg. Brinjal sold for Rs 45 a kg 10 days ago. Today, the price was Rs 60.” Soumen Das, a retailer at a CMC market in Kasba’s Jadavgarh, echoed the Behala resident. “The price of onion has risen by Rs 5 a kilo. Cabbage costs Rs 50 a kg, up from Rs 40,” Das said. Heavy rain lashed large parts of Howrah, Hooghly, East and West Midnapore, and North and South 24-Parganas over the past few days. A large chunk of the vegetables consumed in Calcutta are sourced from these districts. “The heavy rain and the floods caused by it across south Bengal have destroyed enormous quantities of crops. The fields have been flooded. Supply has been hit though there is no shortage yet,” said Rabindranath Koley, a member of the state government’s task force on essential commodities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
09-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Too few Covishield doses for us, says CMC ||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation may have to pause administering Covishield on Tuesday because it has received a small number of doses. The health department has given 27,000 doses of Covishield to the CMC, out of a little above 3.5 lakhs doses it received from the Centre for the entire state. CMC officials said 27,000 doses were too few for a populous city like Calcutta, where a large number of people are awaiting their second dose. Following a meeting on Sunday, the civic body decided that Covishield would be administered to around 150-200 recipients in each of its vaccination centres, CMC officials said. “Officials of the CMC health department will take stock of the situation at the end of the day’s vaccination and decide whether the drive would continue on Tuesday,” the official said. “It is unlikely we will be able to administer Covishield from Tuesday. The number of doses given to us is way too little,” said Atin Ghosh, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators in charge of health. Officials of the health department said they were expecting another consignment to reach on August 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
09-08-2021||Calcutta||Video calls ‘morphed  to extort’ doctor, two arrested||A doctor in Calcutta had received WhatsApp video calls from unknown numbers and screenshots of such calls were allegedly morphed and used to extort money from him, police said on Sunday. Two men — identified as Fakruddin and Aslam Deen Khan — were arrested in Alwar district of Rajasthan on Saturday in connection with the case. The 61-year-old doctor, attached to a private hospital, had lodged a complaint with Phoolbagan police station around a month ago saying he had received multiple video calls on WhatsApp on a particular day, following which he was being blackmailed. He mentioned in the complaint that screenshots of the video calls with his photograph morphed with obscene pictures were used to blackmail him. The racket allegedly threatened to circulate the morphed screenshots on social media if he did not cough up money. “The doctor was forced to pay the extortion money, which he transferred to a bank account. We found that the money from that account was transferred to two more accounts in Alwar. We could zero in on the accused through details of the bank accounts,” said an officer. Four mobile phones and three ATM cards of different banks were seized from the accused, who have been brought to Calcutta. The driver-cum-caretaker of a former member of Parliament who stays in Salt Lake has been arrested for allegedly siphoning off Rs 7 lakh from his employer’s account. Amarnath Singh, 53, was arrested based on a complaint by Lalita Bandhyopadhyay, the daughter of Debabrata Bandyopadhyay, a former Trinamul MP. Bandhyopadhyay and his wife would send Singh regularly to the bank to withdraw money, an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
09-08-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta recalls the students of one-year MBA programme||IIM Calcutta has called all 80 students of the one-year MBA executive programme back to the campus for attending online classes from hostels. As for the two-year MBA programme, 25 per cent of the students have been recalled from both first and second year because of connectivity constraints faced by them. It was initially decided that 25 per cent of the students from the executive programme would be called back to the campus so they could overcome connectivity woes. But the institute later decided to recall all. An official said many of those pursuing the executive programme were staying in rented accommodations on the outskirts of the city and appealed to be recalled because of connectivity issues. “They were allowed entry last month. All are fully vaccinated,” said Manish Thakur, dean (new initiatives and external relations) and a member of the Covid committee of the IIM. Twenty-five per cent of the students of the executive programme batch from small towns and tier-III cities were recalled from July 4 and the remaining 75 per cent from July 21. Even as the academic session for the executive programme started in April, classes are being held on online platforms. A student pays Rs 27 lakh for pursuing the programme, considered to be a revenue earner. Explaining what prompted a 100 per cent recall, Thakur told Metro: “Their academic year started in April. So we wanted to give them some time to experience the campus.” The institute will soon conduct a survey on the status of vaccination among those from the two-year MBA programme who have been recalled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
09-08-2021||Calcutta||Social call, yoga tips for students||Rammohan Mission School A team of academicians from Rammohan Mission School visited the Yaas-hit Mousuni island in South 24 Parganas to interact with the villagers and encourage the children in continuing their studies. The principal, four teachers and some officials spent a day in the area and distributed relief materials such as tarpaulin, drinking water packets, bleaching powder, ORS and medicines. Jnan Ranjan Chakraborty, a retired academician of St Xavier’s College, also accompanied them. “The school is closed and the children there have almost lost the habit of studying. When asked, many were not sure if they would go back to school at all. So we decided to offer schoolbags as a reward to those who don’t give up. Two teachers from our school will visit the island later to check which children indeed return. Those will get the promised goodies. The children were also given stationary items this time,” said principal Sujoy Biswas. Primary and senior sections of Birla High School, Moira Street, celebrated International Yoga Day separately on a virtual platform, spreading awareness on the physical and mental health benefits of the practice. Nursery kids engaged in an activity to make stick figure yoga images besides doing yoga postures and breathing exercises, while Kindergarten children performed simple yoga postures such as triangle pose and chair pose. Students of classes I, II, III, IV and V observed the day by performing breathing exercises, meditation and various asanas under the guidance of individual yoga instructors. Students of classes VI to XI performed different asanas at home and shared the videos that were posted as a compilation from the school’s social media handle. “In a year full of stress and anxiety, yoga comes as a solution for our mental and physical fitness. We must make it a part of our daily routine to recognise its benefits. Even during the online classes we have been conducting regular yoga classes,” said principal Loveleen Saigal. Headmistress Farida Singh said: “Yoga has always been an integral part of our curriculum. Keeping the mental and physical well-being of our students in mind, yoga classes continue even today through the online mode. The experience was an enriching one both for our students and teachers.” Calcutta Business School, a unit of Shikshayatan Foundation, recently organised a webinar on women empowerment. A panel of five speakers — Rupali Basu, managing director of Woodlands Hospital; actor Richa Sharma; Swati Gautam, founder and CEO of Necessity; Ruchika Gupta, executive director of Sanmarg; and Nilanjana Chakraborty, entrepreneur — shared their journeys and discussed the strength and difficulties that cropped up along the way to empowerment. Oindrilla Dutt, founder-entrepreneur of Open Doors, moderated the session. This was an open webinar, streamed live on Facebook and YouTube from the school’s social media handles. “In this webinar women speakers from different walks of life and work fields came together and talked about everything that one woman can face and experiences while empowering themselves,” said the foundation’s secretary-general Bratati Bhattacharyya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
