10-08-2021||Calcutta||Work Cocoons with WiFi being set up across New Town||No quiet corner at home to work? A “cocoon” can be your answer. With work-from-home becoming the new normal because of the Covid pandemic, the New Town authorities have come up with the concept of work cocoons. The cocoons, which are small two-storey structures, have been set up in three places  — opposite Nazrul Tirtha, opposite Eco Park (near the Owl crossing) and near Sankalpa 4 housing complex. “The cocoons, called Happy Works Working Pods, have in-built high-speed WiFi networks and charging stations,” said an official of Hidco, which has built the structures. “Apart from desks and chairs, there are sofas in the pods.” The first such pod, the one opposite Nazrul Tirtha, will be inaugurated on August 13. Hidco officials came up with the idea to set up these neighbourhood work cocoons during the lockdown last year. “We decided to set up these cocoons at a meeting that focussed on making life easier during the pandemic. Many residents across the city live in apartments and they don’t have a dedicated study or work space,” a senior Hidco official said. “Many cannot afford large spacious apartments that have a dedicated study or office space. Such people struggle working from home because of space constraints.” Architect Abin Chaudhuri and his team have designed the cocoons. The air-conditioned pods house a small café and a branch of the New Town Library each. Newspapers, magazines and bestsellers will be kept at one corner of each pod. “Around 18 people can use a pod at one time. Adequate space has been kept following the social-distancing norm. One has to pay Rs 20 an hour to work from a pod,” the official said. “People will find it more relaxing to work from a co-working space like a working pod,” said Debashis Sen, the managing director of Hidco. More such work pods are in the pipeline in the township.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
10-08-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur plans to call research scholars back to campus in batches||IIT Kharagpur has worked out plans to call research scholars back to campus in batches, within the permissible limit of around 900 that has been fixed because of the pandemic, an institute official said. A letter, addressed to the students from the dean of students’ affairs, Dhrubajyoti Sen, had last week said the scholars who had arrived at the campus when the institute called them back early this year but had to return home following a spike in Covid cases would be asked to come back first, provided it is convenient for them. The scholars who were scheduled to return in April but were asked to defer their journeys because of the surge in cases would be called thereafter, the letter said. The institute, the letter said, expects to expedite the process of recall depending on the availability of quarantine facilities on the campus. The Telegraph had reported on July 21 that the IIT had set a cap on the presence of research scholars on the campus because of the pandemic. On July 22, the IIT Kharagpur teachers’ association in a letter to the institute’s director V.K. Tewari appealed that the scholars, many of whose research is on the verge of completion, could be called back at the earliest. The institute has over 3,500 research scholars. According to the plan, senior scholars who couldn’t return when given the chance earlier, because of some reason, but want to now will be given priority. The next batches will be decided based on the scholars’ seniority/semester of registration. An official of the institute said the plans were being drawn up based on the available medical facility on the campus. “We know that the teachers are eager to increase the cap…. Owing to limited isolation and treatment facilities, the institute had to earlier send some of the students to hospitals in Calcutta. But finding beds in Calcutta was difficult as the city was battling its own spike in cases. So, we are acting according to a rationale,” he said. The fact that unlike many other IITs, the one in Kharagpur is far away from a city has added to the woes. The official said the authorities had decided on the ceiling to avoid gatherings on the campus, which had to be shut down for a fortnight in September last year after a surge in cases. A teacher at the institute said some IITs, like the one in Chennai, have called back almost all research scholars by augmenting medical facilities on the campus. “Unfortunately IIT Kharagpur has not responded to the challenges as the other IITs have done. The research scholars are paying a price for this,” he said. From August, students who were unable to attend online classes because of resource constraints — 450 BTech and 50 MTech students — have started arriving on the campus in batches to stay in hostels and use the connectivity facility. “In such a scenario, maintaining the cap is a must to avoid assembly as much as possible,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
10-08-2021||Calcutta||CNG buses make debut in Calcutta, to ply from Tuesday||The state government on Monday started the trial run of two CNG-operated buses as part of the transport department’s initiative to replace a large number of diesel-powered buses with environment-friendly ones. Senior officials in the transport department said the city’s first CNG buses would start ferrying passengers between New Town and Howrah on Tuesday. Transport minister Firhad Hakim said the city would soon have a fleet of either battery-run or CNG-powered state buses. “Apart from reducing pollution levels, the operational costs of running buses will come down significantly (once battery- or CNG-powered vehicles are introduced),” Hakim said at the launch in Kasba on Monday. “If needed, we will go back to the company, with whom we have entered into an agreement, and ask them to make modifications to the two CNG buses,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, the managing director of the West Bengal Transport Corporation. On June 21, the state government had signed an agreement with the Bengal Gas Company Limited (BGCL) for introducing CNG buses after setting up refill stations. The first station will be operational at the Kasba depot by December. Over the next five years, the BGCL will set up CNG facilities in various government bus depots and other similar facilities. Eight bus depots have been identified where CNG stations will be set up in the first phase. They are in Salt Lake, Thakurpukur, Barrackpore, Belghoria, Howrah, Santragachi, Karunamoyee and Kasba. The Bengal Gas Company Limited, a joint venture company of GAIL and Greater Calcutta Gas Supply Corporation Limited, will invest Rs 3.5 crore towards building CNG infrastructure at each bus depot. Officials of the transport department said introduction of CNG would result in considerable slashing of expenditure as the fuel cost would come down by 25 to 30 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
10-08-2021||Calcutta||Child rights commission along with Unicef conduct webinar on online safety for children||Children who have been introduced to the internet because of virtual classes are also exposed to online abuse and exploitation, child rights experts said at a webinar on online safety for children. Parents have no option but to give devices to their children. But at least once a day, they must run a check on the system to understand what the child is doing on the device, said a panelist. The webinar was organised by the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights, in collaboration with Unicef, at a time when children are dependent on devices to be in touch with school and education. “There is no option for children but to use the internet. Guardians are having to give their children smartphones. Earlier, they would tell them not to overuse the phone, the laptop or the internet,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the state commission for protection of child rights. “Because of this they can be exposed to various unwanted situations like a hacker can fake their identity… but since schools have not reopened and maybe, in future, online class or hybrid class will become part of a child’s life, it is important to know about cyber crime.” Across homes, children are on using devices, attending classes or even extra curricular activities, since March 2020 because of the pandemic. Commander Ashok V.M. Kumar (retd), regional director, South Asia, International Justice Mission, said that parents should touch base with the child’s device. “You have given your child a laptop and once a day, you have to check the system... Don’t be so disconnected that you do not know what the child is doing,” he said. The-anti human trafficking expert said that one should regularly trace the home Wi-Fi. “We get the bill but hardly anyone asks for the data break-up to check the consumption pattern,” he told Metro later. He said that parents need to check in which periods of the day the consumption is high. That should throw up an alert because “crime apps consume a significant amount of data”. The consumption of data can be an alert and then the parent can ask for the details of the sites visited from the service provider, he said. His advice to children during was to reduce their speed on the internet, especially when they are new to this world, and reach out for help if they feel trapped in any way. The panelists said that while the internet is useful because children can study, it is also a double-edged sword. “Currently, excessive internet usage and access has gone up because of which the child is exposed to abuse and exploitation,” said Paramita Neogi, child protection specialist, Unicef, West Bengal. “Online violence is facilitating offline violence because it starts online and pushes the child to contact the perpetrator and then leads to violence offline,” she said. The session was moderated by Mahuya Santra, consulting editor of the state commission for protection of child rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
10-08-2021||Calcutta||CMC vaccination centres resume Covishield doses after a gap of three days||The vaccination centres of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation resumed administering Covishield on Monday, after a gap of three days, with many queuing from early in the morning to ensure they did not miss out on the jab. Hundreds of people from districts, who joined the queue relatively late, had to return without getting the jab because each vaccination centre of the civic body received only around 150 doses for the day. The civic body had suspended administration of Covishield on Friday after running out of doses. “We resumed administering Covishield on Monday following the arrival of fresh stocks. Adequate stocks arrived today, so the drive will continue at least for the next few days,” said a CMC doctor. “Each primary health centre of the CMC will administer about 200 Covishield doses on Tuesday.” Sagarika Mondal, 29, and her mother Jogamaya, 49, turned up outside the primary health centre of Ward 73, in Kalighat, at 6.30am. The residents of Sonarpur, on the southern fringes of the city, had left home at 5.30am. Sagarika cycled and her mother took an autorickshaw to Mukundapur, from where they arrived at the health centre by bus. “We had to travel this far because there are hardly any doses at the centres near home. We handed our documents to the local panchayat and they promised to let us know when doses would be available. Someone told us to try our luck in Calcutta because the centres here are better stocked,” said Sagarika. The two left in the late afternoon after getting the shot. Those who joined the queue at several centres after 8am could not get the jab as the doses had been exhausted by the time their turn came. Outside many centres, the number of people in the queue was 1.5 times or even twice the number of doses the centres had received. A health department official said they received 7.5 lakh doses of Covishield since Saturday, out of which about 80,000 were given to the CMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
10-08-2021||Calcutta||Crematorium workers recall at felicitation the sweep of Covid tragedy||The impact of Covid has been so severe that even the stoical crematorium workers at times are moved to tears. Some of them have not been able to forget a few faces, like that of a 35-year-old man who went to a crematorium in Garia on two consecutive days — first to cremate his mother and then his father. Another crematorium worker said he would probably never forget the sight of a man weeping inconsolably while the bodies of his wife and 17-year-old son were being taken to the pyre. The doms — those who handle bodies at crematoriums are called so — have learnt to do their job without betraying emotion, yet some of them can hardly control tears watching the tragic fallout of Covid from close quarters. An NGO recently felicitated the doms who ensured a dignified cremation of Covid victims. Some of the dead had only doms to arrange cremation because family members were not allowed anywhere near. In the early days of Covid, the safety protocol and fear of infection had kept families and friends of the deceased away. Till Friday, Calcutta had recorded 4,977 deaths from Covid. “I cannot forget the face of the man who had lost his wife and son the same day. He kept crying aloud that he had nothing more to look forward to. Our job demands that we carry on stoically, but these are the moments when we, too, can’t hold back our tears,” he said. Rajesh Mullick, 42, a dom at the Garia crematorium, said their work did not allow them to pause and think. “There are moments when we get impacted by the tragedy that has struck a family but we do not think too much about it. We are in a hurry to cremate the next body,” said Mullick. Doms form a caste and they have been cremating the dead as a hereditary occupation for generations. But everyone employed as a dom in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s crematoriums are not from that caste. Like in other jobs, the CMC advertises vacancies in the rank of doms and invites applications. Anyone who matches the criteria is offered the job, said a CMC official. Over 8,000 people had applied for six posts of dom at the NRS Medical College and Hospital recently. Graduates, postgraduates and engineers applied for the job, for which the authorities want candidates who have passed Class VIII. The posts had been advertised in December and a written test of selected applicants was conducted recently. The CMC has about 100 doms working at its eight crematoriums. The bigger crematoriums like the ones in Kalighat and Nimtala employ about 30 doms each. The smaller ones, like the Garia facility, have eight each. The NGO, A Little Dream, also felicitated other crematorium workers like cleaners, pollution unit maintenance technicians, furnace maintenance staff, sub-registrars and security personnel. “We gifted 250 goodie bags to crematorium workers because we felt they were doing a great job by giving a dignified cremation to the dead,” said Reena Chowdhury, the founder of A Little Dream. The bags were distributed in Siriti, Garia and Nimtala burning ghats, all of which have cremated Covid victims. “Each bag contained 10 surgical masks, a 500ml hand sanitiser bottle, biscuits and cakes. We wanted to thank them for their service. It is a small recognition of their work,” said Chowdhury. Crematorium staff in Calcutta had initially faced stiff opposition from residents of the areas to cremating Covid victims. The residents feared that cremating Covid victims would help spread the virus in the neighbourhood. An employee at the Nimtala burning ghat said they had to wait for hours to cremate the first Covid body last year. “There were two problems. Initially the doms were afraid to cremate a Covid victim. By the time the doms had overcome their fear, opposition emerged from residents of the area. A large number of people had gathered outside the crematorium shouting that they would not allow any Covid victim to be cremated there,” he said. After similar protests outside many other crematoriums, the civic body reserved the Dhapa crematorium, located in a relatively less populated area, for Covid victims. Later, when the number of dead increased the cremation started taking place in more crematoriums.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
10-08-2021||Calcutta||Pavement-grabbing stalls grow uncontrollably in New Town||Road and pavement-grabbing shacks are allegedly growing uncontrolled in New Town — an otherwise planned township of parks, boulevards and residential highrises. Several service lanes as well as pavements of the township are being blocked by vendors and shops selling anything from vegetables to screen guards of cellphones across all three action areas. Metro criss-crossed the township and saw that in front of every major housing complex and office buildings, shacks blocked walkways and portions of the main roads. In Action Area I, a row of pavement-grabbing stalls with plastic sheets line the newly-restored walkway behind Nazrul Tirtha. The stretch behind Nazrul Tirtha that leads to the Rail Vihar Complex in AF Block has more than 150 stalls encroaching on pavements. The area behind the New Town bus stop, in front of Home Town Mall near the clock tower, both pavements outside the DLF II complex, around 2.3km from New Town police station, have also been taken over by stalls. In Action Area II, food stalls line the pavements opposite the Axis Mall. In Action Area III, service lanes in front of the Elita Garden Vista and Sukhobrishti Housing Complex are blocked by vendors as well as garages where vehicles are repaired. Leena Paul, a resident of an apartment of Elita Garden Vista Housing Complex, said it had become nearly impossible to take their car out as vans were parked right outside their gate. Abhijit Ghosh, a Sukhobrishti resident, said most of the food stalls on the service road in front of their complex had chairs and tables, making it impossible for vehicles to negotiate the stretch. “The area resembles a haat,” said Ghosh. A fruit and vegetable vendor said he had been doing business in front of the Sukhobrishti complex for more than eight years. “We catered to the first residents who had moved into this complex long before any market or mall opened in New Town,” Ramzan Mollah said. A New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) official said every eviction drive had faced “huge resistance” from street vendors. Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman, said they had constructed hawkers’ markets in several areas that could altogether accommodate 800 vendors. “We have conducted a survey and will only allot stalls to hawkers who had settled years back...,” Sen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
10-08-2021||Calcutta||Students of Mahadevi Birla World Academy start mask business to raise funds for Covid relief||Students of commerce and business studies at a city school have started an initiative to source, design, make and sell masks and mask covers to raise funds for Covid relief. The girls of Mahadevi Birla World Academy are maintaining the accounts and records, learning to start a business and run it — a process that is teaching them real-time operations during the pandemic, the school said. It is an initiative of Biz Teens, a school club, which has students from Classes XI and XII. The project takes theory they are learning from books beyond the text and helps them learn and understand the subject better, said their teacher. The project involves 115 girls, of whom five are core members. The students have chosen masks and covers as business items after conducting a market survey. “Considering that we are in the middle of a pandemic, masks are mandatory and people require them. People are not ready to splurge and hence, we could not sell a luxury item but something that is reasonably priced and a must-buy,” said Tamanna Hirawat, a Class XII student and a core committee member who is playing the role of CEO. Apart from Tamanna, the core members are Vanshi Pulsaria (production), Ebadika Dutta (technology), Dhwani Agarwal (finance) and Yashvi Nahata (marketing) — all in Class XII. The girls have created a website for the sale. The masks are priced at Rs 25. They have got retail orders and an NGO has already placed an order for 500 masks. “This project is keeping them engaged while they are learning real-time operations of a working business model. They have started something they could do on their own to bring the subject to life. The bulk order has given them a huge impetus and they are motivated to overcome the hurdles coming their way,” said principal Anjana Saha. The amount raised will go towards relief work. “The students have learnt the theories of identification of product, distribution, pricing and promotion, all of which are part of their syllabus. It also teaches them to face the situation if they make wrong business decisions,” said Suparna Roy, the head of the department of commerce and the teacher mentoring them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
10-08-2021||Calcutta||Two men detained for fake Calcutta Municipal Corporation job promise||Two men were detained on Monday evening, including one from in front of the main gate of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, for duping people with promises of jobs in the civic body. The man who was picked up from outside the CMC gate had claimed to have contacts in the civic body and allegedly used to take Rs 10,000 from job aspirants, an officer of New Market police station said. The man had apparently introduced himself to the police as Amitabha Bose, an officer of New Market police station said. “We had information about this person. He was detained today from outside the main gate of the CMC building, where he said he was waiting for some candidates to interview them,” he said. Bose allegedly mentioned the name of a CMC-affiliated contractor and another man, who he claimed was an employee of the CMC, as being involved in the racket. Based on his statement, a man named Dibyendu Bardhan was detained, too, on Monday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
10-08-2021||Calcutta||Home-bound students get fitness tips||Delhi Public School (Joka) Students of Delhi Public School, Joka, came together to emphasise the importance of inculcating yoga into their daily lives by observing the International Yoga Day virtually. This year’s theme of the day was Yoga for Wellness. The school organised an inter-house yoga competition to engage the children in the celebration. Students demonstrated various yoga postures and made people aware of long-term benefits of each posture. Even parents became a part of this celebration and performed various asanas under the supervision of yoga teachers. “It was satisfying to see both students and parents taking part actively in understanding the relevance of yoga in healing our body and mind. Even in the session of online classes, every class has been assigned a yoga period where they practise yoga,” said principal Writuparna Chatterjee. Sushila Birla Girls’ School The primary section of Sushila Birla Girls’ School recently celebrated International Yoga Day, virtually. Children from Nursery to Class II attended a training session on yoga under the supervision of yoga teachers. Students learnt animal yoga, which included postures resembling cobra, butterfly, gorilla and others, through the play-way method. For the students of classes III to V, a 15-minute video guide on how to perform pranayama exercises —kapalbhati, bhastrika, anulom-vilom and bhramari to name a few — was played. A quiz and yoga competitions were also included in the day’s activity. “Students benefit from yoga as it not only acts as a stress buster, but also helps to build confidence. Yoga helps restore physical and mental well-being which goes a long way in achieving sound health,” said principal Koeli Dey. The BSS School Students of The BSS School came together virtually to celebrate the International Yoga Day. Around 300 students from classes VI to XII took part in the celebration and performed asanas. The programme commenced with representatives from the student council body speaking about the origin and benefits of yoga. Clips on the general well-being, nutrient deficiencies and their symptoms, along with the importance of Surya Namaskar, were displayed at the meet. “This is an important day to remind all that health of the mind and body is anyone’s greatest treasure. Yoga originated in India, and it is all the more imperative for all Indians to practise the basics of it to keep themselves fit and agile,” said principal Sunita Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
