11-08-2021||Calcutta||Photographer donates proceeds to two NGOs||A professional whose pursuit of photography led to a book in April has donated the proceeds from its sales to two organisations — one that provides relief to the people of the Sunderbans and the other that works to rehabilitate trafficked girls. India in Celebration, a collection of over 200 photographs, was captured by Sajal Ghosh during his travels across the country to “present India as a colourful, respectful and tolerant country”. So far, the contribution from the book’s sales has been Rs 50,000. Ghosh feels if people who can help others step forward to support those without means, the world will be a better place. “I have always said that I belong to a privileged class, having received the best of education, travelled extensively and worked in a well established company. People in my position must come forward to make a difference to a few more lives,” said Ghosh. Each photograph in the book is accompanied by text written by Jael Silliman. It has a foreword by MP and author Shashi Tharoor. The book captures India in its diversity, Ghosh said. “I could have given a cheque but that the book is able to generate good things for other people is giving me a sense of satisfaction,” he said. One of the organisations that has benefited is Heal, which works for conservation of the Sunderbans and for the people living there. “The people in the Sunderbans are fighting poverty as well as adversities of nature. Before they can come out of one calamity, another strikes,” said Ghosh. “Apart from livelihood that gets impacted because of salinity in water (after a cyclone), sourcing drinking water is a concern for the people living there.” The other organisation is the Rescue and Relief Foundation, which works for trafficked girls, orphans and the elderly. “The girls who are trafficked are mostly from economically marginalised families. Their families do not have the means to bring them up. It is important to empower these girls so they are not misled with false promises of a better life,” said Ghosh. The Rescue and Relief Foundation networks with other NGOs and provides financial and logistical support to run and sustain projects. “We also support a home where trafficked girls are brought after they are rescued, where they are counselled as well,” said secretary Sidhant Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
11-08-2021||Calcutta||Power supply snapped for hours at Lake Gardens after electricity pole damaged by uprooted tree||Scores of homes in Lake Gardens suffered lengthy power outages since Monday night after an electricity pole was damaged by an uprooted tree. The power supply was stopped in two phases — on Monday night, when a team from the civic body chopped the fallen tree and cleared the debris, and again on Tuesday morning, when a CESC team fixed the damaged pole. People working from home and children having to attend online classes had a harrowing time because of the outages. Several residents said calling up the CESC helplines elicited a stock response that “overhead lines being repaired”. There was no prior intimation from the power utility, they said. A CESC official denied the allegations. “We always send messages to consumers before snapping the supply,” he said. The Krishnachura tree, which stood near the intersection of Prince Anwar Shah Road and Gobindapur Road, came crashing around 7.20pm on Monday, a CMC official said. “It was a very old tree. There was no rain at that time. There were hardly any winds. It is not clear how the tree fell. But the tree damaged an adjacent electricity pole,” said Ratan Dey, a member of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators in charge of roads. A team of tree-cutters reached the spot soon to clear the area. “Following a request from the civic body, we stopped supply in the area from 7.30pm. It was restored around 10pm. The power supply was stopped on Tuesday morning again because the damaged pole needed repair,” said the CESC official. Many houses had their power supply snapped before 10am on Tuesday. At some, the supply was restored after five hours. A resident said the power went off around 10am on Tuesday. It came back at 3.20pm. “My son could finish his online class because we had a dongle. But my work got stuck for the better part of the day,” she said. Many residents said calling up the CESC helpline was not useful. “I first called the helpline around 10.30am. I was told that power would come back within two hours. The next two times I called, around 12.30pm and 1.30pm, I was told that overhead lines were being repaired. Nobody could tell when the supply would be restored,” said the resident. The supply to her home was restored after 3pm. “I did not receive any message or mail from CESC. But the person answering the call said there had been many complaints from the Anwar Shah Road area,” she said. The CESC official said sending messages to consumers was the usual procedure before snapping supply. “I cannot comment on individual cases. But sometimes, consumers do not get messages for other reasons. For example, some consumers don’t use the number registered with us at the time of inception of the connection,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
11-08-2021||Calcutta||Ten IPS officers nominated for chief minister’s medal||Ten IPS officers including Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra, additional director general of police (correctional services) Peeyush Pandey and inspector general of police (north Bengal) Devendra Prakash Singh have been nominated for the chief minister’s medal for “outstanding service” and “commendable service” this year. The medals will be conferred on the officers on August 15, a government notification issued on Tuesday said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
11-08-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University pays teachers Rs 50,000 advance for ‘procuring hardware as teaching aid’||Jadavpur University is paying teachers Rs 50,000 as advance for “procuring hardware/peripherals as teaching aid in this pandemic era”. A notice issued on July 30 says the university has considered the proposal to provide support towards teaching aid, “especially in the pandemic area where online teaching is compulsory”. The advance will be recovered in 20 installments (Rs 2,500) from the salary from October 2021 to May 2023. An official of JU said it had become clear following chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s announcement that the campuses could be reopened only in November, subject to improvement in the Covid situation. Mamata had said on Thursday that the government would try to reopen schools and colleges “on alternate days” after the Puja vacation, following a meeting with the state’s global advisory board on Covid-1“Since online classes are here to stay, we have decided to provide assistance to the teachers so that classes are held without any disruption,” said a JU official. The notice says: “The finance committee has considered the proposal…. where online teaching is compulsory. The teachers are required to apply.... within 27th August”. Vice-chancellor Suranjan Das told Metro: “Conducting classes over digital platforms has become an unfortunate reality until the pandemic ends. We have provided students encountering digital divide with smartphones and bearing the cost of datapacks. Now we are extending assistance to the teachers so that classes can be held seamlessly.” A corpus of Rs 23 lakh was raised over the past one-and-a-half years, which was spent on buying students smartphones and data packs. Partha Pratim Roy, the general secretary of the Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association (Juta), said the need to procure hardware like desktops, laptops and peripherals such as routers and scanners was on the rise as online classes and examinations would continue for quite some time. “Teachers have to conduct classes, attend departmental meetings, download answer scripts and upload those, post-scanning, through a device. A teacher might want to buy an additional laptop or desktop so that the task can be split between two devices,” he added. “Sometimes, while attending a faculty council meeting that goes on for hours, no other activities can be carried out as the device remains occupied.... If we have an additional device, downloading and uploading scripts can be done separately,” said a teacher. An official said the teachers wanted the university to buy the devices, which would be returned once the need for conducting online classes and exams was over. The notice, signed by finance officer Gourkrishna Pattanayak, says: “Considering present financial position the university is not in a position for providing such support, where the requirement of funds will be more than three crores and where such support will not be covered by government funds.” An official said the earnings of the university had taken a hit, as students could not be charged any application fee following a government order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
11-08-2021||Calcutta||65-year-old biker killed on Vidyasagar Setu||A 65-year-old man riding a motorbike through the city-bound flank of Vidyasagar Setu died after a private bus hit the two-wheeler from behind on Tuesday morning. Pillion rider Tapan Bose, 63, got injured. Soumen Hutait, a resident of Jagachha in Howrah, was declared dead at SSKM Hospital. Bose is being treated at the hospital. Both were wearing helmets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
11-08-2021||Calcutta||Belur Math will be open to devotees from August 18||Belur Math will be open to devotees and others from August 18, senior monks of the order said on Tuesday. The global headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission has been shut since April 22 following a renewed surge in Covid cases. The authorities made an exception on July 24, on the occasion of Guru Purnima. “Visitors and devotees turning up at the Math will have to produce a certificate showing they have received two doses of a Covid vaccine. They will also have to show an identity proof,” said Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of the Math and Mission. “Otherwise, a Covid negative result of an RT-PCR test will have to be produced along with an identity proof.” The test has to be conducted within 72 hours before the visit to the Math. The proof of identity can be the Aadhaar card, PAN card or the voter card, Math officials said. The Math will remain open from 8am to 11am and again from 4pm to 5.45pm. Visitors will be allowed to offer pranam at Sri Ramakrishna, Sri Sarada Devi, Swami Vivekananda and Swami Brahmananda temples. The Pally Mangal stall and the book store will be open, too. “Since large-scale congregation at places of worship is not allowed, no devotee or visitor will be allowed to participate in the evening prayer at the Sri Ramakrishna temple,” Swami Suvirananda said. No visitor will be allowed to meet Swami Smaranananda, the president of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, and other senior monks. Belur Math is home to around 300 monks and 250 employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
11-08-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur to conduct Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering 2022 in February||IIT Kharagpur will conduct the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) 2022 in February. Unlike other years, the computer-based exam will not be conducted at any international centre because of the Covid pandemic, said an official of the institute. The exam is conducted for admission to master’s programmes at the IITs and select universities, including Jadavpur University. The aptitude test will be conducted in 29 subjects and will be held on February 5, 6, 12 and 13. Aspirants can apply online through the website https://gate.iitkgp.ac.in from August 30 to September 24. All papers will be of three hours and will consist of 65 questions. The results will be published on March 17. Since GATE is an online computer-based test (CBT), the computer screen will automatically close at the end of the stipulated time. The names of the cities where the examinations will be conducted have been uploaded on the website of IIT Kharagpur. “Amid the pandemic it will not be feasible to hold the test at any international centre. Getting personnel to oversee whether the Covid norms are being adhered to at the international centres could pose a challenge,” said an official of the institute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
11-08-2021||Calcutta||City schools report no change in ISC marks after recalculation||Several city schools reported no change in ISC marks in the subjects that students had sent for recalculation. The students had applied for “dispute resolution” because they were dissatisfied with the marks awarded to them in the board results. The council had cancelled the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams this year because of the surge in Covid cases. A number of schools received an intimation from the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Tuesday. The ISC students in La Martiniere for Girls, Loreto House, Our Lady Queen of the Missions School, Salt Lake, Sri Sri Academy, Calcutta Girls’ High School, Delhi Public School New Town, St James’ School, The Heritage School, MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School, National English School, Baguiati, Julien Day School, Ganganagar and Don Bosco School Park Circus had no change in marks. The number of students who had applied for recalculation accross these schools varied from one to 45. Many of them are high scorers, several heads of schools said. Some of the students had been waiting for the recalculated marks to apply to colleges with revised marksheets to improve their chances of admission. “There are some students who had been waiting for the updated marks to apply to colleges. But since there are no changes they will start applying with the marks they have, even if it is lower than what they expected,” said Aruna Gomes, principal, Loreto House. Teachers said that students also applied for dispute resolution because they expect an increase in marks from what they score in the pre-boards. “Students perform better in the boards from what they did in the pre-boards, but this time that difference in marks was not there and hence they applied,” said Purnima Chatterjee, vice principal, MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School. Schools started informing the students via emails on Tuesday that there had been no change in marks. “Usually, when there is a recheck, there is an answer script to refer to. Students expect better scores because they know that they have written an exam and they expect an enhanced score on the basis of what they had written, which is not the case this year. It was on the basis of how they had performed in the last two years,” said Suvina Shunglu, principal, Sri Sri Academy. The dispute mechanism is “only for the correction of calculation errors”, the council had said. If a student had objections regarding the “computation of marks”, he or she had to send a written application to the school. The council had asked schools to review all such applications and forward them to the CISCE with their comments and supporting documents only if they were satisfied with the contentions. Other years, there is a recheck of answer scripts to check if any answer has not been marked or if there is a calculation error. In some schools, the ICSE marks of some students have increased. Other schools are waiting to hear from the council. Digitally signed copies of the statement of marks, pass certificates and migration certificates are available for the ISC 2021 candidates through the DigiLocker facility established by the Department of Electronics and Information Technology, government of India, the council said in a circular on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
11-08-2021||Calcutta||Fire breaks out inside locked apartment in South City Residency||A fire broke out inside a locked apartment on the sixth-floor of one of the towers of the South City Residency on Tuesday evening. Police said no one was trapped or injured. Two fire tenders doused the flames. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained, an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
11-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcuttans leave masks at home on daily visits to shops and market||Many Calcuttans are leaving their masks at home or keeping them inside their bags on their daily visits to shops and markets. At most markets, including New Market and the ones in Gariahat, Baguiati and Salt Lake, The Telegraph saw on Tuesday that neither shoppers nor shopkeepers were wearing any type of face cover. Many had them on their chin or hanging from their neck or ear. At New Market, most shopkeepers inside the complex as well as hawkers outside were without masks. Lake Gardens resident Sanjana Choudhury, who went to New Market on Tuesday afternoon, said she beat a hasty retreat after seeing hundreds without masks. “I wanted to visit a tailoring shop off Lindsay Street but did not venture anywhere near as most people out there were not wearing masks. My driver had barely managed to park the car when I called him back and headed home,” Choudhury recounted. Mohammed Sarfaraz, 29, a hawker who sells watches and shades in front of the Grand hotel, said he was not wearing any face cover as it was too hot and humid. “It is impossible to cover your face at all times in this weather,” he said. At the Baguiati market, fish seller Rabin Mondal said Covid was no more and there was no need to wear masks. “Dada corona paliyeche, aar nei ekhon. Mask pore kichu hobe na (The coronavirus has fled. It is useless to wear masks now.)” On Tuesday, officials from the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation's health department and officers from the Bidhannagar commissionerate visited several markets in Baguiati and made announcements for people to wear masks. “Most of the markets in Baguiati, Kestopur and other areas off VIP Road are drawing huge crowds. Most are not wearing masks or maintaining any social distancing norms. We carried out a drive today and asked people to wear masks. We will keep doing this for a couple of days before fining traders and shoppers found violating Covid protocols,” said Paranay Kumar Ray, a member of the Bidhannagar civic body's board of administrators in charge of the health department. “The number of cases may have gone down and many have got vaccines. However, we have to keep in mind that the pandemic is far from over. Wearing masks and maintaining social distancing is of utmost importance. We have to look around and learn from experiences of countries such as the UK and Thailand,” said Kusum Adhikari, an official of the civic health department. A Calcutta Municipal Corporation official said they were doing whatever they could to educate people about the need to adhere to the Covid protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
11-08-2021||Calcutta||Nine arrested for operating two fake call centres in Salt Lake||Nine persons were arrested on Monday night for allegedly operating two fake call centres in Salt Lake’s Sector V. An officer of Bidhannagar commissionerate said they had received specific information that a couple of call centres were operating from Sector V that allegedly were duping foreigners by telling them that they were calling from major software providers to help them resolve any issue related to their computer or that they had won an online lottery. Cops first raided a call centre on the second floor of the Matrix Tower in Sector V’s DN block behind Rang De Basanti Dhaba near College More crossing. “We caught five men, including the director, from the office. They were making calls to people in the US, Canada, Australia among others,” said another police official. The police identified the director as Saif Ali, 26, a resident of Kashi Basti Lane in Narkeldanga who had opened the call centre — MS Napsara Infotech — a few years back. The cops then started questioning the arrested men and based on the information another team from Cyber Crime police station in Salt Lake and Sector V police station raided another call centre on the seventh floor of the same building. “We arrested four persons from that office,” said the officer. There too the cops arrested the assistant director of this call centre — Tej Infotech Private Limited — identified as Mohammed Tabrez, 22, a resident of Maheshtala. A senior police official said they had launched a drive against illegal call centres. “We are making regular arrests. This is part of our drive.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
