12-08-2021||Calcutta||Guardrail a source of danger in Calcutta||Guardrails that police place on Calcutta's roads to check vehicles at night or to facilitate traffic diversions through the day have emerged as potential dangers as many of them are not removed even when they serve little purpose. Last week, a biker knocked down a pedestrian and then fell off the vehicle after failing to negotiate through the space between a guardrail and a bus on the Prince Anwar Shah Road-EM Bypass connector. The biker, while trying to make room for the speeding bus, veered towards the footpath and hit the pedestrian. “The guardrails narrowed the space on the carriageway and the bus sped past us,” recounted a man who was riding pillion on the bike. Guardrails that are placed for night checks are usually removed by the morning. Senior police officers at Lalbazar said that at some places, especially near busy intersections, they were not removed in the morning because they also served the purpose of streamlining vehicle movement. The Telegraph toured the city and saw that at several places guardrails contributed little towards streamlining traffic and caused immense inconvenience to commuters. Prince Anwar Shah Road connector: Two guardrails were spotted on the connector, near the Garfa Main Road intersection. One of them was on the Stop Line. Vehicles were having a tough time making their way through the space between the two. Along the entire stretch, such barriers were spotted along one side of the road, eating into the road space. EM Bypass: On many stretches on the thoroughfare, guardrails were spotted before or after the Stop Line on one side. They were neither slowing down traffic nor facilitating crossing of the road by pedestrians. Ahead of the Peerless intersection from the Ruby crossing, a guardrail stood in the middle of the road just before a signal post. When the signal turned red, vehicles slowed down before coming to a halt. A few cars crossed over from east to west. The signal turned green and the vehicles, including a bus and small cars, moved from north towards south. “A car will stop anyway when the signal turns red. One doesn't need a guardrail to enforce that. If managing pedestrian movement across roads is a problem, the police can use ropes. What’s the point in installing guardrails,” said a motorist waiting at the signal in his car. SP Mukherjee Road: A guardrail was placed in the middle of the road ahead of the Rashbehari crossing from Hazra, just where vehicles are supposed to stop at a signal. When the light turns green and vehicles from behind start moving, drivers suddenly realise there is a guardrail in the middle. They have to veer to the left or right, resulting in chaos. Another guardrail stood in the middle of the road near the crossing leading to the Kalighat temple. The police said that at both locations, the guardrails were meant to alert motorists about a pedestrian crossing point. Motorists said a traffic signal did exactly the same job and guardrails only ate up the road space. Rashbehari connector: At the intersection of Swinhoe Lane and BB Chatterjee Road, near the Bijon Setu approach, a police console maintains the signal and sergeants are present most of the time to ensure there are no traffic violations. Ahead of the signal stood a guardrail on the Stop Line with the words "Go Slow" written in white on a red board. “Why do we need a guardrail to tell us to go slow? One just needs to follow the traffic signal. When lights turn yellow, vehicles slow down,” said a biker. Central Avenue: At the Colootola Street intersection, there are three guardrails. One was installed across in the middle of the road, ahead of the Stop Line, and two others were placed parallel to the pavement on one side. Vehicles have to slow down considerably to pass through the narrow space between the guardrail in the middle of the road and the ones along the side. Policespeak: “There are three reasons to put up guardrails — to slow down traffic, to warn motorists where the road is in bad shape and to alert motorists at crossings,” said Arijit Sinha, deputy commissioner of police, traffic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
12-08-2021||Calcutta||Man bluffing about having a coin from 1830 kidnapped, held captive||A man from Sonarpur who had allegedly been bluffing about having a coin from 1830 that was worth crores of rupees was kidnapped and held captive in a flat in Bansdroni for three days, police said. It was only after the gang was arrested and the 32-year-old victim — identified as “Pankaj, alias Akash Sardar” — rescued that it came to be known that the coin did not exist, the police said. Five men — including prime accused Sheetal Agarwal and Shahnawaz Mollah, the owner of the Bansdroni flat — have been arrested. The police said a ransom of Rs 20 lakh was to be handed to the kidnappers at Surya Sen Metro station on Tuesday evening. The victim’s sister went to the spot with a bag pretending to be carrying cash. As kidnappers approached her, cops in plainclothes arrested two men. The victim, who the gang had kept hidden in a Toyota Innova parked outside the station, was rescued. The police said they received a complaint on Tuesday afternoon that the man had been kidnapped two days ago. “We received a complaint saying a man named Pankaj, alias Akash Sardar, 32, who lives in Sonarpur and deals in antique goods, had been kidnapped two days ago by a man he knew,” said an officer of Sonarpur police station. The family had named Sheetal Agarwal, who lives in Mominpur and deals in antique goods, as an accused. Agarwal, the complainant said, was last seen with Sardar. Agarwal had apparently asked Sardar to meet him at a spot in Sonarpur, from where the victim was driven to Bansdroni. Sardar later told the police that since he knew Agarwal, he did not realise that he was being kidnapped. “We have come to know after a preliminary investigation that Agarwal and his associates had held Sardar captive for a coin from 1830,” an officer said. “Sardar had told Agarwal that the coin, which he said needed to be kept in a jar of grease and should not come in contact with light, was worth crores of rupees. He had been telling friends that the coin had chemical properties that could cause short-circuits in electrical appliances nearby if it came in contact with light.” After the abduction, the alleged kidnappers demanded the coin or Rs 20 lakh from Sardar’s family. The ransom was to be handed to them on Tuesday in front of Surya Sen Metro station. Sources said that as advised by the police, Sardar's sister went to the spot with a bag in her hand. As the woman waited, she received multiple calls from the alleged kidnappers, who asked her whether she was alone. “All the while, male and female cops from Sonarpur police station in plainclothes kept watch on her from a distance. After around one-and-a-half hours, two men approached the woman. The cops closed in on them and they were arrested on the spot,” a senior police officer said. Based on their statements at the spot, the cops found Sardar kept hidden inside a hired Toyota Innova, parked inside the perimeter of the station. Agarwal was allegedly in the same car. “After being rescued, Sardar was asked about the coin. He said he did not have the coin and that he had bluffed to friends,” another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
12-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcuttans pledge to gift organs at three-day awareness drive ||A number of Calcuttans have pledged to donate organs after death at an event in City Centre, organised by the Calcutta chapter of Young Indians and partnered by The Telegraph. A kiosk named “Gift Your Organ” was set up at City Centre where men and women asked questions about organ donation. The kiosk was set up on Monday as part of a three-day drive that ended on Wednesday. Sukanta Mukhopadhyay, 52, walked up to the kiosk saying he wanted to pledge to donate organs after death. The former air force officer signed the pledge declaration. The initiative, part of Young India’s Gift An Organ campaign, was aimed at raising awareness among residents of the city about donating organs and encouraging people to register to donate organs after death. Kanupriya Pachisia, the chair of Gift An Organ, said they thought of organising such a programme as many lives could be saved if people pledged to donate organs after demise. “There are several myths regarding the process... we want to ensure that such myths are busted,” said Pachisia. Ankit Surekha, a member of Young Indians, the youth wing of the Confederation of Indian Industry, said they had noted down the contact details of all those who walked into the kiosk. “We will contact them and register them on the website,” said Surekha. Those willing to donate organs can log into www.giftanorgan.in to register. Ramesh Pandey, director of Ambuja Neotia group, which operates City Centre, described the drive as a “great initiative in these trying times”. “If anything, this pandemic has taught us the importance of good health. Donating organs can save lives, so we are proud to be associated with the initiative,” said Pandey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
12-08-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta survey on students’ Covid vaccination status||IIM Calcutta has started a survey on the status of vaccination of the students of the two-year MBA programme before deciding whether more students could be called back to the campus. The institute asked the students’ council on Tuesday to start collating the data. The institute did not cite vaccination as a condition before letting all the 80 one-year MBA executive programme students and 25 per cent of the students of the two-year programme enter hostels and attend online classes. But with more students willing to return, the institute is now advising all to get vaccinated, said an official. An official said the survey was aimed at encouraging students to take both doses of a Covid vaccine. Manish Thakur, dean (new initiatives and external relations) and a member of the Covid committee of the IIM, told Metro: “Going by a general understanding, vaccination is seen as an antidote to Covid. With this idea in mind, the survey is being conducted.” The survey’s outcome will be shared with the institute in a week’s time, after which the committee will meet to take a decision on the recall of students. “There are teaching and non teaching employees staying in the quarters on the campus. So if the students who are coming back take both the doses, then the campus residents would feel safe,” he said. In mid April, the Joka institute had asked students of its two-year MBA programme and one-year MBA executive programme to vacate hostels after 70 students tested positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
12-08-2021||Calcutta||Bus rams into Parama flyover pillar||At least 12 passengers were injured after a bus crashed into a pillar of the Parama flyover minutes before it was to take a left turn at the Science City crossing on EM Bypass on Wednesday morning. The findings of a preliminary investigation by automobile experts suggest a puncture in a front tyre led to the 8.30am accident, police said. “One of the front tyres of the bus got punctured, after which the vehicle seems to have lost balance. It then crashed into one of the pillars of the flyover,” said an officer of the traffic department. The injured passengers were taken to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, from where they were discharged after treatment. The accident has once again turned the focus on the menace of speeding in Calcutta. An officer of Pragati Maidan police station said that from the way the bus had rammed into the pillar it was apparent that it was moving at a high speed. The driver apparently found it difficult to control the vehicle because of the flat. “The accident could have been averted had the bus been moving at a slower pace,” the officer said. The bus on route KB-21, which plies between Ganganagar in North 24-Parganas and Bantala, was heading towards EM Bypass from Park Circus when the accident happened. A case of rash and negligent driving under Section 279 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the driver. The bus has been seized but the driver fled the spot. According to statistics, buses — run by the government or privately owned — are one of the major contributors of road accidents in the city. The tendency to pick up and drop passengers in the middle of the road, reckless driving and the tendency to race with buses on the same route are some of the major causes of accidents in the city, the police said. Often, passengers are injured as buses start moving while they are getting on or off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
12-08-2021||Calcutta||Cables on Salt Lake road claim biker’s life||A 26-year-old man riding home suffered fatal head injuries after the front wheel of his motorcycle got caught in a mesh of cables lying on the road near Salt Lake's Baisakhi island and a water tanker ran over him on Wednesday evening. Subham Dhar, a resident of Canal East Road in Ultadanga, was riding along the Ultadanga-bound flank of First Avenue when the accident occurred around 6pm. Dhar, a medical representative, was wearing a helmet but it came off under the impact of the crash, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate's traffic wing said. “He lost balance when the front wheel of his bike hit the web of cables lying across the road. The front wheel got entangled in the mesh and he fell. A water tanker behind him went over him before coming to a stop,” said an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. “The driver of the water tanker, operated by the Salt Lake Sanskritik Sansad, had pressed the brakes seeing the biker fall but failed to stop the vehicle in time.” The cables that were lying on the road were all defunct, the officer said. Metro has reported multiple times how dangling cables pose a threat to bikers as well as pedestrians. Almost after every accident, the stretch where it occurred was cleared of cables, but thousands of kilometres of such cables are strewn across the city. Dilip Agarwal, a resident of BF Block who had gone to buy an LED baton, said he was waiting in front of the shop when he heard a sudden screech of tyres. “The shopkeeper and the customers rushed out and we saw a young man lying on the road, bleeding from nose and ears. His head had hit the concrete median divider,” Agarwal recounted. Agarwal and others alerted traffic policemen at a signal outpost near the island and flagged down a battery-driven rickshaw. Passengers got off the rickshaw following requests from the police and the residents. Dhar was taken to Bidhannagar Sub-Divisional Hospital, around 10 minutes away, in the rickshaw but he was declared dead on arrival. Dhar had started working in July 2018. A friend said he had in November 2019 bought the Yamaha MT 15 that he was riding on Wednesday. “He was fond of bikes. We would often go on short rides on weekends,” said the friend who did not wish to be named. Dhar, he said, was heading home from work early on Wednesday because of a family programme. In Salt Lake, cables lie on pavements and along median dividers. They can be spotted on Broadway, which connects Salt Lake to EM Bypass, in front of City Centre and along the Eastern Drainage Canal. Indira Mukherjee, the deputy commissioner of traffic, Bidhannagar commissionerate, said they were aware of the cable mess in Salt Lake and adjoining areas. "This is an extremely unfortunate incident," said Mukherjee. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said that they were removing defunct cables. "It takes time," he said. Residents said the efforts to clear roads of defunct cables were half-hearted at best. So it is in Calcutta. In January 2018, an 18-year-old man riding a motorbike without a helmet died of head injuries after his two-wheeler got caught in a heap of cables on the east-bound flank of the Park Circus bridge. Mohammad Tausib Alam, a resident of Kasaipara Lane in Beniapukur, was headed for the Park Circus seven-point crossing from the Bypass when his bike crashed. He had lost his balance after the front wheel ran into the heap of cables. Cables strewn on the road have electrocuted many others over the past three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
12-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta teachers fear schoolgirls’ lack of access to sanitary pads||The long stay away from school — since March 2020 — has impacted schoolgirls’ access to sanitary pads, especially on the city’s outskirts and in districts, heads of several schools said. Schools had vending machines or organisations visit them to distribute sanitary pads and the girls would be comfortable taking pads for free or at subsidised rates. Now, with the livelihoods of many families being hit, the parents cannot afford to buy pads. Teachers fear the girls have slipped into unhygienic ways and the long stay away from school is not only taking a toll on their academic progress but also limiting their social development. Many girls used to rely on scraps of cloth. The schools conducted hygiene workshops and counselled them about using pads. “For many of our girls in the village, it is not easy to buy a packet from the store because there are boys around with curious eyes and hence they felt comfortable taking it from school,” said Murshida Khatun, the headmistress of Debkunda Sk. Abdur Razzak Memorial Girls High Madarsah in Murshidabad’s Beldanga block. The school had installed a vending machine and Khatun said a large bag of 5,000 pads have been lying on the premises since March last year. “The workshops and the availability of pads made the girls realise the convenience of using it,” said Khatun. But with the pandemic, the financial condition of the girls’ families has deteriorated sharply and pads have become an item of “luxury”. “When livelihood is at stake, parents cannot spare money for hygiene,” said Khatun. A school headmistress in Howrah said 60 per cent of girls in her school have parents who work as domestic help or are daily wage earners. “Many don’t have phones to attend classes and some of them have also told their class teachers that they cannot buy pads now. Before the pandemic, organisations would come to the school and distribute sanitary napkins but now, we cannot call the girls,” said Subhra Chakraborty, the headmistress of Howrah Jogesh Chandra Girls School. Chakraborty said an organisation contacted them recently and wanted to distribute pads with the ration for midday meals. Teachers, however, cited the difficulties of contacting the girls in the pandemic. “Many families have migrated to other places or the girls have been sent to villages. We have lost contact with many of our girls,” said Pritha Goswami, the headmistress at Kasba Balika Vidyalaya. The crisis is worse in the villages where access is even more limited. A headmaster was conducting a relief camp in the Sunderbans after Cyclone Yaas when he saw a girl waiting. “Just as we were to wrap up, the girl walked up to me and very softly asked if we had sanitary pads to give her. That is the kind of need these girls have but don’t have the money to buy,” said Chandan Maity, the headmaster of Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur in South 24-Parganas. School heads also feel that for many girls the unavailability of pads would make them fall out of practice of using it and some would not be even introduced to its use.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
12-08-2021||Calcutta||Four held for Rs 56-lakh bank fraud in Nodia||Four men were arrested from Nodia in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday morning for allegedly carrying out a fraud of Rs 56.64 lakh. The men allegedly forged  the signature of a senior official of a private company that has its account in a bank in central Calcutta and sent fake instructions over email on behalf of the company to transfer the amount from its account to seven accounts across India. The money was withdrawn from the seven accounts through ATMs. The nationalised bank lodged a complaint with Hare Street police station in the last week of July, following which the case was taken up by the anti-bank fraud section of the detective department. The four accused in custody are Yuvraj Dhingra from Greater Noida, Lavish Tripathi from East Delhi, Zeeshan Khan from Bareli and Ashwini Kumar from East Delhi. “Tripathi was the mastermind and Dhingra was caught on CCTV footage while withdrawing cash from an ATM,” said an officer. The accused were produced in a court in Nodia’s Gautam Buddha Nagar, from where they were handed to Calcutta police on transit remand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
12-08-2021||Calcutta||UK doctor with Calcutta roots helps fight Covid second wave||A 10-year childhood association with the city and its people prompted a London-based Bengali doctor to stand with Calcuttans during the second wave of Covid-19. Wales-born Rimona Sengupta, an alumnus of Julien Day School, Ganganagar, raised funds and offered help to many Covid-affected people and organisations who were working at the grassroots level to fight the pandemic here. From April to June, Sengupta sent oxygen concentrators, nebuliser machines, pulse oximeters, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks, goggles, fogger and sanitiser machines worth over Rs 10 lakh to doctors, health care workers and many NGOs in Bengal and other parts of the country. For Bengal, she sent medical equipment worth over Rs 2.5 lakh, including an oxygen concentrator to the city. “My parents live in Calcutta. In March, when I was there, the Covid protocols seemed to me to be a farce. I knew tough times were ahead for India,” said the 42-year-old doctor from London. Her father, Samir Sengupta, is an ophthalmologist. He had worked in Wales and England before returning to Calcutta when Rimona was eight. After completing school at Julien Day, she got admitted to St Paul’s College, Calcutta. After her Class XII exams, she went to Russia and studied medicine at St Petersburg State Medical University. Rimona started working in the UK in 2005. “In April, I made a fundraising appeal on a website and formed a WhatsApp group, UK Covid Help, with all the Indians I know in the UK. However, the highest donation for India came from a Zurich-based research scientist, Alexander Hobbs,” she said. Rimona’s team partnered with the Khelduar Foundation in Jalpaiguri to reach out to the poor people of north Bengal. They sent 50 pulse oximeters, a thermal temperature gun, two sprayer machines, 30 PPE kits and financial aid of Rs 30,000 to buy oxygen cylinders to the foundation. “Dr Sengupta’s help came as a blessing. We could reach out to the tribal belt and help them detect the disease early,” said the organisation’s founder member Santanu Ghosh. Rimona’s team also sent masks, 30 PPE kits, a fogger machine and Rs 25,000 for oxygen cylinders to the Red Volunteers’ Dum Dum unit. Rimona feels it’s a huge teamwork that made everything possible. “I’m very thankful to all my team members in the UK, our volunteers, social media contacts, healthcare and social workers on the ground as well as contributors from all over the world,” she quipped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
