13-08-2021||Calcutta||Delay bonus at Rabindra Tirtha event||Those who had gathered to watch the Baishe Srabon event at Rabindra Tirtha last weekend were in for a bonus. Since the chief guest arrived a good 45 minutes after the scheduled ending of the show, the performers played on for the extra time. They even took requests for songs from the audience. Firhad Hakim, the newly anointed chairman of West Bengal Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), reached after 8pm and the musicians were requested to play on till he showed up. Finally when Hakim and his wife Ismat arrived, they concluded the show by garlanding a Tagore portrait and watering a plant on stage. Between inauguration and the extended conclusion was a fiesta of music and dance themed around Tagore’s works on the monsoon. The day, other than being the 80th death anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore, was the ninth anniversary of Rabindra Tirtha itself. “Since 1942 (the year after his death), there is a tradition in Santiniketan to mark the day through tree plantation. We follow the same tradition,” said Rabindra Tirtha curator Anup Matilal. “When Rabindra Tirtha was opened, the chief minister had pointed out that it was not difficult to build an auditorium but there must be a constant line-up of programmes. Last year, even when there was a national lockdown, we had organised an online Poila Baisakh programme, with the same singers as today. But over the months we have all become tired of Zoom and Facebook Live. The government has allowed shows with 50 per cent attendance. It is such a pleasant sight to see you all in the auditorium,” said Hidco managing director Debashis Sen, addressing the audience. Father-daughter duo Debashish and Rohini Ray Chowdhury, who have been performing together for the last 10 years, started with Momo mon upobone, composed by Tagore at the age of 73. “Tagore was born in the heat of Baisakh and left amid monsoon showers 80 years later. He loved this season. Of all the season-specific songs he has composed, monsoon songs outnumber the rest,” narrated Debashis. Monsoon is linked to amorous adventures through the tradition of Vaishnav Padabali. Dark clouds and showers provide a backdrop to Radha’s dalliances, added Rohini, before starting the duet, which was accompanied by Mrittika Bhattacharya’s dance. His next song Esho go jwele diye jao had dance accompaniment by Arkadev Bhattacharya. Once the monsoon-themed programme ended, the singers obliged audience requests like Jokhon porbe na mor payer chinho. “Due to the pandemic last year, we turned to Facebook and YouTube to continue our art. Performing in front of people without a mask was quite a risk,” Rohini told The Telegraph Salt Lake later. “But the equipment here were sanitised and we are all more or less vaccinated.” Many local residents had come to watch the live show. “I came to know about the programme through social media, and came with my friends. Although this is the first cultural programme I am attending this year, I wasn’t scared as I kept my mask on,” said Santa Pal, a resident of DB Block, New Town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||EZCC goes online with Tagore show||The Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre (EZCC)’s Baishe Srabon event this year had some 40 artistes on stage but not a single audience member was seated in the auditorium. Welcome to a cultural programme in Covid times. Aaji Srabone Rabir Parash was organised by EZCC, ministry of culture, in association with township-based NGO Initiative for Scientific and Public Awareness Target (Ispat) on Sunday and was streamed live on social media, allowing viewers to watch from the safety of their homes. Even though the state government now allows auditoriums to function with 50 per cent occupancy, the organisers decided to do away with the concept of live audience. Elderly artistes were not invited while those who were called needed to have been vaccinated with at least the first dose. “We have allowed only the artistes and technicians to come. The artistes too have been asked to leave immediately after his/her performance,” said Abhijit Chatterjee, administrative and documentation officer at EZCC. Artistes such as Sreeradha Bandyopadhyay took extra precautions. She carried a personal microphone cover with which she asked the technician to cover the mouth of the mic, before she began singing. Other prominent artistes such as Prabuddha Raha, Pranati Thakur and Debarati Shome also performed. While the artistes missed the excitement of performing before a live audience, it was for the best. “Our programme draws a lot of aged listeners but how can we risk inviting them in the middle of a pandemic?” wondered Manoj Murali Nair, who had come to sing with sister Manisha. “The reach of online shows is greater but the concentration of such audiences is less. At home, people listen to music while eating or chatting.” Secretary of Ispat Ritesh Basak said while many have been performing from home during the pandemic, a performance needs a solid sound system, which is only available on stage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Taking the field for alma mater||A football tournament was the highlight of the alumni meet of Hariyana Vidya Mandir. The games took place at BA-CA grounds and ex-students got to play their hearts out. The tournament, which took place before the second wave of the pandemic, began with 10 teams divided into two groups of five, each drawn in the round robin format. Every team had to play a match against each of the opponents. Two teams from each group progressed to the semi-finals where the highest-ranked team from a group would face the second-placed team from the other group. Each half consisted of 10 minutes with a two-minute break in-between. There were to be eight on-field players inclusive of the goalkeeper along with two substitutes which made each team have 10 players in all. The Sunday chosen for the tournament was too sunny and it led to teams taking longer breaks, thereby compromising the time for the semi-finals and the final. Due to the falling daylight, each half of the semi-finals and final was reduced by three minutes, leading to 14-minute matches. In the first semi-final, Yellow Claus tied with Hustler FC on full time as well as on penalties and so the tie was decided by a toss of coin. Yellow Claus won the toss and progressed to the final. In the second semi-final, Hellraisers FC scored from a free-kick in the first half to defeat Matador FC 1-0 and make it to the final. While most of the alumni expected an early breakthrough in the final, both teams focused on ball possession. The first half saw Yellow Claus and Hellraisers FC making directed or lob passes. The second half increased the pressure on both sides to score and both were attacking through long balls but making defensive clearances when pressed. However like the first semi-final, this match too went to the penalties as the regulation time ended goalless. The penalty shootout was confined to three spot kicks. Hellraisers FC started by taking the first kick but it was a miss. Much to their dismay, Yellow Claus scored and were leading. The second kicks drew the teams level as Hellraisers FC scored and Yellow Claus missed. While the kick-taker from Hellraisers FC aimed for the upper centre, he put too much power on the ball which made it go over the bar. Yellow Claus needed one scoring kick to win and the penalty-taker slowly walked in, maintained his focus and took the shot making the ball hit the back of the net. Yellow Claus thus won the game on penalties, which had a scoreline of 2-1. Shubharthee Saha, the captain and goalkeeper of Yellow Claus, was happy with his team’s performance especially in the penalty shootout. “I could anticipate the direction of the first kick even before the run-up by looking at the player’s eyes and that made me save the shot. We all know how important a save is,” said Saha, who was also named Goalkeeper of the Tournament and the Man of the Match in the final. Vice-captain of Hellraisers FC, Souradip Basu, was also one of the organisers of the tournament. That the event could take place in the midst of a pandemic itself, he felt, was a success. “We had stipulated clear rules that an alumnus needs to have studied in Hariyana Vidya Mandir for at least two years to be a part of any team. There was a situation when a participant’s schooling in Hariyana Vidya Mandir was challenged and we had to ring up his mother to resolve the dispute. But in the end, all that matters is fun and we were glad to see such wonderful team chemistry despite not having played together for years,” said Basu, a resident of CA Block who is popularly known as Jiko, reminiscent of Brazilian football legend Zico. A lot of ex-students turned up to cheer for their friends who were playing. One such was Ritwika Bhadury, who wore yellow to show support for her friends playing for Yellow Claus. “While it was exciting to meet up friends, it’s true that it was a bit of a risk. Most of us came by public transport and as the games got more exciting, many masks were getting pulled below the chin to yell in support,” confessed Bhadury, a 2016 passout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||New Town shift for army college ||The Army Institute of Management has moved into a sprawling new campus in New Town and no, it’s not a training school for army officers. It’s a business school for everyone. “The perception among civilians is that this is either an institute for army officers or one exclusively for their children. We want to bust this myth,” said director of college, Major General (retd) Arun Sapra. Before this the institute would operate out of Command Hospital in Alipore but on its 25th foundation day, it started operating from the new premises opposite Uniworld City’s Downtown Mall. The ceremony On July 28, a torch was lit at their old Alipore campus and carried to New Town in an open jeep. The torch then lit the fire of a havan around which a puja was conducted. The National flag was hoisted and the bust of an alumnus, the late Lieutenant Navdeep Singh Bains, was installed. “After graduating from our institute, Navdeep had joined the army and is now a martyr. He won an Ashok Chakra posthumously. His bust was already installed in the old campus and our alumni association was particular that we shift it here ceremoniously,” said Sapra. The course Affiliated to Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (MAKAUT), the college offers MBA with specialisation in marketing, finance, human resources, operations, management information systems and business analytics. Entrance is through CAT and JEMAT and admissions are now open. “The Army Welfare Education Society has different streams of colleges across the country, in fields like technology, law, fashion…. The management institute happens to be in Calcutta,” said professor of finance, J.N. Mukhopadhyaya. Malini Majumdar, another professor who has been teaching here for 13 years, was excited about the new campus. “Not only do we have space now to take in more students but we can also start new courses,” she said. The residential campus is spread over six acres and can house 120 students, with provision for 300 in future. Eighty per cent of the students however, are from an army background. “What marks our institute apart from others is the army ethos and discipline,” assured Sapra. “We also insist on students living on campus as it builds their personality. In the post graduation level, one accrues more dividends learning from one another beyond business hours than during them.” The campus Once offline classes resume, students will check into a beautiful campus. The main building, housing the classrooms and offices, is a G+5 building called Kalpavriksh. Walking into it, one sees an eye-catching ear-to-ear cityscape of Calcutta and a vertical panel – as high as the building itself - depicting an image of outer space with a model of the earth and moon suspended from the roof and side panels of auspicious Buddhist symbols. “The message is for students to reach for the sky, with divine blessings,” smiled Sapra. The offices and classrooms have no wood – it’s all smartly done with stone, steel, tiles and glass. The colour scheme is predominantly grey and white. Lecture halls are named after management gurus like Philip Kotler, seminar rooms after India’s two field marshals Sam Manekshaw and Kodandera M. Cariappa. The top floor auditorium, named after Tagore, has a capacity of 350. "The graduation ceremonies of two batches are pending due to Covid. We shall celebrate them here as and when they happen,” said the director. “Every floor will have a different theme, such as Calcutta and West Bengal, diversity, patachitra…” said Col (retd) Shantonu Roy, who runs an NGO for budding artistes called Uma Dream Foundation. These are the artistes who are now adding finishing touches to the paintings and sculptures all over the building. Incidentally, all the interior decoration has been done by small time artisans as the management wanted to support local talent. “There was even a painter, Subrata, who we found at an exhibition in Eco Park. He was dejected as nothing was selling so we commissioned him to create many a painting for our walls,” said Sapra. “There’s another clay artiste who is so needy she comes barefoot. We do not bargain with her and are trying our best to support such talents.” Besides art work, the building has many mirrors so students become conscious looking at themselves and always stay well-groomed. The girls’ and boys’ hostels have double rooms and several facilities. Each floor has a washing machine and ironing station. The men and women have their exclusive lobbies and common rooms with indoor sports like mini snooker, mini table tennis, TV, a kitchen set-up etc. Women have their own gym but can also use the common gym in the amenities building. This building has the dining hall where meals will be served, a canteen upstairs for snacks and parties, studios for yoga, zumba etc, a grocery store and unisex salon. “We shall not charge those who win the contract to set up the store and salon but they must offer subsidized rates to students. This is to protect students from the exorbitant rates charged at malls,” says Sapra. A basketball court is already up and arrangements are being made for more outdoor sports like volley ball and badminton. Giving back to society For the sake of hawkers and passersby, the institute is building public toilets, water coolers, rain shelters and an ATM counter outside their gates. Their buildings are also fitted with solar panels to reduce their carbon footprint. “Many outsiders are coming to ask if we impart training for SSB (the Services Selection Board assesses candidates for becoming officers in the Indian Armed Forces) and so we have decided to start this service for outsiders,” said Sapra, adding that they shall offer space and expertise for start-ups too. “We shall allow outsiders to set up “start-up garages” for incubation of their businesses within our campus. They are free to consult our faculty for advice too. This shall be backed by an in-house cell called Publication Research Incubation Innovation Consultation and Entrepreneurship (PRIICE),” the director said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Open-air Puja venue at BJ Block||The puja pandal at BJ Block this year will be modelled on a rajbari thakurdalan of yesteryears. “This will ensure an open-air pandal so there is ample space for visitors to stand at safe distances from each other and offer prayers,” said Uma Shankar Ghosh Dastidar, joint secretary of the puja committee, at their khuti puja. BJ Block Saradotsav Committee organised their khuti puja on Sunday in presence of Krishna Chakraborty, board of administrators, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation  and ward co-ordinator Tulsi Sinha Roy. It poured that morning and BJ Park turned into a slushy field but even then residents came over to join the festivities and mark the beginning of their 38th Durga puja. Wooden boards had to be laid on the ground for residents and guests to walk to the centre of the park without stepping into the mud. A few of them even decided to walk without their shoes. “It is so difficult to walk on this slippery ground in shoes that I prefer to be barefoot. In our childhood, we used to walk barefoot across fields in monsoon. It’s been years since I did that,” smiled 58-year-old Usha Bhaduri, sandals in hand and smile on face. “The main attraction of our puja has always been the ekchala traditional idol by sculptor Pradip Rudra Pal and this will remain the same this year. Besides, that will be the attraction of the thakurdalan that is barely seen nowadays,” Ghosh Dastidar said. Joint secretary Anindya Sinha Roy added how last year  they had distributed bhog from the pandal so residents would not miss it. “This time we are thinking of distributing food packets on one day. We might deliver them at home. That way there will be no chance of gathering but residents will still feel they are a part of the celebration,” he said. “We are still at the planning stage and will take a call based on the Covid situation later,” added Anindya Sinha Roy, joint secretary. Krishna Chakraborty conveyed best wishes to the puja but asked residents to be vigilant about the pandemic. “We are going through a difficult time and we need to be cautious. Always wear a mask and sanitise your hands often. If the situation improves we will once again gather and perform puja with the same grandeur like before. But for now, we need to act responsibly and prevent the third wave,” said Chakraborty. saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Drive-by pandal in AE Block||The theme for AE (Part 1)’s Durga puja has not been announced yet but at their khuti puja recently, the organisers hinted that it could be inspired by the pandemic. “Context is always important to an artiste but we can choose to project it in a positive way. Without revealing the theme, we can promise that the pandal this year will be a riot of colours and be an optimistic one, despite the pandemic-stricken world around us,” said Partha Ghosh, who along with brother Siddhartha Ghosh will be the theme makers this year. They were at the helm at AE (Part 1) last year too. Secretary of the block Supriyo Chakraborty said they had learnt enough from last October to plan out a Covid-safe puja in 2021. “We will certainly have a theme as people from far and wide wait to visit our block during the Pujas. But we shall try to create the pandal in a way that allows visitors to enjoy the artwork or seek blessings of the goddess by just driving or walking past. The budget and other details will be chalked closer to the dates,” said Chakraborty, who has recently also been appointed local ward co-ordinator. “I have added responsibility this time and will fulfil both.” MLA and minister Sujit Bose dropped by. Other guests included ward co-ordinators Tulsi Sinha Roy, Nirmal Dutta and Ratna Bhowmick, who offered to organise a dhunuchi dance competition in the block on behalf of an organisation she runs. The most excited were residents. “This puja is always so beautiful and I have so many friends meeting here that it’s not worth going pandal-hopping anywhere else,” said Shelly Mukherjee, who lives across the street. “Usually we start rehearsing for plays or dances around this time but there won’t be any cultural programme due to Covid this year. Still, it makes us happy enough to meet our friends during khuti puja and Durga puja,” said Megha Gupta of Class VII.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Gold mask for goddess at Baguiati khuti puja||A puja organiser in Baguiati has turned to Goddess Durga to drill sense into the maskless multitude. And She is to do so by example. A 6ft clay idol presided over the khuti puja of Ashwininagar Bandhu Mahal on Sunday. She had masks in six of her hands and in the other four there were a syringe to administer vaccine, a pulse oxymeter to check oxygen saturation, a thermal gun to check temperature and a sanitiser to minimise surface infection. But what caught the eye first was a glittering mask that covered her mouth. “We got the mask custom made of 15g gold. This idol will not be worshiped but will be part of the installation at our pandal,” said Swarup Nag, treasurer of Bandhu Mahal. The club is seeing this as an awareness drive. “Though the pandemic has not completely subsided, many people are tossing their masks away. In our country, people pay more heed to advice with a spiritual overtone. Hence we thought with the third wave of the pandemic looming, if Ma Durga herself prescribed wearing of masks those coming to watch the puja will feel the urge to use one as well,” Nag said. On the use of gold for the mask, he pointed out that gold was considered an auspicious metal. “Also craftsmen involved in jewellery-making have taken a hit along with those dealing with lights and floral decoration since the number of weddings has gone down. So the order was a way of helping craftsmen,” he added. The khuti puja was attended by Rajarhat Gopalpur MLA Aditi Munshi and Jayanta Kushary, the principal of Sarba Bharatiya Prachya Vidya Academy and the chief priest of the Sovabazar Rajbari puja. Kushary pointed out that the gold mask suited the complexion of the goddess described in the scriptures as tapta kanchan varna (heated gold colour, which takes reddish yellow hue). He drew a parallel of the coronavirus that replicates invisibly through human-to-human contact with Raktabij, the demon that spawned a thousand replicas on a drop of its blood touching the floor. “During that battle, Goddess Chandi was wearing dipicharma or a protective gear of elephant hide, which must have also masked her face. This can be equated to the PPE (personal protective equipment) that health workers wear to guard against the virus.” The club has already decided how to use the gold once Durga puja is over. “We support a local family of four in which the father was bed-ridden and the mother a cancer patient. We have an agreement with the jeweller that he will take back the gold and hold it in deposit to make jewellery for the weddings of the two daughters,” Nag said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||State of the parks||Parks in Salt Lake that are popular hangouts for residents, as well as children who go out to play, and are venues for Durga pujas are in a sorry state with defunct lights and tall weeds. The parks in Salt Lake are managed by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and have fallen into a dismal state with creepers and weeds growing on play equipment like swings and slides. Cattle can be spotted grazing inside the parks across the township. The civic body had in 2015 cleaned and decked out the parks in all three sectors spending more than Rs 30 lakh. Six years later, most of them are in such a state that residents don’t step inside once darkness sets in. The grounds of almost all the parks are covered in creepers and tall weeds and children’s rides such as seesaws, swings and merry-go-rounds lie in tatters. The lights are either defunct or they fail to illuminate the entire premises. At HB Park, for instance, a portion of the guardwall and a lamp post that was broken during Cyclone Amphan in 2020 has still not been repaired and the pole of the streetlight hangs dangerously over the road. Several trident lights have been broken in a park inside FD Block and most of the lights became defunct months ago. Some of the lamp posts have electrical wires sticking out dangerously. At GD Park, there are no swings, only tall weeds coupled with dumped construction waste greeting visitors who are bold enough to step inside. The civic body had dumped soil inside the park to level the ground and mounds of earth that were not levelled out properly can still be seen. In fact, walking inside is next to impossible without stumbling or slipping due to the uneven ground. At DB Park, a swing hangs lopsided as one of the chains snapped because of lack of maintenance, residents said. A rusted iron pole stands at the spot where a monkey-bar once stood. Sections of FD Park, a resident said, plunges into darkness every evening. “Many of the lights do not work properly. We feel unsafe to take a walk in the park after sunset,” said Ayantika Nath, a 21-year-old Jadavpur University student. Not a single child was spotted in AD Block Park despite the presence of colourful swings, slides and merry-go-rounds. None works and many of them are broken. “The children’s section of the park has at least 10 rides. All of them stopped working because of lack of maintenance,” a resident said. The broken base of a merry-go-round lies hidden under overgrown grass and anyone can trip over it and get injured. The merry-go-round itself lies overturned near the wall. A civic body official said that with the dissolution of the board the maintenance of the parks has taken a back seat. “To add to this, many of our labourers are not reporting for work regularly due to Covid-19. We need to prepare a detailed study before we can do any repair work,” said the official. While the existing parks are in a sorry state, a new one was inaugurated in CK Block on the main road near Tank 9 by the board of administrators chairperson Krishna Chakraborty and other members of the board recently. “We have already started a deweeding drive and will soon spruce up the other parks as well,” promised Chakraborty. Are you happy with the state of your neighbourhood park/ Green Verge? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||RKM to conduct Class V entrance test at 7 centres||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, will hold tests to screen students for admission to Class V at seven centres in November so that distancing norms can be maintained amid the pandemic. Last year, the test was held at the two traditional venues — the Narendrapur school and Ramakrishna Mission School at Uripok Bachaspati Leikai in Imphal, Manipur. The test will be held on November 7 and the results published on November 15 on the school’s website. Submission of applications to appear in the exam started on August 9 and will continue till October 30. Headmaster Brahmachari Turiyachaitanya said that till last year the candidates from Bengal and elsewhere, other than Manipur, would write the admission test at Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya in Narendrapur. “Since the pandemic is continuing, it will not be advisable to ask candidates… to congregate at the Narendrapur centre,” he told The Telegraph. “This year we have been able to make arrangements (to hold the test at more centres) in consultation with institutes under the Ramakrishna Mission.” An official of the school said the candidates would be allotted centres based on their place of stay. “For instance, the school at Narendrapur will be the centre for candidates from Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, East Midnapore and Nadia. The applicants from Howrah and Hooghly will write the test at Ramakrishna Mission Sikshanamandira, Belur Math,” the official said. The details of the zones that will be covered by Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Jalpaiguri, Asansol Ramakrishna Mission High School, Jhargram, are listed on the website of the school. Only the candidates from Manipur will write the test at the Imphal school. The admission notice says candidates from places other than those mentioned on the school’s website will appear for the test at the Narendrapur centre. Admission tests at the school are held at two levels — Class V and XI. The school had cancelled its entrance test for Class XI on June 20. Instead, a 40-minute online test was conducted the same day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Two micro diversity hotspots identified at Indian Botanic Garden||Two micro biodiversity hotspots have been identified at the Indian Botanic Garden in Shibpur by a community participation project for the regeneration of the garden. The project, undertaken by the Botanical Survey of India along with the Asia Scotland Trust (AST) and the Edinburgh University, put the garden under microscope in May and June. According to the report, two important ecosystems exist in the garden that have the highest biodiversity — areas that have a high overgrowth of trees, plants, weeds and two of the 22 lakes on the premises. The Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanic Garden was set up in 1787 as India's first botanic garden and is now known for over 12,000 living plants of Indian and foreign origin that have been collected over the decades. “The role of the botanic garden needs to change from being a museum of species to that of a biodiversity hotspot,” said Neeta Das of NSDA — a Calcutta-based architecture firm and one of the local partners of the project. Wetlands have been known as “biological super systems” as they create large amounts of food and support high levels of biological diversity. “The lakes and their littoral zones (shore areas) were found to be the most biologically diverse regions in the garden,” said Das. Out of the 22 lakes or wetlands in the garden, two — King Lake and Shadir Lake — had the highest number of faunal and floral species, 10 were found to have medium diversity and the rest supported very low diversity. The other biodiversity hotspot is the naturally regenerated areas in the northern and riverside areas of the garden. “Natural regeneration is the process by which plants that have grown naturally replace plants that have died or been removed. Over time, the growth of natural regeneration re-establishes canopy trees. This process follows natural plant succession patterns and forms habitats for a multitude of fauna species,” said Tania Das, a CEPT University alumna who has worked on forest conservation at Jatun Sacha Biological Station, Ecuador. These areas support biodiversity because there is no intervention that creates a safe environment for nesting, hunting and hiding. One of the pet peeves of the garden authorities has been lack of funds, which hinder maintenance of the garden. “It will require next to no expenses to maintain these hotspots as no interventions are needed here,” said Das. BSI director A.A. Mao agrees that the garden has areas with high biodiversity. “But funds are needed if the garden is to be restored to its previous glory,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid test home collection stopped||The district health administration has put a stop to all home collection of respiratory samples for Covid-19 tests across North 24-Parganas. Complaints of used PPEs lying at streetsides are being cited as one of the major reasons that has prompted the decision. In an order issued on Monday, the office of the chief medical officer has instructed all laboratories and collection centres to adhere to the standard operating procedure and stop home sample collection till a compliance report is received with proper documentation. The order pointed to three areas in which stricter adherence to SOP was needed — bio-medical waste management during home collection, safety norms during transport of the sample to the testing centres and qualification of laboratory technicians collecting the samples. “There is a high risk of Covid transmission unless things are done properly. We have no knowledge of the way these people are taking and disposing PPEs or transporting the samples. If the people collecting the samples lack proper training and qualification, they may end up causing injury during swab collection. All these need to be looked into,” said a district health official. There are eight to 10 laboratories operating in the district which have been intimated about the urgent order. “There is no bar on home collection if they stick to the government guidelines. We are waiting for their reports which we will verify and then give the go-ahead again if we are satisfied,” the official said. The laboratories can continue with sample collection and Covid tests at their respective collection centres, as before, he explained. The drive-in swab collection kiosk on Smart Street also continues to be in operation, 8am to 5pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Freedom||Joydeep Karmakar Olympian shooter and shooting coach, Resident of: Rishi Ecoview, New Town This last year and half have shown us how limited the power of mankind is. In reality, we are not free at all. We think we have freedom of speech, freedom of enjoying facilities. All along, we thought we are all-powerful. We can switch on any appliance. We can post any picture or pass a comment for thousands of people to view or read in a moment. But in reality, we are dependent on technology and electricity. Think of a day without either, like it had happened to many after Cyclone Amphan. Money would mean nothing if we are deprived of these. The British may have left the country. So where is our independence? Rather, we are dependent on a host of new things, movement being just one  of them in these Covid-hit times. So many tournaments got cancelled last year. Once, I was supposed to travel to attend a Khelo India event and a laboratory staffer had come to collect my swab sample for the pre-travel Covid test. While he was here, I learnt that the Khelo India trials had been cancelled! Yes, the Tricolour will be hoisted and the national anthem will be sung in the complex on Sunday. Some people will go down to witness that. With double masking and great distance separating one from the other. Fear is in every mind. If it was fear of the British in pre-Independence days, of being punished or jailed, now it is fear of the virus, an invisible enemy which can come in any shape, like they do in the zombie movies! Manoj Mitra Theatre and film personality, Resident of: AG Block Freedom is now history. We are unlikely to get it back in our lifetime. Other than the date, nothing will remain of independence. We had got political freedom on August 15. For that matter, even on that day in 1947, many had not tasted independence as there was so much uncertainty which side of the border they would end up in. In the years that followed, many did not have freedom to cast their vote. Now there is no vestige of freedom left in our lives. The pandemic has erased our options. Our theatre group is meeting this evening. I am wondering what I will say. Can any of us decide when we can stage a show again? Even if we are allowed to hold a show with 50 people, ticket sales from that audience will not even cover the cost to clear the weeds at Academy of Fine Arts. We have reached the final act of the play where our freedom was being steadily and continually eroded, so far politically and socially, and now physically. Will we want to come back to such a world in the next birth? Sreeradha Bandyopadhyay Singer, Resident of: CE Block Of course, Independence Day will always be in our heart as a reminder of the sacrifices of the freedom-fighters. But people of their values are as scarce as the freedom that we had come to enjoy before the pandemic played massacre with out life and livelihood. Our life has become compromised with every aspect leashed by a killer virus, be it to step out of our homes or to meet people. Man is a social animal. Curbing our natural instincts tantamounts to infringing on our personal rights. We are locked in our home. And we do not even know if there will ever be a respite. With our physical constriction, even our mind is becoming restricted. We are suffering from loneliness and depression. So the mental ingredients to enjoy and celebrate independence will not be there this year. Behind closed doors, all we can do is pray to be rid of this calamity. The entertainment industry has taken the biggest hit because of Covid. People will have to survive first to listen to music. Stage shows are a rarity. Of course, many of us are doing virtual concerts. Kintu dudher swad ki ghole mete? Satarupa Sanyal Filmmaker, BC Block We have lost our freedom to a microscopic virus and it is making us stay home, wear masks, get vaccinated… The war with coronavirus will be a long-drawn one and we will have to wait for our freedom. Today our state can be blamed on nothing but our own greed. The philosopher Rousseau had said that man is born free, but he is everywhere in chains. True, but this is not the case for animals. Animals should be free to fly, swim and run without borders. But man’s greed is making him encroach on animals’ space. I believe this is how the virus jumped from bats to humans in the first place. People need to respect other’s freedom before they demand their own. In any case what we achieved in 1947 was political freedom. By no other measure can we call India independent. The pandemic has shown how appalling our medical infrastructure is.  The common man barely had access to treatment so we cannot even claim the right to decent healthcare. It’s not enough to sing Sare jahan se achchha. We want an India where health, education and safety are delivered as promised. Indians will truly be free the day a woman can walk home alone at midnight singing to herself without a worry. Sukanta Chaudhuri Educationist and retired teacher, Resident of: DA Block The concept of freedom has become more inwardly oriented, as philosophers say it ought to be — that freedom should be in one’s mind and not through one’s contact with other people. The pandemic has made less of a difference to the lives of retired people like us, who do not have a busy active life, provided one is in good health. Life is less of a deprivation if one can live by oneself. Salt Lake is a relatively open place and it is possible to walk around and get fresh air without being at risk unlike in the more congested areas of the city. Lot of people come round to sell things at the doorstep, so supplies are assured. It’s true there is a curb if one wants to meet people and go around. That way one’s freedom is restricted. But it’s not a human factor that is at work to restrict our freedom. If somebody were to put you in prison that would lead to discontent, anger and a sense of injustice. But there’s no point in being angry with the virus. You have to accept it like a fact of nature. It’s like staying home as it is raining. Of course, you wouldn’t want it to rain constantly. Then you look for more things to do within yourself and within your surroundings. But what if this pandemic had come 20 years earlier, before the ICE (information, communication and electronic technology) age? How would we have survived the pandemic without the internet and mobile phone, that are the mainstays of our social and professional interactions? This might have brought in a permanent change in the way we interact with others. We have got used to maintaining relationships over a distance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
13-08-2021||Calcutta||City police orders 25 traffic guards to reduce multiple guardrails||One guardrail with retro-reflective tapes is enough to “alert a driver” about an intersection, the police top brass told the 25 traffic guards in the city on Thursday, forbidding them from putting up multiple barriers at one place. Multiple guardrails at one point, the officers in charge of the traffic guards were told, only created congestion. The Telegraph reported on Thursday how guardrails, instead of serving the desired purpose of streamlining traffic on busy thoroughfares, turned into a source of hazard for commuters. A screenshot of the The Telegraph report headlined “Guardrail a source of danger” went out from the traffic control room at Lalbazar to the traffic guard heads, with a message on how prudent use of barriers could help avoid traffic congestion. “At many crossings, different guards (referring to traffic guards) are using three guardrails to slow down vehicles, which is creating congestion. One retro-reflective guardrail is enough to alert drivers regarding a crossing. Also it will avoid traffic congestion,” read the message sent by Arijit Sinha, the deputy commissioner of police in charge of the traffic department. By Thursday afternoon, the number of guardrails had reduced considerably on several arteries, including stretches of the Bypass, Rashbehari Avenue and the Rashbehari connector. Retro-reflective material is made of tiny glass beads that reflect light and send a focused image back to the light source, in this case enabling a driver to locate the guardrail. This newspaper focussed on five thoroughfares — Central Avenue, Prince Anwar Shah Road connector, EM Bypass, SP Mukherjee Road and Rashbehari connector — to show how guardrails were not just inconveniencing commuters but posing a threat to them, while contributing little in streamlining traffic. They often cause accidents when two vehicles simultaneously try to negotiate their way through the narrow space between two barriers. On many stretches on EM Bypass, for instance, guardrails were placed on one side, before or after the Stop Line. They neither helped slow down traffic nor helped pedestrians cross the road. Officers said all traffic guards had been instructed to assess the requirement of guardrails and take a call on a case-by-case basis. “What motorists want would not always be in line with what pedestrians want. Traffic police have to strike a balance between contrasting interests,” Sinha told this newspaper. Several senior officers in the traffic department said police commissioner Soumen Mitra had asked traffic guards about a month and a half back to avoid indiscriminate use of guardrails. Sinha followed it up by passing on the instruction to all assistant commissioners and the officers in charge of traffic guards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority to conduct ‘condition assessment’ of EM Bypass||The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) will conduct a “condition assessment” of EM Bypass, which had last received a coat of top layer in 2013 and gets riddled with cracks and craters every monsoon. The assessment, to be done by a consultant, will help the authorities prepare a blueprint for thorough repairs of the 16-km EM Bypass, which stretches between Ultadanga and Garia-Dhalai Bridge. The study, CMDA officials said, will identify stretches where the road is undulating and spots that have become so weak that potholes appear every year despite patchwork repairs. Every monsoon, the Bypass turns into a broken and battered road. The artery has not seen any overhaul in eight years; only superficial repairs to cover potholes were all the CMDA has undertaken. CMDA officials said they had not launched any thorough repairs because of construction of the New Garia-Airport Metro link. “Construction of piers for the Metro viaduct damages the road surface,” said a CMDA engineer. “The ground-level work for the Metro line along the Bypass has just ended, except at Chingrighata and Metropolitan. Only overhead work is left and that will not affect the road condition.” A senior CMDA official said: “The weak spots the study will identify will be strengthened. The consultant that will conduct the study will suggest solutions to the various problems they will identify. The CMDA will implement the solutions before laying a fresh layer. The assessment could take between three and four months.” A condition assessment of the road, the official said, has not been done for many years. “The study will help us know the exact problems and their locations. We are planning to do a thorough repair of the Bypass now so that it remains in good condition for many years,” the official said. Commuters prefer the Bypass, once Calcutta’s showpiece thoroughfare, to avert snarls within the city. It was once lined by water bodies in the north and trees and fields in the south. Over the years, the snarl-free Bypass has become like any other uncared for Calcutta road. Potholes are many, the road is undulating and trees have disappeared. Many feel Calcutta needs a bypass to EM Bypass. “Every year, the condition of EM Bypass becomes horrible during the monsoon. There are stretches that break twice or thrice in the same season. This happens every year. Bilking down the Bypass during the monsoon, especially if it rains, is very risky,” said Chandan Banerjee, a resident of Mukundapur, who rides to his workplace in Esplanade and back. Many Calcuttans feel the stretch between Science City and Garia has been historically worse than the one between Science City and Ultadanga. “The northern portion of the Bypass has not seen any construction activity post-2012. That explains why it is in a better shape than the southern section,” said an engineer. “Only a 700-metre stretch in the northern section, near Hyatt, has a Metro corridor. The ground-level work there got over by 2012. The Ultadanga-Science City corridor is in a better shape.” EM Bypass used to turn into a battered stretch even before Metro Railway construction had started. A decade ago, the road did not have any mastic asphalt topping. A mastic asphalt coat makes the road sturdy and reduces chances of wear and tear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Police commissioner on unexpected night tour to check curfew||Calcutta’s police commissioner Soumen Mitra went around the city between 2am and 6am on Thursday in what several officers said was an unscheduled tour to take stock of the night curfew. Police sources said Mitra travelled through Minto Park, Sarat Bose Road, Hazra Road, Taratala, Behala, EM Bypass and Patuli. Several officers The Telegraph spoke to said the top cop had stepped out of his home unannounced, keeping the Lalbazar control room and the Lalbazar traffic control room in the dark. As part of the protocol, the commissioner’s location and vehicular movement are communicated through secured channels to the respective traffic guards and police stations from Lalbazar. “I came to know only in the morning. Many police stations and traffic guards lost track of his movement as his location was not aired,” said an officer at Lalbazar. There was no statement on the cause of the top cop’s “night round”. Mitra did not respond to text messages from this newspaper. Officers close to him said the top cop was possibly trying to check how effectively the curfew from 9pm to 5am, part of the measures announced by the state government to contain the spread of Covid, was being enforced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Website launched to address issues of rights and responsibilities of artistes in India ||A lawyer batted for the protection of artists’ “right to offend” lest they started playing safe, at a programme to mark the launch of a website to safeguard the rights of artistes. “The day the artistes decide to play it safe and sanitise their artistic expressions, we will be a society diminished. It is already happening,” said Akhil Sibal, a senior advocate and one of the speakers at the virtual session on Wednesday. “Artistes are meant to push boundaries, to challenge our prejudices, the status quo, the thoughts we assume are right. They are meant to provoke us. They can only do that if, to some extent, they have the right to offend. So, we need to preserve creativity,” said Sibal, who had successfully defended painter M.F. Husain, battling charges of obscenity in his art. Sibal, son of Congress veteran and lawyer Kapil Sibal, spoke on the harassment of artistes by an intolerant mindset. “What concerns me is that we have for the past many years — and it is increasing — read about and witnessed the unwarranted harassment of artistes through the law, through an intolerant mindset. I worry that has had and continues to have a chilling effect on artistes,” he said. While puritanical censorship of artistes is not new in India, it has allegedly assumed an unprecedented scale under current rulers. The Narendra Modi-led BJP government at the Centre and the Right-wing ecosystem have been repeatedly accused of stifling freedom of expression and targeting artistes critical of them. At the start of this year, stand-up comic Munawar Faruqui was arrested for alleged remarks made about Hindu deities and Union home minister Amit Shah even before his performance in Indore. Closer home, a music video created by some of Bengal’s young and accomplished artistes, in the run-up to the state elections, warned people against the Right-wing politics of hate. In the aftermath of the significant traction generated by the music video, the state BJP president, Dilip Ghosh, had allegedly threatened to “rough up (rogre debo)” artistes if they did not mend their ways. “We need to preserve the creativity and that pushing of the envelope that artistic expression must continue to do. That’s why a platform like this, which helps to provide artistes with access to their rights, to the boundaries as well that may exist, and to support that I believe would empower them to conquer that fear. The self-censorship is taking place because the artistes are saying ‘I do not want to create controversy’. So, before they express themselves, they are already censoring themselves. That should not happen,” he said. The platform he was talking about was www.unmute.help, which went live on Thursday morning. Spearheaded by Delhi-based arts scholar Arshiya Sethi, performer-arts manager Paramita Saha and dancer-lawyer-activist Somabha Bandopadhyay, a doctoral student at the West Bengal National University for Juridical Sciences, the website will address the issues of rights and responsibilities of artistes in India. At the virtual session on Wednesday, the founders described the website as an online resource centre covering issues like sexual harassment, copyright and plagiarism and obscenity in arts. The site’s content resulted from a series of public discussions titled “Arts and the Law: What they don’t teach you in Arts School”, rolled out as online audio-visual documentation. It was co-produced by Kri Foundation and the Visual Arts Gallery, India Habitat Centre, New Delhi. An English version in 2020 was followed by another in Bengali, “Shilpakala Ebam Ain”, earlier this year, addressing the specific needs felt by the arts community of Bengal. “Over the last many months, all the material that resulted out of the sessions has been quite a lot and very rich. People kept asking if they could have it in the form of a handbook, something easily accessible or readable. These questions were being constantly raised by our audiences. So, we thought the best way would be to have an online resource centre, which is exactly what the website plans to be. It is an online resource centre for performing artists to safeguard their rights,” said Saha, a contemporary dancer, curator, and arts manager working out of Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
