14-08-2021||Calcutta||Muchipara cops ‘break into’ BJP leader home||Officers of Muchipara police station allegedly broke open the main door of the house of BJP leader Sajal Ghosh to take him into custody on Friday afternoon, following allegations of assault on a Trinamul leader’s wife and an attack on a shop. People in the neighbourhood said trouble started on Thursday night after the wife of a local Trinamul leader accused two BJP supporters of molesting her. The accused were arrested soon after. Ghosh allegedly led an attack on a shop off Raja Rammohan Sarani on Friday morning, possibly to protest his supporters’ arrests. After receiving a complaint from the shop’s owner, a team from Muchipara police station went to Ghosh’s house, near Santosh Mitra Square. “As the family was not opening the door, an officer told them through an open window that an FIR had been registered against Ghosh and he was expected to go to the police station,” said a source. The officer warned the family that if Ghosh refused to cooperate with the police, they would be forced to break open the door. Minutes later, three officers allegedly took turns kicking the door until it gave away. Ghosh was taken out and escorted to Muchipara police station, a few hundred metres from his home. Officers not handling the case said it was unusual for the police to break into the home of an accused unless he or she was a criminal with flight risk. Dilip Ghosh condemned the cop action: “Is he a criminal? Was he absconding?” Ghosh said. Trinamul state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said: “The incident with the door was undesirable. But equally unacceptable are the inflammatory threats being issued by the BJP over the incident.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid fear: Passengers express wish to fly on bigger aircraft to minimise chances of infection||Covid has changed the concerns of air passengers and their queries, said officials of airlines and the Calcutta airport. Many passengers, while booking tickets, are expressing the wish to fly on a bigger aircraft to minimise chances of infection, even if travelling on such a flight costs more. Calcutta businessman Kishore Mandani goes to Dubai frequently. “Earlier, I would prefer an airline with better service. Now I make it a point to my travel agent while booking a seat that it has to be a bigger aircraft. This gives a sense of safety,” said Mandani. Tour operators said for the domestic sector, too, many passengers are insisting on a bigger aircraft. “In sectors like Mumbai and Delhi where many options are available, passengers are insisting on booking on Air India or Vistara flights which operate bigger aircraft. They are ready to pay more but want a spacious plane,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. An official of Air India, which operates wide-body Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft in some of the omestic sectors like Delhi, said they were observing high demand for business class seats recently. “Maybe because it's more specious,” said the official. Most low-cost airlines operate narrow-body aircraft with 180 seats. An official of the Airline Operators Committee at the Calcutta airport said most of the queries from passengers after the second wave of Covid infections were not about luggage but about whether the flight was fully booked or not. “We cannot divulge the load factor to individual passengers but we tell them whether the flight is full or not,” said the AOC official. Airport officials are also getting queries about RT-PCR tests. “We are getting 100 to 150 calls every day from passengers who want to know whether they need to get an RT-PCR test done. Many passengers from London coming via Delhi or Dubai are calling to find out whether they have to spend hours at the airport after arrival to get a rapid PCR test done,” said an airport official. Earlier, he said, most queries would be about departure and arrival timings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||New US consul general Melinda Pavek in Calcutta||Melinda Pavek took over as US consul general in Calcutta on Thursday. She replaced Patti Hoffman. Pavek was the counsellor for science, innovation, and development at the US embassy in Tokyo before her current assignment. “I am honored to be representing the United States of America here in east and Northeast India,” said Pavek. “I look forward to meeting people across my consular district and continuing the work of the US consulate in advancing the US-India partnership in the region.” Pavek, who traces her roots to Minnesota, has served in Pakistan, Brunei, Nepal and Iraq, among other places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid @ Calcutta: Days split for 1st & 2nd shots||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s Covid vaccination centres will administer only second doses on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and first doses on other days from next week, Atin Ghosh, who heads the civic body’s health department, said on Friday. Vaccines are not administered on Sundays. Senior officials of the civic body said the decision to reserve separate days for the first and second doses was taken to ensure that those whose second doses have become due do not miss out on the shot. CMC officials in charge of vaccination said they had noticed that nearly 80 per cent of those who had been vaccinated at their centres over the past 10 days were first dose recipients. “If the trend continues, very soon people whose second dose has become due may complain that they are not getting their shots. We want to prevent that. The decision will ensure equal opportunities to both sets of recipients,” an official said. What also prompted the civic body to take the decision, the official said, was the fact that the CMC has been getting fewer doses than what it used to in May. Some of the centres that used to administer 300 or 350 doses each day in May are now administering only 150 a day because of inadequate supply. Those who took Covishield first dose in May are now eligible for the second dose. “If most of the 150 doses being administered daily go to first dose recipients, the backlog of second dose recipients will keep increasing,” an official said. “From Monday, our centres will administer only second doses on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. First doses will be administered on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays,” said Atin Ghosh, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators who is in charge of the health department. A senior CMC official said about 23 lakh second doses of Covishield are yet to be administered in Calcutta. “The majority of vaccine doses in Calcutta are being administered from CMC centres. The teaching hospitals and some private hospitals and clinics are also administering the doses. It is unlikely that most of those who have taken their first dose at CMC centres will prefer to take the second dose from other places. So we have to create a situation where these people do not have any difficulty in getting the second dose,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||Pre-primary teachers face hard time trying to retain attention of children in online classes||Pre-primary teachers are having a hard time trying to retain the attention of children in online classes for the second year in a row, with monotony and boredom setting in, several of them said. Some of them said the children were increasingly becoming restless and fidgety. They do not respond in class and at times, disappear from the screen. Children are used to cartoons or games on screen and teachers have to compete with that kind of attention-seeking gimmick. The challenge is that the content is not always entertainment, said a teacher for toddlers. Schools are also noticing a learning gap among students. “Earlier, school was a level playing field regardless of the situation at home. Some parents have limitations and the home atmosphere is not always conducive, which is creating a divide in the level of learning,” said Nupur Ghosh, vice principal,  Mahadevi Birla World Academy. Schools are having to rely heavily on parents and while some are able to guide their children, others are unable to do so. “In school, the teacher would be hand-holding the child. For example, teaching the child how to hold a pencil. Now, teachers are unable to do more than give verbal instructions. That is where the gap is,” said Dalbir Kaur Chadda, principal, South Point School. In physical school, by the end of nursery, children are able to comprehend English, said several teachers. For many, this is no longer the case. “In school, we reach a certain level, which we are unable to do now in some cases and we cannot blame anyone for this,” said Chadda. Several schools send videos to parents, which they are expected to show their children but many of them are unable to find the time to sit with the kids. Many are also unable to communicate with the child like a teacher would. Children have also become more restless because they cannot interact with other children, said Jessica Gomes Surana, principal, Loreto Convent Entally. “Boredom is setting in among children. It is manifested in the way they are becoming fidgety, putting their heads down and at times, not showing eagerness to get up and perform the actions the teacher instructs,” said Gomes Surana. Teachers are sometimes making the class gimmicky to arrest the children's attention but the concern is whether the learning outcome is the same. Teachers are having meetings in schools to discuss ideas to make classes more engaging. “Earlier, in school, we would do one activity per week. But now, we have to come up with a new activity for every class. In school, we had space but now, we have to keep limitations of space and availability of material for any activity in mind,” said Neelakshi Shukla, proprietor and principal, Beginners Montessori House. Amita Prasad, director, Indus Valley World School, said for teachers to devise activities was much easier in school because the classroom is designed that way. “The child can move from one activity to another and no child is expected to be seated in one place for long.” Parents are also finding it difficult. The worksheets that were done in school before now have to be completed at home with the parents. “At times, children’s work is getting delayed because they are dependent on their parents to finish it. Parents have their own work to attend to and it might not be possible for all of them to be prompt,” said Gomes Surana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||President of furore-hit HS council replaced||The Bengal education department on Friday appointed Jadavpur University pro-vice-chancellor Chiranjib Bhattacharjee as president of the state higher secondary council. Bhattacharjee replaces Mahua Das. The decision comes three weeks after students’ grievances against higher secondary results triggered a backlash across the state. Bhattacharjee said he would assume charge on Monday and continue as JU’s pro-VC as well. An official of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education said that over the past week, all notices of the council were being issued by Tapas Mukherjee, the secretary-in-charge. Earlier, Das used to issue notices. Sources in the education department said Bhattacharjee was sounded out by education minister Bratya Basu about the new responsibilities in late July. Around 20,000 of the 8,19,202 examinees did not pass HS. The results were announced on July 22. Violent protests by unsuccessful students had been reported since July 23, following which, on the evening of July 24, chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi called Das to Nabanna to explain what triggered the grievances. On August 2, the council announced that “almost 100 per cent” candidates had passed after a review of marks of 18,000 students who had initially failed. Apart from being aggrieved over detention, a section of students are upset because the number of top graders declined drastically compared to last year even as the pass percentage witnessed a jump, said an official of the department. The headmaster of a school in central Calcutta said since the CBSE and ISC results have seen a surge in highest grade scorers, those who have passed HS are fearing they might lag behind their counterparts from other boards while securing admission to undergraduate courses. According to statistics that Das had released on July 22, the number of candidates who got ‘O’ grade — between 90 and 10 marks — came down to 9,013 this year from 30,220 in 2020. The number of A+ grade (between 80 and 89) recipients dropped to 49,370 from 84,746 last year. The number of A grade (70-79) recipients stands at 95,758 against last year’s 96,825. The number of B+ grade (60-69) recipients, however, increased to 1,65,186 from 1,10,265 in 2020. “Since the state government has barred the state-aided colleges and universities from carrying out any admission tests while screening candidates for undergraduate courses and mandated marks based admission, the students of the state board are fearing an unequal competition. Thousands of students have applied for review of marks even as the undergraduate application submission process is on. The council is publishing the review results in several phases,” said a headmaster. Repeated calls to Das went unanswered. Bhattacharjee said: “I will try my level best to further streamline the evaluation process.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta community kitchen to shut as funds dry up  ||The long economic slump because of the Covid pandemic is eating into donations to charitable platforms that have been providing free food to the poor in and around the city and in districts. Jadavpur Commune, run by current and former students of the university, relaunched the community kitchen in May after Covid-induced curbs were announced. It would feed the underprivileged in and around Jadavpur station. But it has decided to discontinue the kitchen after August 15 owing to funds crunch. They had started the service during the lockdown in May last year. As funds dwindled, Jatiyo Bangla Sammelan, another volunteer platform that had been running six community kitchens since May this year, was forced to shut down its drive last month. Jhelum Roy, a member of the Jadavpur Commune, said since the suburban train service was yet to resume, those who depended on it to earn their living were finding it difficult to survive. “Many of them would earn a living by selling various items to passengers on the train. Rickshaw-pullers had a steady flow of passengers. They are all struggling,” she said. While Jatioyo Bangla Sammelan’s community kitchens in districts started shutting down in late June, the one in Gariahat — which was being run from Dover Lane and was their largest — wound up its operations in late July. A member of Jadavpur Commune said it was not possible to sustain a platform like theirs in the absence of donations. “Those who initially contributed are now themselves reeling under financial constraints. We want the government to start a kitchen in the area.” The commune has been feeding 300 people on average every day. For Jatiyo Bangla Sammelan, a guesthouse next to Gariahat police station had been turned into a kitchen and was being helmed by youth and social activists since May 17. From Gariahat, it was later extended to Bhowanipore, Howrah station, Egra in East Midnapore, Mousuni Island in South 24-Parganas and Chanditala in Hooghly. A drastic drop in funds between May and July led to the kitchens closing in a phased manner, said Siddhabrata Das, a spokesperson for the platform. “We started with Rs 1.20 lakh in May. In June, the collection dropped to Rs 70,000 and to Rs 25,000 in July. We could not sustain it any longer,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Footfall poor now but cinema owners happy ||Twenty out of 400 seats were occupied during the matinee show at a cinema in south Calcutta on Friday. But the hall owner and employees were upbeat because a start after months of shutdown was like a breath of fresh air. A string of single-screen halls in the city reopened on Friday with a Hollywood horror flick. Footfall did not reach double digits in many shows. Hall operators were banking on a big-ticket Hindi release, slated next weekend, to boost the footfall. Menoka, Navina, Ashoka, Ajanta and Bijoli were some of the halls that reopened on Friday. Most of them showed The Conjuring: The Devil Made Me Do It. A handful of other halls had opened last week, following the state government’s nod for theatres to reopen with 50 per cent seating capacity, a precaution against Covid. In the matinee show at Menoka, on Southern Avenue, barely 20 people bought tickets. Fifty per cent capacity at the theatre means 400 people. The audience mostly comprised young people. Two friends from Garia were among the first day’s visitors at Menoka. “Watching a film at a hall felt like revisiting the past,” said one of them, a 20-year-old. “Things are very bleak. But at least the halls reopened after such a long time,” said Pranab Roy, the owner of Menoka and Ashoka in Behala. “People are back in malls, on roads and at restaurants. We are keeping our fingers crossed and hoping for a rise in ticket sales from next week,” said Satadeep Saha, the owner of Ajanta in Behala and a film distributor. Bell Bottom, starring Akshay Kumar, is slated to release next weekend. It is the first big Bollywood film to be released outside OTT platforms since the Hrithik Roshan-starrer War, which was released in October 2019, said hall owners. Saha is distributing the film across over 100 halls in Bengal. INOX at South City Mall is set to open on Saturday. The chain had already opened some other properties, including the one at Quest, earlier this month. “The footfall has been better than what we saw after reopening in October last year. The vaccine has increased the confidence of the people. We are hoping for a boost in footfall from next week,” said Amitava Guha Thakurta, regional director-east, INOX Leisure Limited. The halls were shut from the end of April till the end of July this year and from March-end to the middle of October last year because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||Order of Merit of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Award for service||Rajat Dalmia, the honorary consul of Luxembourg in Calcutta, has been awarded the Order of Merit of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The award was bestowed “in recognition of his continuing honourable services to and for the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and its citizens,” said an official statement issued by the consulate. The ambassador of Luxembourg, Jean Claude Kugener, conferred the honour on Dalmia in New Delhi on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||20-odd invitees to Red Road Independence-Day programme||Around 20 invitees — including officers from the army, navy and air force, and consular representatives and judges — have been invited to the Independence Day programme on Red Road. The event, to last a little over 30 minutes, will be an abridged affair in keeping with Covid protocols, officials at Nabanna said on Friday. There will be no seating arrangements for anyone apart from the guests. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to arrive at the venue at 10.30am, sources in Calcutta police said. “Red Road-bound traffic will be diverted for over an hour on Sunday till the function is over,” said a senior police officer at Lalbazar. “Police officers in close proximity to the chief minister will have to carry an e-certificate of their double dose vaccination.” Tableaus depicting some of the initiatives of the Bengal government such as Khela Hobe Divas, students' credit card and Duare Sarkar will be on display. There will also be tableaus on Subhas Chandra Bose and unity in diversity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||Man arrested for duping people by creating fake websites of popular finance companies||A 32-year-old man was arrested on Thursday night from his rented accommodation in Thakurpukur for allegedly duping at least five persons by creating fake websites of popular finance companies. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said five complaints had been lodged with the cyber crime police station in Salt Lake, based on which Shekhar Singh Azad was arrested. The officer said Azad, a BTech in computer engineering, had opened at least 25 fake websites of non-banking finance institutions. He allegedly offered through the websites various types of loans —   including personal, vehicle and appliance loans — at interest rates lower than those offered by the companies. “Azad had used logos and fonts of the non-banking financial institutions in the fake websites. It was hard for the victims to tell that the sites were fake. These websites had no link to the original websites run by the companies whose logos he was using,” the officer said. Once a person logged into any of the websites allegedly created by Azad, he or she was asked to enter personal details like name, phone number and address. The website would then ask them to upload photographs of their identity cards such as PAN and Aadhaar cards. “Once this was done, the victims were redirected to a page where they had to pay a processing fee. However, no loan amount was sanctioned after making the payment,” the officer said. Azad, from Buxar in Bihar, has been charged under various sections of the IPC, including 420 (cheating), 419 (cheating by personation), 465 (forgery) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record). He was produced in a court in Salt Lake on Friday and remanded in police custody till August 17. Vikek Sharma, Azad’s lawyer, said his client ran a website designing business and had created the websites for which he had been arrested for a client.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
