15-08-2021||Calcutta||IISER students raise funds to support Covid-affected people ||A group of students of IISER Kolkata in Kalyani are selling their paintings, photographs and handicrafts on their Facebook page to raise funds to provide oxygen cylinders and other support to Covid-affected people in places like Kalyani and Haringhata and Lalgarh. The students of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) have launched a Facebook page “Art for a Cause” and so far raised Rs 2 lakh, which has been used to buy oxygen cylinders and run a community kitchen to feed the underprivileged. The cylinders have been distributed through various volunteer groups. The students ran a community kitchen on the campus to provide food twice a day to underprivileged people who have recovered from Covid. A student of the institute said that the need for distribution of cylinders has come down with the steady drop in case count, but the Covid induced distress among the poor is on the rise and they are trying to address that. “We extended support to The Dreamers Foundation from Sreerampore in their efforts to provide study materials, notebooks and stationary to 350 underprivileged children from the Lalgarh village in Jhargram district,” said Susnato Karmakar, a research scholar. “We plan to reach out to the farthest corners of our state and be there for people who genuinely need a supporting hand.” Payment links have been posted on the Facebook page and once purchased, the artwork is shipped to the designated addresses. Photographs that the students captured on their cameras during family holidays and paintings that many still draw as a form of recreation have been uploaded on the page. The photographs are mainly available in 8X12 inches with a minimum price tag of Rs 500. For the acrylic artwork, the minimum price has been set at Rs 300. Under the handicrafts section, painted vases and bottles will be available soon. The artwork is available on Instagram as well. The group has contacted various photography clubs in Calcutta so that more work can be uploaded to raise funds. Students of Ballygunge Science College have also joined them. “Since we have extended our drive, this will require substantial generation of funds, which can be possible if we can attract more buyers with an array of impressive collections,” said Koustav Gangopadhyay, a final-year research scholar at IISER. The initiative was launched in May. They procured several oxygen cylinders bought from a local plant in Nadia and had them distributed to those in need. The cost of refilling the oxygen cylinders is borne by the group. Karmakar said in areas like Kalyani and Haringhata, with the crippling loss of income during the pandemic, many could not afford oxygen cylinders. “People in this belt of Nadia district tested positive when Covid cases were being reported in increasing numbers. Many were being asked to isolate at home with the support of oxygen cylinders. But these daily wage earners whose conditions have worsened in the lockdown earlier this year could not afford oxygen at home — a void that we tried to fill to some extent,” he said. The members of the forum have also distributed pulse oximeters, sanitisers and gloves through the volunteer group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
15-08-2021||Calcutta|| Vivekananda Road flyover raze phase two to begin from August 27||The second phase of the dismantling of Vivekananda Road flyover will begin from August 27. The stretch of the busy Vivekananda Road between Ganesh Talkies and Girish Park will be shut to traffic for nearly a month-and-a-half, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) decided on Saturday. Calcutta police would work out a detailed diversion plan for small, medium and heavy vehicles which ply along the Vivekananda Road, before the second phase of the dismantling begins, senior officers from Lalbazar who were present at a coordination meeting with several agencies in presence of Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the CMC's board of administrators, said. “We will come out with a detailed notification clearly explaining the route that the diverted vehicles would have to take once the Vivekananda Road is shut to vehicular traffic,” a senior police officer said. “But prior to handing over the stretch to the contractors, we will have to clear the area of all temporary structures with the help of the civic body.” Officials from the urban development department, which is overseeing the razing of the flyover, a 41-metre portion of which had collapsed in March 2016 killing 45 people, said the first phase of the demolition work on Strand Road was completed. “The stretch between Posta Bazar and part of the Strand Road near Howrah Bridge has been completed. The stretch would be opened to traffic only after the road-surface has been properly repaired,” said a senior official of the CMDA, the executing agency responsible for pulling down the flyover. Hakim said the CMC would take up the work of road repair on a war footing. Once ready, the part of Posta market which was shut for over a month and a half now for the first phase of the dismantling work, would be thrown open. He said the CMC would also repair the stretch of Vivekananda Road that would be damaged during the next phase of demolition work. Senior police officers said they would soon start inspecting the traffic volume on some of the key roads around the Vivekananda Road, including Beadon Street, KK Tagore Street, Nimtala Ghat Street and Rabindra Sarani to work out the blueprint for traffic diversion. “Godowns and shop-owners would have to be informed in advance about the closure of the Vivekananda Road and alternative parking lots would have to be identified,” said a senior officer of Posta police station. “Senior officers will meet the traders bodies to draw up the final plan.” The state government has engaged a Mumbai-based company to pull down the fallen Vivekananda flyover. On Saturday some of the senior officials of the company, which had also razed the fallen Majherhat bridge, said the biggest challenge would be pulling down the concrete deck slabs that now remain positioned very close to some of the buildings on the Vivekananda Road. “Some of the occupants of these buildings would have to be shifted out for a few days when the demolition work begins,” said an official of the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
15-08-2021||Calcutta||Young Trinamul Congress leader shot dead in Khardah||A young Trinamul Congress leader was shot dead by unidentified assailants in Khardah late on Friday. The assassins shot at Ranajoy Kumar Shrivastava, 32, four times. The bullets pierced his chest and neck. The incident occurred around 11.45pm when Ranajoy was going home in his car with party colleague Sonu Sahu. Police and eyewitnesses said that five youths on two motorcycles intercepted Ranajoy’s car in Barapatti in Khardah. There was a heated argument, followed by an exchange of fists and blows. “Ranajoy tried to escape when some of the youths suddenly pulled out arms and fired at him from close range,” Sonu said. He was taken to B.N. Bose Sub-divisional Hospital in Barrackpore and then shifted to a hospital in Calcutta, where he was declared brought dead. Ranajoy had joined Trinamul a few years ago and was once said to be close to party leader Manish Shukla, who was then with Trinamul and later switched to the BJP and was killed in October last year. Trinamul insiders said Ranajoy was active in developing a support base among the Hindi-speaking community to neutralise the BJP’s influence in the Barrackpore Lok Sabha area. The administrator of Titagarh Municipality and Trinamul leader Prasanta Chowdhury blamed the BJP for the murder. “Miscreants close to the BJP were threatening him for the past few days. We told the police to check,” he said. The BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh said: “The Trinamul leadership is trying to mislead people and suppressing facts. The murder was the fallout of their internal bickering.” The police arrested five persons for their suspected involvement in the murder. The accused were produced at a Barrackpore court that sent them to 10 days’ police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
15-08-2021||Calcutta||Laws hinder heritage conservation||Heritage conservation laws in Calcutta allow easy downgrade of protected structures and pave the way for demolition of protected buildings. This is something that Mumbai has been able to avert by making the process more complicated, a former commissioner of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said at an online discussion on protecting Calcutta’s built heritage on Friday. V. Ranganathan, who headed the Mumbai Heritage Conservation Committee, also said Calcutta should consider identifying and declaring stretches as heritage precincts as many parts of the city were dotted with buildings that had an aesthetic appeal. A heritage precinct is different from a heritage building. While an individual house can be tagged as a heritage structure, a precinct is a collection of houses on a road that together tell the story of a time, of a place or culture. Declaring a neighbourhood as a heritage precinct protects any of these houses from being pulled down and helps preserve the aesthetic appeal of the place for the time to come. Mumbai has several areas declared as heritage precincts where buildings enjoy a shield from indiscriminate demolition. Other speakers at the virtual discussion also repeated the call for having heritage precincts in Calcutta. “One of the disadvantages of the heritage protection laws in Calcutta is that the heritage conservation committee functions under the municipal corporation. It becomes easier to influence downgrading a building in such a case. A municipal corporation has to deal with more political pressure,” said Ranganathan, who retired as the chief secretary of Maharashtra government. A proposal for downgrading a listed heritage structure is sent to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s heritage conservation committee. The committee sends the recommendation for downgrade, if it feels so, to the mayoral council that gives an approval or rejects it, said a senior CMC official. In Mumbai, such a proposal has to be sent to the state government. “The process is more complicated and stringent (in Mumbai). Apart from extraordinary circumstances, downgrading is not allowed in Mumbai,” he said. In Calcutta, there have been instances of downgrading of listed heritage structures. The downgrade reduces the level of protection and paves the way for demolition, said author Amit Chaudhuri, founder of Calcutta Architectural Legacies (CAL) and moderator of Friday’s discussion. The Kenilworth hotel in Chowringhee was demolished after it was pushed down to grade III from grade IIA in 2018. Other speakers at the discussion were economist and Nobel laureate Esther Duflo, historian Sunil Khilnani and architect Channa Daswatte. Chaudhuri said the virtual discussion was organised to restart conversations on protection of heritage in Calcutta, something that was stopped by the pandemic. “But the pandemic could not stop the demolition of old grand buildings,” he said. The Facebook page of CAL has pictures of a beautiful house on Lansdowne Road being pulled down at the moment. The speakers spoke of identifying and declaring parts of Calcutta as heritage precincts. Daswatte, an architect from Sri Lanka who had helped conserve an old mansion in Park Circus that was once inhabited by a family and later turned into a restaurant, was one of the advocates of heritage precinc. “The attempt was commendable. An old beautiful mansion was not pulled down but preserved and then turned into a restaurant, but it was shut down. It could be because this single building stood among others that were not conserved,” he said. Daswatte said this was where declaring a neighbourhood as heritage precinct could be useful. “A precinct could give the place a charm...,” he said. Ranganathan told Metro that Mumbai had several parts of the city declared as heritage precincts. One of the earliest to be declared so was the area between Nariman Point and Malabar Hills, where a number of houses have the Art Deco style of architecture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
15-08-2021||Calcutta||Sharp but scattered spell of rain brace Calcutta||Sharp but scattered spells of rain came down on pockets of Calcutta and its surrounding areas on Saturday afternoon. Independence Day and the next few days are likely to see extremely sweaty conditions, the Met office has said. An occasional thunderstorm can bring some relief but the discomfort index is likely to be on the higher side over the next few days. On Saturday, the showers took place between 1.30pm and 5pm. The showers were accompanied by frequent bouts of lightning. Around 2pm, the rain made driving difficult on Ballygunge Circular Road. At the same time, EM Bypass was also being lashed by a strong spell of rain. Salt Lake and adjoining areas also got drenched. Esplanade, New Market and adjoining areas in central Calcutta were comparatively drier. According to the figures with the pumping stations of the civic body, Patuli got around 35mm of rain, EM Bypass got around 25mm and Behala got 20mm. The Met office recorded around 10mm of rain in Alipore. Many people who had stepped out on a weekend were caught in the showers. Many of them rushed to a nearby mall. The showers led to traffic snarls across thoroughfares. The immediate forecast is that of hot and sultry weather. “Rain, if any, will be like Saturday’s showers. They are likely to be localised. The high moisture incursion can lead to the formation of cumulonimbus clouds,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, the deputy director general, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. With the monsoon trough hovering at the foothills of the Himalayas, districts of north Bengal are likely to get heavy rain over the next few days. “The southwest monsoon currents are active. But in the absence of any major system over the Bay of Bengal and adjoining coastline, south Bengal is unlikely to get sustained rainfall. The currents are being drawn towards the monsoon trough,” Bandyopadhyay said. In the absence of heavy rain, the weather in Calcutta has been sultry. The minimum relative humidity has been over 60 per cent consistently. The humidity content is only likely to increase over the next few days, said the Met office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
15-08-2021||Calcutta||Devajit Bandyopadhyay's Rup Rupantar maps varied history of Vande Mataram||A forthcoming book traces the varied history of Vande Mataram, the song that became the sound of the freedom movement and defined the idea of India, though it would also have its share of critics. This anthem, which visualises the nation as a mother, was composed by Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay and incorporated in his novel Anandamath (1882). Since then, it took on a life of its own and ran like a thread through important events of the Independence movement, connecting vital parts of the nation’s history, till today. Just the phrase Vande Mataram (I bow before you, Mother) became a rallying cry, especially since the Partition of Bengal in 1905. The book Vande Mataram: Rup Rupantar written by singer and Bengali theatre music expert Devajit Bandyopadhyay traces the history of the song in its many aspects, particularly the numerous ways it was sung. “It was set to almost 150 tunes,” said Bandyopadhyay. The book will be published this year by Patrabharati, Calcutta, as India enters the 75th year of its Independence. “It was first set to tune and sung by ‘Jadubhatta’, Jadunath Bhattacharya, who taught music to both Bankimchandra and Rabindranath Tagore,” Bandyopadhyay said. Anandamath was performed as a play in 1883 and Vande Mataram was sung on the stage. The song came into prominence again in 1896, when Tagore composed it in his own way for a session of Indian National Congress. This tune was to become one of the most popular Vande Mataram versions. “It was based partly on notations by his niece Pratibha Debi, published in their family magazine Balak,” said Bandyopadhyay. “The song really reached the heart of the people during Banga Bhanga (the Partition of Bengal). At this time, the tune to which Raicharan Mukhopadhyay had set it also became very popular,” he added. During the 1905 protests, the words Vande Mataram became a popular greeting or salutation. Sister Nivedita encouraged the singing of Vande Mataram at the school she had established for girls in Calcutta. It is widely believed that she inspired Abanindranath Tagore’s iconic painting ‘Bharat Mata’, the embodiment of the idea of the nation-as-mother. She also inspired the fiery Tamil poet and freedom fighter Subramania Bharati, for whom Vande Mataram became a clarion call to reform and recast society and free India. But India chose Tagore’s Janaganamana-adhinayaka, which interestingly sees ‘Bharata-bhagya-vidhata’, the one who decides the fate of the country, as male, over Bankimchandra’s ‘Vande Mataram’, as the latter refers to the goddess Durga in a later stanza and it was assumed that all religious communities of the new nation may not feel comfortable with it. Later, Anandamath, the novel that contains Vande Mataram, would be criticised severely by some for being rooted in Hindu fundamentalist ideas. Bandyopadhyay lists the many names who set it to tune spanning more than a century, from “Jadubhatta”, Tagore and Raichand to Omkarnath Thakur, Ravi Shankar, Naushad, Hemanta Mukhopadhyay, Dilip Kumar Roy, Timirbaran and Pankaj Kumar Mullick. Not to forget A.R. Rahman. It has been sung famously by V.D. Paluskar, M.S. Subbulakshmi, Hirabai Badodekar and Kesarbai Kerkar. “The most popular tunes are by Tagore, Hemanta and Rahman. Raicharan’s version was very popular till around Independence,” said Bandyopadhyay. One reason behind the popularity of Tagore’s version is the availability of printed notation, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
15-08-2021||Calcutta||JU teachers stress on exam time limit for B.tech students||The teachers of Jadavpur University have told the university authorities that BTech students have to write and submit their semester exams on digital platforms within four-and-a-half-hours and “not doing so may damage the academic excellence” of JU. In a letter addressed to pro vice-chancellor Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya who chaired a meeting of the faculty council of engineering and technology on Saturday, the teachers have written: “We request the members of the council to give due importance and respect to the decisions taken by the faculty council regarding teaching-learning and the conducting of examinations. Not doing so may damage the academic excellence that has been built up over the years, through the hard work and effort of so many, in our university.” The teachers of the faculty council in early July had resolved to fix the time limit for the first-year undergraduate and postgraduate semester (second semester) exams due to commence from August 11. They had alleged “students are sharing answers among themselves” during online exams in the absence of a time limit. Recently, the students’ union staged a demonstration on the campus demanding that the time limit be dropped because connectivity woes faced by a section of students in flood-hit south Bengal was making it difficult for them to upload their answer scripts on time, a varsity official said. In the engineering faculty, where students in the last semester exam, held in May, had taken as many as 12 hours to complete a paper — three hours for writing and nine hours for uploading the script — several instances of shared answers were reported, said a section of teachers. Following the objection from the students in abiding by the time limit, the exams could not be held from August 11. The teachers association wrote on Saturday: “It is absolutely vital to assert the sanctity of the faculty Council when it comes to taking decisions on such matters in order to maintain the tradition of excellence at Jadavpur University. The general body meeting of JUTA, held on 12 August 2021, also reiterated this position”. A teacher in the engineering faculty said the students were taking extra time to submit papers citing poor connectivity. According to him, bright students were forwarding answers to the others and if the specified duration was spent on solving questions, the additional time was being used to copy the answers and hold consultations. “To justify connectivity woes, submission of papers is being delayed on purpose. Students might end up notching high marks but they are not being tested properly,” he said. In Saturday’s faculty council meeting, it has been decided that this time, first-year undergraduate and postgraduate semester (second semester) exams won’t be conducted following UGC advisory applicable for the intermediate semester students. “Students would be evaluated on the basis of equal weightage to internal assessment and previous semester results. But whenever exams are held, the time limit has to be adhered to. We don’t want to undermine the sanctity of the exam system,” said Partha Pratim Roy, the general secretary of the teachers’ association. In the letter, the teachers association has also written: “On several occasions, the behaviour of a section of students who have placed their demands through deputations to the faculty council has been disrespectful and insulting towards teachers and other university office bearers. This is unacceptable.” “The attitude and tendency displayed by some students as they repeatedly seek explanations from members of the faculty council, engage in argument and counter-argument, and criticize their teachers, is not desirable at all,” the letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
15-08-2021||Calcutta|| ‘Real’ tolerance: What it means||On the eve of Independence Day, Mahatma Gandhi’s grandson told a group of school students “tolerance is not enough” and “real tolerance” is respecting the other person. “Tolerance is an important word. We should respect tolerance. But tolerance is not enough. Tolerance means I am putting up with something.… Real tolerance between communities means not just tolerating but actually respecting the other person, wanting to understand what that other person is about, what that other person’s faith is about,” said Gopalkrishna Gandhi, former diplomat and governor of Bengal, now distinguished professor of history and politics at Ashoka University. Gopalkrishna was addressing students of Indus Valley World School online on Saturday in a lecture to mark 75 years of India’s Independence. “...we have in our country today, as we enter the 75th year, the great responsibility for mutual respect, for non-interfering in each other’s beliefs, not necessarily accepting it without scrutiny,” he said. Gopalkrishna told the students who heard the recorded speech online that the Buddha had said not to “accept anything unquestioningly”. “‘Examine it. And if you see it as right, then accept it... Even what I am saying, Ananda (Buddha’s disciple), don’t accept it uncritically. If you believe in it, then it is all right’,” he said, quoting the Buddha. Gopalkrishna spoke about the freedom struggle and Mahatma Gandhi and some of his lessons. “The lesson which Gandhi taught us is that within India, we respect every community as being as important and as close to us as our own,” he said. “We have now entered this platinum jubilee, a mature nation, mature because of our inheritance, also mature because of our experience and also because of our democracy which gives us the right to think, the right to choose in freedom.” Gopalkrishna spoke about India’s technological progress, something that allowed him to speak to students in Calcutta from a distance. He told the young students about the Indus Valley civilization that their school is named after. “India is a tapestry. Your school is well named after the Indus Valley, which is supposed to be the alpha of all studies of Indian civilization, the beginning, alpha. It starts with Indus Valley.” “There are other civilizations which are even older,” he said. “So when we take pride in our civilization, we should know that other civilizations are as important, even older. But in our civilization, one of the earliest dates that we have fixed due to evidence is the Indus Valley. Indus Valley’s monumental lesson to us is in its drainage and sewage systems.” In a pandemic-scarred world obsessed with hygiene, it is difficult to imagine a sense of hygiene 5,000 years ago. “Today, when the pandemic of virus demands that we follow essential hygiene, we learn from the Indus Valley the ABC of hygiene,” he said. From India’s glorious past and an appeal to be appreciative of all cultures and beliefs, Gopalkrishna went on to underscore the significance of freedom. “Freedom is also the freedom to examine, to learn from our past and not to repeat our mistakes.” The lecture was put up on the school’s official YouTube channel and social media pages and a notice was sent to all parents — of toddlers to Class XII. “He told us that we need to cultivate mutual respect, which goes far beyond tolerance and also deal with situations with equanimity,” said Amita Prasad, director of the school. “The lecture is online and the beauty of it is one can listen to it again and again like a favourite book and each time there is a new awakening.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
