16-08-2021||Calcutta||Dilip Ghosh, Suvendu Adhikari arrested in Calcutta for violating Covid rules||The BJP’s state chief Dilip Ghosh and leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Suvendu Adhikari including top party leaders were arrested in Kolkata on Monday for violating Covid-19 rules during a protest in the heart of the city. The BJP has alleged that 150 leaders and party workers were arrested. The BJP leaders, including former Minister of State Debasree Chowdhury, staged a sit-in at the Gandhi statue to mark the “Poschimbongo Bachao Diwas (Save West Bengal Day)” to counter the Trinamul Congress's “Khela Hobe Diwas”. The BJP had announced they would organise a dharna at Rani Rashmoni Avenue - a street designated for protests in the city. However, even after they failed to get the necessary permissions, they showed up at the Gandhi statue. The police battled with central security provided to several BJP leaders to arrest them. The BJP has claimed that the Trinamul Congress (TMC) has hurt the sentiments by celebrating Khela Hobe Diwas today - a day recorded in Indian history as the Direction Action Day of 1946 when protests called by the Muslim League had led to horrific riots in Kolkata which came to be known as the Great Calcutta Killing. The TMC clarified that the Khela Hobe Diwas was being held to encourage sports in the state and in remembrance of a stampede during a football match in the city on this day in 1980. Throughout the day, football matches were held under the Khela Hobe banner in Kolkata and the districts by sports clubs supported by TMC leaders at the local level. The arrested BJP workers and leaders were released after being taken to the police headquarters in Kolkata’s Lalbazar. “The partisan police has murdered democracy by arresting BJP leaders during the Save West Bengal Day,” the party said in a statement. The BJP leaders’ protest was in violation of Covid rules which prohibit political gatherings and meetings, police sources told NDTV.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
16-08-2021||Calcutta||Police seize heroin worth Rs 50 crore from Malda district||Heroin worth Rs 50 crore was seized from Malda district by the Calcutta police hours before it was to be smuggled into the city, officers of STF said on Sunday. The seizure came following the arrest of two men — who were caught in Mominpur two days ago allegedly carrying a huge consignment of yaba tablets, also called “happy pills”. STF officers said Mohammad Esmail Sheikh and Abhishek Salam were arrested in on August 12 for allegedly possessing Amphetamine tablets, commonly known as yaba tablets. Drugs weighing around 2.291kg, worth Rs 5 crore, were seized, police said. A court sent the duo to 14 days’ police custody. “During their remand we learned that a heroin consignment was headed for Calcutta,” said a senior police officer. Based on the input, cops arrested two more men near Adina Morh, Gazole, on Sunday and seized about 10.068 kg of heroin worth Rs 50 crores. The accused were identified as Lalit Shahani and Sumit Ali Patra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
16-08-2021||Calcutta||Firhad Hakim inaugurates Partition Museum on Wheels||The city got a ‘Partition Museum on Wheels’ on Sunday. Transport minister Firhad Hakim inaugurated the museum on India’s freedom struggle and Bengal’s Partition inside a tramcar. The New Delhi-based The Arts and Culture Heritage Trust and the West Bengal Transport Corporation have come together to set it up. The museum on wheels is on two bogies. The first highlights the rising resistance against the British Raj from the 1900s. It delves in to key moments during the 1900 to 1947 period, leading to independence and how the borders were drawn dividing Bengal and Punjab in two. The second car focuses on the mass migration and rehabilitation that took place post-Partition and explores the humane angle. The museum will be on display at Esplanade till December. From January 1, 2022, the museum on wheels will trundle down other parts of the city. The two tram bogies have been done up with rare photographs of some of the tall figures of India’s independence movement, including Subhas Chandra Bose and Mahatma Gandhi, black and white pictures of hundreds of refugees at bridges, river banks and railway stations awaiting transport to cross over to India following Bengal’s Partition. It has posters and items of daily use by some of the families before independence — a serving spoon made of brass that a family used since 1943, which was brought over with other things of value when migrating to Calcutta from East Pakistan. Hakim said the museum captured the ethos of Bengal. “The museum on wheels beautifully depicts the efforts of our freedom fighters and the impact of the division of Bengal and Punjab on the national psyche,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
16-08-2021||Calcutta||Police prosecute 1,178 motorists for violating night curfew rules||Police prosecuted 1,178 motorists in the city for violating the night curfew rules on the eve and early morning of Independence Day. A large number of those prosecuted told cops that they had confused the restriction time on Saturday night with the new night curfew timings that would be in effect from Monday night, officers said. “Many of them told us that the curfew has been reduced by two hours and every time we had to remind them that the new timings would be effective only from Monday night,” said an officer of the traffic department in south Calcutta. Till Sunday, the night curfew was between 9pm and 5am the next morning. According to a recent government notification, the curfew hours at night have been reduced by two hours from Monday, suggesting that citizens, except people attached with emergency or essential services, will not be allowed to stay outdoors after 11pm instead of 9pm every night. On the eve of the Independence Day, the 25 traffic guards intercepted and carried out anti-sabotage checking of 2,447 vehicles across the city between 9pm on Saturday and 5am on Sunday. Of these, 1,178 motorists could not give an explanation for why they were on the roads violating the curfew, cops said. A majority of the prosecutions were reported from the east traffic guard that covers pockets of south Calcutta, including Shakespeare Sarani, Camac Street and Park Street. Many of the prosecuted cited the presence of their families in the car while requesting they be spared. An officer posted on Rashbehari Connector said: “Many motorists think taking their families out during the curfew hours would give them immunity from being prosecuted.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
16-08-2021||Calcutta||Crowds are back in malls and restaurants in Calcutta  ||Malls, restaurants and markets were crowded on Sunday. Museums and parks are still shut. The cinemas have reopened but there was no new big-ticket release this weekend. Thus malls and eateries were the main attractions. The Covid protocols were limited to wearing masks but social distancing went for a toss at several places. South City mall was busy since morning. By 1.30pm the parking area was full. Around 5pm, people had to wait for a few minutes even to step on an escalator. The stores, most of which had “sale” posters stuck outside, did brisk business. “The footfall was around 20 per cent more than the usual weekend footfall, which has also been on the higher side for the past month or so,” said a mall official. The day ended with over 60,000 people visiting the mall, he added. Quest mall was also busy throughout the day. “Business was good. Hope this is a pointer to the future. On Sundays, the footfall is usually decent but that often does not translate into business. But today it was different,” said the manager of an apparel store at the Beckbagan mall. Several electronic appliance stores also come up with “special discounts” in the run-up to Independence Day. One such outlet in the Gariahat area had at least 20 people inside at 4.30pm. A steady stream of people poured into City Centre in Salt Lake and the crowd swelled in as the evening progressed. By 4pm the parking lot of the Salt Lake mall was full and guards were seen diverting the vehicles headed towards the parking lot. Sharmila Saha, 22, had gone to the mall for a bit of shopping with friends. She said nearly everybody in their group had been pining to step out of their homes.  The group finally decided to do some shopping together and then go to a restaurant, said Saha, who is pursuing a course in Economics at Calcutta University. “We decided to come here as the mall is open and is airy as compared to the other malls. The pandemic is still on so we did not want to visit a place that has central air-conditioning all around. We will also have dinner before heading home,” said Saha. More than 30,000 people visited the mall till 6pm on Sunday. The restaurants were packed throughout the day. Even the post-lunch period —4pm to 7pm — was packed. Around 2pm, dozens of people waited outside Peter Cat restaurant in Park Street. The waiting time was an hour. A string of eateries on Sarat Bose Road were also packed throughout the day. In the evening, it was hard to find a place at cafes in Southern Avenue area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
