17-08-2021||Calcutta||Two men die after app-based bike skidded and CMC garbage dumper hit them near Park Circus||Two men riding an app-based commercial motorbike died after the two-wheeler skidded and a Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) garbage dumper hit them near the Park Circus seven-point crossing on Monday afternoon. Police said the pillion rider, Nabin Jhunjhunwala, 39, a resident of Gariahat Road, had hired the two-wheeler from an app-bike service. The rider has been identified as Chandan Yadav, 32. They were travelling from Ballygunge Phari towards Park Street when the accident happened at the crossing of Jannagar Road and Park Street, near the Park Circus seven-point crossing, around 12.40pm. Eyewitnesses told The Telegraph that the bike had lost balance and faltered along the tram line before skidding. The duo fell on the road. “Trailing the bike was a CMC garbage dumper which ran over the biker and hit the pillion rider, too,” said a police officer. Jhunjhunwala and Yadav were taken to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, where Yadav was declared dead, the police said. Jhunjhunwala died of injuries sometime later. Both were wearing helmets. The garbage dumper has been seized by the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
17-08-2021||Calcutta||Health panel asks hospital to refund Rs 1.2 lakh to patient||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission asked Apex Clinic Private Limited in Behala on Monday to refund Rs 1.2 lakh to a patient after it was found that the hospital had charged excess for a pathological test. Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said they found that the hospital had conducted 21 blood gas tests on the patient during his seven-day stay at the hospital in May. Banerjee said that the commission, which has several doctors as its members, felt that conducting the same test several times was unnecessary. The commission also found that the hospital had charged Rs 700 more for each test than the capping set by the commission. The commission has announced a cap on the maximum amount that private hospitals can charge for certain pathological tests. Several hospitals have opposed it. The hospital had also charged the man for 8 days though he was in the hospital for 7 days, said Banerjee. “The man was admitted to Apex at 1.27pm on May 1. He was discharged from the hospital at 12.46pm on May 8. The duration of his stay at the hospital was less than seven days, but the hospital had billed him for 8 days,” said Banerjee. The hospital’s bill amounts to Rs 3.30 lakh. The commission felt that the treatment charges should not have exceeded Rs 30,000 for each day. “We fixed the total bill at Rs 2.10 lakh. The hospital was asked to refund Rs 1.20 lakh to the patient,” Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
17-08-2021||Calcutta||Passengers injured as bus hits tilting tree in New Alipore||Several passengers of a bus were injured in New Alipore on Monday evening after the bus crashed into a tree that was tilted towards the road. The branches protruded into the bus through its windows injuring passengers, police said. Police said the accident happened around 7.45pm when a bus of 1B route that was travelling from Tollygunge Phari towards New Alipore, crashed into the roadside tree. “It is still not clear what caused the crash. It could either be the driver’s fault who might have failed to notice the tree tilting towards the road or it could be a mechanical fault that he lost control over the steering and crashed into the tree,” a senior police officer said. “After the bus crashed into the tree its branches protruded into the bus through the windows injuring the passengers, specially those sitting by the window,” said an officer of New Alipore police station. Some of the passengers were treated at SSKM Hospital. Police said officers from the local police station and members of the disaster management group rescued the passengers while traffic cops managed the snarls caused by the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
17-08-2021||Calcutta||Rotary Club of Calcutta gifts prosthetic implants to 30 people||It was a different Independence Day for a nine-year-old-girl from Canning. “I am able to walk again. I will be able to play,” she said after she took a few steps with a prosthetic implant on Sunday after a gap of six months. The girl from South 24-Parganas district had lost her right leg in an accident. The Rotary Club of Calcutta handed over new limbs to 30 people on Sunday. As part of Project Akriti that was launched on Independence Day, the club aims to provide artificial limbs free of cost to 1,000 individuals by June next year. Besides the girl, a third-year college student in the city whose left hand had to be amputated when he was in Class IV because of an accident that had become “life threatening” also received a new limb. When a limb is taken away individuals become dependent on family members or people around them, said Sujata Pyne, the president of Rotary Club of Calcutta. “If we provide artificial limbs to 1,000 people we are not just supporting them but also their family members who have to help them with daily chores.” The girl recalled the accident that occurred while she was standing on the side of a road. A bicycle knocked her up and ran over her leg. “She was taken to a hospital but she was left unattended for some days because they were awaiting a Covid report. By the time the report arrived gangrene had developed and they had to amputate the leg,” said a family member. “It was the story of this girl that prompted me to take such a drive,” Pyne said. There are some like Soham Bhattacharya, the third-year college student who learnt to live with it.“Having lost my left hand when I was in Class IV, I had adapted to the constant stares,” he said. “An artificial limb ...if it provides 40 per cent support, it makes life easier.” The project will select beneficiaries on the basis of their economic condition. “One needs money to get a prosthetic implant. Many cannot afford it and many are not aware about it,” said Krishna Sen, a professor of English and member of the Rotary Club of Calcutta. To apply for prosthetic implants one could contact Anjan Behera at 8777858153  and 9831585865. Pyne said arrangements were made for life long maintenance of the prosthetic implants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
17-08-2021||Calcutta||Teenagers hold I-Day rally seeking freedom from abuse||A group of teenagers, mostly girls, walked in an Independence Day rally in a South 24-Parganas neighbourhood on Sunday, calling for freedom from ills they have been facing and witnessing every day. The teenagers wanted freedom from gender bias, domestic violence and teasing. The participants walked with colourful handwritten posters. “Women returning home late in the night have questions raised on their character. Why not the same with men returning home late?” asked one poster. “A baby is a baby. Why the urge to know the gender of a baby inside a womb,” asked another. The rally took place at Piyali, around 70km from Calcutta. The neighbourhood, and adjoining areas like Champahati, are home to thousands of people who comprise the workforce — from domestic help to AC mechanics to guards at malls — that keeps Calcutta running. “My mother beats up my younger brother regularly. We help her with daily chores, cooking, washing clothes and other things. But she often hits my brother if he refuses to do any work or is slow in getting a job done,” said a 19-year-old girl, who is pursuing a bachelor’s degree in arts from a college in Champahati. She had made a poster on child abuse. Her father has deserted the family. Her mother used to work at a leather bag manufacturing unit in Park Circus but lost her job because of the Covid pandemic. Another teenager, a Class XI student, is termed “effeminate” by his classmates and some members of his extended family. “I don’t like to play football and cricket like others of my age do. But is that a crime?” the boy asked. His mother has raised some chickens and ducks. She sells their eggs to eke out a living. Several girls had made posters calling out harassment and torture, faced by women in everyday lives. “I face catcalls and lewd comments regularly. People simply don’t react. It is as if harassing a woman is normal,” said another participant at the rally. A young woman was married into a house in her neighbourhood a year ago. Her in-laws allegedly torment her for dowry. “A couple of months ago, she had her elbow burnt by a spatula,” said the participant. The rally was organised by Ebong Alap (Conversations and More), a voluntary organisation of “writers, teachers, journalists, researchers and performance artists to focus on critical and gender-sensitive citizenship”. The organisation has been running a study centre at Natunpally, a neighbourhood in Piyali, since April last year. Scores of local teenagers come to the centre for learning sessions and workshops on several issues. Members of the organisation who have been mentoring these teenagers said the loss of income of their parents had worsened their conditions. “Many children said their fathers came home drunk and beat them up almost every day. Many men have deserted their families. The women, many of whom work as maids in Calcutta, have lost their jobs. During the initial workshops, the children would often break down while describing their plight,” said Abhijit Ray, a team member of Ebong Alap. Ray has been conducting the workshops at Natunpalli. In the run-up to the Independence Day rally, Ray had conducted a poster workshop with the children. On Sunday, the rally started around 9.30am. Alongside the posters of Gandhi and Subhas Chandra Bose, they held posters of Kalpana Datta, Bina Das and other female freedom fighters “who find little mention in history books”. The participants walked past multiple neighbourhoods and went up to a bustling market near Piyali station, in the Sealdah-Canning section. Short skits were enacted at the station before the rally came back to the Natunpally study centre to hoist the Tricolour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
17-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine doses outnumber recipients on Day 1 in Calcutta Municipal Corporation centres||The Covid vaccination centres run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation had more doses than recipients on Monday, the first day of the new system that has reserved separate days for the first and second shots. The civic body had announced last week that all its Covid vaccination centres would administer only second doses on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and first doses on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. The primary health centre at Ward 82 in Chetla, which has been among the most visited vaccination centres, received 500 doses on Monday. “But only 41 people turned up to get their second doses,” said a senior doctor of the CMC. At Ahindra Mancha in Chetla, only 110 people turned up. “Till last week, between 1,200 and 1,400 people were being vaccinated at Ahindra Mancha every day,” the doctor said. On average, all primary health centres — which are also working as Covid vaccination centres — received 150 doses on Monday, said civic doctors. But in almost all centres, the number of recipients ranged between 50 and 70. “Till Friday, we did not have to think whether we had enough people to open a vial. Each vial can vaccinate 10 or 11 people and there would always be a long queue of people waiting for the shot. On Monday, we had to tell five or six recipients to wait for four or five more. This was done to prevent wastage,” said a CMC doctor. Once a vial is opened, the unused doses cannot be taken back to the cold storage point and have to be discarded. Monday’s poor turnout for the second dose at the CMC centres was reflected in a sharp drop in the daily vaccination numbers in Calcutta. CoWIN, an online platform for Covid vaccination-related matters in India, showed that only 18,231 people got vaccinated till 7.40pm on Monday in the city. On Saturday, 43,717 people had received the shot in Calcutta. The counts for Friday and Thursday were 44,942 and 48,530, respectively. The reason behind reserving separate days for the first and second doses was to put an end to the daily chaos outside the centres. The areas in front of the gates of the vaccination centres of the CMC used to be crowded till Friday. Most of the centres had twice or thrice the number of people standing in the queue than the number of doses available with them. “The new system was a success as there was no chaos outside the centres on Monday. But we are worried about the people whose second dose is due. They seem to have disappeared. Over the past one or two weeks, nearly 80 per cent of those coming to our centres were first-dose recipients,” said a CMC doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
17-08-2021||Calcutta||IIEST students’ senate writes to institute director about fee inaction||The students’ senate at IIEST has written to the director asking why the authorities had not yet approved a proposal to reduce the mess establishment fees and overhead charges. The senate, which represents all students of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, had in May sought relief because of the financial toll the pandemic has taken. A proposal passed by the senate on the relief was forwarded to the director in June for approval, said an office-bearer of the students’ body. Students are aggrieved because the institute had yet to call a meeting of the board of governors to consider the proposal. Repeated WhatsApp calls and text messages to director Parthasarthi Chakrabarti went unanswered. An IIEST official said the board could meet later this month. Metro had on July 3 reported about the fee reduction proposal. Director Chakrabarti had then said: “We want to give students relief on fees. The proposal on reduction has been sent to the institute’s board of governors for approval.” The students’ senate has written in its letter to the director, which was sent last week: “It's more than a year we are at home, learning through online resources only. No surveys for grievances confronting students during online semester (studies) were conducted.” The senate representatives told The Telegraph that unlike IIT Kharagpur, no survey was conducted at the Shibpur institute to identify the problems students might be facing while attending online classes. The institute has been holding online classes since March 2020 because of the Covid pandemic. According to the proposal, the mess fees should be reduced from Rs 5,000 to Rs 2,900 for fourth-year students and from Rs 6,200 to Rs 4,100 for third-year students.  The general secretary of the senate, Harshvardhan Singh, said it was not clear why the institute could not hold a meeting of the board of governors to discuss the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
17-08-2021||Calcutta||Online classes hamper kids’ communication||A four-year-old told her neighbour that she doesn’t talk to her friends in class, when asked about her classmates. Several teachers said this was a painful reality during the time of online classes, especially for the younger children. The limitation of the screen does not give the three, four, five or six-year-olds the time or scope to interact with their peers, open up to them and develop communication skills. In an online class, if they are allowed to unmute and speak, it will lead to “pandemonium” and no one will be able to hear, said a school head. Early Childhood Association (ECA), a forum of schools for pre-primary education, in its guidelines for home-based learning, has asked member schools to guide parents to make their children talk to their school friends over the phone and not just on video. “Children must be supported to communicate in all forms,” the guideline said. “Talking to friends would help them develop their conversation skills. Phone calls will help develop their listening skills,” said Suman Sood, national core committee member of ECA, and director, BD Memorial. The limitation of the screen is that each child is isolated and so, they miss the physical experience of being together in a classroom, said a teacher. “In a 20 or 30-minute class, if everyone was to unmute all at once, there would be no communication but only noise,” said Sood. At the pre-primary level, not all communication is verbal but also through gestures or just by being together. The screen does not allow the children to touch, share or observe each other. Being confined to the home with very limited association with the outside world is impacting the children’s pronunciation, enunciation and communication skills. “Children pick up what they hear. Right now, their environment is reduced to a bare minimum and their vocabulary is not expanding,” said Pooja Dugar, director, Leap Years Preschool. Children would spend two or three hours before the pandemic at school but now their interaction is limited to 30 minutes to an hour. It is much harder for teachers, too, to hold a child’s attention in an online class and communicate with them. “How to approach their peers is a learnt skill for this age group (pre-primary) and they are not getting the chance to acquire that skill,” said Sharmila Bose, director, Sushila Birla Girls’ School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
17-08-2021||Calcutta||ABP Virtual Insights on Management Education and Acharya Bangalore B-School to conduct virtual session on career options in new normal||How to pick the right B-school? What are the career prospects for management trainees in the new normal? A virtual session helmed by industry leaders and management gurus will answer the queries of students and young professionals who want to pursue business management. ABP Virtual Insights on Management Education, in association with Acharya Bangalore B-School (ABBS), will be held from 4pm to 5.15pm on Wednesday on the Zoom platform. The topic — “Post-Pandemic Career Opportunities in Management”. The Covid-19 pandemic has had an unprecedented effect on how companies go about their business. The uncertainty in companies has cast doubts on thousands of young students who want a career in managerial roles in these companies. Their parents are also in two minds about investing money in a professional course. The constraints in conducting physical classes have only accentuated the crisis. Against such a backdrop, the interactive session will give direction to people who aspire a career in managerial roles across organisations and the relevance of the business management (MBA/PGDBM) degrees in post-pandemic times. It will dwell on: “Critical thinking, problem solving, creativity and digital literacy are the main skill sets required for the future of work,” said Ajitesh Basani, secretary, SSS Trust and executive director, Acharya Bangalore B-School. Basani will moderate the virtual session on Wednesday. The panel of speakers will include Bhaskar Roy, vice-president and global operations leader, Genpact Analytics and Data Science; Madhumita Chatterji, director, ABBS School of Management; Giri Balasubramaniam, educator, quizmaster; Harvard Alumni and Indian Administrative Fellow (IAF) at the department of education of the Karnataka government; and Praveen Kamath, general manager HR — global strategic hiring and redeployment, Wipro Ltd. “In the new normal, companies are looking for people with new skill sets. An MBA degree in finance is not enough on its own. The degree holder should be able to interpret the numbers of a company and provide futuristic insights. Expertise on market research and data science are going to be invaluable. So, students should look for an MBA college which focuses on what the industry wants. Colleges still stuck with traditional curriculum should be avoided,” said Roy. “The young workforce should see the new normal as a great opportunity. Good managers will have to be problem solvers. They will be in huge demand. Companies are going to invest in youth because they adapt better to changes. They are also seen as more tech-friendly,” said Balasubramaniam. People interested in participating in the session will have to register at:  https://bit.ly/VIwithABBS  What: ABP Virtual Insights on Management Education, in association with Acharya Bangalore B-School (ABBS) When: Wednesday, August 18, 4pm to 5.15pm Where: Zoom platform Registration link: https://bit.ly/VIwithABBS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
17-08-2021||Calcutta||Water treatment plant in New Town to increase supply to Sector V and Salt Lake||The water treatment plant in New Town will increase its supply to Sector V and Salt Lake by at least two million gallons per day (MGD) from this week, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority said. The plant — run by the NKDA and the public health engineering department — now supplies 4 MGD per day to Salt Lake and around 12 MGD to New Town. The boost in water supply is likely to ease Salt Lake’s dependence on groundwater and address water scarcity in Sector V and its adjoining areas, said an official of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA). But several blocks in Salt Lake still depend on groundwater as the pipelines from the New Town plant have not been laid,” an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said. Salt Lake and Sector V, too, get water from the Tallah plant. According to a senior NDITA official, at least three new filter beds at the plant — where the water drawn from the Hooghly is allowed to settle as the first step of the filtration process — had been put on trial run. “This has added another 5 MGD capacity to this plant, which has been supplying around 20 MGD since it was commissioned.” Debashis Sen, the NKDA managing director, said: “The water from the New Town plant would help all stakeholders in Sector V. In Salt Lake, the treated water will have near zero iron content”. The iron content in water has been a key issue. Many Salt Lake residents said iron deposits often left stains and led to the development of rust in pipes. “We have installed a water softener in our house (to reduce iron content),” said Arindam Choudhary, a resident of IB Block. Kalyan Kar, the vice-president of the Sector V Stakeholders’ Association, said there was a “long-standing demand for treated surface water in Sector V”. “...We are happy that we will be getting treated water from the New Town plant.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
17-08-2021||Calcutta||National Green Tribunal seeks status of Santragachhi jheel eviction||The eastern zonal branch of the National Green Tribunal has asked the state chief secretary and the district magistrate of Howrah to state by August 27 what actions have been taken to evict encroachers from around Santragachhi Jheel. “We direct the chief secretary of West Bengal as well as the district magistrate, How-rah, to file their affidavit… disclosing what action has been taken with regard to the eviction of the encroachers from Santragachhi Jheel by the next date fixed,” Justice B. Amit Sthalekar and expert member Saibal Dasgupta said in their order. The case will be heard again on August 27. The order, passed on August 13 but could be accessed on Monday. The order followed a petition related to the pollution of the pollution in the 14 lakh square feet water body, filed by environmentalist Subhas Datta in 2016. “The encroachers have to be evicted so that a drainage system may be installed to divert the sewage coming from surrounding locality that is now polluting the water body,” Datta said on Monday. A recent report of the state pollution control board confirmed that Santragachhi Jheel had become extremely polluted and was actually no longer fit to harbour any wildlife and fish. The order was passed after the South Eastern Railway, which owns the jheel, informed the tribunal that they had issued an eviction order against the encroachers after hearing the unauthorised occupants and informed the district magistrate for implementation of the eviction. “We have sent several letters to the district magistrate’s office requesting them to carry out the eviction but have received little response so far,” said a senior railway official. “We are yet to receive any directive (about the eviction); however now with chief secretary being asked to file affidavit, there may be some action,” said a district official. The state government has a policy of not enforcing any mass eviction without rehabilitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
17-08-2021||Calcutta||Nursing entrance tests to be held in two shifts on August 22 to maintain Covid norms||The entrance tests for nursing courses on August 22 will be held in two shifts to maintain the physical distancing norm as there are too many applicants. “Over 1.45 lakh candidates will write the exams,” said an official of the state joint entrance examination board, which conducts the tests. The in-person exams for admission into nursing and midwifery courses in various government and self-financed institutes will be held across 255 centres from 11am to 12.30pm and from 2pm to 3.30pm. The shift and timing will be printed on the admit cards of the candidates. A notice signed by JEE board chairman Malayendu Saha says: “A huge number of candidates have applied…. As such, to avoid any chance of crowding in examination centres, the examination will be conducted in two shifts.” When the information brochure for the exam was published in March, it was announced that the exam would be conducted in a single shift from 11am to 12.30pm. “We have taken a decision factoring in the circumstances. Amid the pandemic it was advisable that we split the exam into two shifts so that the Covid protocol could be maintained. This will reduce the scope of crowding,” Saha said. A JEE board official said the admission tests for the engineering, architecture and pharmacy courses, which were written by 70,000 candidates, were held across 274 centres. “For the nursing courses, as many as 1,45,474 candidates have applied, more than double the number of JEE candidates. It was necessary to split the exam into two shifts to avoid gatherings as much as possible,” he said. There will be a break of one-and-a-half hours between two shifts so that the dispersal of the crowd from the first slot can take place properly. If required, the centre-in-charge can get the venue sanitised during the break. Another JEE board official said if they were to hold the exams in a single shift for such a large number of candidates, as many as 550 centres would have been required. “Such a large number of centres would have posed challenges,” he said. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, will hold tests to screen students for admission to Class V at seven centres, in November, so that distancing norms can be maintained. Last year, the test was held at the two venues  — the Narendrapur school and Ramakrishna Mission School at Uripok Bachaspati Leikai in Imphal, Manipur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
