18-08-2021||Calcutta||IIHM to conduct Online eCHAT Exam for Admission on 19 and 20 August||The International Institute of Hotel Management (IIHM) is all set to conduct the Electronic Common Hotel Admission Test (eCHAT) for its upcoming batch of students on the 19th and 20th of August, 2021. The eCHAT examination is an admission test that prospective students, who have decided to study hospitality management at IIHM, must appear for and pass to get admission into the institution. It used to be an on-campus event until the stay-at-home orders rolled out last year. However, with the pandemic encouraging almost every societal aspect to go digital, IIHM set course to their Online eChat examination - an entirely digital approach to keep the aspirant hoteliers moving uninterrupted on their career paths. This time, IIHM provides them with a unique opportunity to take the admission test from the comfort of their homes. Candidates appearing for the examination shall receive the link of registration - echat.elink.in via email. They must access this link, pay a nominal fee of Rs 600 and get themselves registered for the test. Upon registration, candidates would receive their admit cards on their registered email address, along with details of the examination and the interview schedule. Throughout the process, the IIHM admission counsellors shall be in touch with the candidates and assist them with relevant information and guidance. To make the process further easier, candidates have been given the liberty to appear for the examination either using their mobile phones or their personal computers at home. After the online exam, a personal interview shall be scheduled for the candidates over a video call under strict camera vigilance. It shall be conducted by the interviewers of the Select Interview Panel under the supervision of the Director of the institute. As an esteemed hospitality education institution of the country, IIHM has introduced students to innovative ways of staying connected to their careers and education, despite the disruption caused by the pandemic in 2020. IIHM was among the first few institutions to facilitate online classes for its students ever since the lockdown was announced. Be it regular classes or a series of masterclasses by eminent national and international celebrity chefs - learning at IIHM remained just as exciting, even when shifted to the online platform. “In the past year, we have tried to support and help students stay connected to their training and course work despite these difficult times. Our faculty has worked tirelessly to maintain class schedules. This year we are again conducting the eCHAT on the online platform, to make things easy and comfortable for students,” said Dr Suborno Bose, the Chief Mentor of IIHM. Bolstered by a vision of helping students overcome their career-related anxieties, IIHM strives to create new and improved methods of training and pedagogical delivery even in such challenging times. You can click and go to the registration page- echat.elink.i||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
18-08-2021||Calcutta||Bagree Market reopens on Tuesday||The portion of Bagree Market that was destroyed in a fire in 2018 was reopened on Tuesday. The five-storied Block-A has 220 shops, offices and showrooms. The chairman of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, Firhad Hakim, and fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose were present on the occasion. The market association has spent nearly Rs 17 crore on refurbishing the trade hub in Burrabazar and installing fire-fighting gadgets. The CMC did not allow re-opening of the ravaged part of the market till fire-fighting measures were in place. Soon after the incident, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had blamed “hooliganism” for the fire. The report headlined, “Hospital told to refund Rs 1.2 lakh”, (Metro, Page 7, August 17) wrongly mentioned Apex Institute of Medical Sciences. The order was against Apex Clinic Private Limited in Behala. We apologise for the mistake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
18-08-2021||Calcutta||One injured in firing after football match near Park Street||A man who had gone to watch a football match in a local ground was shot at by a neighbour after the latter’s team lost and some people apparently asked him not to consume alcohol in the open, police said. The incident happened on Elliot Road, barely a kilometre from Park Street, around 12.3am on Tuesday. Eyewitnesses said people ran helter-skelter when the suspect, identified as Sohail Khan, fired at least thrice. Lawrence D’Cruz was hit in the leg. His brother Francis said doctors had told them the bullet exited the right leg leaving a wound, which would be operated upon on Wednesday. Lawrence used to run a catering business, which shut down in 2020 because of the pandemic, Francis said. The brothers now run a roadside eatery. “I had just finished my dinner on Monday night when I heard hue and cry outside. I went to the balcony when someone shouted ‘tere bhai ko goli laga hai (your brother has been shot at)’. I immediately rushed out. By then our neighbours had shifted him to hospital,” Francis said. The police said before they arrived, the prime accused — Khan and his associates Shahnawaz Sagar alias Nawab and Mohammad Shahrekh, all residents of Elliot Lane — fled leaving their two-wheeler behind. Cops seized an empty cartridge, a live cartridge and a slipper were seized. Sheikh Irfan, an Elliot Lane resident who was at the spot, said: “Sohail (Khan) had played for the team that lost. After the match, he started assaulting the goalkeeper of the winning team. But he left when others intervened. After some time, he and his friends came back and started drinking outside the club. When my brother-in-law (Tazim Hossain) protested, he opened fire.” Khan fired at least three bullets, one of which hit Lawrence. “The first bullet was targeted at my brother-in-law (Hossain) but it hit a wall. Sohail and his friends then tried to flee while people around them panicked. He fired again pointing towards the ground. This time the bullet hit Lawrence on his leg. The third bullet was fired in the air,” Irfan said. Later in the day, officers of Park Street police station arrested the three accused. The three used to drive private vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
18-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcuttan loses contact with wife stuck in Afghanistan||A Calcuttan who had married an Afghan woman six years ago said he had lost contact with his wife who went to meet her family in Afghanistan in June and had planned to spend a few months there before returning to the city. The last time the couple connected over a chat messenger was around 5.30pm (IST) on Monday. The husband instructed her to hide her marriage documents to keep her safe from the possible adversities she might encounter if word spread that she had married someone outside her religion and caste, Subrata Dutta told The Telegraph on Tuesday evening. However, before they could decide on how and where she could seek help, she had gone offline. Her name, location and native language are being withheld for security reasons. Dutta, a resident of Nagerbazar in north Calcutta, said he had left more than 100 messages in her inbox sharing contacts of his friends in Afghanistan and numbers that could help her reach the Indian embassy there. “I am yet to get any response. The last time we spoke, she was insisting that she was fine. I could understand she was just trying to pacify me,” said Dutta. Dutta said he had met his wife during one of his professional assignments to Afghanistan. “As I used to be surrounded by armed troops as part of my job profile, I could not talk to her in person. We usually kept in touch through chats and emails. In 2015, we decided to get married. That was when she came down to Calcutta and we got married here,” Dutta said. On June 1, Dutta’s wife left for Afghanistan to meet her family after more than five years. “Her parents are no more. But her siblings are there. She was at her sister’s place when I spoke,” Dutta said. He has been restless since reports of Taliban capturing one Afghan district after another started pouring in. He had advised her to come back but she felt her city would be safe. “She came online on Monday evening and we spoke. All through she was trying to tell me that she was fine. I could make out that she was confused and scared. She was just trying to calm me down. My first idea was to reach out to the Indian embassy there. But I could sense, as her family was there, she did not sound comfortable with the idea,” Dutta said. He said he offered to bring her entire family to Calcutta if she wanted. “We were discussing the pros and cons, the ways we could reach out to people who can help her come out of the place. I was telling her to immediately hide all evidence of our marriage…. The last message she posted was ‘Look look we are safe’ before she suddenly went offline,” Dutta said. The woman, who was an artist in Afghanistan, has been a homemaker in Calcutta as she did not have the work permit here. Dutta has contacted multiple government agencies. “I am very hopeful she will be online soon…. My wife loves the sea. She saw the sea for the first time in her life here at Mandarmani. I would love to take her to the sea again once she is back. I am sure that will happen soon,” he said. Huddled in building A 42-year-old father of two from Kurseong, who left for Afghanistan less than a month ago to work in a security agency, is among the thousands of Indians stranded in the country. He had last contacted his family through a WhatsApp call at 9pm on Monday using the Wi-Fi connection of a fellow Indian, his wife Sanju said on Tuesday evening. “Yesterday, he made a brief call to inform me that he was in a building with many others close to the airport. The airport was closed,” Sanju said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
18-08-2021||Calcutta||Flights between Calcutta and Dhaka set to resume on August 22||Flights between Calcutta and Dhaka are set to resume on August 22, after a gap of four months, officials said. Flights between the two countries were suspended in late April following a renewed surge in Covid cases. “India and Bangladesh have agreed on resuming flight services under the air bubble transport agreement,” said an official of the ministry of civil aviation. Biman Bangladesh has announced that it will fly between Calcutta and Dhaka on Sundays, Tuesdays and Thursdays from August 22. “We’ll operate a 70-seater flight and have started getting bookings,” said Kaushik Niogy, sales manager, eastern India. Biman Bangladesh. Some Indian airlines, including Air India and SpiceJet, said they were yet to decide on resumption of flights on the route. An official of the deputy high commission of Bangladesh in Calcutta said 15 lakh Bangaldeshis were issued Indian visas in 2019. Many of them came for medical treatment. No tourist visa will be issued now. A circular issued by Dhaka said people going there from India would have to stay in home quarantine for at least 14 days after arrival. Calcutta airport officials said they were yet to receive any guidelines about passengers from Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
18-08-2021||Calcutta||Motorcyclist held for posing as cop and possessing forged identity card||A motorcyclist stopped by police for travelling without a helmet near Tollygunge tried to pass himself off as a cop to escape penalty but got caught once he produced a fake identity card, officers said. Rajib Chakraborty, the accused, was arrested on Tuesday afternoon on charges of impersonating a cop and possessing a forged identity card. “The motorcyclist was travelling with a pillion rider and neither was wearing a helmet. A sergeant of Regent Park traffic guard signalled him to stop and was about to prosecute him for driving a two-wheeler without helmet when he said he was an assistant sub-inspector of the Calcutta police,” said an officer of Regent Park police station. The sergeant got suspicious and asked for his identity card. Chakraborty, a resident of Baranagar, showed an identity card which allegedly turned out to be fake. “The identity card bore the purported signature of ‘DG South’ of the Calcutta police. There is no post called ‘DG South’ in Calcutta police,” the officer said. Chakraborty was taken to Regent Park police station and later arrested on charges of cheating, impersonation, forgery and fraud. Another officer said Chakraborty would have been prosecuted for a “simple traffic violation” and released had he not produced the forged ID card.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
18-08-2021||Calcutta||JU to conduct entrance test for admission to BTech programme in three cities||Jadavpur University will conduct an entrance test for admission to its five-year evening BTech programme in three cities — Calcutta, Siliguri and Durgapur — on September 5. The test will be held to fill 53 seats each in the civil, electrical and mechanical engineering courses. “The exam is being held in three cities so that the physical distancing norm, a key component of the Covid protocol, could be followed,” a JU official said. Last year, the test could not be held because of the pandemic and students were admitted based on their performance in diploma courses in engineering. “This year the university will hold the exam in three cities following the Covid protocol,” said JU pro-vice-chancellor Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya. An official of the university said the cities were chosen so that the candidates did not have to travel much. “If we asked all the candidates to converge at a lone centre, this could lead to a large assembly — a scenario that is not advisable amid the pandemic. Since there is a curb on transport also, spreading the centres will help the candidates in travelling to the venues,” he said. Earlier, the state joint entrance examination board used to conduct the test on behalf of JU. This year the university is conducting the test itself. Exam details are available on the JU website. In early July after the higher education had barred the board from holding any entrance test on behalf of Presidency University citing pandemic, the board came up with a notification on July 8 stating that it would not conduct any institution specific entrance test “until there is any revised decision by the competent authority”. Last year after JU had conducted counselling, of the 50 seats each in electrical and mechanical engineering courses, 33 and 34 seats remained vacant, prompting the university to hold a fresh round of counselling. “We hope the situation will improve while screening candidates through an entrance test,” said a JU official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
18-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: CMC to administer second doses of vaccines on Wednesdays and Saturdays||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has decided to administer second doses of Covid vaccines only on Wednesdays and Saturdays, modifying an earlier arrangement that kept three days in a week reserved for the second shot. “We will administer only second doses on Wednesdays and Saturdays. First doses will be administered on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays,” said a deputy chief municipal health officer of the CMC. CMC officials said Monday’s experience had prompted them to further tweak the vaccination schedule. “We administered only the second dose yesterday. But at almost all CMC vaccination centres, the number of recipients were too few compared with the number of doses,” said an official. The picture changed on Tuesday. At a health centre in Ward 82 (Chetla), only 41 people took second doses on Monday. On Tuesday, 419 people were given the first dose. A vaccination centre at Chetla’a Ahindra Mancha administered 750 first doses till 5.30pm on Tuesday. The day before, only 110 people took the second dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
18-08-2021||Calcutta||Fake call centre busted, seven arrested on Taratala Road ||A fake call centre was busted and seven persons were arrested for allegedly cheating UK nationals on Monday night. The group would allegedly make internet calls to UK residents posing as representatives of an internet service provider from an office named “Bault Infotech” at Webel IT Park on Taratala Road. “The men would allegedly seek permission for remote access to the victims’ mobile phones or laptops to check for glitches,” said an officer. Once they gained access to a device, they would allegedly carry out online transactions from the victim’s account to multiple e-wallets and bank accounts, the police said. A team of officers from the anti-rowdy squad of the detective department carried out the raid. The seven have been sent to police custody till August 25. Calcutta police have earlier arrested another gang from the same building in Taratala that was allegedly duping people abroad by posing as customer care officials of Amazon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
18-08-2021||Calcutta||Historian slams attempt to recount horrors of Partition to add fuel to fire of divisive politics||Historian Sugata Bose on Tuesday called out the attempts to recount the horrors of Partition to add fuel to the fire of the divisive politics that he said was ruining the country. “The (Bengal) Famine and the Partition define what we were as a people…. We don’t just have to remember. We have to know how to remember. There are attempts and there will be attempts to remember and to evoke the horror of the Partition in quite the wrong way, in the age of the worst kind of divisive politics which is ruining contemporary India,” Bose, Harvard professor and the grandnephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, told a Calcutta audience. He was one of the speakers at the inauguration of an exhibition on Partition at a gallery in the city. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on August 14 that the day would now be observed as “Partition Horrors Remembrance Day”, stressing that the misery suffered during the 1947 Partition of the country can never be forgotten. The tweet drew criticism from many quarters. The statement was seen as an attempt at reopening old wounds and polarising people, especially in the run-up to the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. A social media campaign, which tries to reinvigorate attempts to pin the blame of the atrocities committed during Partition on one community, is under way. Several posts from Right-wing sympathisers have likened the horrors of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan to that of the Indian Partition. In reality, both Hindus and Muslims, hundreds of thousands of them, were subjected to excruciating torture and forced to leave their homes because of Partition. Speaking to this newspaper on the sidelines of Tuesday’s programme, Bose talked about the Prime Minister’s tweet. “On August 14, a tweet from the Prime Minister talking about the horrors of Partition was designed to foment continuing hatred and provide more fuel to the divisive politics that has been ruining contemporary India. There are other ways to remember it,” he said. During his address, he had talked about another way to remember Partition. “If artistes can sensitively portray the loss of Partition, the tragedy of Partition as they have in this exhibition, then it can have some cathartic value, a catharsis that will enable us to transcend the bitterness of Partition, to leave the hatred that had led to Partition behind and help us build a much more fruitful subcontinent,” he said. The exhibition, underway from August 17 to 29, is titled The Legacy of Loss: Perspectives on the Partition of Bengal. Organised by the Kolkata Centre for Creativity and Kolkata Partition Museum, it is a collection of paintings, photographs and installations of five contemporary artists. “While some of these artists have inherited a sense of loss from their parents or grandparents, others have grown to identify with it, and inhabit it from a place of empathy and intellectual curiosity,” said the curatorial note. Gianluca Rubagotti, the Italian consul general in Calcutta, filmmaker Goutam Ghose and artist Shuvaprasanna were among the other speakers to mark the inauguration. An excerpt from Home in the World, Amartya Sen’s memoir that came out in July this year, greeted visitors to the exhibition and also summed up its mood. “All this changed with the Partition of the country in 1947. The communal riots and terrible bloodshed generated continuous sadness. It also meant we had to move. Dhaka became the capital of a newly born East Pakistan, and my family’s home base had to shift to Santiniketan. I loved Santiniketan, but I greatly missed Dhaka…. I had lost a world. The loss of Dhaka could not be obliterated by the fulfilment — great as it was — of being in Santiniketan. Enjoying a new life, I was rapidly discovering, does not exclude intensely missing the old,” it read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
