19-08-2021||Calcutta||Lessons beyond classroom||The LKG students of Shri Shikshayatan School, junior section, recently conducted an online activity named “Veg-a-day is a healthy way”. Children, dressed up as vegetable vendors, sat with a few vegetables. The teachers played the role of customers. The kids took turns selling vegetables to their teachers and sometimes to their parents. This activity was conducted by the teachers to make the little ones understand that eating vegetables is an important part of a balanced and healthy diet. Moreover, they learnt about different vegetables, their colours, shapes and they also learnt counting when they were asked to buy or sell. “We always believe in fun learning methods. The pandemic could not dampen our spirits and Veg-a-day was one such event. Children dressed up as vegetable vendors and teachers were buyers. Colours of vegetables, the benefits of eating veggies, counting and speaking confidently — all were practised in just one fun learning. In fact, this is what the National Education Policy 2020 also speaks about,” said headmistress Poushali Mukherjee. Ruby Park Public School recently conducted Genius Junior, a virtual inter-school fest for kids. The online fest provided a platform to the primary students from 25 schools across the city to sharpen their skills through a myriad of activities. Students of UKG to Class IV took part in a total of 10 events such as Rhythm Divine, Tell-a-Tale, Pantomime and Eggcellent to name a few. “Genius Junior has created a virtual platform for multiple talents of the young school children across the city. The whole experience of assessing the contestants was extremely enriching,” said principal Joyita Majumder. The monotony of online classes took a break with Fun fiesta, a virtual summer camp organised by Hindmotor schools — Hindmotor High School, HM Education Centre and Angel’s Eden Pre-school and Day Care, Uttarpara and Rajarhat branches. The camp brought in various fun activities for kids to explore. The parents also took part in the camp with their children and separately in activities such as mandala making and zumba. The week-long virtual camp included yoga, art and craft, science experiment, aerobics, western dance, non-fire cooking, puppet show, graphic designing and many more activities for students aged three to 11 years. “Kids can explore their creativity and passion through these activities that make them more lively and contribute to their holistic development. This is the first time we organised this unique summer camp online which was a great success. We thank the parents for encouraging their children and also sportingly taking part in the activities,” said HM schools managing committee rector Sudipta Bose. The four branches of Apeejay schools took part in an interactive programme to mark the National Reading Day on June 19. The magical world of fiction was explored by the students as they read out their favourite stories or recited poems. The Class IX students of the Salt Lake branch enacted the last scene of The Bishop’s Candlesticks, giving the audience a memorable experience. The event was also meant to sharpen the oratorical and technical skills of the children. “Reading is the single most important skill for intellectual, academic and personality development of children. At Apeejay schools, reading is an integral part of our curriculum. The National Reading Day was yet another effort of ours to ensure that our children read, understand, comprehend and are able to express thoughts and views to make a difference,” said Apeejay schools’ CEO Kiranjit Singh Pannu. Students of classes VI to IX at Sri Sri Academy celebrated the World Yoga Day (June 21) by staging a play online. It was the result of an advanced yoga challenge that the students were part of and it depicts the benefits of yoga. There were recorded videos, graphics and animation to go with the enactment. At the end, the actual process of yogic breathing was demonstrated. “Yoga is vital for young students to tackle lack of deep rest and sleep, bring about clarity of thought and purpose. We believe it is essential to practise yoga in student life to have a pleasant and well-rounded personality,” said principal Suvina Shunglu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
19-08-2021||Calcutta||B-school gets full-term director||Uttam Kumar Sarkar, a professor of management information system group at IIM Calcutta, has been appointed as director of the institute. The search for a new head was necessitated after Anju Seth, the Joka B-school’s first woman director, had resigned in March, almost a year before her term was to end. The institute has since been helmed by Subir Bhattacharya as officiating director. Srikrishna Kulkarni, the chairperson of the institute’s board of governors, announced Sarkar’s appointment in a message uploaded on the board’s website on Wednesday. “The board observed that Prof. Sarkar has an outstanding academic record, both as a student and a teacher,” the message reads. Sarkar, 56, had passed the higher secondary exams in 1983 from Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur. He completed BTech, MTech and PhD from the department of computer science and engineering at IIT Kharagpur. He was dean, new initiatives and external relations, at IIM Calcutta from April 2015 to April 2018. His research interests include machine learning, social networks analysis, artificial intelligence and discrete optimisation. Before joining the B-school in 1997, Sarkar had been a lecturer in the department of computer science and engineering at Jadavpur University. He was an assistant professor in the department of management studies at IIT Delhi from 1996 to 1997. Sarkar joined the Joka institute as professor of management information systems group in 2005. “I look forward to working on in areas like academic excellence and superior physical and virtual infrastructure,” he told Metro. A teacher at the IIM said Sarkar should not face any difficulty in running the institute as he had been associated with it for over two decades as a teacher and a dean. “Anju Seth had to spend a considerable part of her tenure, from August 2018, fighting with board members and teachers. The institute lacked in taking constructive steps and IIM-C is increasingly conceding its space to peers like IIM-Ahmedabad and IIM-Bangalore. Amid the pandemic, when online classes are posing new challenges, we needed a director who could lead,” the teacher said. On March 10, IIM-C had invited applications for the post of director. The advertisement said the applicant “is expected to provide strong academic leadership”. The newer challenges, an official said, included introducing facilities like hybrid classes that are becoming popular amid the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
19-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Vaccination drive for students at IIM Calcutta||Calcutta launched a vaccination drive on its campus on Tuesday after it emerged in a survey that most of the students who have been recalled were partially vaccinated. The institute, which is calling students of the two-year MBA programme back to the campus so they could attend online classes from hostels, is insisting students on having both doses. Students in groups are undergoing vaccination in a facility set up on the campus. “The survey revealed that most of the students have yet to receive the second jab. Vaccination is seen as an antidote to Covid. The students’ council that carried out the survey has initiated the drive,” said Manish Thakur, dean (new initiatives and external relations) and a member of the Covid committee of the IIM. Lokesh Agarwal, the secretary of the students’ council, said of the 650 students who have been called back, 500 have not taken the second jab. “The hostel staff will be inoculated, too. Most of them have only taken the first dose,” Agarwal said. The institute did not cite vaccination as a condition before letting all the 80 one-year MBA executive programme students and 50 per cent of the students of the two-year programme enter hostels and attend online classes last month. The Telegraph had reported last Thursday that with more students willing to return to campus because of connectivity woes at home, the institute is now advising all to get vaccinated. The institute has decided to recall another 25 per cent of students to the campus this month, taking the percentage of recalled students to 75 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
19-08-2021||Calcutta||1,000 women to be screened for cervical cancer||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the Tata Medical Center in New Town have joined hands to screen 1,000 women from the Topsia-Tiljala area for cervical cancer. According to a doctor of the hospital, cervical cancer is the second most common cancer among women in India, the first being breast cancer. Women to be identified for the screening, which is likely to start later this year or early next year, will give their samples (scraped from the cervix) at home or at primary health centres of the civic body. The screening will be done in wards 56, 57 and 58 as part of a pilot project. The women will be given a brush to take the scraping, something they can do on their own. This will make the process easier for the women. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has set a target to eliminate cervical cancer by 2030. “Cervical cancer is preventable and curable, as long as it is detected early and managed effectively,” says the WHO website. “There are two parts of the project. In the first part, the women will be screened for the presence of human papillomaviruses (HPV), which is the cause of cervical cancer in 99 per cent cases. Those who test positive in the screening will have to undergo confirmatory tests,” said Sonia Mathai, a gynaecological oncologist at the Tata Medical Center and the coordinating officer of the project. “If the confirmatory test shows precancerous changes in the cervix, the woman will be provided with appropriate treatment at a primary health centre. Women detected with early cervical cancer will be referred to a hospital for the treatment.” The cost of the tests will be included in funding of the project by the department of biotechnology after final approval. The department has given in-principle approval for the project. “As part of the project, 1,000 women will be screened in three wards of the CMC. The accredited social health activists (ASHA) will sensitise people and create awareness among women to undergo the test,” said a senior doctor of the CMC. Mathai said as per Globocan 2020 data, 77,348 women died in India from cervical cancer. The WHO website says to eliminate cervical cancer by 2030, 90 per cent of the girls had to be fully vaccinated with the HPV vaccine by the age of 15; 70 per cent of women screened by the age of 35, and again by the age of 45, among several other measures to be adopted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
19-08-2021||Calcutta||Malaria cases on the rise in Calcutta||A number of malaria cases have been reported from several parts of Calcutta since July, doctors of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said. The doctors are worried because many of the cases reported so far this year are Plasmodium falciparum malaria, which can cause severe illness. An official of the civic body said over 2,600 malaria cases had been reported in Calcutta since January. Nearly three-fourths of these cases have been reported since July. About 300 of the 2,600 malaria cases reported since January were P. falciparum malaria cases, said the official. The four boroughs — IV, V, VI and VII — covering areas like College Street, Esplanade, Topisa-Tiljala and Park Street have reported the maximum number of cases since July. The World Health Organisation (WHO) website mentions that “malaria is a life-threatening disease caused by parasites that are transmitted to people through the bites of infected female anopheles mosquitoes”. The spurt in the number of malaria cases was discussed at a conference of senior doctors of the CMC on Wednesday. “The jump in malaria is a matter of concern. The numbers reported so far this year are not only more than last year but also more than the corresponding period in 2019,” said a CMC doctor. The malaria parasites spread through the bite of infected mosquitoes. An uninfected mosquito picks up the parasite by biting an infected human. When this mosquito goes on to bite an uninfected human, it can pass on the parasite to that person. The lockdown in 2020 had helped keep malaria under control, said CMC doctors. “There are still some restrictions on movement, though not as strict as it was in 2020. But the current relaxations are also not anywhere close to 2019,” said a doctor. “It is a matter of concern that about 300 cases of P. falciparum malaria have been reported this year. P. falciparum malaria causes malignant malaria and can impact the brain,” said a CMC doctor. A drop in the intensity of vector-control measures in earlier months of the year could be a reason why the number has been so high this year, said some civic doctors. The scale and intensity of vector-control work suffered as many of the honorary health workers or accredited social health activists (ASHA) were busy with the Covid vaccination programme. “The field workers who used to visit every home to check for the mosquito breeding spots were busy with vaccination. Now that we are in the middle of the monsoon, breeding spots have increased and the cases have also risen,” said a CMC doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
19-08-2021||Calcutta||10-year-old run over by lorry in Taratala||A 10-year-old girl was killed after being knocked down by a goods vehicle loaded with bags of cement on Goragacha Road in Taratala on Wednesday afternoon. Eye witnesses told police Sanjana Das was cycling near her house on Goragacha Road when the lorry knocked her down around 3.05pm. The cycle was flung away and Sanjana came under one of the front wheels of the lorry. She was declared dead at SSKM Hospital. Soon after the accident, a section of residents stopped the lorry, pulled out driver Ramesh Yadav and beat him up. The crowd continued to swell for some time bringing traffic on Goragacha Road to a halt. Officers from Taratala police station and Southwest traffic guard went to the spot and rescued Yadav from a clutch of angry youths. Goragacha Road connects Diamond Harbour Road with Transport Depot Road in Calcutta’s port area, cutting through several industrial units and small localities on either side of the road. With traffic temporarily stopped after the accident, some vehicles were diverted through Transport Depot Road to avoid the queuing up of Diamond Harbour Road-bound vehicles. “The truck was headed towards Diamond Harbour Road from Goragacha Road in the afternoon when the accident occurred. Since the driver received injuries, he has been admitted to SSKM Hospital,” said a senior officer of the Taratala police station. The police said a case of causing death by negligence under section 304A of the IPC has been drawn up against Yadav. He will be questioned after he recovers. The vehicle has been seized and a test will be done to find out if there was a mechanical failure resulting in the fatal accident. Earlier on Tuesday night, a sergeant of the East traffic guard was injured when a motorcyclist hit him on Kidderpore Road around 9.10pm. Ranjit Saha injured his left leg and was admitted to Belle Vue Clinic. He was discharged later. The Kidderpore Road accident took place within a few hours of a private car hitting a 62-year-old woman on RG Kar Road on Tuesday. Samriti Sarkar was taken to RG Kar Medical College and Hospital and later shifted to a private hospital in Ballygunge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
19-08-2021||Calcutta||Belur Math reopens to visitors after a little over three months||Belur Math reopened to visitors on Wednesday after remaining shut for a little over three months. At the gates of the main entrance to the Math, the global headquarters of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, all visitors were screened for their Covid vaccination certificates and identity documents. Beginning Wednesday, Belur Math will remain open from 8am to 11am and from 4pm to 5.45pm. Senior monks said the footfall on Day-1 was higher in the morning than in the evening. Visitors are allowed to enter the Ramakrishna, Sri Sarada Devi, Swami Vivekananda and Swami Brahmananda temples. The Pally Mangal stall and the bookstore are also open. The Math had shut its gates for visitors on April 22 following a renewed surge in Covid cases. It reopened for a day on July 24, on the occasion of Guru Purnima. The authorities have decided that visitors turning up at the Math will have to produce a certificate showing they have received two doses of a Covid vaccine and an identity proof. Alternatively, a negative result of an RT PCR test for Covid has to be produced along with an identity proof. The test has to be conducted within 72 hours before the visit. The proof of identity could be the Aadhaar card, PAN card or the voter card, Math officials said. “All visitors were asked to produce their documents before they were scanned with thermal guns for their body temperature and offered hand sanitisers,” said a senior monk. “We have sought the help of the Howrah police commissionerate to ensure that social distancing is maintained. The footfall is likely to go up on Sunday on the occasion of Rakhi Purnima.” On Wednesday, volunteers stood at the entrance to all temples. Only a small number of visitors were allowed inside at a time. The road to the main temple has been split into two, using guardrails and nylon ropes, for entry and exit. The Math authorities have done away with the ritual of distributing prasad. Devotees are not allowed to gather inside the Ramakrishna temple during the evening prayer. They are also barred from meeting Swami Smaranananda, the president of the order, and other senior monks. The Math is home to nearly 300 monks and around 250 employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
19-08-2021||Calcutta||Durga Puja clock ticks on Kumartuli||Prasanta Pal is not sure whether half of his 16-odd Durga idols would move out of the studio this year. Less than two months to Durga Puja, there aren’t enough takers for Pal’s idols. A few old clients who dropped by said they could not afford him. Around this time of the year, after the neighbourhood Durga Puja meetings are over on Independence Day, Kumartuli would usually be abuzz with puja organisers dropping in to select and book idols. The organisers would move from one studio to another, talking to artisans and haggling over price. For several puja organisers, a trip to Kumartuli after the meeting on Independence Day is akin to a ritual, like performing kathamo (structure) pujo on Rath Yatra to mark the beginning of the making of the Durga idol. Covid brought about a sea change last year and the situation has remained the same - or worsened in some aspects - this year. The lanes and bylanes of Kumartuli are mostly empty. Missing is the frenzy among artisans, helpers and labourers, and most idol frames are yet to be tagged “Sold”. The fear of a fresh wave of Covid infections, coupled with the apathy of sponsors to release funds, is taking a toll on the organisers. The organisers of a number of mid-range pujas said they were struggling to finalise their budgets. A few others said they couldn’t afford the cost of transporting idols from Kumartuli. Instead, they have settled for idol hubs closer home. “Last year, when sponsors weren't too many, a few of the organisers had arranged for cash donations so the booking amounts for the idols, pandals and lights could be paid. That is missing this year,” said Jaydeep Saha, a member of a puja committee in Belgachhia. “During the second wave of Covid, we had to spend from our puja savings to arrange for food, medicines and oxygen cylinders for residents of our neighbourhood. Now, we have no clue how to arrange for funds for the puja.” Like the puja committee from Belgachhia, many others have called up their usual idol makers and told them they would buy an idol “since Durga Puja has to be organised”, but none could quote a price range. Kumartuli, where around 360 artisans work in 120-odd studios, would receive orders worth close to Rs 50 crore during Durga Puja till 2019. This year the volume would be just about 30 per cent of that, many artisans fear. The required idol size has come down from 12-14 feet to just about 6-8 feet, and so has the price tag. Idols tailor-made for themes are out of the question and most artisans have cut down on the number of idols they will build. “From 45 to 50 idols, I have cut it down to about 30 this year,” said Babu Pal, the secretary of the Kumartuli Mritshilpi Sankritik Samity. “Artisans are not ready to invest in more idols. Many families have done away with Durga Puja this year because of Covid deaths in their families.” The bulk of the artisans who have to hire godowns in Kumartuli spending close to a lakh for each said they were worried about repaying loans to mahajans (money lenders). “An artisan does mental calculations about the number of idols he would build in a season and the returns he expects. Accordingly, he takes out a loan. This year, everything has gone awry,” said Prasanta. Durga Puja organisers said they were being forced to cut down on all expenses since the flow of funds from big sponsors and advertisers was uncertain this time. No one is sure whether stalls — around the pandal — will be allowed. That would mean another source of revenue lost. “In 2019, we spent around Rs 2 lakh on our Durga idol. This time our budget for the idol is Rs 50,000,” said Debasish Bhattacharya, an organiser of a Durga Puja in north Calcutta. “Had the situation been normal, bamboo poles for the pandal would have been erected by now.” A clearer picture will emerge by next Sunday, said Amalendu Sarkar of the Maddox Square puja committee. Some organisers are hopeful though that the fear of a fresh round of infection would finally make way for overwhelming optimism and sponsors would gradually start loosening their purses. “We still believe that things won’t be as grim as they are now. With increased vaccine coverage, this year should look better than the previous one,” said Saswata Basu, the secretary of the Forum for Durgostav, an umbrella organisation of about 350 pujas in Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
19-08-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur scholarship for top-rank aspirants||Some institutions that “are below IIT Kharagpur are also superseding” the oldest IIT in the country and “this is a cause of concern”, IIT Kharagpur director V.K. Tewari said at the institute’s 71st foundation day programme. If the institute does not improve its performance, “then the junior, second-generation, third-generation IITs will supersede us”, Tewari said in his speech. To attract brighter students, India’s oldest IIT on Wednesday introduced the Pandit Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar Scholarship, which will cover the tuition and hostel expenses of an IIT Kharagpur student if he or she is among the top 100 on the JEE-Advanced merit list. Students have to crack the JEE-Advanced to gain entry into any of the IITs. “This is the first IIT of the IIT system in the country. Now where have we reached? I was just going through our performance. In fact, about five years back, we were at 281 in the QS ranking. And we are 280 now. Our position in the last year or so, I think now we are sixth in the line and we find that some of our people (institutions) who are below us, are also superseding us. This is a cause for concern,” Tewari said. The London-based Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) released the QS World University Ranking 2022 in June. Three Indian institutions — IIT Bombay, IIT Delhi and IISc Bangalore — feature among the top 200. IIT Madras and IIT Kanpur, ranked 255 and 277, respectively, are ahead of IIT Kharagpur. The Kharagpur institute had ranked fifth under the engineering category in the NIRF, a ranking exercise carried out by the education ministry, in 2020. Tewari said the institute had to focus more on areas like citation and patent, and attract bright teachers and students to improve its standing. “Otherwise, other people, other junior IITs, the second-generation, third-generation IITs will supersede us. Therefore, we have to have strategies and methodologies,” Tewari said. The Pandit Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar Scholarship will be rolled out in the 2021-22 academic year and will cover the entire expenses of a student. Apart from the tuition and hostel fees, it will cover miscellaneous costs like relocation and personal expenses. The scholarship will have an out-of-pocket allowance, leaving the student free to focus on studies, an official of the institute said. The annual tuition fee is Rs 1 lakh for students whose family’s annual income is above Rs 5 lakh. In addition, a student has to pay a hostel establishment charge of Rs 15,125, a hostel overhead charge of Rs 12,000 and other charges each semester. “We are going to help you with each and every penny of your expenditure. We want achievers here,” Tewari said. In recent years, only a few students among the top 100 on the JEE-Advanced merit list have been opting to study at IIT Kharagpur. Metro has reported that only three of the top 200 students who had cracked the JEE-Advanced in 2017 had opted for IIT Kharagpur. The situation has not changed much. The website of the seat allocation authority, which conducts counseling for admission to the IITs, says the ranks for admission to the computer science and engineering programme at IIT Kharagpur last year were in the 180-293 range in the general category. The ranks for the same programme at IIT Bombay last year were between 2 and 66.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
19-08-2021||Calcutta||Snatched phone found by cop after 2km chase||A woman reported to a policeman on a road around the Calcutta Leather Complex area that her mobile phone had been stolen by a co-passenger on a private bus on Wednesday morning. Aduri Mondal approached sergeant R.N. Layak to report that a man on the bus on the Shyambazar-Malancha route snatched her phone and jumped out when she raised the alarm. She told the police that he had crossed the road, hailed a yellow cab and went away in the opposite direction along Basanti Highway. All this happened within a few minutes.. The cop immediately left on his motorcycle and caught up with the taxi not far from the Science City crossing after a 2-km chase. The man denied having anyone else's phone on him but the woman's mobile was recovered and handed back to her. The accused was arrested. The incident happened close to gate number one of the Calcutta Leather Complex around 8.40am, police said. “By the time the bus was stopped and Mondal could alight to chase the snatcher, the man had crossed the road and boarded the taxi,” said an officer in the traffic department. Mondal then reported the matter to sergeant Layak, who was not far from the spot. Acting on the instructions of officer-in-charge of Tiljala traffic guard Souvik Chakraborty, Layak started chasing the taxi on his official motorcycle and caught up with the four wheeler at Bamanghata. “The accused, later identified as Sheikh Manirul, had initially denied charges of theft. But on questioning for a few minutes, he apparently admitted his fault and took out the stolen phone from his pocket,” the officer said. The phone was handed over to Mondal. Manirul was handed over to the local police station, where he was arrested under the IPC section related to theft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
19-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: District jab backlog shows in patient data||At several private hospitals in Calcutta, Covid patients from districts outnumber those from the city. Most of the patients from districts, hospital officials said, are unvaccinated. Public health experts said the comparative figures showed that the vaccination drive in districts needed to be intensified. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences had 11 Covid patients on Wednesday, of whom nine were from districts of Bengal. Peerless Hospital had 16 Covid patients, of whom 11 were from districts. Three Covid patients were admitted to Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals on Tuesday, of whom two are from districts. "Of the 11 Covid patients being treated at our hospital, four are admitted in the critical care unit. None of the patients in the critical care unit is vaccinated. Three patients in the general Covid ward, all from districts, are unvaccinated,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. Hooghly, East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas are among the districts from where Covid patients are coming to the Mukundapur hospital. At Peerless Hospital, none of the 11 patients from districts has received a single dose of a Covid vaccine, said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive. The patients are from East Midnapore, Bankura, Nadia and South 24-Parganas. Officials of several hospitals said the flow of patients from districts was the reason why the total patient count was not declining over the past few weeks. “Since July, more Covid patients from districts have been coming to our hospital than patients from the city. Over the last couple of weeks, the share of the patients from Calcutta has gone down even more. But that has been made up by a further increase in the number of patients from districts,” Mitra said. Public health experts stressed the need to step up the vaccination drive in the districts. “The drive should be expedited in the districts to prevent a possible third wave. The population density in urban areas is higher and so chances of spread of Covid are high there. But the districts should not be ignored either,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. “The Centre has to send more vaccines to Bengal. Otherwise, it is impossible to keep the balance between the urban and rural vaccination programmes.” Health department officials said they had asked north Bengal districts to intensify vaccination and testing. “We are keeping a close watch on the numbers of new Covid cases. There has been an increase in numbers in north Bengal districts. So, we have asked them to inten-sify the vaccination programme,” said a health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
