20-08-2021||Calcutta||Sold-out stall at I-Day show||At an Independence Day plantation programme in Action Area IIB, a counter at a side of the stage manned by teenagers saw a lot of footfall early in the day but soon wore a deserted look. The reason was simple: all the products were sold out. Children from underprivileged families, who are being tutored by volunteers from the New Town Forum and News, a social welfare group comprising local residents, made rakhis which were put on sale at the event at Rs 30 a piece. “We got the children to man the counter alongside us so that the interactions with visitors would boost their confidence. With a few rakhis left unsold, they had gone to watch tree plantation taking place. When they came back and found the table empty, they were thrilled to bits,” smiled Susmita Dasgupta, co-convenor of the NTFN education tower. The children started getting tutored from the start of the year. “They are the children of our domestic helps, washermen, caretakers etc for whom schooling has stopped as most do not have smart phones. We teach them basic lessons in a fun way without conforming to a syllabus,” said Dasgupta, a resident of Alaktika. The idea of making rakhis came to Tultul Banerji, a retired teacher of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan. “I love to make craft items out of discarded stuff and used to gift them penstands, bookmarks etc as prize when they did well in lessons. They expressed interest to learn. The first thing I got the girls to make was dupattas for their own use by cutting a sari of mine. They did such nice stitchwork. Two weeks before rakhi, I thought of getting them to make some,” Banerji said. The seven children who stepped up are mostly from Muslim families. “So I told them about Tagore’s rakhibandhan initiative to stop the Partition of Bengal in 1905. So rakhi can be tied on anyone as a mark of friendship or communal harmony, and is not just an occasion for brother and sister,” Banerji added. Manjura Khatun, 14, and Mamtana Parveen, 15, are two of the seven who created the 67 rakhis sold on Sunday. “Wish we had made more. One person did not have cash and asked if we took digital payment. When we said no, he borrowed money and paid!” said Manjura excitedly. Both walk to Banerji’s Greenfield Ambition apartment from Dashadrone, in Rajarhat, half an hour away on foot. While Mamtana’s father drives a toto, Manjura’s father plies a van rickshaw and her grandmother is a cook. “We sold the rakhis instead of gifting them to guests to show the kids that they can contribute to the family if they pick up such skills,” said Banerji. The work had been divided. Some cut cloth to size, some stitched, some pasted stones, some created strings while some made paper bags to pack the rakhis in. “After (Banerji) aunty showed us, we took the work home. My sister and mother helped with my share of work,” Manjura said. Mamtana’s brothers, two and four years younger to her, too now want to learn the work. The seven have their hands full. “We had to return several customers empty-handed on Sunday. We plan to make more rakhis by Saturday for them,” Mamtana said. Ask them if they took the money home and they respond in the negative. “We will use the cash to buy materials for more such craft items,” they say. Kenya designs on bands Designs from Kenya are on offer on Rakhi this year, thanks to the initiative of two young women — one from Mahisbathan and another from Duttabad. They run an used-clothes upcycling programme of Prayasam, a CG-Block based NGO. “I used to make bands ever since I came back from an exchange programme in Kenya in 2019. These were used to tie on hands of colleagues in office and in our community on Rakhi. This year, we decided to sell them for Rs 25 apiece,” said Rupa Biswas, who is now employed at Prayasam as a junior research associate. Beads and wool are used to make colourful bands in Kenya. “These are unisex. So they can be tied on anyone’s hands,” says the Mahisbathan girl, who has taught rakhi-making to Sangita Das of Duttabad. The two run the Duoranir Sansar shop in Nehru Colony, Dakshindari where Prayasam has rented a house. “We are there from 10am to 5pm. About 150 rakhis have been sold. Many orders are coming over Facebook,” says Rupa. Another 100 are being sent pasted on cards to regular patrons in Salt Lake who gift used clothes round the year to upcycle and sell at the shop for Rs 10 apiece. “We had created and uploaded a video of them crafting rakhis which found good response. This is a part of our earn-while-you-learn initiative,” said Amlan Ganguly, founder, Prayasam. Pictures by Aman Mukhiya||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Duare Sarkar service camps being held across Salt Lake and New Town||Duare Sarkar service camps are taking place across Salt Lake and New Town as elsewhere in the state. Each venue in New Town will receive applications for Duare Sarkar till September 15 except on Sunday, Saturday and public holidays. In Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation areas, it is happening in all 41 wards seven days a week except on Janmastami and Muharram in local community halls or municipal schools. The most number of applications are reportedly being received for Lakshmir Bhandar (Rs 500 a month for all women except government employees, their family members and pensioners) and Students Credit Card under the new schemes announced by the government and for Swasthya Sathi among the continuing schemes. Complaints under Paray Samadhan, like blocked water pipes and malfunctioning streetlights, are also being received.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Hidco inaugurates smart art gallery for free displays||An art gallery to showcase one’s work. That too free of cost. The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has gifted artists and photographers a space to exhibit their work without pinching their pockets. The Smart Art Gallery was inaugurated on August 6 by housing and transport minister Firhad Hakim. The 450sq.ft. floor area may be small but is prominently located — on the Major Arterial Road, right opposite City Centre 2. “The plot was getting encroached upon and overtaken by weeds and parthenium bushes. We erected a boundary wall around the plot and constructed a house which we thought would have a high commercial prospect because of its prominent location. An e-auction for rent did elicit a lot of response but we kept one room in the building for an art gallery,” said Hidco managing director Debashis Sen. The space will be on offer free of cost for art and photography exhibitions for a week. The inaugural event was an exhibition by artist Ashoke Mullick, a New Town resident. Local residents will be given priority, Sen pointed out. Commenting on the name, Sen said the gallery was smart as alongside fixed panels, it also had mobile panels which can also be rearranged as per the requirement of the exhibitor. The removable panels can display the exhibit frames from both sides. The gallery will harness the power of technology to display digital and online art as well. “We may be starting with a physical exhibition but we will move to augmented reality by using a projector. That way we can display even 400-500 exhibits even in limited physical space,” he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Foreign mail counter after philately park||“As a lot of relatives of residents of Salt Lake stay abroad, we are getting a high volume of parcel bookings. We are starting a separate counter for international mail and parcels so that the customers do not have to stand long in the queue,” said Pandurang Chormale, senior superintendent, East Calcutta division of the department of posts. Counter for stamp lovers A philately counter was also inaugurated on the day where commemorative stamps and philatelic articles like masks, bags, T-shirts and caps bearing the India Post logo would be sold. Even rakhi envelopes are being sold for Rs 10 anticipating bookings for rakhi delivery ahead of the festival. The counter would also offer the My Stamp facility, a popular initiative to sell individualised stamps in which a person’s photo would be clicked and printed next to an actual stamp. Mail as outdoor theme Tulsi Sinha Roy, civic co-ordinator for Ward 40, was also taken on a tour of the Philately Park that has come up inside the post office complex. “It was the idea of our post master general, Calcutta, Niraj Kumar,” Chormale said. Kaushik Kumar Mallik, system administrator, East Calcutta division was in charge of the planning and execution, along with his colleague Tapabrata Mandal. The park, spread over about 1,200sq ft, took about four months to beautify according to the theme and was completed on April 22. “We used 80-85 stamps, mostly on nature and birds. To lend a natural feel, we added a wooden mini decorative bridge over a waterbody and used bamboo slices for a small gate. A birdhouse has been installed for winged creatures to perch on. Three colourful mailboxes and a traditional red mail box stand sentinel around the central showpiece of a tree with concentric circular steps at its base for people to sit on,” an official explained. Sinha Roy recalled the hobby of stamp collection and letter-writing prevalent in her childhood days. A similar international mail counter was also opened on the day at the Beleghata head post office. saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Happy Works inaugurated, offers free wi-fi opens||The fluorescent yellow single-storeyed structure that caught the eye to the right of the Major Arterial Road on entering New Town from Sector V is now ready to welcome people looking for a change of setting after a year of working from home. The workspace, christened Happy Works, was inaugurated last Friday. As reported in the cover story of The Telegraph Salt Lake on December 4, 2020,. The other two are coming up opposite Eco Park, this is the first of three working pods planned in each of the three action areas in New Town and is located next to the old NKDA office near the Owl crossing, and near Sankalpa 4 housing complex. The 20 work stations are desks separated by wooden partitions at the sides and glass partitions in front. “The transparency will work as vigilance by fellow users against objectionable websites being accessed,” said a Hidco official. One has to bring one’s own laptop or device. The ground floor is air-conditioned and wi-fi connectivity is being offered free in the initial weeks. The first hour and half will cost Rs 30 and Rs 20 for each hour thereafter. One can even rent a seat for a monthly fee for Rs 3,999, plus GST. Twelve women from the women’s self-help group Jagarani have been given six days’ training to run the working pod and sell hot beverage.  There is also a photocopying facility. A corner has books ranging from Shirshendu Mukherjee in Bengali to Agatha Christie in English. Next to it, two sofas have been placed for people wanting to read books in comfort. “The books have been brought over from New Town Library at Nazrul Tirtha across the road and will be changed from time to time,” an official said. Housing and transport minister Firhad Hakim who inaugurated the workpod also left word to keep some of the chief minister’s works there. “The township is home to youth working in the IT sector, three or four of whom often share a room on rent. They can come over here to work comfortably in their own space,” said Hakim. As chairman of the board of administrators of Calcutta Municipal Corporation, he would try to replicate the idea in Calcutta as well, he said. The Happy Works working pod is designed on 836sq. ft. of space by Abin Design Studio. Above the single storey are a flight of steel steps which test one’s knees being double the usual height of steps. They are not meant to take one up to the roof but sit those who want to work outdoors in the winter months. “The increased height of the steps makes it comfortable for tall people to sit on them,” an employee of the design studio explained. “They are reminiscent of the steps we sat on at Presidency College,” said Hidco managing director Debashis Sen, whose brainchild the work pods are. He pointed out that the facility was meant for the use of the immediate neighbourhood from where people can walk up. “The target customers are those who need space to work, not so much for watching films,” Sen added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
20-08-2021||Calcutta||The Telegraph Salt Lake Super Souvenir Awards||The award ceremony of The Telegraph Salt Lake Super Souvenir 2020 took place last week and like most events during the pandemic, it was online. The contest awards the Durga Puja souvenirs that are published by committees in Salt Lake, New Town and neighbouring areas. Prize winners young and old logged in, interacted with one another and delivered their acceptance speeches over their computers and phones. Certificates had been sent to the winners beforehand. The date of the ceremony was carefully chosen too — August 12 marked the 16th anniversary of The Telegraph Salt Lake. Joining the show as chief guest was Debashis Sen, managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) and chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). “Whenever I read The Telegraph Salt Lake I mentally calculate how many pages are devoted to Salt Lake and New Town. You see, my work entails New Town but I am a resident of CE Block in Salt Lake. So actually it’s a win-win for me either way,” he shared with the audience. “We are all interested in local news and this supplement informs us about our neighbours. It unites the twin townships.” Also joining the meeting was Dhruba Mukherjee, CEO of ABP. “This is the first digital meet for a physical award by The Telegraph Salt Lake,” he noted. “This contest has been going strong over the years because of the robust participation it gets and the enthusiasm of residents to keep literature alive.” Amitabha Dutta, director, Calcutta Media Institute, an ABP initiative and a resident of FE Block, congratulated the winners and hoped it would be possible to organise an in-person ceremony next year. saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Swimming pools: Some open, some not||The new relaxations have also allowed swimming pools to open, although not many in our area have done so. The pool at New Town Business Club opened from Tuesday. “There is much excitement among swimmers about getting back into the water and we had started receiving queries from members even before we got permission to open,” said Debashis Sen, managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), that is in charge of the club. The pool is allowing only those members who have received both doses of a Covid-19 vaccine and the time slots are being divided in a way to ensure not more than 50 per cent occupancy at any time. The pool had opened earlier this year for a short while before it was forced to shut again for the restrictions. So there are people who had paid membership fees for the entire swimming season till around the Pujas but lost out on some months. “We shall look into the issue and adjust it as per the situation,” said Sen. BF Block Salt Lake’s oldest pool reopened on Thursday. The pool had been maintained and the water kept chlorinated all through the period of restriction since May 1 so the authorities say they did not have to prepare much for the re-opening. Existing members can start swimming right away as can the seasonal members who had enrolled in April. A decision will be taken on whether more seasonal membership forms will be given out or not, given far fewer than the usual numbers have registered. The season usually ends on September 30. Since the pool had to be shut for so long in between, a decision will also be taken on whether the season will be extended into October till the start of the Pujas. Bad news In Salt Lake, however, the two swimming pools run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation are likely to remain shut till the end of the year, an official of the civic body said. The corporation has a pool near Bidhannagar Municipal Sports Complex opposite Mayukh Bhavan and one in CJ Block opposite their ward office. The one opposite Mayukh Bhavan has been functioning as a Covid testing centre since the last lockdown. “There are still beds, an observation centre and oxygen cylinders on the pool’s premises and we have not received orders from the health department to move them out,” said the official. According to him, the entire pool complex needs to get sanitised before it can be opened to the public and no such thing has been done. “We have not received any instruction to open the pools yet. As it is, the pools shut down by October-end and it makes little sense to open them now as people too would be wary to step into the water,” another official said. Krishna Chakraborty, chairperson of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation's board of administrators, said that they would hold a meeting and decide whether to open the pools this year. Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Movie halls bank on Akshay new film to pull viewers back in crucial weekend||They got permission to reopen a fortnight back but it’s the coming weekend that movie halls are claiming will be the make or break for them. Bell Bottom, the big ticket Akshay Kumar film, released on August 19 and hall owners are hoping it will lure film-goers back to theatres. Till Wednesday, only one out of the three screens at Nazrul Tirtha was screening films. Show timings were 2pm and 5pm. “This is because only 15 to 20 people were coming for each show. Even in the Independence Day weekend numbers did not rise to more than 20 people per show,” said Pijush Pal, who manages the ticket counter at the theatre. Multiplexes are praying that the festive weekend pays dividends. “Two big releases — Bell Bottom and Mukhosh — are due and we are sure footfall will rise. We got good footfall in the Independence Day weekend and the one before that too,” said Amitava Guha Thakurta, regional director, Inox Leisure. Sameer Shrivastava, regional manager of Miraj Cinemas, says Bell Bottom is their last hope. “Ours is a new hall; we opened in March but had to close due to the lockdown in April. In the short span that we were in business the only new release was Saina, that sank without a trace. We are now screening The Conjuring: The Devil Made Me Do It but this isn’t doing well either.” Miraj Cinemas is in New Town’s Terminus Building, that also houses Pride Hotel. “With Bell Bottom, we shall get some clarity about what film-goers are thinking. Have they been staying away from halls due to Covid or was it because there wasn’t any exciting film to watch?” Shrivastava said. “The response this film gets will help us plan ahead.” Single-screen saga Single-screen owners aren’t the least bit sanguine. Some are not even ready to reopen. “At a time when even multiplexes are suffering losses, how can I think of reopening my halls?” asks owner of Arati Cinema in Baguiati, Srivash Ghosh. “With paying staff salaries and maintenance work, it became increasingly difficult to make ends meet. We had reopened after the first lockdown but when the second one was announced we simply ran out of funds. I cannot afford to reopen till the market stabilises again,” he rued. Jaya Cinema hasn’t reopened either. “A fire had broken out on our premises and repair work is still underway. So we cannot open immediately,” says Monojit Banik, owner of Jaya Cinema. “But our multiplexes in Barasat and Cooch Behar have reopened and the numbers look good. Hopefully big stars will attract big crowds.” Movie nostalgia Film-goers are eager to hit the theatres but apprehensive. “I am a movie buff and used to watch a film every Friday before the pandemic,” said FD Block’s Deepen Bhunia, walking out of Inox after watching The Conjuring: The Devil Made Me Do It. “It’s almost a year since I watched a film in a multiplex and it feels great. I hope the halls stay open now.” But those like Naresh Dutta of BD Block are taking no chances. “The pandemic isn’t over and experts have warned of an impending third wave. I don’t want to risk going to a theatre any time soon,” he said. Additional reporting by Brinda Sarkar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta issues code of conduct for teachers and officials||IIM Calcutta has circulated among teachers and officials a code of conduct that says “members of the institute are not expected to publish anonymously, pseudonymously or in the name of any other person or organisation, materials that may bring disrepute to the institute”. According to the code, the teachers of the institute will try to “avoid criticism of the institute in any media (print, audio, TV, social etc) that may bring disrepute to the institute”. The code, which was approved last month at a meeting of the board of governors, the institute’s highest decision-making body, says: “No member of the institute community shall engage or participate in any demonstration which is prejudicial to the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of state, public order or decency.” In April, the B-school had circulated among teachers a draft code of conduct that articulated the institute’s resolve to gag dissent. Teachers had then written back to the institute about their opposition to the draft code, citing examples of universities abroad that encouraged freedom of expression. “The approval of the code suggests that apart from undertaking a few modifications or tweaking a few words, the institute has stuck to its resolve,” said a teacher. The clause pertaining to “unauthorised communication of sensitive information” says no member of the institute will, “except in accordance with general or specific order of the competent authority… communicate directly or indirectly any official documents or information with any person with whom he or she is not authorised to communicate such documents or information”. As many as 60 of the 76 teachers of IIM-C had written to the Union education ministry in December, expressing the fear that the board was mulling restrictions on their freedom of expression. Teachers at the B-school said the final code did not deviate much from the draft and was in sync with recent efforts to destroy the atmosphere of plurality on campuses. The draft had said, among other things: “No member shall in any Radio/TV broadcast, social media, electronic media, print media or in any document published anonymously, pseudonymously or in his/her own name or in the name of any other person… which has the effect of an adverse criticism of any current or recent policy or action of the institute.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Over 2,000 pool car owners seek all-Bengal permit from state govt||Around 2,000 pool car owners, who together own around 3,500 vehicles, have appealed to the state government to give them road permits so they can travel to all districts of Bengal. Out of business since schools shut down in March 2020 as a precaution against Covid-19, pool car operators said an all-Bengal permit would enable them to ferry people to tourist destinations such as Digha, Mandarmani, Bankura, Purulia, Santiniketan, Bakkhali and Diamond Harbour, and other places. Most pool car owners now have permits to ferry schoolchildren to two districts apart from Calcutta — Howrah and North or South 24-Parganas. In a letter to the transport secretary on Thursday, the pool car owners wrote that several thousands of families across parts of Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas and Howrah were dependent on this business, which has taken a beating with the closure of schools. Many have no other source of income. Since the permit allows them to run only in two districts other than Calcutta, they are unable to ferry passengers to far-off places. “We request you to please give us an All Bengal Operational Permit as this will help in engaging our inoperative cars in some meaningful economic activity and provide a source of income for us during these difficult times,” wrote Sudip Dutta, secretary, Pool Car Owners Welfare Association. The Telegraph has reported how a number of pool car owners have switched professions. Some now deliver eggs, rice and pulses to homes of parents who used to send their children to schools in their cars. A few others have sold their cars at throwaway prices. Some drivers have run out of savings and a few have taken up tailoring. On Thursday, some pool car owners said they were getting contracts to ferry tourists for day trips or weekend trips. “In June and July, there were many offers for trips to places like Santiniketan or Taki (in North 24-Parganas),” said Chiranjit Roy, a pool car operator. “I had to turn them down because of the permit. If prosecuted, the fine can be as high as Rs 10,000. I can’t risk it,” Roy said. Senior officials in the transport department said they were yet to decide on how an all-Bengal permit could be issued to pool car operators. It will require clearance from the state cabinet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Fake call centres busted in Baguiati, 12 held||Twelve persons, including “directors” of three call centres in Baguiati that were allegedly duping people, were arrested after Salt Lake police conducted raids on Wednesday night. The arrested persons would allegedly promise people high returns if they let them use their land or rooftops to erect cellphone towers of reputable network providers, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. According to the officer, they had received specific information that at least three call centres were operating from separate houses in Baguiati. “The persons were posing as representatives of mobile network service providers. They would call people and say their terrace had been chosen to set up a mobile tower, for which they would get Rs 20 lakh and a monthly rent of Rs 15,000 to Rs 25,000,” said the officer. Those who agreed to let out their roofs or land would then be asked to pay a processing fee ranging from Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000, the officer said. “Once the victims paid the initial amount, they would be asked to deposit another Rs 50,000 as licence fee,” the officer said. As soon as the payment was made, the callers would snap all ties with the owners or occupants of the premises, the officer said. “We first raided a call centre in Prafulla Kanan AB Block in Baguiati. There we found two men and a woman placing calls. All three were arrested,” said the officer. Two more houses in the area were raided, from where nine men were arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||CMDA floats tender for wetlands flyover consultant||The CMDA has started the process of hiring a consultant who will prepare a report on the possible impact of a proposed flyover on the ecologically fragile East Calcutta Wetlands. A tender inviting applications from agencies interested in preparing the environment impact assessment (EIA) report was floated recently, said a CMDA official. The state government is planning to build a flyover connecting EM Bypass and New Town’s Biswa Bangla Gate, whose pillars will come up on the banks of the wetlands. “The flyover’s initial alignment, prepared in 2018, had to be cancelled following an order from the Union environment ministry,” said an engineer of the CMDA who is involved in the planning of the flyover. Originally, the flyover was to pass over the core area of the wetlands. “According to the new alignment, prepared on the basis of the recommendation of the Union ministry, the piers of the flyovers will come up on the banks of the wetlands,” the engineers. The East Calcutta Wetlands, protected under the Ramsar convention, is regarded as the city’s kidneys because of their role in the natural recycling of effluents. Once the EIA report is ready, the CMDA will send it to the ministry, through the state government, for approval. Since India is a signatory to the Ramsar convention, any proposed construction over a Ramsar site in the country has to be approved by the environment ministry. The website of the Centre for Science and Environment says an EIA “examines both beneficial and adverse consequences of the project and ensures that these effects are taken into account during project design.” The EIA, it says, “helps to identify possible environmental effects of the proposed project, proposes measures to mitigate adverse effects and predicts whether there will be significant adverse environmental effects, even after the mitigation is implemented”. The proposed flyover will be 7.1-km long and its civil construction is estimated to cost Rs 600 crore. Bonani Kakkar, an environmental activist who had gone to court against the previous alignment of the flyover, said: “The authorities must understand that a flyover will... have bright lights. The wetlands are also a habitat for thousands of birds. Bright lights cause difficulties for birds and they may shy away from the area. That is one reason why games under floodlights were stopped at the Rabindra Sarobar stadium.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Trader from Calcutta found dead in Jharkhand||A man who ran a construction business near New Market, and was possibly last seen in Calcutta by a friend on Ripon Street on Tuesday evening, was found dead with his throat slit around 250km away in Jharkhand’s Jamtara on Wednesday. The deceased man’s family said Jamtara police contacted them on Wednesday afternoon on a phone number that was printed on a key-ring the victim, Saif Khan, 37, was carrying. “Police said they did not find anything on my brother except the key-ring. The key-ring had the phone number of our shop where the police called and informed us about my brother. They sent us a photograph of a body and we identified it as Saif’s,” said elder brother Qais on Thursday. The family went to Jamtara on Wednesday to claim the body, which was handed over to them after a post-mortem. According to the family, Saif had left their Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road home around 6pm on Tuesday. When he did not return home till around 11pm, the family tried to contact him but found his phone switched off. “We were not too alarmed even when we found his phone switched off because we thought his phone had run out of charge. It was only very late at night that we started worrying. We started calling his friends to inquire,” Qais told The Telegraph. From one of Saif’s friends, the family learned that he was last seen near Mezban restaurant on Ripon Street around 7.30pm on Tuesday. “We found my brother’s scooter parked in the same area on Wednesday but no one could say who he had left the spot with,” Qais said. He said when they went to Jamtara to claim the body, the police told them that Saif’s phone was last active in the Kidderpore area around 9.30pm on Tuesday. “We went to New Market police station on Wednesday night but were told that since my brother’s body was found in Jharkhand, they (Jamtara police) will investigate the case,” a family member of Saif’s said. A senior officer of New Market police station said: “There was no missing diary from the family before his body was found in Jharkhand. They informed us only after Jharkhand police contacted them. It is apparent the incident happened in Jharkhand and they have started investigating. We will provide any type of assistance they need from here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Cable risk unchecked across roads and pavements in Calcutta and Salt Lake||Mazes of cables, spilled across roads and pavements in parts of the city and in Salt Lake, continue to be potential death traps for two-wheeler riders and pedestrians. A week has passed since a young biker died after the front wheel of his motorcycle got caught in a mesh of cables lying on the road in Salt Lake and a water tanker ran over him. On Thursday, The Telegraph saw bundles of snipped and dud cables strewn across roads and on median dividers and pavements in many places, including Camac Street, Gurusaday Road, Ballygunge, several stretches of EM Bypass, Sector V and other places in Salt Lake. A 1km-long stretch from Vardaan Market till the Camac Street intersection had rolls of cables tied around lamp posts and tree trunks. Some snipped wires were lying across the road as well. The cables were not visible from a distance and most two-wheeler riders were spotted swerving at the last minute to avoid riding over them. On the Gariahat flyover, several loops of cables were jutting out onto the road and snipped wires were poking out at regular intervals. The situation was similar in front of the Lalit Great Eastern, where clumps of wires looped around lamp posts were jutting out into the main thoroughfare. In Salt Lake, too, bundles of snipped wires were spotted lying across the streets in all three sectors of the township. Last week, a 26-year-old biker riding home suffered fatal head injuries after the front wheel of his motorcycle got caught in a mesh of cables lying on the road near Salt Lake’s Baisakhi island and a water tanker ran over him. Subham Dhar, a resident of Canal East Road in Ultadanga, was riding along the Ultadanga-bound flank of First Avenue when the accident occurred around 6pm. Dhar, a medical representative, was wearing a helmet but it had come off under the impact of the crash. In July, Priyam Majhi, 38, a resident of HC Block, fell off his two-wheeler after the bike’s front wheel got entangled with a dangling cable on an unlit stretch of Canalside Road, along the eastern drainage canal, in front of Mahavir Vikas Housing Complex. In January 2018, a teenager from Beniapukur’s Kasaipara had died after his bike’s wheels got entangled in a mesh of cables dumped on the road near the Park Circus bridge. Multiple accidents have taken place across the city over the past couple of years because of the mess of cables lying on main roads but multi-service operators continue to tie cables on street furniture. Several drives have been undertaken by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, but they have yielded little result. In June, the CMC made tunnels on either side of a 3km-stretch of Harish Mukherjee Road. Cable TV operators and internet service providers have been asked to lay cables through these tunnels and clear the overhead mess on the stretch. In Sector V, too, the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) is making such tunnels. However, NDITA and CMC officials said that there was “stiff resistance from the cable operators and MSOs” as they do not want to incur extra expenses by way of fees for using the tunnels to channel the wires. Tapash Das, the joint convenor of All Bengal Cable and Broadband Operators United Forum, said that they had started clearing unused and defunct cables. “We have already removed the dead cables from many places like the Kasba connector. The work is taking time since we have to cover very large areas,” he said. Krishna Chakraborty, chairperson, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, said they had started a drive to remove cables but it was getting held up because of rain. “Our teams are working but it is difficult to snip wires as we need to identify which ones don’t work,” said Chakraborty. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the chairman of the CMC board of administrators, Firhad Hakim, have requested and warned cable operators to remove the maze of overhead cables and the ones tied around street furniture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||The reopening: Restaurants and bars heave a sigh of relief||Restaurants and bars are breathing a sigh of relief now that they are allowed to stay open till 10.30pm. The new rule came into force from Monday and even though footfall was not bumper across the board the first couple of days, the industry expects a turn of fortunes from this weekend. Oudh 1590 was almost full on Day One. “We did great business between 8pm and 10.30pm as the new timings are convenient,” said founder-director Shiladitya Chaudhury. So optimistic are they that they have even announced their annual Awadhi biriyani festival now. “It’s Rakhi this Sunday, the Puja shopping season is starting and dinner timings are finally fitting into people’s schedules. I just wish we could have got the Independence Day weekend too. We’d have done bumper business.” Ankit Agarwal, who runs two eateries in Salt Lake, rues the same. “Such was the excitement in the Independence Day weekend that customers cited the 10.30pm order and demanded we stay open till then. We had to patiently explain to them that the order would only come into force on August 16 and that till then 8pm was closing time. People were in a mood to celebrate last weekend and it was a lost opportunity for our industry,” said the man who runs Le Coffee Creme opposite City Centre and Tango Chutney in the swimming pool area. Cafe Ekante has got positive feedback too. “Monday is our off day so we could only start the extended hours from Tuesday. Compared to last Tuesday, this Tuesday saw a 12 per cent increase in guests,” said Debashis Sen, managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco). “We also opened Eco Park on the day and had a footfall of 1,381. The figure is modest compared to pre-Covid times but significant nonetheless. Mother’s Wax Museum, Eco Urban Village have opened too and so the restaurants will naturally do well now.” Thank god it’s Friday Sector V’s Opium bar and restaurant recorded 20 per cent hike in sales on Monday. “And this was on a weekday. The nature of our IT hub has changed during the pandemic as most people are working from home. So it’s weekends that are drawing more crowds,” said partner Moloy Dutta, expecting great business from tonight onwards. At Country Roads, the micro brewery and restaurant at New Town’s DLF Galleria, eight or nine tables were occupied on Monday night. “Footfall would have been higher but it was the last Monday of the Sravan month and many people had rituals to follow,” says manager Rajdeep Shil. “We’ll know the real effect of the 10.30pm relaxation between Friday and Sunday. We expect great response.” Many restaurants cited Sravan for inadequate footfall on Monday. At Sector V’s Miam, partner Moumita Ghosh said customers were playing it safe. “We reminded customers on Monday that they can stay on till 10.30 but many were sceptical. They said since the rule was newly implemented the police might still harass them on their way home. It would take till the weekend for customers to gain confidence and party till late,” said Ghosh. Changing habits Samiran Mitra, manager of Abcos Food Plaza, says in the pre-Covid era customers would linger till 11.30pm. “But 10.30pm is good enough for now. Anything is better than 8pm, which was neither here nor there. People could barely enjoy a peg before it was time to leave. We would have to parcel their dinner,” he says. “Others would alter their plans and come for lunch instead of dinner.” Agarwal says they would mostly get customers for snacks in the early evenings. “Large orders were not happening as people had to leave before they got hungry. And that’s a pity as traditionally we would get more customers for dinner than lunch. And south and north Indian cuisine, that as we serve at Tango Chutney, isn’t as appetising at home as it is piping hot from the kitchen.” Chaudhury of Oudh 1590 agrees. “Our restaurant is a destination. Its drama and decor are part of this dining experience which one is missing by eating out of a box at home,” he says. Write to us at saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||State higher secondary council announces evaluation process for Class XI students||The state higher secondary council has announced that the students of Class XI will be evaluated on the basis of their performance in Madhyamik 2020. The Class XI annual exams were scrapped because of the Covid pandemic and all students have been promoted to Class XII. The evaluation will not lead to the annulment of the promotion of any student, council officials said. A notice uploaded on the council’s website on Wednesday says the average score of the best four subjects in Madhyamik will constitute the basis of evaluation in theory papers in Class XI. If the average score is 80 per cent in Madhyamik, the percentage will be weighted on 70 marks of the theory papers in science subjects in Class XI. The weighted score will be 56, said an official. “The percentage in Madhyamik will be weighted on 80 marks for theory papers in humanities and commerce. The weighted score will be 64”. In the 30-mark practicals in lab-based subjects and 20-mark projects in the other subjects, the schools will evaluate students on the basis of activity task or online assessment. Some members of Collegium of Assistant Headmasters and Assistant Headmistresses met the president of the HS council, Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya, on Thursday and said the evaluation system was flawed. Bhattacharya said they will go through the complaint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Managers needed for post-Covid solutions, says industry veterans and experts||Managers are more relevant than ever in the post-pandemic period, a panel of industry veterans and management experts asserted at a virtual session on Wednesday. The ABP Virtual Insights on Management Education, in association with Acharya Bangalore B-School (ABBS), dealt with “Post-Pandemic Career Opportunities in Management”. “Managers are more relevant now than they were ever before. The Covid-19 pandemic has shown that uncertainty and unpredictability can be a global problem which cannot be solved with tried and tested templates. Therefore, the need for people who can produce solutions. That is the core of management,” said Giri Balasubramaniam, educator, quizmaster, Harvard alumnus and Indian Administrative Fellow (IAF) in the department of education of the Karnataka government and one of the speakers at Wednesday’s session. The other speakers were Bhaskar Roy, vice-president and global operations leader, Genpact Analytics and Data Science; Madhumita Chatterji, director, ABBS School of Management; and Praveen Kamath, general manager HR — global strategic hiring and redeployment, Wipro Ltd. The session was moderated by Ajitesh Basani, secretary, SSS Trust and executive director, Acharya Bangalore B-School. Excerpts from the interactive session, held on Zoom platform. Importance of research Stressing the importance of research and analytics, Roy of Genpact said research was not just about doing a PhD or a post-doctoral degree. “It is an advanced mindset and discipline that transforms one’s professional DNA,” he said. Roy felt students should focus on “being curious, willingness to experiment, skills to solve problems, imbibing the learning culture and giving edge over the others”. They should focus on a range of subjects like economics, data science and digital healthcare and “develop a habit of writing white papers, reading research papers and presenting their works in various forums”, Roy said. Job security The moderator asked about job security in the present “hyper-responsive” world, when businesses are fraught with uncertainties. “Job security is a myth created by us, a notional feeling. Lord Rama lost his job and was banished. If the epitome of righteousness can lose his job, who are we?” said Giri. With many companies going for project-based recruitments, there are ample opportunities for “candidates with good skill sets” to work with multiple clients and earn more than a fixed salary, he said. Fresh graduates Kamath, who the moderator said was “at the forefront of hiring” at Wipro, was asked about the competencies that he looked out for in fresh management graduates. The “basic sense of understanding of what you have learnt and the ability to have the latest skill to complement your existing skill set which came from academia” were the two things that recruiters looked out for on B-school campuses, said Kamath. “For example, if I am a management graduate, do I know about analytics, data science? These are questions that have become normal for a student passing out of a B-school,” he said. Industry connect Alignment to the industry was imperative for any B-school, said Chatterji. “B-schools have to be aligned to the corporate, no two ways about it. While students are taught marketing, finance and HR, we have to see what is required in today’s world,” she said. “Today’s marketing will require framing new principles of marketing and sales based on the new data that is coming in,” Chatterji said. Analytics Analytics is going to play the key role in decision making in industries across different sectors, said Roy. “The industry will focus on developing sophisticated and autonomous systems that get tasks done with greater precision, speed and efficiency than their human counterparts. Machines and technology can solve, automate and digitise. But people will add value,” said Roy. Understanding analytics as a domain and data science as a domain will be key to the industry’s growth, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Mamata to visit SSKM every fortnight to monitor various work||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday went to SSKM Hospital and said she would be there every fortnight to monitor various work related to hospitals. “I will have a small office here (at SSKM) along with a conference room. The health secretary and the chief secretary will remain with me at times,” she said. “We are setting up two cancer hospitals, one here and another in Siliguri.” The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will administer first doses of Covid vaccines between 10am and 3pm and second doses between 3pm and 4pm from Monday. The routine will apply on all six days of the week, till further changes are announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Afghan nationals in Calcutta stand by ‘national flag’||A group of Afghan nationals and others who were born in India but have their roots in Afghanistan celebrated the country’s independence day in the city on Thursday. The women and men have been living in Calcutta for years but never felt the urge to come together this way. This year they decided to assemble as a mark of protest against the Taliban’s sweep across the country. Yasmin Jigar Khan, a leader of the group that had assembled at a Park Circus address, said they were angry at the way the Taliban flag was put up in public spaces in Afghanistan. “Our allegiance is to the national flag. We respect only one flag, which is the national flag of Afghanistan. The Taliban has insulted the national flag and hence we have assembled here with the flag to celebrate the independence day,” said Yasmin, who was born in India. Her parents had come over to India from Afghanistan in 1949. Yasmin’s father was a close associate of Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan, lovingly called Frontier Gandhi. She said Abdul Gaffar Khan described her father as his grandson. “The Taliban tried to remove the Afghan national flag and replace it with their flag. This is an insult to the nation and its people,” said Yasmin, who is also the president of the All India Pakhtun e Hind, an association of Pakhtuns living in India. There were some in the assembly who were born in Afghanistan but moved to India in the past few years. A 61-year-old man who had left Afghanistan in 1996, the year the Taliban wrested power for the first time, said even the early days of Taliban curbed many freedoms. A 32-year-old man who had arrived in India five years back remembered how people would earlier pour into the streets on August 19 to celebrate their independence day, without fear of repercussions. “People carried the national flag, some painted the colours of the national flag on their faces. There was no fear in coming out on the streets and celebrating. All of that has changed now. People are now concerned about their safety and security and they do not have the time or luxury to celebrate independence day,” said the young man, who is into trading. Reports on Thursday said there were clashes between the Taliban and ordinary Afghan citizens who tried to remove the Taliban’s white flag and install the national flag in their place. Kingshuk Chatterjee, a professor of history at Calcutta University, said August 19 is observed as Afghanistan’s National Day to commemorate the signing of the Anglo-Afghan treaty in August 1919. By this treaty, the British withdrew from Afghanistan. “August 19 is observed as the Afghan National Day. It is observed to commemorate the treaty that led to the complete withdrawal of the British from Afghanistan. Since 1878, Afghanistan was a British protectorate but after the treaty of 1919, the British terminated the arrangement,” said Chatterjee. August 19 had been acknowledged as the National Day by the subsequent monarchs, those who helmed the Republic of Afghanistan, or those who were leaders of the socialist Afghanistan. The West-backed governments between 2001 and 2021 also observed the day. But he was not sure whether the Taliban rule of 1996-2001 had acknowledged this day as the National Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
