21-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta health clinics to administer Covid jabs everyday||The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) will be holding COVID-19 inoculation drive at the city's health clinics all seven days a week, starting Monday, chairman of the civic body's board of administrators, Firhad Hakim, said, while also observing that the rush for the first jab is "far more" than that of the second. Hakim, who is also the state's transport minister, further said that the civic body has the infrastructure to vaccinate as many as one lakh people in a day. Earlier, the drive was held on specific days in a week. "The number of people visiting the health clinics to get the first dose is far more than what was coming for the second dose. We are unable to manage the rush for the first jab," Hakim told reporters here. The first dose would be administered in the morning and the second dose after 3pm, he added. At least 3,57,27,819 people in Bengal have been inoculated with COVID-19 vaccine thus far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
21-08-2021||Calcutta||Heritage steel plaque installed at PC Sorcar Senior’s house||A heritage steel plaque was installed at PC Sorcar Senior’s house at 227A Rashbehari Avenue on Friday in the presence of his son PC Sorcar Junior and his wife Jayashree. The illusionist had spent a number of years at this art deco house, where he would practise his skills and art. The heritage house had elephants and a lion among its residents. The animals featured at the magician’s shows. The heritage plaque, on the lines of London’s blue plaque, commemorates well-known city residents and the houses where they lived. It is an initiative of Intach, Calcutta chapter, and Rotary International District 3291.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
21-08-2021||Calcutta||FB corrects ‘error’ on No Vote to BJP||The No Vote to BJP group had been disabled “in error”, Facebook said on Friday and restored it. “The group was temporarily blocked in error but has since been restored,” a Facebook spokesperson told The Telegraph in response to a question. Sources in the company said an investigation was under way to find out what kind of error, “algorithmic or otherwise”, had led to the axe on the group. Members of the group welcomed the restoration. “Because of a collective fight, the No Vote to BJP group is back. Greetings to all those who stood behind us. The fight against the BJP will continue,” said the group’s first post after the restoration. The disabling of the group had triggered protests on social media. The group members had said the disablement happened around Wednesday-Thursday midnight, with the administrators receiving a notification that alleged the group had not followed Facebook’s “community standards”. The group was restored around 2.45pm on Friday, the administrators said. “This group’s activity was reviewed by Facebook and the group was restored,” read a notification on the group’s activity log. “The group was disabled with a vague note about not following Facebook’s community standards. But we were not informed how (the group had violated these standards),” said Sabyasachi Mukherjee, one of the group administrators. “Even when the group was restored, there was no update on the specifics of the (purported) violation. This is exasperating.” Mukherjee said: “Freedom of speech and expression is the bulwark of any democratic space; whether real or virtual. We wish Facebook keeps this in mind.” The group, which had rallied people against the BJP in the run-up to the Bengal Assembly polls and was credited with a key role in the party’s crushing defeat, counts over 33,000 members. Just before receiving the notification of disablement, group administrators had received notifications about the deletion of several of the group’s posts on the ground of violation of community standards. Most of the notifications are now gone and the posts are back, the administrators said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
21-08-2021||Calcutta||NIT smart classrooms for students from classes VIII-X||NIT Durgapur is setting up two virtual classrooms in Bankura and Purulia where teachers and students of the institute will offer free tutorials to underprivileged students from Classes VIII to X. The students have not been attending school since March 2020 because of the Covid pandemic. The National Institute of Technology (NIT) has started a centre for digital learning on the campus that will develop course material and interactive sessions for science subjects based on the school syllabi. An orphanage in Barjora, Bankura, has been identified for a virtual classroom facility that NIT will equip with a smart TV, microphones, computers and other accessories. NIT is in talks with an NGO to identify a place for a similar classroom in Purulia. Classes will start in September. Anupam Basu, director, NIT Durgapur, said school students from underprivileged families in rural areas have been the worst affected because of the digital divide. “They lack devices like smartphones and laptops required to attend classes over digital platforms. Their foundation is weakening because of the lack of access to studies. This led to the start of virtual classrooms,” Basu told Metro. The institute will contribute Rs 4 lakh to set up the two virtual classrooms. The local panchayats will identify the schools whose students will benefit from the project. An NIT official said scores of virtual classrooms across the districts must be set up to meet the demand. “We have taken to crowdfunding for the project. The state government will also be approached. NIT will provide full technical support,” he said. As part of activity-based learning, teachers and students will conduct experiments in the labs on the NIT campus and these will be telecast in the virtual classrooms, the official said. “Theory classes combined with experiments make the subjects more interesting,” a teacher said. While NIT will leave it to the residents of the areas to maintain the facilities, the cost for internet will initially be borne by the institute, said Basu. Unlike neighbouring Odisha, where schools have opened recently, Bengal is yet to decide on the resumption of in-person classes. Schools in Bengal had resumed in-person classes for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. But the classes had to be suspended on April 21 because of a renewed surge in Covid cases. Students of Classes III to VIII have been away from schools since March 2020. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had recently said the state government would try to open schools and colleges after Puja in November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
21-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid curbs hit mental health of the aged in Calcutta||Before Covid struck, Samar Banerjee, 78, would go out for a walk every morning and spend hours chatting with friends sitting on benches on the lawn of his housing complex. For more than a year, he has been mostly confined to home, only stepping out early in the morning for shopping. An 83-year-old man would go to a neighbourhood market in the morning and visit a tea stall. In the afternoon, he would call on friends and relatives. Since April last year, his family had not allowed him to step out. The family members now want him to gradually return to the old routine but he is not getting his confidence back. Covid has claimed the lives of many elderly people across the world, and changed the lives of many who have survived the pandemic. The fear of contracting Covid after seeing so many of their peers succumb to the disease, the ordeal of being confined to home for months on end and loss of self-confidence have brought about a change in the lives of many elderly people that they are unable to accept. The change in social lives has led many people to slip into depression. “Before Covid arrived, I would barely be at home in the morning. After the morning walk, I would visit the market and then go to a senior citizens’ park in our residential complex to chat with friends and neighbours,” said Samar Banerjee, who was a cricketer in his younger days. “During the first wave of Covid last year, the doctor advised me to stop going out for walks because there were too many people around. He also asked me to stay away from our club’s adda,” said Banerjee, who lives on the southern fringes of the city. He has been confined to home for more than a year. Banerjee is fully vaccinated. That, and the fact that the number of Covid cases has come down, have prompted Banerjee’s doctor to advise him to go for his regular walk and join the adda after taking proper precautions. Many of Banerjee’s friends in the senior citizens’ club have died of Covid. “Having lost seven of my friends to Covid, I no longer feel the urge to socialise. Fear and depression are preventing me from venturing out,” said Banerjee. His only outdoor activity now is visiting a market opposite his housing complex early in the morning, when only a handful of people are around. Banerjee would often visit his son in Bangalore. “He has since moved to Singapore. I haven’t seen him since the outbreak of Covid. I don’t know when again I will meet my son,” the former cricketer said. The 83-year-old man would go out several times a day and visit friends and relatives. “My father used to be socially active. In the initial months of Covid, we had to almost forcibly keep him home. But now, after months of staying home, he lacks the will to go out. This is affecting his mental and physical health,” said the man’s son. “My father tells us that he does not have the courage and confidence to step out.” Several psychiatrists said they were getting phone calls from elderly people and their family members seeking help. “The most critical part of the problem is uncertainty about when the pandemic will finally end. No one knows when this is going to end,” said psychiatrist Ranadip Ghosh Roy. The doctor said since the Covid numbers started going down, he has been getting four to five phone calls a week from elderly people and their family members. The aged have been suffering from fear and depression. “The only solution is to overcome the fear of Covid. We have to take necessary precautions like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and getting fully vaccinated. We should accept the new normal and continue with our lives,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
21-08-2021||Calcutta||Minimally invasive heart’s aortic valve procedure becoming popular in Calcutta||A minimally invasive procedure to replace the heart’s aortic valve is becoming popular and cardiologists in Calcutta said elderly people scared to undergo high-risk surgeries are living longer because of the latest technique. The procedure, called transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI), involves inserting a catheter into a blood vessel in the upper leg or chest to replace the defective aortic valve. An aortic valve can develop problems with age. It can become diseased because of normal wear and tear. Calcium deposits on the walls can also make a valve defunct, doctors said. “Earlier, the only way to replace a diseased valve was open heart surgery. But it was risky for many patients, especially the aged and those with comorbidities,” said Debdatta Bhattacharyya, an interventional cardiologist and the clinical director of the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. Bhattacharyya recently conducted the procedure on a 75-year-old woman, whose aortic valve had become defective because of calcium deposits. “The minimally invasive procedure usually requires a patient to stay at the hospital for about two days. An open heart surgery, on the other hand, requires 10 to 14 days’ hospitalisation,” Bhattacharya said. “Patients always prefer a shorter stay at the hospital, especially so during a pandemic. That is another reason why patients in need of valve replacement are opting for this procedure.” Cardiologist Rabin Chakraborty said many elderly patients or those with medical conditions could not undergo surgery because of the risks associated with anaesthesia. “The only way to treat them was with medicines but the prognosis is not good. TAVI provides longer life for such patients,” he said. Doctors, however, said the procedure was effective for people above 65. They said the tissue valve used for the procedure has a lifespan of about 10 years. The metallic valve used during the open heart surgery has a longer lifespan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
21-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid night curfew: Teenage biker critically injured in Calcutta||An 18-year-old motorcyclist travelling with two of his friends was critically injured when the two-wheeler collided with a motorcycle from the opposite direction early on Friday. The accident, at the crossing of Circular Garden Reach Road and Brooklyn Road, happened around 1.50am, when no one is supposed to be outdoors except those in medical emergencies or involved in essential services. As ordered by the state government, night curfew kicks in at 11pm and continues till 5am as a precaution against Covid. Police said none of the men on the bike was involved in any essential services. “Both motorcycles were moving at a high speed. The 18-year-old who was seriously injured was travelling with two pillion riders. The other bike had one pillion rider,” said an officer of the traffic department. The critically injured teenager has been identified as Mohammad Danish, a resident of Nadial. The two friends with him were Sohail Siddique, 22, and Mohammad Manajir, 19, both residents of Watgunge. The riders of the other bike were Mohammad Parwez, 21, from Garden Reach, and Sheikh Kausar,18, from Metiabruz. Danish, who suffered multiple injuries, has been admitted in the intensive care unit of SSKM Hospital, the police said. The remaining four were discharged after treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
21-08-2021||Calcutta||Undergraduate application form date deferred to August 27||The higher education department has deferred the last date for submission of applications for admission to undergraduate courses from August 20 to 27. Many applicants are still awaiting the higher secondary review results and are not willing to apply till they get the updated marks. So, the deadline had to be extended, said an official of the department. Many students applied for a review of marks after it became known that the number of top scorers in this year’s school-leaving exams had fallen compared with last year. The need for a review, in the hope that marks will increase, became all the more crucial after the state government announced that colleges and universities could not conduct admission tests because of Covid-19 and would have to screen students for admission to undergraduate courses based on marks. Colleges and universities started accepting applications on August 2. A notice uploaded on Calcutta University’s website reads: “Considering various representations received requesting extension of the last date of application, on the online portal for admission to UG courses (2021-22) and the interest of the students, the competent authority of the state government… has decided, to extend the last date of application up to 27th August.” The state council of higher secondary education published review results in four phases till August 11. Several more phases are awaited. Council president Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya said: “We hope the remaining review results will be published in the next few days.” “Since all review results have not been published by Friday, the state government thought it prudent to extend the deadline by a week to enable more aspirants to apply,” said Joydeep Sarangi, the principal of New Alipore College. Another principal said an assessment of this year’s HS results would justify such huge numbers of review applications. The HS results, published on July 22, showed a significant rise in the pass percentage, along with a sharp drop in the number of top graders. The number of candidates with the O grade — between 90 and 100 marks — came down from 30,220 in 2020 to 9,013. The number of A+ grade (between 80 and 89) recipients dropped to 49,370 from 84,746 last year. The number of A graders (70-79) came down from 96,825 last year to 95,758. “This is in contrast to the CBSE Class XII and ISC results, which saw a jump in the number of top scorers. Realising that they will lag behind in the competition for undergraduate seats, state board students applied for a review of marks,” the principal said. Jadavpur University and Presidency University this year sought to admit students on the basis of an admission test but were denied permission on grounds of the pandemic and digital divide. Teachers of JU had said in an email to the education minister Bratya Basu on July 20 that in a year when plus-II students could not write their school-leaving exams because of the pandemic, assessment through an admission test “is vital for determining whether or not a candidate ought to take a particular field of study at the higher levels”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
21-08-2021||Calcutta||NGO counselling for Calcutta slum-dwelling parents||Parents of children living in slums are being counselled by a city NGO so that their girls and boys continue with their studies and do not give up midway. The counselling also includes an effort to minimise the gender divide that exists in most families where the boys and their demands are prioritised over the girls’. The sessions have yielded early results and in some cases, the mothers are speaking up for their girls, said a counsellor of Calcutta Rescue, the NGO that started the initiative. Teachers have noticed a change in the attitude of the parents. Earlier, the parents would not be keen on online classes but now, when they step out, they leave their phones behind so the children can attend classes, the head of the NGO’s education wing said. “Most of the children are first generation learners and some of the mothers have been subjected to violence at home. We ask them if they would want the same plight for their daughters or if they want them to become financially independent and not be subjected to any atrocity,” said counsellor Suchandra Chatterjee. The counselling is mostly for mothers but the NGO tries to include fathers, too. “The gender sensitisation has worked in some cases. We have seen mothers telling their sons not to take the phone with them when going out because their sister has a class,” Suchandra said. She said that while the mothers have been able to change their attitudes, the resistance comes from the grandparents whose thinking is still “primitive”. The counselling started some time back but because of the need for it and the results it has yielded, Calcutta Rescue has decided to make it more regular and rigorous. Counsellors also orient the mothers to look for signs of disturbance among their children, which could be due to abuse, and report it to the teachers. “We have to keep in mind the mental health of our children and for that it is essential to orient the parents. Many of these children are exposed to abuse and need to make their mothers aware of it,” said Ananya Chatterjee, the school administrator at Calcutta Rescue. “The best part is we have been able to retain our children. They have not dropped out, barring a few exceptional cases who have migrated to their native places,” she said. The counsellors also ask parents to ensure regular attendance among the children. The adolescents sometimes use phones to play games or watch videos instead of attending classes. “Despite the phones being recharged by us, the children are not attending classes while their parents think they are because they are sitting with the device. These are also issues we have to address,” said Ananya. Suchandra said there was a need to build confidence in the parents’ because there was a tendency among the children to take them for a ride since they do not know how to read or write.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
21-08-2021||Calcutta||Arrested for railway job fraud in Calcutta||A man has been arrested for allegedly posing as a railway engineer and cheating at least one person by making a false promise of getting him a job in the railways. Dipak Singh has been booked under IPC charges related to cheating, fraud, forgery and criminal conspiracy based on a complaint, which said he had taken Rs 3 lakh from Arup Kumar Baidya for getting him a job in the railways. “The accused had been taking money from the complainant in phases since 2019. First, he took a processing fee, then medical test charges,” said an officer at Lalbazar. The fraud came to light when Singh snapped contacts with Baidya. The accused, originally from Jalpaiguri, was arrested from an address in north Calcutta on Thursday night. Police said they were looking for a man named Subir Das, who had allegedly introduced Baidya to Singh in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
21-08-2021||Calcutta||Nasa link cooked up to cast dupe net||A woman has been arrested by Bidhannagar police for allegedly posing as a “super antique metal delivery agent” attached to Nasa and duping people with false claims of supplying the metal to the American space agency. Police said Madhumita Saha, the accused, was allegedly collecting money from people in the city and elsewhere with the promise of lucrative returns on investments in the “antique metal” business. Saha, a resident of the airport police station area, was arrested based on a complaint lodged by a resident of Haryana. Narendra Singh wrote in his complaint lodged with Narayanpur police station, in the Bidhannagar commissionerate area, that Saha had swindled him out of more than Rs 1 lakh by convincing him to invest in a business of supplying a “super antique metal” to Nasa. “According to the complainant, he met Madhumita Saha through a social media network,” an officer said. Saha had purportedly convinced Singh that people who were investing in the business were getting back double the amount in return, the officer said. Singh had paid Saha thinking he was investing in the project to supply metal to Nasa. “He said he realised only recently that he had been duped, after the woman stopped answering his calls,” an officer said. Saha has been remanded in police custody for 12 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
