22-08-2021||Calcutta||Reduced night curfew brings back crowd in Calcutta||Five days have passed since the night curfew timings were relaxed. Starting last Monday, 11pm to 5am has been the night curfew slot. The Telegraph takes a stock of the city’s response to the relaxations. The dinner crowd is back at restaurants. The new closure time is 10.30pm. Most restaurants are allowing people in and taking last orders at 10pm compared to 8pm during the earlier curfew slot. Around 10pm on Friday, scores of people waited outside old favourites on Park Street. Because of the 50 per cent cap, not all of them could enter for dinner. “There is a big difference in footfall because of the night curfew relaxations. Indians do not feel hungry before 8-8.30pm. After such a long time, it is good to see people being able to come to dine at usual dinner time,” said Nitin Kothari, the owner of Mocambo and Peter Cat. The 9pm to 5am curfew slot meant a rush for lunch. Gradually, people had adapted and restaurants were busy in the post-lunch period as well. Many people were opting for an early dinner. Bar owners said the footfall was picking up gradually. The 9pm to midnight slot was extremely busy for pubs before the pandemic, especially on weekends. That rush is gone. But the owners pinned their hopes on further relaxations from next month. “The 8pm deadline (during the 9pm to 5am night curfew) meant almost zero dinner business. That has changed. It is a much-needed relief,” said Gaurav Karnani, the owner of Grid, a microbrewery and pub in Topsia. Malls were already back to being packed before the latest relaxations. An additional hour or 90 additional minutes has extended the rush. “The footfall has risen by around 10 per cent. Around 50,000 people visited the mall on Saturday,” said Dip Biswas, the deputy general manager of South City mall. The mall used to close for visitors at 8pm before the relaxations. Now, the closure time is 9pm. The food and beverage outlets close at 10.30pm. “A week ago, people would drop in early evening because they knew of the early deadline. But now, that rush is getting evenly distributed,” said Biswas. At Quest, a mall official said the “footfall has definitely gone up, though not like the pre-pandemic time”. “We hope it will go up further now,” the official said. In Salt Lake, City Centre I and II have also been registering a robust growth in footfall. “It is close to pre-pandemic times,” said Ramesh Pandey, the director of Ambuja Neotia group, the promoters of City Centre I and II. Bell Bottom, the first big Bollywood film to have released across halls in over two years, has breathed some life into the sector. Single screen halls registered three-figure ticket sales after a long time. The reduced night curfew has allowed for an extra show at most places. “Viewers are visible, after a long time,” said Arijit Dutta, the owner of Priya Cinema. The hall is running three shows with the Akshay Kumar starrer. At Ajanta in Behala, there are two screens, each with a capacity of around 115 after the 50 per cent cap. “Till last week, the number of viewers would be less than 50 at both combined. Now, over 150 people have been turning up every day,” said an official. Satadeep Saha, who owns Ajanta and has distributed the film in Bengal, said in terms of occupancy, multiplexes were doing better. “But there is at least something that everybody can look forward to,” he said. “Footfall is on the rise every day. We are in a healthy situation,” said Amitava Guha Thakurta, the regional director east, INOX Leisure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
22-08-2021||Calcutta||Police at doorstep to bridge gap in Barrackpore||Barrackpore police commissionerate are reaching out to people at their doorsteps to so that they can approach the men in uniform without hesitation when needed. The project, named “Durare Police”, literally means police at the doorstep. A senior officer attached with Barrackpore commissionerate said the idea behind the project was to bridge the gap between residents of the jurisdiction and their police stations. “While reaching out to the neighbourhoods we are trying to make people aware about the frequent banking frauds, KYC frauds, ways in which fraudsters are using Facebook and WhatsApp to cheat people,” said an IPS officer. Countless men and women, especially the elderly,  are duped by tele-callers who  impersonate bank officials. They fetch confidential data from account holders claiming that their ATM card is about to be blocked or by simply saying that they have won a lottery. Under the programme, the police are also setting up camps in different locations under every police station and encouraging people to share their problems related to security, law and order and criminal activities in the area. If the police come across a complaint that amounts to a cognisable offence, the cops at the camp are encouraging people to submit a written complaint at the spot itself so that the matter can be processed immediately. Several people found the project unique as the police are often blamed for discouraging people from reporting their problems and sometimes, allegedly refuse to accept complaints citing one excuse or the other. Barrackpore police jurisdiction covers around 270 square km adjoining Calcutta and has 18 police stations. Each police station has been asked to conduct “Duare Police” camps at more than one location, an officer said. Barrackpore police commissioner Manoj Verma has been monitoring the project and has visited several camps organised in the remote areas. The police have taken a separate approach towards the urban pockets of the jurisdiction. “We are holding cyber awareness camps, bank fraud awareness programmes inside housing societies,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
22-08-2021||Calcutta||Bond of brotherhood||Jute tassel rakhi Step 1 Mix the resin and hardener in the ratio of 2:1 with 20g of resin and 10g of hardener. Mix well for two minutes till all the bubbles disappear and the mixture is clear. Step 2 Wind the jute twine on the cardboard piece on the cut mark. Attach a thread on top to secure the twine. Pass embroidery thread from the cut mark and wind it two or three times. Secure with knot. Slide the jute out of the cardboard. Cut out the twines from the bottom and comb it out to make it fluffy. Step 3 Cut out a semi-circle from a paper. Form a cone and add glue and cover with jute cord. When dry, insert the jute tassel inside the cone and secure with glue. Add flowers and other decorations on top. The floral decorations can be purchased or home-made. The butterfly can be drawn and cut out or printed from the internet. Add a thread or ribbon on top of the cone. Resin is a chemical that becomes usable when mixed with a hardener in correct ratio. Once mixed, it becomes hard, slowly emanating a glass-like finish after 24 hours. Colours, glitter, sequins, dry flowers etc. can be added at the time of pouring. Art resin has become very popular for crafts and is available online or at art stores. But remember to wear a mask and use gloves while handling resin. Step 1 Mix the resin and hardener in the ratio of 2:1 with 20g of resin and 10g of hardener. Mix well for two minutes till all the bubbles disappear and the mixture is clear. Step 2 Put the resin mixture in separate small cups after 5 minutes and add colour of choice. For this you can buy resin pigments from the store or use acrylic colours. Mix well. Step 3 Get silicon moulds from the store and pour the resin mixture in the moulds and let it set for 24 hours. Un-mould the pieces. They will now be hard like glass but you still need to tie the rakhi threads on them. So drill holes on both sides with a drilling machine. Tie the threads, add the decorative metals, stickers, threads with beads etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
22-08-2021||Calcutta||Board exams: Teachers face MCQ papers challenge||Teachers across schools are taking double the time or more to prepare Class X and XII students’ multiple choice question papers, something they have never done before. The idea is to allow students to score and yet not make it a cakewalk for them because unlike a competitive exam, this is not an elimination test but an assessment. The challenge for teachers is the absence of a set pattern or a question bank to refer to. They are working out sums to come up with the choices so that the distractors are well thought of and this is a “time-consuming process”, said the head of a school. Teachers are also having to prepare many more questions. “If a paper is of 80 marks, the teacher has to set 80 questions as well as ensure that a child is able to finish the paper. I have told my teachers to set papers in such a way that a student would be able to complete each question within a certain time. If they spend more time on one question they will suffer,” said John Stephen, acting principal of La Martiniere for Boys. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has said there will be two semesters and an exam at the end of each semester conducted by the council. The exam in November will be online and entirely MCQ-based, the council said. Several schools are therefore making changes in their own pattern of question papers in the school exam in X and XII to prepare students for November. Across schools, teachers are investing time to prepare question papers for internal exams, mostly in September, while simultaneously trying to finish the syllabus. In The Heritage School, for example, teachers have been asked to prepare a question bank — not set a paper — for now. In St Xavier’s Collegiate School, a group of teachers have been asked to prepare sample MCQs, which will be shared with all the teachers. “Teachers earlier would take a day to prepare a question paper. But now they are taking four to five days because it involves more research,” said Anil Jha, senior coordinator at The Heritage School. The director of Modern High School for Girls, Devi Kar, said it was only natural for teachers to take more time than usual. “It is difficult to set a paper because the teacher has to challenge and stimulate the student,” she said. “This kind of an exam (MCQ pattern) is about how much the candidate has mastered the concept,” Kar added. While setting such questions, teachers have to think of students of all kinds — academically stronger ones, average and below average. “This is an assessment and we have to see that no child gets demotivated. In a subjective paper, while correcting, we try to find the answer in what the student has written but here there is no scope for that,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, principal, Loreto Convent Entally. “There will be no scope for part marks and a child could also get a zero,” she added. Father Thamacin Arulappan, principal, St Xavier’s Collegiate School, said for subjects like maths, where the teachers have to work out the sums before setting the paper, it will take even more time. Teachers across schools are waiting for a sample question paper from the council. “We have to test both the learning and logical reasoning of a student while helping the child to score. The challenge is the students are not trained to answer and teachers are not trained to ask,” said economics teacher Joeeta Basu. In an assessment test, the intention mostly is to understand how much a child knows, not what the child does not know. English language teacher and director of Gems Akademia International School, Hilda Peacock said: “The distractors have to be well thought of and the intention is not to trick a child.” “There will be no scope for selective studies and the entire syllabus will have to be studied,” warned Aruna Gomes, principal, Loreto House. Schools heads believe that the newness would make it more interesting and challenging, unlike the set pattern that has been followed for years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
22-08-2021||Calcutta||Two arrested in Ekbalpore for city trader’s murder||Two men have been arrested in Ekbalpore in connection with the murder of city trader Saif Khan who was found dead in Jharkhand’s Jamtara on Tuesday. Based on inputs shared by Mihijam police in Jamtara, under whose jurisdiction Khan’s body was found, Calcutta police detained the two men on Saturday morning. They were later handed over to Jamtara police for formal arrest and court production. The arrested were identified as Mohammad Aftab Alam and Nazre Alam, police said. Aftab, a resident of Suresh Sarkar Road in Beniapukur, is a garments trader. Nazre works as a driver and drove the vehicle in which Khan was allegedly kidnapped, the police said. “Preliminary investigation suggests that Aftab Alam had taken a loan of Rs 15 lakh from Saif Khan, which he could repay only partially. Khan was allegedly humiliating Aftab over a period of time for not returning the money, while according to Aftab, he was unable to pay because of the losses he had incurred in business during the pandemic,” an officer said. The police said Khan had purportedly made multiple calls to Aftab on Tuesday evening — the day Khan went missing — demanding the money. Aftab had offered Khan a lift in his brother-in-law’s Honda Mobilio from Ripon Street to Ekbalpore, where he promised to repay the loan. “According to the accused person’s statement, he had told the victim that he was going to get some money in Ekbalpore with which he would repay the loan. However, when the victim boarded the vehicle, he was offered a bottle of beer laced with sedatives,” the officer added. Khan had passed out in the car. Hours later, when they reached Jamtara, he was murdered and his body was thrown on the road. The police said Aftab had used his brother-in-law’s vehicle for the operation. The car was tracked through CCTV footage at the toll plaza of the Vidyasagar Setu. After the execution, Aftab had returned to Calcutta in the same car through the same route. Driver Nazre had returned home after dropping Aftab and keeping the car in the garage of its owner. Nazre, who was apparently not aware about the murder plan, has also been booked under charges of murder and criminal conspiracy apparently for not raising an alarm when the incident happened or for not reporting it to the police. Both were produced  before a court on Saturday and handed over to Jamtara police on transit remand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
22-08-2021||Calcutta||CMC to build two water treatment plants for Jadavpur, Tollygunge||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will build two water treatment plants spending Rs 210 crore to supply potable water to Jadavapur and Tollygunge, officials of the civic body said on Saturday. These areas suffer from severe water shortage. One of the new water treatment plants will come up at New Garia’s Briji. It will have the capacity to produce 10 million gallons a day. The other will be built on the campus of the Dhapa water treatment plant. It will be able to produce 20 million gallons of water in a day. A senior engineer of the civic body said the potable water that would be produced by the two plants would be adequate to serve the needs of the population of Jadavpur-Tollygunge and vast areas to the east of EM Bypass like Anandapur and Mukundapur. “This would serve the needs of the area for the next 30 years, our study has revealed. But this is subject to no further inclusion of areas into the Calcutta municipal area,” said a senior CMC official. Vast stretches of Mukundapur, Anandapur, Kalikapur still depend on underground water drawn through pumps. Many other pockets have access to potable water, but the supply is grossly inadequate. Civic engineers said building a new plant was the only option to meet the demand-supply gap. According to civic engineers, the two new plants would benefit the entire boroughs X, XI, XII and portions of borough VII. “A proposal seeking funds to build the two plants has been sent to the finance department. We will float tender once the approval arrives,” said one engineer. Officials of the CMC said it was very unlikely for the finance department to turn down the proposal. “We will need six months to float a tender, choose contractors to build the plants and give the work order after following due process. There will be a deadline of two years for the construction to complete from the day it begins,” said an engineer of the CMC. The CMC’s budget for the financial year 2021-22 was presented on Saturday. The solid waste management department was allocated Rs 638 crore, the highest allocation to any department. The water supply department got the second highest allocation — Rs 395 crore. The tax structures remain unchanged. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, said the civic body has waived a mutation fee of Rs 100 and first mutation certificate fee of Rs 100. “These services will be free henceforth,” he said. The civic body had earlier presented an interim budget for the period April 1 to September 30. “But as the elections to the civic body would not be held before that period ends, the CMC’s budget for 2021-22 was presented on Saturday,” said officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
22-08-2021||Calcutta||Malayalees in Calcutta celebrate Onam indoors||Malayalees in Calcutta celebrated Onam indoors because of the pandemic. Saturday was the most important day of Onam, called Thiruvonam. Large physical gatherings were mostly absent. But people hosted small groups of friends and neighbours. Pookkalams, or rangolis made of flowers, were made at home. At the in-house gatherings, young men and women turned up in traditional attire. Sadya, a traditional feast spread on a banana leaf, was one of the highlights of the day. Rice, avial (curry of different vegetables) and pickles were part of the fare. “Because of Covid, we couldn’t step out for celebrations. We cooked at home and had a good feast,” said a state government officer who hails from Kerala. The Calcutta Malayalee Samajam will organise a virtual Onam celebration on Sunday where cultural performances will be held. Friends and relatives from Kerala and the Gulf are slated to join in. K. Nandakumar, the national vice-president of the All India Malayalee Association, said homes were decorated with floral alpana. “Some people came over to my house. We had an Onam feast,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
22-08-2021||Calcutta||19-year-old boy found murdered near a garage in Shibpur||A 19-year-old boy was found murdered near a garage on Bipradas Chatterjee Lane in Shibpur, Howrah, late on Friday, his head bearing a deep injury mark and his throat partly slit. Mohammad Rayes, the youngest of three sons of a cosmetics dealer, had left home on Friday evening saying he was meeting friends on Park Street. Around 11.30pm, one of his brothers received a call from police saying Rayes had been found with critical injuries. He was declared dead at Howrah state general hospital. Cops have arrested four of Rayes’s friends for their alleged involvement. “An altercation broke out over returning money and turned violent,” an officer said. On Saturday, the four were produced before a Howrah court that remanded them to five days’ police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
22-08-2021||Calcutta||Salt lake civic body does patchwork road repair||The Salt Lake civic body has finally started road repairs but rather than laying a fresh layer of asphalt, patchwork repairs are being carried out. Residents and engineers of other government agencies are worried about the quality and longevity of the repairs. Potholes dot all major roads of the township — some in worse shape than others. The Telegraph had reported on the sorry state of roads in the township on August 7. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has started the repairs but their engineers are relying on patchwork — a layer of bitumen that is laid over craters — as a quick-fix solution. Krishna Chakraborty, the chairperson of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, said: “We will need at least a 15 day-stretch without rain to relay all the stretches. Since there have been showers on most days, we have decided to go ahead with patchwork repairs rather than full-blown repairs,” said Chakraborty. Of the worst affected stretches, a 1km-stretch that connects Tank Number 9 to the Udayachal tourist lodge is being repaired. However, on a stretch of Seventh Cross Road that leads from the Karunamoyee intersection to Tank Number 8 and was repaired a few days back, the patches have already started wearing off. A layer of small stone chips lie on the areas where the patches have worn off, making the stretch dangerous for two-wheelers to negotiate. A BK Block resident was injured on Saturday afternoon after his bike skidded on the loose stone chips. “I saw people repairing the stretch on Friday night. I was riding home when a car braked in front of me and I, too, had to hit the brakes. My bike skidded on the loose stone chips that had worn away from the patchwork repairs,” said Vikas Agarwal. On Saturday, teams of workers were seen pouring buckets of bitumen mix into the potholes. Another road that will be repaired is a 2km-stretch of Third Avenue that leads to the Wipro intersection from the Karunamoyee intersection. A Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority engineer said a road surface laid with mastic asphalt or concrete easily outlasts a surface redone with bitumen. Mastic asphalt could be laid in a short span of time and even in between rains. But civic authorities keep choosing patchwork over other options. Around Rs 3.8 crore is required to build a kilometre of mastic asphalt road. Though the cost is many times higher than patchwork repairs, it evens out in the long run because mastic asphalt doesn’t require frequent repairs. An engineer said: “A concrete road is three times costlier to build compared to bitumen but lasts two decades. The longevity of a bitumen stretch, on the other hand, is a few months. A mastic asphalt road costs double and lasts around five years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
