23-08-2021||Calcutta||Sunderbans women’s unit to nurture nature and livelihood||A paper plate manufacturing unit in the Sunderbans’ Jharkhali, run by a team of local women, is set to start commercial production on Monday. Plastic has for long been the bane of the ecologically sensitive mangrove delta. The danger gets aggravated after every cyclone when hundreds of groups from Calcutta visit the Sunderbans with relief materials, almost all of which wrapped in plastic. Thermocol plates, plastic water pouches, bottles and cups are dumped in water bodies by relief workers. Much of the plastic waste was left behind by tourists before the Covid curbs suspended tourism. All this, despite an official ban on plastic in the Sunderbans. The paper plate manufacturing unit is set to supply biodegradable plates to hotels, homestays and boats in the Sunderbans. With the Covid cases on the decline, the hoteliers hope the ban on tourism would be lifted soon. The unit has come up near the Jharkhali market in the Canning sub-division of South 24-Parganas, around 125km from Calcutta. Over 40 women, from various self-help groups in the Sunderbans, have received a fortnight’s training in making the final product from recycled paper rolls. The project is being funded by the South 24-Parganas Forest Division. An NGO called the Kolkata Society for Cultural Heritage is executing it by training the women and marketing the finished products. “The project, if successful, will be scaled up in the coming days,” said Milan Mandal, the divisional forest officer of South 24-Parganas. This newspaper had reported that more than 9 lakh plastic bottles had been flushed out from the ecologically sensitive Sunderbans in 10 days after Cyclone Yaas. According to estimates of the South 24-Parganas district administration, around 1 crore plastic pouches, 20 lakh drinking water bottles and polythene and plastic packets were dumped in water bodies across the eight blocks - Kakdwip, Namkhana, Patharpratima, Sagar, Kultali, Mathurapur, Basanti and Gosaba. The presence of huge quantities of plastic has set alarm bells ringing among environmentalists. Lumps of plastic have been clogging the “breathing roots” of the mangrove trees, causing immense harm to the aquatic creatures in the biosphere reserve. Dolphins and turtles can choke to death if they unknowingly consume plastic, they said. “The training ended on Friday. Commercial production will start on Monday. To start with, the unit will produce around 600 plates every day,” said Sourav Mukherjee, the founder of the NGO at the helm of the project. “The bulk of the produce will be sold to local hotels, homestays and boats. The rates will be competitive so that they choose our products instead of plastic, which is anyway banned by the government. We also want to supply our products to retail players in Calcutta,” said Mukherjee. The unit is a lifeline for its workforce, struck by twin blows of the pandemic and cyclone. The women will not get fixed salaries but a commission on every product sold, said Mukherjee. Shuktara Bachori is one of the women working at the unit. Her husband is a fisherman. His income has dwindled since April, when fresh Covid curbs set in and taking the catch to markets became challenging. Kajal Adhikari used to grow seasonal vegetables on a small plot of land. But the cyclone inundated her land with saline water, rendering it infertile. “This (the unit) is my only shot at any income now,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
23-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta cancer patients worry over Covid vaccine||Eight months into the Covid vaccination drive in India, many cancer patients are still apprehensive of taking the shot. Doctors are receiving frequent calls from follow-up patients who want to know whether it is advisable for them to be inoculated against Covid. The “reluctance” stems from a fear that the vaccine could lead to side effects because of their low immunity, said an oncologist who has been receiving calls almost every day. “There is a notion among cancer patients that since their immune system is compromised because of the disease, they could be susceptible to side effects. But our advice is that follow-up patients should be vaccinated immediately. Those who are undergoing treatment like radiotherapy and chemotherapy and have undergone major oncosurgery must consult their treating oncologist to decide on the appropriate time of vaccination,” said surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay. He said that those with a history of major allergies must consult their physician before vaccination. The Bengal Oncology Foundation has run an online awareness campaign, in which Mukhopadhyay is seen urging people with cancer to take the shot. In the video, in English and Bengali, posted on social media, Mukhopadhyay says both doses of a Covid vaccine are necessary to ensure protection against the disease. “Remember for all cancer patients and their families, protection from Covid is extremely important and vaccination is the best option for this. Whichever vaccine is available, whether it is Covaxin or Covishield, both are very effective and that is why they have been approved by the government of India. So I would recommend that you look into this very carefully and just see that all members of your family are adequately protected,” Mukhopadhyay, also the secretary of the Bengal Oncology Foundation, says in the English video. “Do not worry about the side effects because these do not have much side effects and millions of people have taken the vaccine. It creates a lot of confidence among the people and it is not that you will be helping yourself only. You will be helping the community by being immunised against Covid.” He also says that one will not be adequately protected against the disease without both doses of a Covid vaccine. While talking to The Telegraph, Mukhopadhyay urged the need to spread awareness on Covid vaccination because he said there was a degree of apprehension among cancer patients. “We receive calls from follow-up patients almost every day. They ask whether they should take the vaccine. So we decided to launch this awareness initiative,” he said. The Saroj Gupta Cancer Centre & Research Institute in Thakurpukur, which has been administering Covid vaccines since January, has been receiving such calls, too. “Not all patients ask, but some do. Their families call up to ask whether they should take the vaccine. Their fear disappears once they get the doctor's approval,” said Arnab Gupta, the director of the institute. “There is a concern that the vaccine might trigger some complications. It is natural for us to have such concerns, though we know vaccines are necessary. A doctor’s nod goes a long way in allaying the fears,” said Manik Chandra Bera, a 59-year-old cancer survivor. Bera, who had colon cancer in 2007, has taken the Covid shot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
23-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid pandemic effect on nursery admissions in Calcutta||The number of applications for admission to nursery schools is lower than what it used to be before the Covid pandemic, many school heads said. The impact on application started last year and the numbers are low this year, too. Parents might not be keen to invest in a situation when they do not know when schools will reopen. They are, instead, opting for home tutoring of the child, the head of a school said. The application process for nursery usually begins in July or August and continues till the beginning of the next year. “The number of applicants is low this year, a trend which started last year,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. Parents feel they can tutor a pre-primary child at home and do not want to put them in a school paying a variety of fees at a time when no one is certain when schools will reopen. Parents have also learnt from the experience of their friends that a virtual class means they would have to hand-hold their children at every step. Schools have been closed since March 2020 as a precaution against Covid. Campuses reopened briefly in February only for Classes IX to XII. A section of parents is waiting to see how the Covid situation pans out before deciding whether they will enrol their children in schools. “Some parents may not want to invest in formal education and would want to wait for more clarity on reopening of the schools,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point. “Parents are enquiring but we do not know whether they would turn up and enrol their children,” said Sister Rani Jacob, the principal of Our Lady Queen of the Missions School, Park Circus. Schools are also making changes in their seat allotment depending on the situation. The Assembly of God Church School, Park Street, authorities will take a decision based on the number of registrations. “We noticed a change in the current session. There are more applicants for kindergarten than nursery. At 3-plus, parents were continuing at home or in a preschool," said Lionel Chellappa, the principal of the Park Street school. The financial hardships inflicted by the pandemic have impacted admission. "Let's face it; the pandemic has impacted the financial condition of families…. They prefer tutoring the children at home to paying the school fees," a school head said. At South Point School, the number of applications for nursery has dropped by 10 per cent. At Indus Valley World School, applications have been “trickling in”. A reputable city school, which requested not to be named, received about 550 applications for 200 seats in nursery this year. Before the pandemic, it would receive around 800 applications. The Our Lady Queen of the Missions School in Park Circus received about 25 per cent less applications last year compared with the pre-pandemic times. It has not yet invited applications for this year. The fewer registrations at the Assembly of God Church School, compared with pre-pandemic years, have prompted the authorities to reduce the number of sections in nursery by one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
23-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: CMC’s vaccination centres to follow new schedule from Monday||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s Covid vaccination centres will follow a new vaccination schedule from Monday after having experimented with two other schedules over the past week. In the new schedule, all CMC centres will administer first and second doses Monday through Saturday but in separate time slots. The centres remain closed on Sundays. Details of the new schedule: The first dose of Covid vaccines will be administered between 10am and 3pm on all six days. The second dose will be administered from 3pm to 4pm. The civic body had first reserved three days in a week for the first dose and another three days for the second. This schedule was changed after CMC officials realised that the takers for second doses were far fewer than the number of shots available. This was surprising because the centres used to have long queues and almost half the people would have to return without getting the jab. Towards the middle of last week, the CMC centres decided to administer the second dose on two days a week and the first dose on four days. But the number of second dose recipients still remained low. Eventually, the CMC decided to administer the first and second shots every day but in separate time slots. The latest schedule will come into effect on Monday. Doctors managing the Covid vaccination centres said posters had been put up outside many vaccination centres informing people about the new schedule. “If needed, people with loud hailers will be deployed outside the centres,” said an official. Each centre has been allotted 150 doses of Covishield and 200 doses of Covaxin for Monday, said a CMC official. A clinic in Chetla, which has administered the maximum number of shots among all civic clinics, has been allotted 500 doses for Monday, said officials. “We will try to follow an 80-20 division. Eighty per cent of the shots will be administered to first dose recipients and the rest to the second dose recipients,” said an official of the CMC.  Civic doctors hope the quota for the first dose recipients will be used up in the five hours reserved for them. “Over the past few weeks, we noticed that 80 per cent of those getting vaccinated at our clinics were first dose recipients. Many of them were from neighbouring districts. We will not turn them away since everyone has the right to get vaccinated,” said the official. The CMC is running a Covid vaccination drive from its primary health centres and a number of community halls and auditoriums that have been tagged as megacentres. The civic body now runs 173 Covid vaccination centres. A senior doctor at the CMC said they were concerned over the routine immunisation of children at its centres on Wednesdays. “Earlier, the first two or three hours on Wednesdays were kept reserved for routine immunisation of children as part of the universal immunisation programme. But in the new schedule, Covid vaccination will be held from 10am to 4pm, like on other days. How will we vaccinate children under the universal immunisation programme?” asked one CMC doctor. Some of the primary health centres administer vaccines to as many as 50 children every Wednesday. Doctors fear routine immunisation will suffer if a few hours on Wednesday are not reserved for it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
23-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta man out on bail tries to flee country||A man who had been arrested in connection with a murder on Bentinck Street 14 years ago and was currently out on bail, was caught by the Calcutta police on Saturday night while he was trying to flee to Bangladesh through the Petrapole border, police said. Pradip Jha, in his late 30s, the murder accused, was arrested on Saturday night. Santosh Yadav, his alleged crime partner and a co-accused in the same murder case, was also arrested 14 years back while trying to flee to Bangladesh through the same border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
23-08-2021||Calcutta||NIT Durgapur asks students to pay hostel establishment charge for mess staff||NIT Durgapur has asked students to pay the hostel establishment charge, so the mess workers get their wages in time amid the Covid pandemic. A notice signed by the dean of students’ welfare, Biswajit Halder, says: “A timely payment of the charge (Rs 1,200) is a primary social responsibility too under this situation of crisis due to COVID-19.” In the last academic season, the notice says, a significant number of students did not pay the hostel establishment charge — Rs 1,200 for each semester — and the institute had to pay the private mess workers from its reserve. If the payment is not made on time in this academic session, “the process of semester registration will remain incomplete”, the institute has warned. There are 50-odd mess workers engaged by students as cooks and maintenance staff. They get a monthly remuneration of Rs 9,500 on average, which is paid by students as hostel establishment charge. “The establishment charge is paid at the beginning of each semester. Last year, the students had left the campus in March, following the outbreak of Covid. They have since been attending online classes from home. A significant number of them did not pay the hostel establishment charge of the semester that began in July,” an official of the institute said. “We have told students that they have to pay the amount, considering the financial constraints amid the pandemic being encountered by those who have served food and rendered other services. This is a social responsibility,” NIT director Anupam Basu said. The institute can no longer pay the workers from its reserve because the fund has been exhausted, officials said. “During the last academic year 2020-21 it has been observed that a significant number of students defaulted (still there are defaulters) to pay the hostel establishment charge of Rs.1200/- per semester, though the majority of the students paid on time,” says the notice. The institute had last year reduced the hostel fee of Rs 7,300 to Rs 2,800 and the other fees from Rs 5,300 to Rs 2,850 keeping in mind the hardship faced by students and their families because of the pandemic. “Last year, they were allowed to pay the tuition fee in installments. But students must realise they have some obligation during these trying times to those they engaged. Registration will be held up (if they do not pay the hostel establishment fee),” Basu said. An official of the institute said it was not possible for the mess workers to switch to other jobs because of the grim economic situation. “The workers have families…. We are continuing with the reduced fee structure and our own earnings have depleted. Whatever we earn, goes into maintenance,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
23-08-2021||Calcutta||Sunderbans women tie rakhis on mangrove trees||A group of women in the Sunderbans on Sunday tied rakhis on mangrove trees vowing to protect them in the hope that they would in turn get protected from the vagaries of nature such as cyclones. Aparna Dhara, from Lakshmipur village of Kakdwip block, and fellow members of Lakshmisree Self Help Group got up early to celebrate rakhi in a unique way. “We decided to tie rakhi on our mangrove plants as we think of them as our brothers, who will protect us from danger, just as our brothers do,” said Aparna. At Lakshmipur village, mangrove plants had been planted across 200 hectares. The area has since increased to 750 hectares. “This year again 10 hectares of mangrove plantation has been done at the village,” said Ajanta De of News, Environment and Wildlife Society (NEWS), an NGO involved in mangrove replantation in the Sunderbans. “We started planting mangrove seeds in 2013 under the leadership of NEWS. Today, we have been able to reduce soil erosion by the river to a large extent. The river erosion was not much during both Cyclone Amphan (in 2020) and Cyclone Yaas (in 2021). Most of our houses were protected,” said Aparna. Not just Lakshmipur village, women from Sumatinagar of Sagar block, Taranagar in Patharpratima, Nikarighata in Canning, Manmathanagar in Gosaba and Budokhali in Kultali tied rakhis on mangrove trees in their respective villages. “These plants protected us during Amphan and Yash. We have vowed to protect them, too,” said Rupa Samaddar of Nikarighata. “Villagers play an active role in protecting mangroves. Women of Self Help Groups take turns to guard the mangrove saplings, shooing away anyone trying to harm them. They alert the panchayats if anyone uproots trees. They have realised that to survive in the Sunderbans, they have to protect the mangroves,” said Ajanta De of News.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
23-08-2021||Calcutta||Lives of others: Bengal tourism on ground Zero||THIS IS NOT A LUXURY TOUR. The warning in capital letters appears halfway down an online brochure on a much-coveted tour of Bengal. Abdul Nazar, a young Malayali who lives in Chakla in North 24-Parganas, about 50km from Calcutta, takes the lead in organising this tour every year to introduce visitors to rural Bengal. It receives an overwhelming response from Nazar’s home state. Called “Bengal Yatra”, the 10-day tour is conducted from Chakla every December by Zero Foundation, a rural development organisation founded by the 34-year-old in Chakla. “About 600 people apply and 25 are chosen,” says Nazar. About 90 per cent of the visitors are Malayalis. “The applicants have to first answer a detailed questionnaire, which asks for their particulars, and those shortlisted are interviewed over the phone,” says Nazar. “Candidates” are judged mainly on their level of interest in Bengal. Though the cut-off age is 50, because the tour needs one to rough it out, a person above 50 is admitted if he is found deserving,” Nazar smiles. We are sitting in his one-room office-cum-home in the market area of Chakla, surrounded by green rice fields being lashed by the rain. Nazar is known as “Nazar Bandhu”, or simply “Bandhu”, by all here. Three small children suddenly appear at the shop, almost hidden under the large umbrellas they are carrying. “Bandhu, what are you doing?” they ask and are happy to be given a bunch of bananas. Nazar has been living here since 2011, when he was working with another organisation. He started Zero Foundation in 2015 and the tour in 2017. The foundation works in the Chakla panchayat area, named after Chakla village. The Chakla village area is also known as Chakla Dham, as a famous Loknath Baba temple in located here. Nazar works closely with 40 self-help groups. He also works for children’s education and for housing and sanitation. With a shy smile, he tries to explain that perhaps “social worker” is not the right description for him here. This is his world. And he wants others to see this world, away from the romanticised, tourism-poster version of Bengal. Visitors experience the living conditions of rural Bengal and are not drowned in comfort. Food and accommodation are simple and inexpensive and travel is usually through local transport, such as autos, local trains and boats. Chakla, where they are often put up at the temple guest house, remains the base. They are taken around some villages in Chakla, then to the Sunderbans, Malda and Murshidabad, and briefly to Calcutta and Santiniketan. Last year the tour cost Rs 17,000 per head, which did not include expenses of travelling to and from Chakla. The pandemic added to the costs. This year the tour will be held depending on the Covid situation. The brochure also mentions a “NO SMOKING — NO ALCHOHOL — NO TOBACCO” policy and the fact that the visitors may be put up in dormitories and will be provided with sleeping bags. The tour is in such high demand, smiles Nazar, because whatever we think of the state here at home, Bengal continues to fascinate the Malayali imagination. The connection is historical, as well as political and cultural, and of the heart. In the last centuries, many from Kerala would go to the “Far East” to work, he points out, via Bengal. Both states have strong literary traditions. Both states have favoured Left politics. (Not to forget the fish-and-rice factor, though the jury is still out on which state cooks fish better.) “You walk into a bookstore in Kerala, you are likely to find the translation of a Bengali book,” says Nazar. “Right now, Mahasweta Devi is very popular.” The tour pays back. Often there is a flurry of writing on Bengal after the trip. For some, the trip is “life-changing”. They are shocked by the poverty of a North 24-Parganas village, a sharp contrast to a Kerala village, far better looked after with its access to health, education and good roads, says Nazar. But the Bengal Yatra is not the only spectacular thing that Nazar does. His life in Chakla is no less so. As rain and thunder threaten to drown our conversation, and Calcutta seems a long, long way off, Nazar talks about the choices he made in his personal life. He grew up in Muvattupuzha in Kerala’s Ernakulam district and did his masters in social work from Shree Shankaracharya University in Kalady. It was then that he decided that he would live and work in a village. Later he trained at the Dalai Lama monastery in Dharamshala and worked in a Gond tribal area in Chhindwara. Then his life changed, as he came to Bengal. After stints at the Missionaries of Charity and in the red light district of Sonagachhi, he came to work in Chakla and stayed on. He founded Zero Foundation with seven others, which accepts donations, but does not request funds. He remains the driving force behind the foundation. Not just work, but a spiritual compulsion has brought him here, says Nazar again. Life here was difficult at first, with some villagers wary of a stranger suddenly making a home in their midst. But now they accept him as a friend and are grateful for his support. Of the 40 self-help groups he works with, about 35 are women’s groups. Many of the members now enjoy livelihood options through the groups’ micro-finance savings, where hardly any choice existed before. A woman from a nearby village now earns Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 per month from a nursery she set up with the help of micro-finance savings of her self-help group. Nazar himself hardly has any worldly possession. His room barely has any furniture, except a shelf full of books. “That’s why the zero in Zero Foundation,” he smiles. “Not having anything is fulfilment.” Infinite possibilities are contained where nothing else is. Born a Muslim, he respects every faith, and adds that the Buddhist idea of emptiness has influenced him greatly. He hardly cooks, hardly eats anything except biscuits and bananas, and drinks endless cups of tea and keeps offering them. That is also because he runs a tea shop near the temple. “I started it because a tea shop is a meeting place. Lots of people come to my shop. I am interested in the culture of tea shops and in people,” he says. Will Chakla remain his home? “That I don’t know. I will be here, anywhere, till I am supposed to,” he says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
