24-08-2021||Calcutta||Curb expenses, ministry of education tells NITs & IIEST Shibpur||The ministry of education has asked all the NITs and IIEST (Shibpur) to cut down expenditure by 20 per cent. The advisory on reducing “controllable expenditure” came because the budget estimate for financial year 2021-22 under the scheme “support to NITs and IIEST” has been curtailed from Rs 1,325 crore to 1,065.04 crore under overhead expenditure, says a circular issued by the ministry. A suggestive list of object heads under which expenditure will have to be controlled has been enclosed with the circular. These include grant-in-aid general, minor works, maintenance and travel expenses. IIEST acting registrar Rana Roy recently issued a notice stating: “This is for information a letter with regard to ‘curtailing avoidable expenditure’... has been received by the institute from the ministry of education.” When contacted, Roy declined to comment. An NIT Durgapur official said the ministry had earlier stopped providing funds for infrastructure and asked institutes to take loans under the Higher Education Financing Agency (HEFA), a scheme that was announced in the 2016 budget. “Worried about repaying the loans, we have already paused the infrastructure projects. Now they have cut down on overhead expenditure as well. As the financial health of the Union government is worsening amid the pandemic, they are reducing the budget for the central academic institutes increasingly,” said an official. Another official of the institute said NIT Durgapur’s earning had reduced substantially as the institute was continuing with the reduced fees announced last year keeping in mind the pandemic-induced economic hardship faced by students and their families. “Now there is a cut in budget. Leave alone taking a loan, how will we sustain ourselves if the support is reduced in a phased manner?” he told Metro. This newspaper had in March reported that this year’s budgetary allocation for education had been the lowest in the last three years. The total allocation for education in 2020 was 99,311 crore. It has been reduced to 93,224 crore in 2021. “It was obvious that when the overall budget has been slashed, support to the NITs and IIEST Shibpur would be reduced as a consequence,” said an IIEST official. The economic crisis had compelled the government last September to ask central universities and the IITs to refrain from creating teaching posts and filling posts created after July 2020. The directive has deepened the problems confronting higher education and research after institutions were asked to admit more students to implement the 10 per cent quota for the economically weaker sections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Bengal govt focuses on third-wave care for children||The state government is ramping up paediatric Covid beds in its hospitals with a special focus on critical care treatment facilities in preparation for a third wave of infections, a senior official in the state health department said on Monday. Ajay Chakraborty, the director of health services, said doctors and nurses would be trained in dealing with paediatric Covid cases. A committee of experienced paediatricians has prepared a list of medicines that will be required to treat children suffering from Covid and the government has started the process of procuring them, Chakraborty said. “We are strengthening the paediatric beds and especially critical care treatment facilities in every district in anticipation of a third wave,” Chakraborty said. The government will add 284 paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) beds, 109 newborn intensive care unit beds and 160 special newborn care unit (SNCU) beds. Post-addition, Chakraborty said, government hospitals in the state will have 1,550 critical care unit beds, 528 PICU beds, 270 NICU beds and 2,476 SNCU beds. Paediatrician Apurba Ghosh welcomed the decision to increase the bed count. “This is a good move because we have fewer paediatric beds than required. But the nurse to patient ratio for paediatric care is 1:1. So, more nurses and doctors will be required if the number of beds is increased,” Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Bus hits motorcyclist on Strand Road||A motorcyclist was injured after being hit by a bus on Strand Road near Netaji Indoor Stadium on Monday morning. Sumit Adhikary, 32, was wearing a helmet, police said. He has been admitted to SSKM Hospital. The bus fled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: No new schedule notices at CMC vaccination centres||Many Covid vaccination centres of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation did not put up any notice informing people about the changed timings that came into effect on Monday. Many people whose second dose had become due arrived at some of the centres early, only to learn that the shot would be delivered after 3pm. The civic body has changed its vaccination schedule thrice in the past week. Till Saturday, it had reserved separate days for the first and the second dose. From Monday, the CMC centres are administering doses every day, except Sunday, but in separate time slots. The first dose is being administered from 10am to 3pm and the second between 3pm and 4pm. Sixty-year-old Amiya Kumar Nayak arrived at the primary health centre of ward 90, in the compound of Rabindra Sarobar, at 5am on Monday for the second dose of Covaxin. “I came here early thinking I would be among the first few recipients. When the civic employees arrived around 10am, they told me second doses would be given only after the first doses were administered. There was no notice anywhere regarding the changed timings,” said Nayak, a resident of Balarampur in South 24-Parganas, who kept waiting under the sun. The notices pasted on the walls of the health centre were about the old schedule. The scene was identical outside the ward 69 primary health centre on Ballygunge Circular Road. There was no notice announcing the new schedule. A notice mentioning last week’s schedule was still pasted on the walls around noon. Kanai Saha, 54, was waiting outside the centre for his second dose. “When I arrived in the morning, those at the gate told me that the tokens for the second dose would be given in the afternoon. So I went back. When I returned to the centre around 12.15pm, I was told that all 40 coupons for the second dose had been exhausted,” Saha said. “There was no clear instruction on how we would get the tokens. Some people told me the CMC staff would distribute tokens for Tuesday after 4pm on Monday. But nothing is written anywhere. The CMC employee at the gate is not even talking properly,” he said. Asked about the lack of notices at vaccination centres on the revised schedule, an official at the CMC headquarters said: “We have asked the health centres to inform people about the new schedule.” Civic doctors supervising vaccination said around two-thirds of the available doses were given to first dose recipients and the remaining to second dose recipients. The primary health centre in ward 82 in Chetla, which has been among the most visited, administered 484 doses on Monday. “Two-thirds of the recipients had come for the first dose,” an official said. Most other primary health centres were given 150 doses. At almost all centres, over 100 doses were administered to first dose recipients. “We administered the first and second doses as and when people came and did not always follow the schedule. If some people came in the morning to take the second dose, we did not make them wait till 3pm,” said a CMC doctor. Civic doctors are also concerned about how they will administer vaccines to children under the universal immunisation programme on Wednesday. Civic health clinics conduct routine immunisation of children up to 5 years on Wednesdays.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Group fires at apartment’s windows in Behala ||A Behala resident lodged a complaint with police saying some people had gathered below his apartment early on Monday and fired shots at one of the apartment’s windows and threatened him. Rupak Ganguly told police that at least four rounds were fired around 12.30am after some youths turned up below his apartment and started calling out his name. Immediately after this, the family said they closed all the windows and switched off the lights fearing further attack. “Ganguly lodged the complaint in the morning and a probe has been initiated. We have drawn up a case of criminal intimidation by unknown armed persons,” said a senior officer of Behala police station. “We are scanning all the CCTV footage of the area at night to identify whether a group of youths have been moving around late at night,” the officer said. The police said the area comes under the jurisdiction of Ward 121 of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and had witnessed a similar incident of firing in the open in June. Bike-borne men had fired three rounds near a market in the afternoon triggering panic among residents. The police said the youths who opened fire at night had clearly targeted the Ganguly family. “The idea was to threaten and not kill anyone in the family. That was successfully done,” an officer said. “We will speak to Ganguly and others to find out why he could possibly be a target,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Milk market at Ganesh Talkies to be shifted to make way for demolition of Vivekananda Road flyover ||The milk market at Ganesh Talkies and two parking lots nearby will be shifted to make way for the second phase of the demolition of the Vivekananda Road flyover, a part of which had collapsed in March 2016, killing 45 people. In the first phase, the stretch of the flyover between Posta Bazar and Strand Road, near the Howrah bridge, was pulled down. The second, and the last, phase of the demolition, between Ganesh Talkies and Girish Park, is set to start on August 27. The urban development department will supervise the demolition. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has decided that once work starts, the stretch of Vivekananda Road between Ganesh Talkies and Girish Park will remain shut to traffic for nearly a month and a half, officials said. On Saturday, representatives of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, which functions under the urban development department, and officers of Posta police station and Jorabagan traffic guard met residents and traders of the area and briefed them on the changes the demolition would entail. The milk market at Ganesh Talkies will be shifted to a spot near Lohia Matri Seva Sadan Hospital on Rabindra Sarani. The two parking lots on Vivekananda Road and KK Tagore Street, managed by the CMC, will be moved away, too. “Residents were told they would be able to use the footpaths but can’t bring their cars. The cars will have to be parked on Rabindra Sarani, Balaram Dey Street or Rajendra Mullick Street,” said an officer. “The CMDA has made it clear no families will be evacuated during the demolition.” Officers at Lalbazar said a traffic diversion plan had been worked out. “Vehicles will be diverted from Rabindra Sarani to Beadon Street or down Strand Road North and Jadulal Mullick Road to Beadon Street,” said a senior police officer. All vehicles headed towards Posta will move through Nimtolla Ghat Street to reach Beadon Street. Cars from MG Road will be diverted through Rabindra Sarani to Beadon Row, Beadon Street or BK Pal Avenue. Traders dotting the stretch between Ganesh Talkies and the Posta market have been told that trucks and other heavy vehicles would be restricted on the stretch for the next month and a half. The state government has engaged a Mumbai-based company, which specialises in demolition of concrete structures, to pull down the 2.2km flyover. Senior officials of the company, which had razed the Majherhat bridge, said the biggest challenge would be pulling down the concrete deck slabs, which are very close to some of the buildings on Vivekananda Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Refund order to AMRI and Iris hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Monday ordered AMRI Hospitals and Iris Multispeciality Hospital to refund various amounts to patients’ families after it found that the hospitals did not offer discounts on medicines, consumables and tests. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said the refunds were ordered because the hospitals did not adhere to various advisories issued by the commission over time. The commission asked AMRI Dhakuria to return around Rs 1.17 lakh to the family of a 58-year-old man who was admitted to the hospital with Covid-19 in June. Banerjee said the commission found that the hospital did not offer discounts on “medicines, consumables, pathology and radiology”. “We have asked the hospital to return Rs 1,17,270. The hospital has promised to return the money within a month,” said Banerjee. AMRI Mukundapur has been asked to return Rs 60,000 to a patient’s family for not offering similar discounts. The 51-year-old resident from Howrah’s Santragachhi was treated at the hospital between June 27 and July 10. Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, told Metro the hospitals were following all advisories. “One of the cases today pertained to a patient who had medical insurance. The commission had earlier said that its advisories would not apply to patients with medical insurance coverage. Now it has said the discounts have to be offered on the portion of the bill paid by the patient’s relatives themselves. We have agreed to this,” said Barua. The commission has asked Iris Multispeciality Hospital in Ganguly Bagan to return Rs 1 lakh to a patient’s family for the same reason. “We examined the bill and found that the discounts were not offered. They also did not follow the advisory on doctors’ fees. We have asked the hospital to return Rs 1 lakh. The hospital will return the money in four instalments,” said Banerjee. The hospital was also cautioned for demanding Rs 1 lakh in advance while admitting the patient. “The patient party was asked to deposit Rs 1 lakh, but they did not have the amount with them. They alleged that hospital employees misbehaved with them. Finally, the patient party had to inform police, who turned up to get the patient admitted. The patient’s family gave some amount during admission and had to give it in writing that they would deposit the remaining amount the next day,” said Banerjee. “The hospital could not give any justification for demanding Rs 1 lakh in advance. We have cautioned that we will take action (against them) if similar complaints come again,” Banerjee said. An official of Iris hospital refused to comment. In August last year, the commission had asked private hospitals to offer Covid-19 patients discounts on the maximum retail price (MRP) of medicines and consumables to lessen the burden on patients or their families. The commission had fixed a 10 per cent discount on medicines and 20 per cent on consumables. If hospitals were unable to offer the discount, they should allow a patient’s family to buy medicines and consumables from outside where discounts are offered, the commission had mentioned in the advisories. Later, the commission issued another advisory saying that the discounts should be offered to all non-Covid patients as well. The commission had also said that a hospital could charge up to Rs 2,000 as doctor’s consultation fee if a doctor visited a patient more than once in a day. For one visit a day, the fee was capped at Rs 1,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Family from Baranagar moves Calcutta High Court with plea for rape probe||A family from Baranagar has moved Calcutta High Court seeking a CID probe into the alleged rape of a teenager and claimed that Baranagar police station has been slack in investigating the complaint. Family members said the medical report of the victim had not yet reached them and some police officers were nudging them to strike a compromise with the accused. According to the complaint, two youths from Baranagar — Pritam Pal and Bablu Mondal — raped the teenager after luring her to accompany them on a short trip. Later, the accused allegedly took her to Basirhat, in North 24-Parganas, where they tried to sell her. The next day the family lodged a complaint with Baranagar police station and the two accused youths were arrested. The family alleged that despite repeated requests, the police had not drawn up a case under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Instead, they have drawn up an FIR on charges of kidnapping and wrongful confinement following kidnapping. On Monday, the family moved the high court and filed a writ petition claiming that the police had been allegedly asking the family to strike a deal with the accused and their associates. “If someone from their family had undergone a similar trauma, would they have struck a deal with the accused?” asked the girl’s mother. “The police have not searched the house of the accused. Even the two-wheeler that was used has not been seized.” The family’s lawyer said the writ petition demands shifting the probe from the jurisdiction of Baranagar police station to another agency, such as the CID, for a fair investigation. The police said the FIR was drawn up the day the family had lodged a complaint with Baranagar police station. “In her statement to the court, the victim said she had been raped. Subsequently, the Pocso Act was added and the medical tests of the accused and the victim were conducted,” said an officer of the Barrackpore police commissionerate, to which Baranagar police station reports. “It is still not clear where the police failed in discharging their duty. The two accused have been remanded in judicial custody and investigation is on.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
24-08-2021||Calcutta||‘Drunk’ doctor hits app bike near Lake Gardens flyover, two injured||A 54-year-old woman who was returning home on an app driven motorcycle after tying rakhi on her brothers at her parents’ house met with an accident near the Lake Gardens flyover and was hospitalised with head injuries on Sunday night. The man at the wheel of the Swift Dzire that hit the bike was allegedly in an inebriated state, police said. The accused is a doctor. Mili Mukherjee, a homemaker, had hired a two-wheeler to return home to Parnasree when the accident happened. “The surge for app cabs was too high. So, my wife hired a two-wheeler. I later came to know that when she was crossing Lake Kalibari, a Swift Dzire that was being driven in a reckless manner shoved the bike in such a way that the two-wheeler lost balance and fell,” said husband Prosenjit Mukherjee. The app bike rider suffered injuries on his back. The car, after the accident, came to a screeching halt in the middle of the road and was surrounded by people, the police said. The accident happened around 9.25pm. A passer-by who found Prosenjit’s number on Mili’s phone alerted him by 9.30pm. “I was told that the police were taking her and the bike driver to Baghajatin State General Hospital. Later, we shifted her to a private hospital. She has suffered head injuries. Doctors have suggested a CT scan,” Prosenjit said. The man at the wheel, whom the police identified as a doctor, was handed over to Charu Market police station, where a case of rash and negligent driving under the influence of alcohol was drawn up. The accused underwent a medical test to ascertain whether he was intoxicated. An officer of Charu Market police station said there were two other occupants in the car — a doctor and an engineer — who have also been prosecuted under the Calcutta police suburban act. “They were intoxicated, too, and did nothing to stop their friend from driving in a dangerous way,” the officer said. The car has been seized. A stethoscope was found on the dashboard of the car. The police refused to divulge the identity of the doctor at the wheel. A senior police officer said it was practically impossible to carry out a drive against drink driving during the pandemic situation using breathalysers. A breathalyser is a machine where a motorist is asked to blow air through his or her mouth to ascertain the percentage of alcohol in the blood. The test includes physical contact with the machine and so, during the pandemic, it cannot be shared without proper sanitisation before every use.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Roads, streets in Salt Lake plunge into darkness as soon as sun sets ||Several roads and streets in Salt Lake plunge into darkness as soon as the sun sets because the streetlights don’t work. Residents of several blocks across Sector I, II and III said they think twice before driving or walking down the stretches after dusk. A 4-km road that connects EM Bypass to Salt Lake along the Eastern Drainage Channel has streetlights at 20 metre intervals but none of them work. This road — starts from the Chingrighata crossing to EE Block — connects several blocks as well as housing complexes of the township, including the Jal Vayu Vihar and Mahavir Vikas complexes, and KB, KC and IC blocks in Sector III and FF and EE blocks in Sector II. To add to the worries of the motorists and pedestrians construction materials like concrete blocks, sand and iron rods remain scattered on the sides of the road for the ongoing construction of the Airport-New Garia Metro Railway viaduct. Apart from this dud cables are strewn along several stretches of the road that make it extremely dangerous for pedestrians and two-wheeler riders. Similarly several stretches of Broadway, a nearly 3-km artery that connects EM Bypass with Salt Lake, including a 1-km stretch in front of Central Park, have streetlights installed every 20 metre but none of them are functional. The crater-filled road leading towards Anindita Island from tank number 13 in IB Block does not have a single light that works. Partha Chowdhury, a resident of the block, said the lights were defunct for over two months. “I avoid driving on the stretch at night. My car had a flat tyre after I hit a pothole that I failed to spot in the dark,” said Chowdhury. Ranojay Paul, a resident of HA Block, also said half the streetlights in their block had become defunct and the others were not bright enough.  “The lights that work produce long shadows instead of illuminating the streets," said Paul. The mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Krishna Chakraborty, said she would send in a team to make a list of defunct streetlights in Salt Lake and the adjoining areas. “We will send in a team to first conduct a survey and then start the repairs,” said Chakraborty. Another civic official said the member of te board of administrators, who was in charge of lighting, had been asked to step down. “The electrical department doesn't have a head now and so all the work is pending,” the official said. According to him, a project — Alo Amar Alo — was launched to replace all sodium vapour lamps in Salt Lake and its adjoining areas, including Baguiati, airport and parts of Rajarhat, with LED lights. “But we have not been able to do that yet because of internal problems,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Evaluation the last thing. First is how much we are learning: Amartya Sen||Creating the right atmosphere for learning and acquiring knowledge come first and evaluation comes only in the end, said Nobel laureate Amartya Sen while addressing teachers, students, social workers and healthcare workers in an online session on Sunday evening. During the session, the economist was asked about the evaluation system and the reopening of schools. Both have been prickly issues in the state. Schools, colleges and universities have been closed almost entirely since March 2020 because of Covid-19. Many individuals and organisations, including the CPM’s student arm SFI, have been demanding immediate resumption of in-person classes. The Mamata Banerjee government, though, has chosen caution. Evaluation, too, has been a problem with allegations of over-marking and under-marking in equal measure in the absence of board exams. All board exams were scrapped this year because of the pandemic. Sen’s opinion on the resumption of in-person classes will give the state government some comfort. He said the closure of schools was damaging for children but if reopening meant exposing them to infection, it had to be thought about carefully. Sen, who had joined from Boston, was a speaker at Reimagining Learning, a web discussion on children’s education, health and the environment — three core aspects of a sustainable future — organised by Pratichi’s Sahojog. Sen is the chairman of Pratichi (India) Trust. Excerpts from his talk Evaluation I would say that a lot of times we give more importance to evaluation. Evaluation is absolutely the last work. First work is to prepare the atmosphere for acquiring knowledge, the second work is acquiring knowledge. After that it is to see how much one could move ahead and how to assess that and then comes evaluation. I am not saying that it has no value. But we have to judge the value of it by giving attention to the bigger problems. My principal opinion is that evaluation is absolutely the last thing. The first thing is how much we are learning, how much we are studying, how much we are understanding and how we are able to move ahead. It needs to be discussed what is the relation of these with that of the errors of the evaluation. But what we do not want to do is to see evaluation in a big way. Evaluation is necessary, that is right, but how much is required, in what way it will be required and how we can use it, that we need to see. Not just evaluation, but what is the connection between learning, of real learning, with evaluation - to have some more discussion on that. Reopening schools It is true that if schools are closed, it is damaging for children. But if reopening increases the chances of children getting a disease, then we need to think about it. The place where I stay in America, there is an argument between two groups on this. Even in India in various places there is a reason for different opinions. Had I been an expert in the field of medicine and if I had intense knowledge about social sciences, I could have answered these questions quickly. That is not possible. I know it is a big problem. It would be belittling the problem if I quickly say that school should remain closed or school should be anyhow opened. We have to think. And in that it would be seen on many occasions that what is applicable in Birbhum’s eastern part might not be applicable to Bankura's western region. We have to think and lay stress on these problems. This does not have a quick answer. It would have been good had we had an answer to this and something that could have been implemented whenever we wanted to. But that is not the situation we are in. And we need to think about what is more damaging and what is more profitable. These questions and these finer points cannot be bypassed, is what my understanding is.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Schools to reopen after puja break if Covid situation doesn't get worse: Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said her government was keen to reopen schools after the Puja break, provided the Covid situation remains under control and “the third wave is not as dangerous”. “I have already said the schools will reopen after Puja. We will have the schools sanitised before they are reopened. (The schools will reopen) provided the third wave is not as dangerous. It depends on the situation. So far, the situation in Bengal is stable. Positivity rate is hovering around 1 per cent. But we want the situation to remain stable,” the chief minister said at Nabanna. The state government will try to reopen schools and colleges “on alternate days” after the Puja vacation, Mamata had said on August 5. The positivity rate had soared to 33 per cent during the peak of the second wave in May. “If the third wave strikes, I cannot control myself because every state is facing it. Even in Maharashtra, then Kerala, it is increasing day by day. I do not know what the situation will be tomorrow. But today I can tell you that it is in control,” Mamata said on Monday. “We want the students to go to school. But the only thing is that we have to plan something. Since Puja is around the corner, schools will be reopened after Puja, after Diwali, provided the situation remains normal.” Diwali is in early Nov-ember. In Bengal, schools had resumed in-person classes for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. The classes were suspended on April 21 because of a renewed spike in the number of Covid cases. Students of Classes III to VIII and those in colleges and universities have been away from campuses since March 2020. In early August, Mamata had spoken of reopening following a meeting with the state's global advisory board on Covid-19, headed by Nobel laureate economist Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee. An official of the school education department said Mamata was in constant touch with the board and would take a decision after consulting the members. “When the schools reopened in February, teachers and students in several schools tested positive…. It is true that lack of in-person classes is weakening the foundation of many students, but the state government wants to tread cautiously,” the official said. The state has around 59,000 primary and 18,000 secondary schools, close to 550 colleges and more than 40 universities. In neighbouring Odisha, the schools have reopened this month. Considering the adverse impact stemming from disconnect with studies, NIT Durgapur is setting up two virtual classrooms in Bankura and Purulia, where teachers and students of the institute will offer free tutorials to underprivileged students from Classes VIII to X. Students of Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, are offering free tutorials to school students over online platforms. Saugata Basu, of the government school teachers’ association, said reopening of campuses, particularly for Classes X and XII, was required so the students could undergo as many internal assessments as possible. If the Class X and XII board exams are cancelled next year, too, the scores in the internal assessments will help determine their board performance. “While preparing the HS results, the higher secondary council this year gave 40 per cent weightage to a student’s performance in the Class X board exams and 60 per cent to Class XI annual exam marks. This led to a sharp drop among top graders, subjecting them to tougher competition for admission to undergraduate courses based on marks,” said Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
