01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Officials of Tablighi Jamaat charged with defying restrictions||With at least 24 of its occupants testing positive for the novel coronavirus, an Islamic centre in the national capital has turned out to be the latest hotspot of COVID-19. More than 400 people with symptoms were admitted to different hospitals and over 1,100 shifted to government-run quarantine facilities in Delhi alone over Monday and Tuesday, officials said. Hundreds of others who returned home after staying at the centre over the last fortnight might have carried the virus to several States, authorities fear. Thousands of people from across the country, as well as from Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Saudi Arabia, attended a gathering at the centre earlier this month over a number of days, officials said. A large number of them were stuck on the premises as the country went into lockdown on March 24. Markaz Nizamuddin is the international headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat, a puritanical Islamic sect. The Delhi police on Tuesday registered a case against Maulana Saad and others from Tablighi Jamaat under Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, read with Sections 269, 270, 271 and 120-B of the IPC, for violation of government directions in respect of restriction of gatherings and safety measures, including physical- distancing. ‘No transport available’ The centre said, in a statement, that many participants could not leave as all means of transport came to an abrupt halt on March 24, though it tried to make special arrangements with permission from the authorities. “Under such compelling circumstances, there was no option for Markaz Nizamuddin but to accommodate the stranded visitors with prescribed medical precautions till the situation becomes conducive to their movement or arrangements are made by the authorities.” Close community interactions in prayer, dining and travel among Jamaat followers put them at a high risk of the contagion. Participants at the recent congregation included people from Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala — in cases already known. One of those who attended, a Srinagar-based businessman, died on March 26. He had travelled by air, train and road to Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and back to Jammu and Kashmir. At least 300 people who came in contact with him have been put under quarantine.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Treat migrants humanely, SC tells officials||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the police and the authorities to treat migrant workers journeying home in fear of COVID-19 in a humane manner. “We expect those concerned to appreciate the trepidation of the poor men, women and children and treat them with kindness... The anxiety and fear of the migrants should be understood by the police and other authorities. As directed by the Union of India, they should deal with the migrants in a humane manner. Considering the situation, we are of the opinion that the State governments/Union Territories should endeavour to engage volunteers along with the police to supervise the welfare activities for the migrants,” a Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, said. The court ordered the government to ensure that migrant workers stopped from crossing the inter-State borders were given food, shelter and medicines. The government said it was imperative to stop the mass migration as there was a likelihood that three out of every 10 workers might be carrying the coronavirus. The court expressed its satisfaction with the government measures. The Bench, through videoconferencing, asked the government to urge community and religious leaders to speak to the migrant workers lodged in shelters. It asked the government to have trained counsellors talk to the workers. Authentic information The court directed the government, represented by Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, to set up an expert committee and a dedicated portal within 24 hours to disseminate authentic information about the virus and stop the spread of fake news. A status report filed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs said the propagation of deliberate or inadvertent false information was the “single most unimaginable hindrance” faced by the government in its battle against the virus. The Bench, comprising Justice L. Nageswara Rao, asked the government to follow up on persons identified as infected and quarantined. Mr. Mehta said the lockdown was necessary to stop the spread of infection, and all the people found walking back were shifted to the nearest shelters. Chief Justice Bobde said that Section 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant) of the IPC makes it a penal offence to disobey orders made by government authorities in public interest. The court, on March 30, sought a report from the government on the steps taken about the largescale movement of workers. Tuesday’s order came on petitions by advocates Alakh Alok Srivastava and Rashmi Bansal for a direction to the government to redress the “heart-wrenching and inhuman plight of thousands of migrant workers” walking back to their villages from the cities without essentials.
01 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Positive cases shoot up to 44 in State||Andhra Pradesh reported 21 new COVID-19 positive cases from seven districts on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 44. A majority of them are connected to the religious meeting conducted by Tablighi Jamaat in the Nizamuddin area of New Delhi, according to the latest bulletin by the Health Department. Among the new patients is a 10-year-old boy, the youngest to contract the virus in the State so far, from Lepakshi in Anantapur who is a close contact of Mecca returnee in Karnataka. Along with the boy, a 34-year-old female in Lepakshi also contracted the virus from a patient who returned from Mecca and is being treated in Karnataka. Another patient is a 65-year-old man from East Godavari who returned from Madina in Saudi Arabia. In all, 18 patients are connected to the Tablighi Jamaat meeting and 16 of them attended it while two others contracted the virus from those who attended the meeting. Eight of them are from Prakasam district and five are from Guntur district while four are from Visakhapatnam, one is a 65-year-old woman from Vijayawada of Krishna district. Two of the COVID-19 positive persons who attended the religious meeting from Guntur are also contacts of the first Guntur man who tested positive a few days ago and returned from a meeting at a mosque at Nizamuddin in New Delhi. Earlier, six people with a connection to the meeting tested positive in Guntur and Prakasam districts. On the whole, 22 of the positive COVID-19 cases are related to the Tablighi Jamaat meeting and 17 cases are related to foreign returnees. The Wakf Board was roped in to reach out to the returnees and their families. The returnees have been asked to approach the authorities by dialling the 104 helpline. Many of the returnees were identified and surrounding areas were already put on high alert.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Positive cases cross 100 in Karnataka||Thirteen new COVID-19 cases were detected in the State on Tuesday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 101. One of the patients is a pregnant woman, who is stable. While two patients are in ICU, the remaining are responding to treatment. Among the new cases are three labourers from Hospet, two of whom had been in close contact with a person from Rajajinagar in Bengaluru. They had travelled to Bengaluru on March 16 by the Jan Shatabdi train and travelled back on 18 by Hospet Express, said Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education). Their contact tracing is underway. Primary contacts Addressing presspersons on Tuesday, Mr. Akhtar said among the new patients was the wife of a doctor who had attended to the 76-year-old patient from Kalaburagi who passed away. Many of the new patients were primary contacts of previously infected persons, he said. Speaking of the infections at Nanjangud in Mysuru district through a pharma company worker, Mr. Akhtar said the results of swabs of the raw material packages from the company had tested negative for COVID-19. “So, the possibility that the person could have contracted the infection from the packages has been ruled out. We are consulting with NIV, Pune, on whether we should test the raw material that the company got from China. We are also exploring if any foreign delegation or foreign visitors had come to the company prior to the first case showing symptoms,” he said. As the guidelines mandate that all those with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) should also be tested, the department has directed all private hospitals to mandatorily report to the District Surveillance Officer all SARI cases admitted under them. “We have also recommended the empiric use of Chloroquine tablets for prophylaxis of SARS-CoV-2 and instructed Deputy Commissioners to ensure that health workers are provided with the tablets. We have adequate stocks to administer the first dose of tablets to health workers — once a week for seven weeks. Their family members will be given the tablet once a week for three weeks,” he said, adding that more stock is in transit. No shortage of PPE kits Mr. Akhtar asserted that the State had adequate stock of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits to meet the requirement. “We have placed orders and the supplies we are getting are sufficient to meet our requirement. We are not really taking into account bulk supply. What we are more interested in is regular supply to meet our needs,” he said.
01 April 2020||PATNA,||Youth beaten to death in Bihar village||A youth in Bihar’s Sitamarhi district was beaten to death on March 29 for allegedly alerting the local authorities that two villagers who had returned from Mumbai recently could be infected with COVID-19. Two accused in the case have been arrested and sent to jail. Officials said Bablu Kumar Mahto, 20, had informed medical officials about two men from Madhaul village under Runni Saidpur block who had returned from Mumbai on March 20 following the lockdown. A team of doctors and officials reached the village on March 24 to take their samples for test. The two villagers and their families were furious with Bablu. “They caught him alone on March 29 and beat him up. He was severely injured and taken to Runni Saidpur primary health centre from where the doctors referred him to Shri Krishna Medical College and Hospital in neighbouring Muzaffarpur district. Bablu succumbed to his injuries on the way to hospital,” alleged Guddu Mahto, his brother. Later, Bablu’s father Vinod Kumar Mahto lodged a complaint at the local police station against six persons. The police have arrested two of them, Sudhir Mahato and Munna Kumar Mahato. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan expressed his grief in a tweet. “The killing of a youth in Bihar for giving information about COVID-19 suspects is very unfortunate. There is a need for all of us in society to stand united in these difficult times... Don’t shirk your responsibilities,” he tweeted in Hindi. ‘Personal enmity’ Senior police officers later said Bablu was killed due to personal enmity and not in a COVID-19-related scuffle. In another incident on March 30, a group of villagers attacked local administrative officials who went to Dayali Bigha in Jehanabad district to identify some people who had recently returned to the village. Several villagers The Hindu spoke to said no one returning to their villages from other States wants to go through the mandatory COVID-19 test fearing stigma. They get enraged whenever someone comes to identify them or inform about them to the authorities.
01 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State registers second COVID-19 death||The State recorded its second COVID-19 victim on Tuesday with the death of a 68-year-old man, who had been in an ICU at the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) with severe co-morbidities for the past one week. An official statement issued by the MCH said the deceased, a native of Vavarambalam at Pothencode here, had been admitted to the ICU on March 23 and his condition had worsened as he had severe co-morbidities, including high blood pressure and thyroid-related issues. He had been on ventilator for the past five days after his kidneys failed, requiring him to be on dialysis. His first test result on March 26 had come as negative and it was the second sample result on March 29 which showed him to be positive for COVID-19. The death occurred at 2.30 a.m. on Tuesday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, briefing the media, said the case was being studied closely to ascertain whether it could be a case of community spread as the Health Department had not been able to pinpoint the source of infection. Plan for Kasaragod He said that a special action plan was being planned in Kasaragod where the maximum COVID-19 cases had been reported and where the potential for transmission seemed to be high. Under the plan, a panchayat-level data would be collected of those who have any respiratory disease as well as their contacts and samples would be sent for testing. Seven test positive On Tuesday, seven people newly tested positive in the State. Mr. Vijayan said all except one of these cases were primary contacts. Two cases each were from Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod, while one case each was from Kollam, Kannur and Thrissur. Kerala has so far reported 241 COVID-19 cases, out of which 215 are currently under treatment. There have been two deaths, while 24 recovered from the illness and have since been discharged. Over 1.63 lakh people are currently in the surveillance network, including 658 who have been isolated in hospitals. Kasaragod has the maximum number of people isolated in hospitals at 163, Kannur has 108 and Malappuram 102. He said the Aster group had offered a COVID-19 package deal wherein the government could utilise 750 of its hospital beds in various districts. Aster DM group has also offered the service of its doctors in Aster hospitals to treat people who are isolated in buildings around the hospitals in various districts. This, the Chief Minister, said was something the Health Department was already contemplating because it would keep suspected COVID-19 patients from mixing with others in regular hospitals and amplifying the transmission of infection.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Three quasi-subspecies of virus in circulation, says ICMR||A mixture of three quasi-subspecies of SARS-CoV-2 is in circulation in India, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Tuesday. These imported variants showed no differences from how they behaved in the place of origin. Scientists are yet to classify a SARS-Cov-2 variant as an Indian strain. R. Gangakhedkar, head of the ICMR’s Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases-I Division, said, “India’s COVID-19 cases were mainly from people with travel history and their immediate contacts, which is to say that this virus was brought in from outside. We are not seeing any variation from what is being seen on how this strain is behaving around the world. So there is no difference in its severity. However, in a large country like India, it’s difficult to predict an accurate trend about the progression of COVID-19 because we still don’t have enough time gap between the upswing of cases.” This, he explained, did not change India’s reporting, isolation or testing protocol. He said the progression in terms of cases could not be compared with any other country as of now and people should be looking at the risk of exposure and adherence to physical distancing.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Forced to stay back, these workers now battle hunger||‘Stay home and stay safe’, the global slogan to contain the spread of coronavirus doesn’t sound too convincing to Mohammed Hakim and his associates who, unlike many other migrants, were forced to stay back and are battling hunger each day. Their names are listed on ration cards but the cards, along with their families, are at home in Bihar. Living five to six persons in one windowless room at shanties behind the Jal Vihar bus terminal in the shadow of the posh Lajpat Nagar 1 colony in Delhi, they are now struggling to get one meal a day. “There are about 180 of us from Katihar who live here. Majority of us drive auto-rickshaws or pull cycle-rickshaws for a living. On March 28, many of us, by then having exhausted whatever little money we had, couldn’t get anything to eat. Then there were rumours that the lockdown will continue for three months. That jolted the others who still had some money to head home,” Mr. Hakim says. For them it’s a race between the fear of an unknown virus and very real hunger pangs.
01 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS bid to trace close contacts of Delhi returnees||Tracing the primary and secondary contacts of close to 2,000 people who recently returned to Telangana from a two-day religious programme in Delhi is the task staring at the State police machinery right now. As number of coronavirus positive cases among these returnees started rising, intelligence and local police teams are going to every nook and corner of the State to identify their primary and secondary contacts. Identification of these contacts, also described as close and casual contacts, has become crucial to check further spread of COVID-19. Preliminary inquiries suggested that there could be a few hundred persons from the State who attended the meeting in Delhi. When a septuagenarian from Hyderabad died while undergoing treatment at a hospital late on Saturday, routine inquiries by Health and police officials revealed that he returned to city after attending a religious meeting in Delhi. With his samples testing positive for COVID-19, police began verifying with Delhi authorities only to realise that close to 2,000 people from Telangana participated in the Delhi meeting. Late on Monday night, police identified nearly 1,300 members. By Tuesday evening, 700 more were identified. “The figure is likely to rise at least by another 200 from the inputs we are getting from districts,” a police officer unwilling to be named said. Biggest challenge Police have details of about 2,000 persons who had travelled to Delhi and returned to the State. But the biggest challenge for them is tracing their primary and secondary contacts. “We are sending these people to hospitals for tests and quarantine. Immediate family members are their primary contacts and all of them are being home quarantined,” police officials said. During initial inquiries, not many people came forward to divulge details of fellow participants at the Delhi meeting. “But when word spread that six of those who attended the meeting died , many voluntarily started giving details,” the police said. Along with details of railway reservations, the police are trying to identify how many travelled in general compartments to reach Telangana. “No one has clear information on this. Nevertheless, we’re trying our best to trace them,” the authorities said. Not leaving anything to chance, police teams are asking the Delhi meeting attendees to recall who all they met and where all they moved after their return. List of persons they had met and places they had gone around are being prepared to identity secondary contacts. “Considerable number of these people are from middle or lower middle class families. Taking all facts and circumstances into consideration, efforts are on to ascertain to what extent the virus might have spread,” the police officials said.
01 April 2020||Pune,||Highest 24-hour surge; tally touches 302||Maharashtra reported a surge of 82 COVID-19 positive cases over a 24-hour span on Tuesday. The State’s tally has now shot to 302, with Mumbai alone registering 59 fresh cases. New cases have also been reported from Pune, Thane, Buldhana and Ahmednagar districts, and Mumbai’s suburban areas. Steep spike This is the State’s biggest surge in a single day since the novel coronavirus outbreak. With this steep rise, Mumbai’s tally of positive cases stands at 159; Ahmednagar district’s total figure has gone up to eight, with three new cases; and Pune district’s overall number is 48 with five fresh cases. The tally in Thane and other municipal corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, including Kalyan-Dombivli, stands at 36, said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. He said, “A total of 23,913 people have been directed to be in home quarantine, while 1,434 people are in institutional quarantine facilities.” In Buldhana, the administration sealed off the district in Amravati division at 33 points after two new cases were reported. On March 28, a 45-year-old man died of pneumonia in the district. The next day, his test results returned positive despite the man not having any history of foreign or domestic travel. The administration has placed 60 people in institutional quarantine facilities who may have come into contact with the deceased. It is likely that the new cases are of those who had made contact with the man. In Ahmednagar district, authorities said the three new cases that were reported from Jamkhed tehsil were of people who had come into contact with a group of 14 foreign nationals who had entered the district a fortnight ago to visit religious places. Among this group, a French national and another person from Ivory Coast in West Africa had tested positive. “The new patients in Jamkhed had come into contact with the foreigners who were diagnosed for the virus,” said District Collector Rahul Dwivedi.
01 April 2020||CHENNAI,||57 more test positive in T.N.; highest single-day rise||Tamil Nadu recorded its highest ever single-day rise in the number of persons testing positive for coronavirus disease (COVID-19) on Tuesday: a total of 57 persons tested positive, taking the total tally to 124. Of them, 50 — all men — had travelled to Nizamuddin in Delhi to take part in a conference in March. Twenty-two of them were from Tirunelveli; 18 from Namakkal district (12 from Namakkal, one from Paramathi Velur and five from Rasipuram); three from Villupuram; two from Madurai; four from Kanyakumari and one from Tuticorin. All patients are undergoing treatment in isolation wards of government medical college hospitals. The Health department has traced 515 of the 1,131 persons, who returned after the conference in Nizamuddin, to various districts of the State. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh made an appeal to the remaining persons who had attended the conference to come forward and report to officials so that they could be quarantined, thereby preventing transmission to their family members and the community. “If we identify them [people who returned from Delhi after attending a conference] and isolate them and cordon off the area, further spread in Tamil Nadu can be prevented,” Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam told reporters. He also said some of those who returned have either switched off their phones or have left for some other location. Dr. Rajesh said many of them returned to the State by flight and train, while some of them visited other States and reached parts of the State by road. “Intensive containment plans were rolled out in all areas, where the persons, who had returned from Nizamuddin and tested positive, resided. We are tracing the contacts of all 515 persons, and have cordoned off the localities. We are in the process of involving the police in tracing the others. This is why we have requested those who had attended the conference to come forward. Even if they have travelled to some other State, they can inform us,” she said. Among the remaining seven patients, four were from Chennai, and were admitted in Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) and private hospitals. A 43-year-old man, a resident of Pozhichalur with travel history to Trivandrum, tested positive and is admitted to RGGGH. He is a family contact of a previously positive patient, 73-year-old woman of Pammal, who had no travel history. A 28-year-old co-worker of another earlier patient, a 25-year-old woman who worked in a shopping mall in Chennai, has also tested positive. He is admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Tiruvannamalai. A 35-year-old man from Kanyakumari also tested positive and is admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kanyakumari. The number of persons under hospital isolation increased from 364 on Monday to 630 on Tuesday. A total of 2,354 samples were lifted for testing so far. As of now, 77,330 persons including those who had arrived at airports, and in trains, persons with travel history identified during door-to-door surveillance are under home quarantine. The State got the approval from the Union Health Ministry for establishing more testing facilities - Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, Microbiology Lab, Veerakeralam Road, Coimbatore and YRG Care, Chennai. With this, TN has 11 testing facilities in the government sector and six laboratories in the private sector for COVID-19 testing. Meanwhile, the Greater Chennai Corporation appealed to those who visited the Visa Application Centre in Good Shepherd Building on Kodambakkam High Road in Chennai on March 15 to “home quarantine and isolate” themselves as one person who was there on that day has tested positive for COVID-19.
01 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||15 new cases in State||The number of active COVID-19 cases in Telangana rose to 77 after 15 new cases were detected on Tuesday. All the 15 new patients are people who returned from Markaz, New Delhi, and their family members. From March 2, when the first case was reported in the State, this is the highest number of cases reported in a day. Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajender appealed to Delhi returnees, those with COVID-19 symptoms and their family members to undergo tests. Two people who were cured of the disease were discharged from Government General and Chest Hospital, Erragadda, on Tuesday. Nine more are expected to be discharged on Wednesday. Mr. Rajender also asked police not to stop people suffering from serious illnesses from visiting hospitals.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Indore cases cause concern||As most COVID-19 patients in Indore, where 17 persons tested positive on Tuesday, have no contact or travel history, health workers are grappling to identify the source, indicating that the city may already be witnessing the community transmission stage.Page 9
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. cuts interest rates on NSC, PPF||The government on Tuesday slashed interest rates on small savings schemes, including National Savings Certificate and Public Provident Fund, by up to 1.4% for the first quarter of 2020-21, in line with the moderation in bank deposit rates. Interest rates for small savings schemes are notified on a quarterly basis. With the reduction, term deposits of 1-3 years will now fetch an interest of 5.5% from the existing 6.9%, down 1.4%, according to a notification by the Finance Ministry. Interest rates are paid quarterly, while the five-year term deposit will earn 6.7%, down from the current rate of 7.7%.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Team to be set up in State||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that a special team will be set up to track all the people from Karnataka who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin. He estimates that about 300 may have attended, while the Health Department on Tuesday said that 78 people had been quarantined.Page 4
01 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Noida administration seals fire safety firm||The newly appointed District Magistrate of Gautam Buddha Nagar, Suhas L.Y., on Tuesday sealed a fire safety firm in Noida which is being linked to 29 COVID-19 cases in the district besides Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr and Bareilly. On Tuesday, another employee of the firm tested positive in Duhai village of Ghaziabad.
01 April 2020||JAIPUR/GUWAHATI,||COVID-19: MoUs signed with private hospitals||Scaling up its efforts to tackle the COVID-19 outbreak, the Rajasthan government has reserved 84 private hospitals, with a total bed capacity of 9,377, in Jaipur. The order came following a decision taken last week in Assam, where the Rajasthan government signed MoUs with private hospitals for “transferring the load of other patients”.
01 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Deferment of tax payment announced||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced deferment of cooperative loan repayment, payment of property tax and the like by three months in view of the COVID-19 lockdown. The measures would benefit numerous middle and low-income groups, farmers, and entrepreneurs. A ‘COVID Relief and Development Scheme’ would be implemented with Rs. 200 crore for providing loans for urgent capital requirements of about 2,000 MSME units that have obtained loans from Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation.
01 April 2020||Chennai,||Tahsildars authorised to issue passes for travel||The Tamil Nadu government has authorised tahsildars across the State to issue passes allowing people to travel within their districts to attend weddings (fixed earlier) and funerals and in case of health emergencies during the 21-day lockdown period. As for movement within the jurisdiction of the Greater Chennai Corporation, zonal officers concerned were authorised to issue passes.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,||312 train coaches to become isolation wards||South Western Railway is gearing up to convert 312 coaches into isolation and quarantine wards. They will be modified as per the prototype approved by the Railway Board, SWR said in a release on Tuesday. An official said it will benefit 2,400 people.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Protect pourakarmikas collecting waste: HC||Pointing out the risk posed to pourakarmikas while collecting waste from the houses where persons subjected to home quarantine reside, the Karnataka High Court has directed the State government to take special measures for protecting pourakarmikas who collect waste from such houses across the States.
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||Goa extends help to stranded tourists||Goa is doing all it can for the 1,000-plus tourists stranded in the coastal State. As the sixth relief flight with 133 Russians left for Moscow on Tuesday, taking the number of evacuated foreign tourists to 930, the Goa Police put out videos showing its personnel providing supplies to tourists from the U.K.
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||Bimbisar Nagar, Dahisar slum in lockdown||Part of Bimbisar Nagar in Goregaon and Ambavadi slum in Dahisar (East) were sealed off on Tuesday after five people tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has disinfected both the areas and is monitoring residents. At Bimbisar Nagar, a resident who had returned from the U.K. was found positive along with two others.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ministry, Scientific Adviser differ on mask use||India’s highest science advisory body, the office of the Principal (PSA), and the Union Health Ministry appear out of sync on whether masks should be widely used by people. The Ministry’s standing recommendation is that not everybody should be wearing masks. Among those who are not healthcare workers, only those who had a cough or exhibited signs of a flu or a respiratory illness need to be wearing them as did those caring for COVID-19 patients. The reason this isn’t recommended for the public at large — though now almost anyone on the street can be seen to be wearing them — is that it will lead to a shortage and unavailability for doctors, nurses and other hospital staff. On Tuesday, however, the office of the PSA through the Press Information Bureau recommended the widespread use of masks. It endorsed, above all, home-made masks that could easily be made and were reusable with washing and sanitising. “The proposed guide is meant to provide a simple outline of best practices to make, use and reuse masks to enable NGOs and individuals to self-create such masks and accelerate widespread adoption of masks across India. The key criteria for proposed designs are ease of access to materials, easy of making at home, and ease of use and reuse. Wearing of masks is especially recommended for people living in densely populated areas across India,” notes the advisory. The office of the PSA is a key coordinating agency among government scientific bodies and industry to accelerate decisions on dealing with COVID-19. It does not recommend the use of the health mask or the N95 mask that are expensive, not-reusable and largely used in hospital settings. K. Vijay Raghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The Health Ministry, which is the nodal agency for monitoring the pandemic, said it was “studying the recommendations” of the office of the PSA. Health Ministry spokesperson Lav Agrawal said at the daily press briefing on Tuesday, “The World Health Organization hasn’t given a categorical opinion on its [mask] usage. However, a technical committee is looking into this issue and suitable guidelines will be issued soon. Our stress is on social distancing. We request that not everyone wear a mask. We have defined guidelines on who should and shouldn’t be wearing one.” Raman Gangakhedkar, who was also at the briefing as a representative of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “There’s a wide gap between the number of cases in the United States and India and the risk of exposure isn’t as much here. Hence only those sick or at risk of exposure should be wearing them.” Other than the question of shortage, the scientific consensus was that COVID-19 was not an airborne disease and most people contracted it through coming into contact with infectious droplets picked up from surfaces. “The government's policy regarding the use of masks is evolving. Probably they are now taking more notice of the fact there may be a sizeable number of asymptomatic carriers of the infection — some studies suggest nearly 25% of COVID-19 infected may be asymptomatic — and wearing a mask is a good precautionary measure,” said Sunit Singh, molecular virologist, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University. The March 31 advisory from the office of the PSA recommends the use of home-made cotton masks that are reusable after appropriate washing and disinfection that can be done at home.
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||Air India pilots flag poor protective equipment||Air India pilots have expressed their concern over “flimsy protective gear, inadequate sanitisers, shoddy disinfection procedure” and a lack of quarantine arrangements as they embark on flights chartered by countries such as Germany and the U.K. to repatriate their citizens stranded in India due to the nationwide lockdown over COVID-19. Two pilots’ unions, the Executive Pilots of Air India and Indian Pilots’ Guild, have written to Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri raising questions about their safety as they continue to work on the front line during a pandemic. The unions represent nearly 500 pilots who operate the wide-bodied planes such as Boeing 787, 747 and 777. The March 30 letter states that the personal protective equipment is “ill-fitting and flimsy and tears easily on rescue flights, sanitisers are not provided in sufficient quantities and disinfection processes are short of industry best practices.” They also point out that the airline has not made any arrangements for crew members to go into a quarantine, who are then forced to join their families despite operating flights to some of the global hotspots of COVID-19. ‘Poor facilities’ The pilots have also raised questions about the lack of medical facilities as the Air India Medical Services Department has been allowed to work from home, which the cockpit crew say implies, “that any illness suffered by the crew or their families because of these high-risk flights is the sole responsibility of the crew.” While the airline has not provided any additional medical insurance to crew members to cover them for any COVID-19 related risks, it has gone a step further and recently advised its employees, “enquiries on reimbursement of bills, sick leave, fitness certificate, are considered as undesirable.” While some of these pilots have operated special flights to Wuhan and Rome to bring back Indians and have operated flights for countries like Israel to help their citizens return home, they have not been paid 70% of their salaries for the past three months and “have also recently been informed by our management of a substantial pay cut, while in the midst of the above mentioned COVID rescue operations!”
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC upholds right to discuss COVID-19||The Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld the right to free discussion about COVID-19, even as it directed the media to refer to and publish the official version of the developments in order to avoid inaccuracies and large-scale panic. It ordered the government to start a daily bulletin on COVID-19 developments through all media avenues in the next 24 hours. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, was responding to a request from the Central government that media outlets, in the “larger interest of justice”, should only publish or telecast anything on COVID-19 after ascertaining the factual position from the government. A Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) report in the court, signed by Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, explained that “any deliberate or inaccurate” reporting by the media, particularly web portals, had a “serious and inevitable potential of causing panic in larger section of the society”. The Ministry said any panic reaction in the midst of an unprecedented situation based on such reporting would harm the entire nation. Creating panic is also a criminal offence under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the Ministry said. But the court took a view balancing free press and the need to avoid panic in society during an unprecedented crisis. “We expect the media [print, electronic or social] to maintain a strong sense of responsibility and ensure that unverified news capable of causing panic is not disseminated. A daily bulletin by the Government of India through all media avenues, including social media and forums to clear the doubts of people, would be made active within a period of 24 hours as submitted by the Solicitor- General of India. We do not intend to interfere with the free discussion about the pandemic, but direct the media refer to and publish the official version about the developments,” the court ordered. Noting that the 21-day nationwide lockdown was “inevitable” in the face of an “unprecedented global crisis” like the COVID-19 pandemic, the government blamed “fake and misleading” messages on social media for creating widespread panic, which led to mass “barefoot” journey of migrant workers from cities to their native villages in rural India. Fake news “Deliberate or inadvertent fake news and material capable of causing a serious panic in the minds of the public is found to be the single most unmanageable hindrance in the management of this challenge... Will set up a separate unit headed by a Joint Secretary-level officer in the Health Ministry and consisting of eminent specialist doctors from recognised institutions like AIIMS to answer the queries of citizens,” the Ministry’s 39-page status report said. The Ministry said the Narendra Modi government, in fact, took “pro-active, pre-emptive and timely” action 13 days before even the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a “public health emergency of international concern”. Very few countries responded as well as India. But the mass migration of the poor would defeat the preventive measures taken by the Central government, the Ministry said. It said “there was no necessity for migrant workers to rush to their villages” when the Centre, fully conscious that no citizen should be deprived of basic amenities, had announced a Rs. 1.70 lakh crore package under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to take care of their daily needs.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Petition in SC seeks free testing||A petition was filed on Tuesday in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the government to provide free COVID-19 testing in all laboratories, including private ones. The plea, filed by Delhi resident Shashank Deo Sudhi, challenged the legality of a March 17 advisory that caps the price for COVID-19 testing at Rs. 4,500. Mr. Sudhi said the advisory was both discriminatory and a violation of the fundamental right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution. “It is extremely difficult for the common citizen to get himself/herself tested in the government hospital/labs and being no alternative in the sight, the people are constrained to pay the capped amount to the private hospital/labs for protecting their lives. The respondents are completely insensitive and indifferent to the plight of the common citizen of the country who are already financially burdened on account of completely locked down with no possibility of being unlocked in recent future,” the petition said. In the alternative, the petition asked the court to direct the court to “ramp up the testing facilities at the earliest, given the escalating mortality and morbidity rate across the country”. Mr. Sudhi said the COVID-19 tests should be conducted under NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) accredited pathological laboratories as the non-accredited labs were not conforming to the standards of best practices prescribed by International Laboratory Accreditation Co-operation and Asia Pacific Accreditation Co-operation.
01 April 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Step up checking in patients’||At a time when hotspot containment measures are among the focus areas for prevention and control of the coronavirus outbreak (COVID-19), renowned virologist T. Jacob John has called for a shift in strategy — chasing the virus should be phased down and checking for the virus in infected persons should be stepped up. “This is not a hotspot transmitting virus but it is a virus that transmits everywhere... Containment measures have to continue. But now, containment measures should have 30% priority, and healthcare testing 70% priority. Healthcare checking is another way of containment measure as we will be finding infected people who had no travel history,” said Dr. John, retired professor of virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore. Silently infected That community-based transmission is happening in India is not accepted, he stated. “We do not see it because the majority of people are silently infected and only a few will show symptoms. We are not looking at symptomatic people. We are looking at test results, tests based on travel and contact with those who have travelled. That phase is more or less over. Continuing to chase people who had travelled and their contacts is alright if we have sufficient manpower and energy. But today, what we need to understand is that the virus has widely spread,” he stated. COVID-19 is a pandemic, meaning that all countries are affected. It means it is a widely transmitting virus, he said, adding: “In every pandemic, within countries, the virus will spread to every nook and corner where human beings live. Even in tribal areas where the neighbouring house is one mile away, the virus will reach there as people will have contact with someone. If not this month, next month. So that kind of a spread should be anticipated now, a widespread community spread is going to happen.” What should be done now? He said now is the time to prepare the healthcare system to face huge numbers of sick people. “That preparation is what we need now, not chasing the virus. Chasing the virus must be phased down and checking for the virus in sick people must be stepped up. The strategy from now onwards should be lesser and lesser on efforts paid for travel-related search and more emphasis on illness-related testing,” he said. Fever, cough Dr. John added that it was high time that the strategy be shifted to testing people with fever and cough. “Anybody with fever and cough must be checked. Additional symptoms like fatigue, headache, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, body ache are common to both influenza and COVID-19. High fever is common in COVID-19 but not in common cold. So, influenza and COVID-19 should be in one category, and all other respiratory infections in another. If there is a loss of smell, if taste disappears for one day, if there is breathing difficulty, it is more like COVID-19. Those people should be tested for influenza and COVID-19,” he explained. “The testing strategy must expand to illness testing as the virus is on the loose in the community. Whether the government accepts it or not, it is already in the community,” he said.
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra govt. to pay salaries in two instalments||As Maharashtra stares at a major economic crisis as a result of lockdown due to COVID-19, the State government has begun taking steps to cut down on the expenditure. In its first step, the government will be releasing salaries of March in two instalments. Deputy Chief Minister and State Finance Minister Ajit Pawar said the decision was taken considering the grim financial condition of the State as well as to give moral and financial support to the fight against coronavirus. “The State was to receive its due amount of Rs. 16,654 crore from the Central government by March 31. But it did not receive the amount even on the last day and as a result, the State government was forced to take the decision to disburse the salaries in two instalments,” he said. Mr. Pawar added that every employee would get the salary due, but in two instalments. This was a change from an earlier statement where he had said that there will be a salary cut of up to 60% due to the financial impact of coronavirus and lockdown. The earlier statement had said that salaries of all elected representatives, including the Chief Minister, the Deputy Chief Minister and all Ministers, would be cut. For the month of March, only 40% of the total salary, including to the representatives in local civic bodies, will be given, the statement had said. The earlier statement said that State government employees belonging to grade A and B will receive 50% salary, while Class C employees will get 75% of their remuneration. There will be no pay cut for Class D employees and no cuts in pension amount have been announced. This is applicable for the salaries of March and April 2020. However, a Government Resolution (GR) issued later said that the salaries would be given in two instalments and that there would be no cuts. According to sources in the Finance Department, the Maharashtra government spends around Rs. 12,000 crore per month on salaries of its employees. Mr. Pawar on Monday written to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman demanding a special package worth Rs. 25,000 crore for Maharashtra. He had also demanded Rs. 16,654 crore dues from the Centre. Meanwhile, Housing Minister Jirendra Awhad has said that he would donate his salary of the whole year for the relief work related to COVID-19.  It’s a crisis: Uddhav Issuing a clarification on the subject, in a social media address, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray too said there will be no salary cut of government employees. “After this war against corona is over, we will be facing a financial crisis. We have to take actions and be prepared for it from now itself. For that, we have taken some measures. We will be giving salaries of government employees in instalments. No salary cut has been announced,” said Mr. Thackeray, appealing to citizens to not trust rumours.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Preventing stigma requires a full-throated campaign’||Gita Sen , Director and Distinguished Professor, Ramalingaswami Centre on Equity & Social Determinants of Health (RCESDH), Public Health Foundation of India, speaks about how the stigma attached to COVID-19 is much like what was seen with HIV/AIDS and how it is a result of poor knowledge.  In this time of stress associated with COVID-19, why is a small group of people being stigmatised? How is this different from other health crises we have faced? Stigma and fear are the result of people’s poor knowledge about COVID-19 and how it spreads. This is compounded by the large amount of fake news and false information being generated today. Some groups face the additional element that discrimination against them is already there, and COVID-19 has become one more reason to stigmatise them. In terms of stigma, the closest we have come is with HIV/AIDS patients. But HIV-related stigma did not extend, in general, to health workers. Which are the groups most vulnerable to stigma related to COVID-19? Three sets of people are being stigmatised now: (i) those in quarantine, whether they have tested positive or not — many State governments are violating medical ethics codes by publicising address details, marking doors of their homes with stickers and even large posters, stamping them with indelible ink — and stories are coming in of people being thrown out of their homes, shunned, etc (ii) health workers from doctors down to the frontline workers are facing stigma and discrimination including losing their homes because their landlords somehow think they will be contagious, and (iii) those who traditionally face discrimination like migrant workers, people from the northeast, victims of religious or other persecution. What can we as government/community do to prevent this? We have a long way to go because we haven’t even fully acknowledged the economic and health challenges of 80% of our people in what we have done so far. The main responses put forward thus far, needed as they may be, such as social distancing, hand washing and sanitising, nourishing food are out of reach for the large majority of people. The most vulnerable groups to the virus are the poor in urban slums, migrant workers with no homes, people living in close proximity with little possibility of social distancing or even hand-washing. Very important among them are women who are the traditional providers of home-based health care, which is where many poor people get their health care. These same citizens of our country are undernourished and have few resources to combat non-communicable diseases even in ordinary times. Think of a woman who has to feed her family, take care of sick people and is herself suffering from poor general health — that is the section that is going to be very vulnerable. Preventing stigma requires a full-throated campaign of public information. How good it would be if the Union Health Minister were to give a daily briefing to let people know what is happening, together with creative social media campaigns about the virus itself that gets rid of the stigma? How valuable it would be if the Prime Minister were to speak against stigma, on behalf of health workers, on behalf of migrant workers and those suffering discrimination, in support of women? We need clear, informative and fun messages of the kind that our social marketers surely know how to produce. Think how creative a series of Amul ads could be! People also need to understand that the same health worker that you stigmatise today may be the one who you may have to turn to tomorrow. What effect would this have on the groups of people who are discriminated against? It would have the effect of removing the fear that the COVID-19 information barrage is creating. And that is the most important need.  The health worker that you stigmatise today may be the one you have to turn to tomorrow
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Exodus could have been avoided’||The displacement of lakhs of migrants could have been avoided had Prime Minister Narendra Modi first consulted the State governments, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said in an interview to The Hindu . “Who is to implement the lockdown? Can the Union government on its own do so? The answer is no. Ultimately, it’s the State government’s job to implement it. Did the Prime Minister talk to any of the State governments before unilaterally announcing it? No,” Mr. Baghel said, speaking over phone from Raipur. Chhattisgarh has reported seven COVID-19 cases, with no deaths so far. It was one of the first States to announce a lockdown on March 21, four days before Mr. Modi announced a nationwide 21-day lockdown. “We have the Mumbai-Howrah highway cutting across the State and could not have taken a chance,” Mr. Baghel said the citing reason for an early lockdown.  The Union government should have reached out to the industry also and the economic package should have precluded the lockdown. It should have anticipated that once the lockdown was implemented scores of persons would not be able to earn a living and would obviously head out to places where they felt more secure, Mr. Baghel said. “We are staring at a severe economic crisis,” he said. “All skilled and unskilled labourers have left the factories because of the lockdown. The wheels of all industries have come to a screeching halt. I am no economist, but surely, we will see the economic impact of this lockdown in years to come,” he said. The lockdown, he added, would have a similar impact of pulling down the economy as demonetisation had.  The Chief Minister said that there was a crying need for a second economic package to reach out to those who did not benefit from Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcements of March 26 such as the landless labourers and workers in the unorganised sector, among others. ‘Pay MNREGA workers’ In a recent letter to Mr. Modi, Mr. Baghel had suggested that Rs. 1,000 a month should be transferred to MNREGA and workers in the unorganised sector for the next three months. Instead of the promised Rs. 500 to women Jan Dhan account holders, Mr. Bhagel suggested that Rs. 750 must be transferred and the scheme should be extended to men too. “The only way to avert an economic crisis is to infuse financial liquidity and increase the purchasing power of the end consumer. The Union government will have to move swiftly in this direction,” Mr. Baghel added.
01 April 2020||Bhopal,||Doctors suspect community transmission in Indore||As most COVID-19 patients in Indore, where 17 persons tested positive on Tuesday, have no contact or travel history, health workers are grappling to identify the source, indicating the most populous and largest city of Madhya Pradesh may already be witnessing the community transmission stage. “We are not able to detect the source as such, because there is no person with international travel history who has tested positive,” said Salil Sakalle, Professor, Community Medicine, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, Indore, the only facility testing for the illness in western Madhya Pradesh. Dr. Sakalle pointed out there were some patients with national travel history. “During travel, they probably might have come in contact [with those infected],” he said. Indore bears the burden of 44 patients, most residents of congested localities, of the 66 cases in the State. In addition, three persons from the city died of COVID-19. Besides, eight cases in Jabalpur, six in Ujjain, four in Bhopal, and two each in Shivpuri and Gwalior have been registered. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), community transmission is evidenced by the inability to relate confirmed cases through chains of transmission for a large number of cases, or by increasing positive tests through sentinel samples. “Coincidently almost all positive cases, including first ones, have come from congested areas, so probably they have done a lot of community transmission,” Dr. Sakalle said. Though pockets have been identified, that doesn’t spell a possible wiping out of the virus locally. “If we are able to contain it in certain pockets and cover all contacts, then maybe we can make it controlled. We have no way to control their [overall] number,” he added. Aggressive testing in relation to other cities such as Bhopal and Jabalpur has yielded more numbers too. Until March 30, the college had tested 261 samples since March 21. “Most cases in the first lot for Indore were those admitted to government and private hospital ICUs whose samples we took to test for acute severe respiratory illnesses when the testing for COVID-19 was restricted to only those with travel history abroad. When the ICMR revised the guidelines, we ran their samples for COVID-19 too, and many tested positive,” explained Dr. Sakalle. Those who had come into contact with these persons tested positive. “Those who’re dying, are either elderly or have some co-morbidities of diabetes or hypertension,” he said.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre’s extra ration promise yet to be kept at PDS shops||One week into the COVID-19 lockdown, and five days after the Centre’s welfare package was announced, there is no sign of the promised free grains and pulses at ration shops across the country. Although the Finance Minister promised that the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana would come into effect immediately, the Food Department only issued orders to the States on Monday, and States are yet to lift the additional grain for the distribution of the extra 5 kg rice or wheat per beneficiary. For the promised 1 kg of free pulses, the need to process and transport procured dals, is causing even further delays. Jaigunnissa, a 38-year old domestic worker and mother of three, is disgruntled by the delay. She has walked for more than half-an-hour from her home in Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan area, in order to stand in the morning sun outside her ration shop in Bhogal, slowly moving from one chalk circle to the next, keeping the proper coronavirus-era distance from other shoppers. “I heard that the Modi sarkar announced extra ration last week itself. But when I come here, I find that they are still giving only the 7.5 kg promised by Kejriwal,” she says, gesturing to the large poster of the Delhi Chief Minister hung at the entrance to the shop, promising an enhanced ration of 6 kg of wheat and 1.5 kg of rice, now provided free of cost to each beneficiary. Lost livelihood She and her husband, who has a cycle-rickshaw, have both lost their livelihood due to the lockdown. “The lady of the house where I work has said that since she is now doing all the cooking, cleaning, washing, she cannot pay me any salary. So I am dependent on ration only. My children will only get rotis and salt during this lockdown.,” she adds, using her dupatta as a makeshift mask. “We have just issued the notice to States to lift the additional allocation,” Food Secretary Ravikant told The Hindu on Monday, four days after the initial announcement. “States now have to plan and organise transportation from the godowns [of the Food Corporation of India].” Advice to States The March 30 notice to States advises them to lift the additional allocation together with the regular monthly allocation under the National Food Security Act within the timelines prescribed for that. “However, for States/UTs which have already lifted the allocation under NFSA for April may lift this additional allocation for April till 30 April,” says the notice, seeming to indicate that many ration cardholders may not actually receive their extra free grains for some weeks to come. The distribution of pulses may be more complicated as few States regularly incorporate them into their public distribution system so far. Senior officials under the Consumer Affairs Department say that the groundwork has just begun, with States having sent in their requisitions. While a sufficient stock of 34.25 metric tonnes of pulses are available with NAFED, these are whole grams directly procured from farmers, and are yet to be milled and processed, for which the Centre will need to rope in private players. Also, unlike FCI, which has procurement and storage facilities for rice and wheat in every district, pulses are procured from eight or nine districts only, creating more transportation and logistical hurdles, said an official. For 52-year-old Mohammad Akhtar, standing in queue outside the Bhogal PDS shop for the second consecutive day after surging crowds prevented distribution on Monday, that may be too little too late. The garment factory worker does not even have money to pound the ration wheat he gets, let alone buy vegetables, dal or oil. “I have only Rs. 40 remaining in my pocket which I am saving up for emergencies,” he says, adding that his family of four children are now dependent on the food served at a local government school. Running out of food “At this point, ration shops have become more crucial than ever before for the 40% of the Delhi population who are NFSA beneficiaries, at a time when lakhs of people are running out of food and are on the brink of starvation due to the lockdown,” says Amrita Johri of the Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan (Right to Food Campaign), which has started monitoring shops across the city during the lockdown. “Out of the 31 shops we have checked so far, four of them — over 10% — were closed, with grave consequences for those who depend on them for sustenance,” she said, noting that further inquiry may have uncovered a black market operation being run out of one of the closed shops.
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||States told to track foreign Tablighi members||The Union Home Ministry wrote to all States and Union Territories on March 21 to “identify, screen and quarantine” 824 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members who were travelling to different parts of the country. While the Centre disseminated information to the States about the movement of the religious group’s members, the virus had already spread to various parts of the country. In Jammu and Kashmir, 80% of the COVID-19-positive cases reported so far are linked to an index patient who attended a gathering at Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin. The patient died on March 26. In Telangana, 50% of the cases are linked to the meetings organised by the Markaz. On March 28, the Home Ministry shot off another letter to the States that around 2,000 Tablighi Jamaat members from Bangladesh, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand who entered India on tourist visa appeared to be “potential carriers” of COVID-19. It asked the States to “screen, quarantine” and deport them if possible. All international flights were suspended on March 23 and the country was placed under a 21-day lockdown on March 24 to prevent the spread of the pandemic. The March 28 letter said “open domain reports” suggested that several people who attended a religious congregation, held from February 27 to March 1, at Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, had tested positive, and hence “thorough screening of those who arrived from Malaysia is urgently needed.” By this time, many cases had been reported in Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. According to the Home Ministry’s data, since January 1, 2,100 foreigners had visited India for Tablighi activities and the Bureau of Immigration (BOI) started sharing details of all international arrivals with the States from March 6. But before the Ministry issued the letters, several States had already informed the Union Health Ministry’s control room about the positive cases linked to the Markaz. Health Ministry officials did not respond. On March 21, a day before the ‘Janta Curfew’, Jammu and Kashmir officials informed the Health Ministry’s control room of the 65-year-old index patient. His contact-tracing revealed that he had travelled to Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Delhi, Deoband, Jammu and Srinagar from February 16. Around 15,000 people are said to have come in contact with him directly or indirectly. His eight family members have tested positive, and 14 medical staff members, who attended on him at a Srinagar hospital, have been quarantined. Before this, on March 20, the Telangana police detained 11 foreign nationals from a Tablighi Markaz (centre) in Hyderabad.
01 April 2020||JAIPUR/GUWAHATI,||Pvt. hospitals in Jaipur, Guwahati reserved for COVID-19 treatment||Scaling up its efforts to tackle the coronavirus outbreak, the Rajasthan government has reserved 84 private hospitals, with a total bed capacity of 9,377, in Jaipur district to meet a crisis situation. The hospital buildings will be used as isolation and quarantine centres as and when urgently required. The orders in Rajasthan came after an important decision was taken last week in Assam, where the State government signed memorandums of understanding with 85 private hospitals for “transferring the load of other patients” to these healthcare facilities so as to enable three of the State’s six medical colleges to focus on the COVID-19 cases. No positive cases have been detected so far in Assam. Jaipur Collector Joga Ram said the private hospitals would have to, when demanded, hand over their buildings within two hours to the Chief Medical & Health Officer or Sub-Divisional Officer. The hospitals include multi-speciality medical institutions in Jaipur city as well as smaller medical facilities and nursing homes in the nearby towns, such as Dudu, Bagru, Chaksu and Sanganer. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said at a review meeting here that several private institutions and undertakings had also offered their buildings as infrastructure for treatment of patients infected with coronavirus. In Assam, the initiative for signing the MoUs began on March 27 with the inking of agreements with as many as 34 private hospitals and nursing homes in Guwahati. “The agreement is for two months now, beginning March 28. All cases, except for cancer, maternity and emergency that come to the medical colleges are being transferred to the private hospitals according to their specialities,” Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. The State government, he added, had also floated tenders for setting up five prefabricated hospitals with 300 beds each with the intensive care unit and ventilation facilities to deal with the COVID-19 cases.
01 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Monkeys get a feast at hill temple in Odisha||Over 3,000 monkeys are being provided food by the management of the Tara Tarini hill shrine every day to save them from starvation. This famous hill temple in Odisha’s Ganjam district has been closed to devotees since March 16. The annual Chaitra Jatra festival that attracts lakhs of pilgrims was also cancelled. The monkeys live in the woods on the hill on which the Tara Tarini temple is built. They had grown dependent on devotees for sustenance. The nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19 has prevented the monkeys from getting their quota of fruits, nuts and ‘prasad’ (food offered to the deity) from devotees. “To save the animals from starving and to stop them straying into nearby villages, we decided to feed them every day from March 17. As there are no visitors to take ‘annaprasad’ of the temple, it is being given away to the monkeys at the hill top,” said Executive Officer T.K. Reddy. In fact, the quantity of ‘prasad’ being cooked has been increased to feed the monkeys. “When prasad falls short, we again cook upma for these monkeys, adding vegetables and tomatoes,” Mr. Reddy said. Now, the monkeys have started gathering around noon at the hilltop to get their meal for the day. Villagers’ gesture On the request of the Tara Tarini temple administration, some nearby villages have started providing rotis for the monkeys. Villagers are also sending vegetables from their fields for the animals. But now, the monkeys — which are getting used to cooked food, fruit and nuts — seem to be turning up their noses at raw vegetables.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘COVID-19 crisis a turning point in history’||The COVID-19 pandemic is a “turning point in history”, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a telephone conversation with French President Emanuel Macron on Tuesday. According to a release by the Ministry of External Affairs, PM Modi expressed his condolences for the loss of lives in the pandemic in France. “The French President strongly agreed with Prime Minister’s view that the COVID-19 crisis is a turning point in modern history and offers the world an opportunity to forge a new human-centric concept of globalisation,” the MEA statement said, adding that the two leaders had agreed to have Indian and French experts share preventive measures, research on treatment and vaccines. The two leaders had both appeared on an emergency video conference convened by Saudi King Salman last week to discuss the pandemic, where leaders of the G-20 had committed to infusing $5 trillion into the global economy to mitigate the impact of the virus. During the conference, Mr. Modi had stressed on the need for the G-20 to look at humanitarian aspects to global challenges like pandemics, climate change and terrorism. Global concerns The MEA said Mr. Modi and Mr. Macron had “underlined the importance of not losing sight of other global concerns like climate change, which impact humanity as a whole. They also stressed the need to devote special attention to the needs of less developed countries, including those in Africa, during the present crisis.”
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Tablighi officials charged with defying restrictions||Eleven people who returned to Kerala have been put under quarantine; six from Telangana who attended the congregation have died. In Andaman and Nicobar Islands, six people who returned from the event have tested positive. The Assam government has asked people to voluntarily report themselves if they were present at the congregation. Around 300 people from the State attended the event. All symptomatic people still in Delhi are being tested for COVID-19. “We are still in the process of shifting people from the Markaz [the centre]. The symptomatic people are being moved to hospitals and the asymptomatic people are being moved to different government-run quarantine facilities,” a senior official of the Delhi Health Department told The Hindu . “The asymptomatic people are not being tested immediately, but we will be closely monitoring them. This is in keeping with the Central government’s guidelines,” the official said. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the Markaz had acted irresponsibly by organising the congregation.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Forced to stay, workers now battle hunger||Nearly 100 of them left for home. With no trains or buses, they just rode home in auto-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws, that on a normal day was the means of earning a living. Thirty-two of them pedalled cycle-rickshaws to cover a distance of 1,390 km to Katihar. Three days later, covering a distance of 554 km, they reached Lucknow on Tuesday morning. “Their mobile phones are switched off, so we don’t know if the police caught them or if they are still continuing on their journey,” Mohammed Nizammudin, another auto-rickshaw driver, whose distant relative is one of the 32 making the journey, says. For the 80-odd who stayed back, each day is getting more challenging. Coronavirus, the lynchpin of this lockdown, doesn’t occupy much mindspace, though all of them are wearing masks, some readymade, some fashioned out of gamchas .  The group complains that the police posted outside the gates of the colony don’t let them step out. “They hit first and ask questions later. We are shooed back into the colony each time we try to leave. We heard on the radio that the Delhi government is providing food, but we don’t know where or how to get to it,” 38-year-old Abdul says. After a day without any food on Sunday, the Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan provided Rs. 2,000 for emergency rations on Monday.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hydroxychloroquine combination allowed||The Union Health Ministry has allowed the use of Hydroxychloroquine in combination with Azithromycin under close monitoring for patients with severe disease and requiring ICU management as per the revised Guidelines on Clinical Management of COVID–19. Hydroxychloroquine was previously under testing and was allowed to be administered only to doctors and caregivers in direct contact with COVID-19 positive cases. The Health Ministry has noted that no specific antiviral have been proven to be effective as per currently available data. However, based on the available information (uncontrolled clinical trials), the following drugs may be considered. It has, however, cautioned that the medication is presently not recommended for children less than 12 years, pregnant and lactating women. “The revised guidelines are based on currently available information and would be reviewed from time to time as new evidence emerges,” it added. Health Ministry’s Revised National Clinical Management of COVID-19 is intended for clinicians taking care of hospitalised adult and paediatric patients of COVID–19. “This is not meant to replace clinical judgment or specialist consultation but rather to strengthen clinical management of these patients and provide up-to-date guidance,” noted the document. “We are also offering support to treating physicians and AIIMS, New Delhi is running a 24x7 helpline to provide support to the treating physicians on clinical management. The helpline number is 9971876591. The identified nodal doctor of the State, appointed for clinical management of COVID–19 should only contact AIIMS Call Centre,” said a senior Health Ministry official.
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||Captive audience: film festivals come home||“Bringing independent cinema to the mountains” has been the catchline of the Dharamshala International Film Festival (DIFF). Now, it’s unspooling the indies on a computer, laptop, mobile or tablet near you. In a unique attempt in the Indian film festival circuit, DIFF set up an online Viewing Room on its website on Tuesday, where it will be streaming its alumni’s films, free of cost to viewers across the world. DIFF will be showcasing a set of four to six films every couple of weeks. The idea of sharing the films that the festival has showcased over the years took root ten days back. “Seeing the situation, the fact that everyone is at home, we thought of doing something positive,” says festival director and filmmaker Ritu Sarin. They reached out to the alumni filmmakers and were overwhelmed by the tremendous response they got in return. “With COVID-19 reshaping the world, we have been thinking about how to reach out [to the DIFF regulars and patrons] and at the moment the filmmakers also don’t know what the future holds for them,” said Ms. Sarin. The idea then, for all, has been to keep up the spirits and seek inspiration in these uncertain times in cinema itself. The entire venture is being run on the goodwill between the filmmakers and the festival. “DIFF is run by a no-profit trust. It’s [Viewing Room] in keeping with the spirit of the festival,” said Ms. Sarin. The programming, too, reflects the festival’s thrust — politically and socially conscious cinema. At a time when online content consumption is rising exponentially, DIFF is not offering the regular popular stuff but a carefully curated list of rare, alternate films with artistic merit, underlined with a humane touch and reflecting the political realities of our times. When we are being forced to shut out the world, these films open a small window to it; when individuals and their respective countries are in a lockdown mode, they offer a fantastic, expansive political and cultural peep into our uncomfortable realities. More festivals Meanwhile, Jio Mami Mumbai Film Festival With Star, even as it opened for entries for its next edition in November, has begun sharing a comprehensive list of films across 21 years that have been screened at the festival and in their year round programme, also pointing out the streaming platforms where these titles can be accessed. The festival came up with the first list of international and Indian (both features and shorts) films for the year 2019 on Sunday.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||62 cargo flights in 5 days to transport equipment||The Centre is co-ordinating with pharmaceutical companies, States and other agencies to ensure the transportation of medical supplies and other equipment and has organised 62 cargo flights in the past five days. A total of 15.4 tonnes of medical supplies, including reagents, enzymes, medical equipment, testing kits, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), masks, gloves, have been transported to different parts of the country, the Civil Aviation Ministry said. Carriers and agencies include Air India, Alliance Air, Air Force, Pawan Hans and private carriers IndiGo, SpiceJet and BlueDart.
01 April 2020||Ahmedabad/Kolkata,||Donations pour in for COVID-19 fund||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s nonagenarian mother Hiraba on Tuesday donated Rs. 25,000 from her personal savings to a special fund set up to fight the coronavirus pandemic in the country. She deposited the money in the PM-CARES Fund, created by the Centre to help in efforts to contain the spread of the virus and provide relief to those affected by COVID-19, said the Prime Minister’s younger brother, Pankaj Modi. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee donated Rs. 5 lakh each to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund and the State Emergency Relief Fund to help combat the spread of the novel coronavirus. Taking to Twitter, Ms. Banerjee said the contribution was made from her “limited resources”. In Mumbai, legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar, actors Priyanka Chopra, Kareena Kapoor Khan, Alia Bhatt, Vicky Kaushal, among others on Tuesday pledged money to various relief funds aimed at combating the virus. Actor Prakash Raj said he was feeding 250 homeless daily wage earners in Kerala’s Kovalam every day.  Anupama V. Nadella, wife of Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, has donated Rs. 2 crore to the PM-CARES Fund, her family sources said on Tuesday. Former India captain and coach Anil Kumble on Tuesday made a donation to the Central and Karnataka State relief funds.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Export of medical items to Serbia triggers debate||Despite reported shortfalls of necessary items for medical professionals, India exported a major consignment during the weekend. According to the UN Development Programme (UNDP), Serbia procured nearly 90 tonnes of “medical protective equipment” from suppliers located in different parts of India. “The transportation of valuable supplies purchased by the Serbian government has been fully funded by the European Union while the UNDP, Serbia organised the flight and ensured the fastest possible delivery,” UNDP in Serbia declared in a social media message. The delivery has triggered discussion in social media with comments pointing at shortages of many necessary items that the medical community in India is facing in the fight against the novel coronavirus. Doctors and nurses from various parts of the country have been sending out videotaped messages urging the government to ensure necessary items for their safety during treatment of COVID-19 patients. While the Ministry of External Affairs is yet to elaborate on the full list of items that the Serbian government has purchased from here, available information from Customs suggests that the items exported included 35 lakh pairs of sterile latex surgical gloves. The Centre, in recent weeks, has prohibited several items from being exported in view of the urgent requirement in the country. India is also looking at procuring equipment from abroad, including from China and South Korea.
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||Congress urges govt. to get more testing kits||As the 21-day lockdown completed its first week, the Congress on Tuesday asked the Union government to procure more COVID-19 testing kits, offer interest subvention on the three-month moratorium on loans and EMIs, and arrange for harvesting and storage of Rabi crops. In an online interaction, former Union Minister Manish Tewari said that as India moved from second to the next stage of the pandemic, the government should procure and supply testing kits to the State governments on priority. “We are testing 32 people for a population of 10 lakh, while in England, it is 1921 and in the United States, it is 2,600....The only antidote to testing is test, test and more tests,” he said. The State governments were keeping the testing kits for a time when the number of cases may shoot up, he said. So far, only four companies have been allowed to make the kits while 17 had applied for permission, he said. “We would urge the government to find a way out without comprising on quality. Claims about India not seeing community transmission can be made only if there is large-scale testing,” he stated.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘3 quasi-subspecies of SARS-CoV-2 in circulation’||The ICMR admitted that availability of testing kits was still an issue, and masks should not be used indiscriminately. Dr. Gangakhedkar added that India would be able to make indigenous diagnostic kits within the next month or two. “So far, 42,788 samples have been tested in India; of these, 4,346 were tested on Monday. This is 36% of our capacity. Forty-seven private laboratories were allowed to test for COVID-19, and they conducted 399 tests on Monday,” he said. Meanwhile, the Health Ministry said that even a single case was a hotspot, especially when the country registered its highest single-day jump in COVID-19 cases since January 30. The number of cases on Tuesday stood at 1,397, with 1,238 active ones and 35 deaths. Reports from the State Health Departments put the number of positive cases at 1,544, with 1,376 active ones. At a press conference here on Tuesday, Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, said the jump in cases could be attributed to “lack of community support”. Even if one person broke the nation’s commitment to physical distancing and lockdown, the results could be very adverse. Punya Salila Srivastava, Joint Secretary, Home Ministry, said more than 6 lakh migrants had been accommodated in 61,000 relief camps across India. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan formed a team of experts for guidance of COVID-19 testing and research and organised a meeting of a Group of Ministers on Tuesday, said Mr. Agarwal.
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||INS seeks relief for newspapers||The Indian Newspaper Society, in a letter to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, has sought a two-year tax holiday and removal of all import duty on newsprint, seeking an urgent relief for the collapsing newspaper sector. The society said the industry had been hit by a “triple whammy of coronavirus, plummeting advertising and customs duty on newsprint which has led to an unimaginable situation” where the domestic newspaper industry is on the brink of collapse. The circulation of newspapers has been badly hit due to the lockdown. The advertising, too, has plummeted severely curtailing two key revenue streams for newspapers. Last year, a 10% import duty was imposed on newsprint, taking the total customs duty on newsprint to 15%. In this year’s Budget, 10% of duty was removed but the newspapers still have to pay 5% duty, which the INS demanded be waived off. “Media’s activity is essential, and our newspapers are going above and beyond their call of duty in this pandemic, with editorial and other colleagues... putting themselves at great personal risk to be at the frontlines, to ensure readers get life-saving and other essential information day after day, in the safety of their homes,” the letter said. It said that last year well-known English newspapers such as DNA and the Financial Chronicle shut their print editions. It said there needs to be a “level playing field between foreign digital giants and domestic Indian newspapers”.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Panel formed to coordinate virus research||A Science and Technology Empowered Committee for COVID-19 response has been constituted and will be chaired by Prof. Vinod Paul, member, NITI Aayog and Prof. K. Vijay Raghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the government, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday. It said this committee would coordinate among science agencies, scientists, industries and regulatory bodies. “The Committee will work with the Department of Science & Technology, Department of Biotechnology, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Defence Research and Development Organisation and Indian Institute for Science to take speedy decisions on research,” it said.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre tells States to help the disabled||The Union Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry on Tuesday asked all States to implement its advisory for the care of persons with disabilities (PwD) during the lockdown as complaints on difficulties in accessing care and essential services continued to pour in. In a letter to all State Commissioners on Tuesday, Department Secretary Shakuntala Gamlin said that her office was “receiving complaints regarding difficulties being faced by PwDs in getting services of caregivers, maids and access to essential items due to non-issue of travel passes to NGOs/PwD associations/ caregivers etc.”
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ministry extends relief to motorists||The Central government on Tuesday extended the validity of expired driving licences and vehicle registrations until June 30 to help those affected by the nationwide lockdown. The other documents for which relief has been provided include all other documents required by a person under the Motor Vehicles Act. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has issued an advisory to all the States and Union Territories communicating its decision. It requested all the States to implement the advisory “in letter and spirit” so that people and transporters and organisations rendering essential services did not get harassed and faced difficulties, a Ministry statement said.
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||Migrants need active support, says Yechury||With the government clamping down on the movement of migrant workers who are fleeing the cities in the absence of any means to earn, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said those who have stayed back need “visible and active” support from the government. “Private charity, while welcome, is not a replacement for the government failing to discharge its basic constitutional duty,” Mr. Yechury said. Attempts to create social disharmony, tarnish sections, ostracise workers and the vulnerable by communal, casteist and sectarian forces must be resisted, he said. “If not, India’s health and humanitarian crisis — with the Centre’s knee-jerk responses — will only worsen the situation,” Mr. Yechury added.
01 April 2020||Srinagar,||Class 5 student from Kashmir writes to PM||A Class 5 student in Kashmir has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging restoration of high-speed Internet, after missing the virtual classes started by her school in Srinagar on Monday. The letter has since gone viral on social media. Hiba Arjimand Wani, a Class 5 student of Srinagar’s Presentation Convent High School, wrote, “I feel sad, frustrated, angry and stressed because I could not attend the online classes organised by my school due to 2G connection. Online classes do not work on 2G.” Ms. Hiba wrote: “I request you [PM] to give back our 4G so that I don’t miss online classes”.
01 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Inclement weather adds to farmers’ worries in Punjab and Haryana||As the wheat crop is all set for harvest in Punjab and Haryana, the forecast of rain with gusty winds during the next 48 hours has raised farmers’ anxiety as the inclement weather could adversely impact the yield, agri-experts said on Tuesday. According to the India Meteorological Department, thunderstorms and light rainfall accompanied with lightning and gusty winds are expected in parts of Punjab and Haryana between March 31 and April 1.
01 April 2020||Patna,||Youth beaten to death in Bihar||A youth in Sitamarhi district of Bihar was beaten to death on March 29 for warning the local authorities that two villagers who had returned from Mumbai recently could be infected with COVID-19. The two villagers and their families were furious with Bablu Kumar Mahto, 20, who had informed the medical authorities. They caught Bablu Kumar alone on March 29 and beat him up, his brother, Guddu Mahto, said. Sudhir Mahato and Munna Kumar Mahato were arrested.
01 April 2020||Srinagar,||20 places declared Red Zones in Kashmir as positive cases touch 55||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has declared over 20 villages and five urban pockets as no-go ‘Red Zones’ as the number of COVID-19 cases jumped to 55. Six more people tested positive on Tuesday. “The six positive cases were reported from the Kashmir division,” said J&K spokesperson Rohit Kansal. An official said 20 villages in Pulwama, Budgam, Shopian and Nandipora and five urban areas in Srinagar have been declared ‘Red Zones’.
01 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Ambulance workers in U.P. threaten to halt work||Around 16,000 emergency ambulance workers in Uttar Pradesh threatened to stop work if the company hiring them did not give them protective gear for handling COVID-19 cases. They also demanded that their salary, which has been allegedly not paid since January, be released immediately. In a letter to GVK EMRI, the private company that hires them, the Ambulance Karmachari Sangh said that if the requirements were not met, they would halt work.
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||250 RS MPs to contribute from MPLADS fund to fight COVID 19||Many members of the Rajya Sabha have consented to contribute from their Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) funds to the common central pool to fight COVID-19. Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu had asked the MPs to contribute at least Rs. 1 crore each from their MPLAD funds. Under the scheme, each MP has the choice to suggest to the District Collector works estimated at Rs. 5 crore a year to be taken up in their respective constituencies.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||mumbai||
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||srinagar||
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||bikaner||
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||jaipur||
01 April 2020||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||‘Landlords should desist from collecting rent’||Landlords should desist from collecting rent for this month from the tenants, said Chief Whip S. Rajendran. He said here on Monday, after presiding over a COVID-19 virus preventive meeting, that several companies had employed workers from other States. The companies, besides taking care of their accommodation, should take steps to provide food to them. Similarly, no one should collect rent for providing accommodation to them. The landlords should not collect rent for the current month from the tenants belonging to other districts. The distribution of cash compensation of Rs. 10,000 and rice, sugar and dhal to the family card holders would begin on Thursday. A total of 2,27,448 cardholders were eligible to get the compensation. Personal distancing would be maintained while distributing cash and essential commodities. To maintain the discipline it has been decided to distribute 100 card holders per ration shop a day. Collector D. Rathna, Superintendent of Police police VR.Srinivasan and others participated in the meeting.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Pre-monsoon crop cultivation yet to begin||Despite the Karnataka government being on overdrive to ensure that agricultural activities continue to be normal during the unprecedented crisis caused by COVID-19, officials are keeping their fingers crossed about pre-monsoon crop cultivation. Besides the main crops such as ragi and maize, farmers cultivate green gram, black gram and sesame, especially in Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Mandya and Hassan districts, during this season. A senior Agriculture Department official acknowledged that there is concern whether farmers will take up cultivation of these crops given the situation. According to the official, the preparatory work for sowing normally starts by the first week of April. “In a few places, sowing has been completed, but it has not even commenced in many places. In agriculture timing is very important. If sowing is delayed, it will hurt the yield and overall productivity,” he said. He also said that people across the board were staying indoors and labour was in short supply. “We are appealing to farmers to continue with their agricultural activities while also staying safe. District administrations are working with dealers to ensure there is enough supply of seeds and fertilizers,” the official said. Explaining the importance of pre-monsoon crop for the kharif crop that will follow, another official said that those who grow pre-summer crops normally let plants grow on their fields after harvesting the crops. “The plant stubs become green manure when farmers prepare the fields when monsoon arrives. Pre-monsoon crop contributes to less than 10% of the total agricultural production in the State, but remains important,” the official said. Though pre-monsoon crop depends on early rains in rain-fed regions, farmers with their own irrigation facilities do not wait for the rains. Waiting for harvest Meanwhile, in the paddy belt in the irrigated regions of north Karnataka, the crop is waiting to be harvested. An official said the paddy on fields in Raichur, Ballari, Koppal and Gangavathi were ready for harvesting, but farmers were facing labour issues though the department has allowed them to get farm machineries for harvesting.
01 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM announces 3-month deferral of property tax, co-op loan dues||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday announced the deferment of co-operative loan repayment, property tax and other dues by three months in view of the COVID-19 lockdown. The measures would benefit middle- and low-income groups, farmers and entrepreneurs. The Chief Minister also called on Governor Banwarilal Purohit at the Raj Bhavan to brief him on the measures taken by the government to deal with the pandemic and its impact. He announced an extension of the deadline for the payment of property tax and water charges to the local bodies by three months, until June 30. “Many firms are not in a position to pay salaries and businesses have been severely affected. Daily-wage labourers are among the worst-affected. We are hoping that the CM's announcement would bring them temporary relief as far as their dues are concerned,” a top official told The Hindu . Mr. Palaniswami announced a three-month extension of the deadline (until June 30) for the repayment of loans obtained from co-operative banks, fishermen’s cooperative societies and handloom weavers’ cooperative societies. He extended by three months the deadline for the payment of dues to co-operative housing societies and the Tamil Nadu Housing Board, until June 30. He also announced an extension of the deadline for the repayment of loans obtained by Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), which have obtained loans from the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC) Limited. The deadline for the repayment of soft loans obtained from the State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu Limited (Sipcot) has been extended by three months. The deadline for the payment of operational and maintenance costs by units located in Sipcot industrial parks has also been extended by three months. Mr. Palaniswami said a ‘COVID Relief and Development Scheme’ would be implemented, with an allocation of Rs. 200 crore for providing loans to help meet the urgent capital requirements of around 2,000 MSME units that have obtained loans from TIIC. He also extended till June 30 the validity of various licences and fitness certificates obtained under the Motor Vehicles Act, which were due for renewal. The same will apply to licences obtained under the Weights & Measures Act and the Tamil Nadu Shops & Establishments Act that are due for renewal. “Medical experts are insisting that people should remain indoors and prevent the State from entering stage 3 [of the pandemic]. The people should follow the time restrictions announced by the State government for getting essential supplies. I urge the people not to believe rumours. The State government will take severe action against rumour-mongers,” Mr. Palaniswami said.
01 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police stress on ‘stay-at-home’ message with novel methods||As people continue defying the lockdown and loiter on roads without reason, police personnel in the city have resorted to novel methods to make people realise the importance of staying indoors. At 1.30 p.m. on Monday, the scene on Puzhal Camp road resembled a gym — over 15 persons, lined up under the scorching sun, were made to do half-squats by a woman sub-inspector. She first demonstrated how to do the exercise. The violators were then made to follow the drill, over the next 20 minutes. Jayanthi, a sub-inspector of police, said: “People don’t understand the seriousness of a lockdown. They just saunter around. Some of them said that they came out to visit their friends. We have to effectively implement law and order by adopting these methods.” At Ennore Wimco Nagar, the police caught people on the road and made them do squats. They were also made to repeat: “Hereafter, we will not step out anywhere. We will obey the orders of the government.” Another group at the Maduvoyal police station was made to repeat, “We will cooperate with the police and government authorities. We will wear masks.” Red Hills Inspector P. Jawahar asked people, gathered on the roadside, to stand in lines, holding placards stating that they would obey the prohibitory orders. A police officer told the violators, “You are all well-educated and should realise your mistake. You should go and tell people in your neighbourhood that they must not step out unnecessarily, when a lockdown is in place, and that the disease may spread faster if people keep coming out.” Jumping quarantine The police also pulled up a person from the crowd who had returned from a foreign country recently and was told to stay under home quarantine. A police officer asked him, “Why you are coming out, sir? You have been to foreign countries where you obeyed the law. But here, you don’t. You are educated. So why did you come out, and that too without wearing a mask?” He was whisked away to the police station and a case was booked against him for violating the law. Assistant Commissioner, Flower Bazaar, Lakshmanan, made violators read out a statement that they would not come out unnecessarily hereafter, during lockdown.
01 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pay migrant workers on time, govt. tells employers||In view of the COVID-19 lockdown, the Tamil Nadu government has directed all District Collectors to ensure that employers pay migrant workers on time and provide for their accommodation for a month without charging rent. The government has also advised employers against deducting any amount from the salary of the workers. The landlords of properties where migrants are living on rent “shall not demand payment of rent for a period of one month. If any landlord is forcing labourers and students to vacate their premises, they will be liable for action,” Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said in an order, citing a communication from the Centre. Separately, in a statement, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami appealed to all houseowners to defer the collection of rent for March and April by two months in view of the difficulties faced by tenants under the current circumstances. The Chief Secretary, in his order, directed Collectors and others to ensure adequate arrangements including temporary shelters and provision of food, among others, for the poor and needy, including migrant labourers, who have been stranded due to the lockdown. “The migrant people who have moved out to reach their home States/home towns must be kept in the nearest shelter by the respective District Collectors/Commissioner, Greater Chennai Corporation after proper screening for a minimum period of 14 days as per standard health protocol,” the G.O. stated. The authorities were also directed to ensure that all employers — be it in the industries or in shops and commercial establishments — paid the wages of their workers “at their workplaces on the due date without any deduction, for the period their establishments are under closure during the lockdown”. Talking to reporters, Mr. Shanmugam said he had chaired a meeting with various associations from different States to ensure that migrant workers were provided shelter and remained safe. “Many of them want to go back home but we have urged these associations to insist that the workers stay back under the present circumstances.”
01 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State police to create a healthy standby force||The Tamil Nadu police will maintain a third of its total strength — at least 25,000 popersonnel of different ranks — as a “healthy standby force” for deployment during exigencies in the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19. The reserve strength would be under home quarantine and be available for duty, on call, round-the-clock. The move follows the guidelines issued by the National Disaster Management Authority and the Ministry of Home Affairs to all States, underscoring the necessity to have a healthy standby strength, police sources said on Tuesday. The reserve strength would be rotated every week and personnel joining duty would be subjected to a mandatory health check-up. With hardly any public movement or traffic on the roads due to the nationwide lockdown enforced with prohibitory orders issued under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, police deployment has already been reduced to the bare minimum, sources said. In a related development, the Chennai Police on Tuesday launched aerial surveillance by deploying drones to monitor major junctions/residential areas and intervene in the event of any public congregation. At least a dozen drones were hired from a private firm and the surveillance launched in Guindy, Kotturpuram, Adyar and along the GST Road up to Tambaram. “The drones provide high quality live visuals which are transmitted to the control room and senior police officers for appropriate action. We are now able to get footage of happenings in remote or congested locations that are not easily accessible. Patrol vehicles will reach any scene of disturbance or congregation in less than five minutes,” Additional Commissioner of Police (South) Prem Anand Sinha said. The use of drones is a temporary measure to step up surveillance and its efficacy would be reviewed after the lockdown period,  The reserve strength would be rotated every week and personnel joining duty would be subjected to a mandatory health check-up
01 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Keeping the virus at bay||From physical distancing to helping the elderly, residents’ welfare associations of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) resettlement colony in Perumbakkam are taking every possible precaution to keep COVID-19 at bay. There are close to 20,000 families living in over 150 blocks in the colony. Each block has eight floors and there are around 24 houses on each floor in the old tenements and 12 houses in the new ones. Most residents are daily wage earners. “This means that if one person is infected, it won’t take much time for the remaining families to fall sick. Hence, precautionary measures have to be taken,” said S. Dhanalakshmi, a resident of the tenement. Associations have put up boards near elevators, asking just two people to travel at a time. “Initially, we switched off the elevator, but many on the seventh floor were finding it hard,” said an L-block resident. Besides, the associations are also helping individuals who do not have families, living in their blocks, by providing them with food. D. Karthikeyan, managing director, TNSCB, said that they were disinfecting 1.5 lakh tenements, in over 300 places. The board has purchased 91 spraying machines for 18 divisions. Senior TNSCB officials are inspecting the colonies frequently.
01 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bag of mixed veggies a relief||To do away with crowding in market places and prevent the spread of COVID-19, the Tiruvallur district administration has arranged takeaway vegetable bags, on a trial basis, from Tuesday. Each cloth bag, containing half a kg of onions, tomatoes, broad beans and drum sticks and a quarter kg of brinjal, potatoes, carrots, two green plantains, green chillies, a bunch of spinach and a bunch of curry and coriander leaves, is priced at Rs. 100. The programme has been started on a trial basis at Uzhavar Sandhais in Avadi and Red Hills and 100 bags have been provided at each market. The initiative will be taken to Tiruverkadu, Tiruttani, Tiruvallur and Poonamallee too. “If a person goes to the market, he will have to spend at least 15 minutes, purchasing the vegetables. This will lead to crowding in markets. Now, people can take the bag and leave after payment,” said an official. M. Kalaichelvi, 60, a resident of Putlur near Tiruvallur, welcomed the move. “Being an elderly person, I cannot wait for long in the queue. It took me two hours to purchase vegetables at the supermarket,” she said. Mageswari Ravikumar, Collector, Tiruvallur, said that similar bags would be made available for meat and fish too. “We are also promoting door delivery of grocery and medicines. For details, people can check http://stopcoronatiruvallur.com/,” she said. The Tiruvallur administration is also planning to provide grocery bags to those in quarantine.
01 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Maintenance allowance for differently abled to be paid in advance||The Tamil Nadu government has announced that the maintenance allowance for persons with disabilities would be paid in advance for two months. In an official press release, the State Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities and the Director for Welfare of the Differently Abled said the move was aimed at protecting the livelihood of persons with disabilities. Rs. 1,500 per month “The amount would be credited to their bank accounts through ECS (electronic clearing service) by the respective DDAWOs (District Differently Abled Welfare Officers),” it stated. “The Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department has been providing a maintenance allowance of Rs. 1,500 per month to severely-affected differently-abled persons, the intellectually disabled, persons with muscular dystrophy and those affected by leprosy. Since the State government had allowed the functioning of essential government departments despite the lockdown that has been put in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19, it had received a few requests from differently-abled persons, who said they were facing difficulties in attending to their duties.  Exemption from duty “The government has agreed to exempt differently-abled persons from duty during the lockdown period. Hence, all the differently-abled government employees working in the departments dealing with essential services have been exempted from duty from March 23, 2020, during the lockdown period,” the press release added.  The amount would be credited to their bank accounts through ECS by the respective District Differently Abled Welfare Officers
01 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Officials inspect COVID-19 hospital||Exclusive isolation facilities for COVID-19 patients are being created across the State, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. The Minister, along with Roshini Arthur, senior regional director, Regional Office of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, and two officials of World Health Organisation, Country Office, India, inspected the facility at the Government Medical College Hospital in Omandurar Estate. Speaking to reporters, Dr. Arthur said they inspected Tamil Nadu’s first dedicated COVID-19 hospital to check the preparedness, infrastructure, human resources, equipment and adherence to protocols. “Tamil Nadu, especially Chennai, has a good dedicated COVID-19 unit here. There are three dedicated blocks. There is an outpatient facility on the ground floor with infection protocols in place, sample collection area, waiting room, counselling room and pharmacy as per guidelines. There are 150 isolation beds with spacing, equipment, and disinfection protocols. In addition, another 200 beds for an intermediate care unit is available with 75 ICU beds and 125 step down beds,” she said. She said protocols for biomedical waste, dietary, treatment guidelines are in place. Staff members on rotation for seven days for IMCU are in place. There are specialists, including pulmonologists, radiologists and physicians, to man the facilities, apart from portable X-ray, ultrasound, and CT equipment “We suggest that more such dedicated COVID-19 centres be opened in all of Tamil Nadu,” she added. Like in Chennai, which has a 500-bed facility with intensive care unit and ventilators at Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, separate blocks in Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, Kilpauk Medical College Hospital and ESI Hospital, Ayanavaram, exclusive facilities for COVID-19 are being created across the State, Dr. Vijayabaskar said. “The condition of all patients is stable. None of them is on ventilatory support,” he said.
01 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Tahsildars to issue passes for intra-district travel||The Tamil Nadu government has authorised Tahsildars across the State to issue passes allowing people to travel within their respective districts to attend weddings (the dates for which were fixed earlier) and funerals and in case of health emergencies during the lockdown period. In a communication to all District Collectors, Revenue Secretary Atulya Misra said, “For movement within districts, powers [to issue passes] have been delegated to Tahsildars. However, in case the event mentioned needs inter-district movement, it (the emergency pass) may be issued by the Collectors.” As for movement within the jurisdiction of the Greater Chennai Corporation, the zonal officers concerned were authorised to issue passes. In case of movement out of the Greater Chennai Corporation, the Corporation Commissioner would take the call. “It may be directed that all the public health guidelines on COVID-19, such as social distancing, hand washing and office disinfection protocol, issued by the health authorities from time to time, should be strictly followed,” the communication added.
01 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors due for retirement to be roped in||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday announced that the doctors, nurses and medical technicians who were due to retire on March 31, 2020, would be appointed as consultants for a two-month period. He said the appointments would be made on a contractual basis. “This government has been taking all necessary steps on a war footing to control the spread of the coronavirus disease. I request the public to cooperate with the government on the implementation of the measures being taken for the welfare of the people,” he said. The CM’s decision came close on the heels of a meeting he had with senior officials.
01 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Day-care procedure for angioplasty||Two patients at the Apollo Specialty Hospital in Vanagaram underwent a coronary angioplasty, and were discharged within 12 hours, after the day-care procedure. K.A. Abraham, senior interventional cardiologist, Apollo Specialty Hospital, Vanagaram, carried out a coronary angioplasty on a 47-year-old woman and a 75-year-old man. In a release, the hospital said that a day-care procedure was extremely rare and was possible with excellent coordination among all departments in the hospital. A day-care procedure becomes relevant in case of a “COVID-19 emergency”, when keeping patients in the hospital for a minimum period is desirable.
01 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||92 persons issued passes to move out of city||The Chennai Corporation has issued passes for 92 persons, permitting them to move out of the city for medical reasons, marriages and funerals, during the lockdown. As many as 457 persons had applied for passes, said a civic official.
01 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||MUST RSK/CITU condemns action of the transport corporations to cut salary of employees for participating in protest/||The transport wing of the CITU has condemned the State Transport Department, including the MTC, for cutting salaries of its employees who participated in the sit-in protest held from March 10 to 11. The protest was against the delay in wage revision, said a press release.
01 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Rumours make people flock to ration shops in Rathinapuri||The Coimbatore Corporation Higher Secondary School, Rathinapuri, where the district administration had shifted three fair price shops, was a scene of chaos on Tuesday as people, defying lockdown, rushed to collect tokens. The administration officials said soon after the shops’ supervisors opened on Tuesday to prepare distribution of tokens, people rushed into the school on hearing rumours that the supervisors would be distributing tokens. The tokens were for distributing the State government’s special assistance of Rs. 1,000 for rice cardholders and essential commodities for all cardholders. The administration would begin the distribution on April 2. The plan on Tuesday was to distribute the tokens at card holders’ door steps to comply with the lockdown and personal distancing norms. But, in violation of the norms, around 500 cardholders rushed to the school allegedly after being informed by some AIADMK men. As word spread, more people rushed in forcing the supervisors to alert the officials at the District Supply Office, Coimbatore City Police and also the Coimbatore Corporation. The officials said while they sent back many cardholders saying that they would have their tokens door delivered, they allowed a few people to stay behind, not wanting to disappoint them. And even as the few waited, they ensured that they maintained the mandatory three feet personal distance. Sources at the District Supply Office said that in the next two days, supervisors at the 1,419 fair price shops would distribute tokens to all the 10.29 ration cardholders, including the 9.76 lakh rice cardholders. The supervisors would be distributing tokens in such a way that they did not cater to more than 100-150 cardholders a day, depending on the number of cardholders attached to a shop. The tokens would have the cardholder’s name, street, the day on which they would have to be at the shop and also the time to ensure that the shops were not crowded. Refuting the allegation that the ruling party men in his ward were behind people rushing to the school, former AIADMK councillor of the area, R. Prabhakaran, said none of his party men was involved and alleged that it was the DMK. DMK’s former councillor Loganathan denied the allegations. He said it was the AIADMK men who wanted to derive political mileage.
01 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation closes vegetable, fish markets||Coimbatore Corporation officials have shut down the temporary vegetable market the civic body had set up at the Mettupalayam Road Bus Stand and the fish market on Perur Road, Ukkadam. The civic body closed the fish market on Monday and the Bus Stand market on Tuesday to prevent people from crowding and vendors from disobeying instructions. When the fish market reopened on Sunday, there was such a crowd that no personal distancing was possible. To avoid the recurrence of such a situation, the Corporation had shut down the fish market. Likewise, the Corporation officials had divided the vegetable vendors at the Anna Retail Vegetable Market, MTP Road, into two groups and sent one to the Bus Stand and the other to the Ramalingam Higher Secondary School ground to prevent crowding and help people from all areas get vegetables without difficulty. But a section of the traders from the school, after having finished their sales, left the place around 11 a.m. on Tuesday to continue their business at the Bus Stand. The way the traders acted defeated the very purpose for which the Corporation had divided them into two groups – to maintain personal distance, the officials said and therefore the officials shut down the Bus Stand market. The Anna market too was shut for vegetable vendors. The civic body had, however, allowed the grocers to run their business from there. The Corporation officials said the civic body was working on a mechanism to ensure that both sellers and buyers practised personal distancing. Arrangement The arrangement for the vegetable vendors would be that a group of vendors would sell their goods on odd days and the second group on even days. The Corporation was also looking at allotting two or three places in every police station limits in the city for fish and meat vendors. The Corporation, in consultation with the Coimbatore City Police, would soon finalise the list of places to be shared with the vendors and buyers, the officials added.
01 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||68 Coimbatoreans who attended Nizamuddin conference traced||The Health Department has traced 68 persons from Coimbatore who had attended the conference of Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in New Delhi earlier this month, which led to large-scale spread of COVID-19 in many States including Tamil Nadu. An official from the Health Department involved in COVID-19 management said that the participants of the conference were tracked down based on information received from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Tamil Nadu had alerted the Ministry when two Thai nationals who came to Erode after attending the conference tested positive for COVID-19 on March 21. Alerts This input to the Centre would have made them issue alerts about other participants of the conference, said the official. Of the 68 persons, 51 were from Pollachi, Anamalai and Mettupalayam areas while 17 others were from urban areas within the Coimbatore Corporation. Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani said in a statement that 82 persons from the district had attended the conference. They had reached Coimbatore on March 23 and 24 by train. As many as 17 persons from Coimbatore city and seven from Pollachi-Anamalai areas were under observation at the Government Medial College and ESI Hospital. Among the 31 participants from Mettuapalayam, 20 persons were under observation at Government Hospital, Mettuapalayam, while 11 others were in home quarantine. Health Department officials anticipate that more persons who are in home quarantine may develop symptoms of the viral infection.
01 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Foreigners in quarantine at Isha||As many as 150 foreigners are currently accommodated at Isha Yoga Foundation where they had come to attend various programmes, including for Shivaratri held on February 21. On Tuesday, Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said that the government was collecting details of foreigners and Indians who had come to the State after February 15 and foreigners at Isha Yoga were also in the checklist. According to the Coimbatore district administration, the foreigners had come much before the government notification. They are in quarantine on Isha Yoga campus and Health Department conducted a check-up. They were being monitored regularly, said district administration. Health Department sources said that the medical examination was held on March 28. However, details of the medical examination, including type of test/screening done on foreigners were not available.
01 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Centre of Excellence develops coverall suits||The PSG Tech Centre of Excellence for Industrial Textiles here has developed coverall suits that can be used by members of the healthcare sector who are involved in treating COVID-19 affected people. According to G. Thilagavathi, head of the department of textile technology department of PSG College of Technology, the fabric was tested at South India Textile Research Association (SITRA) and it had met the synthetic blood penetration test standards. The centre has non-woven fabric lamination machinery and the breathable membrane used in making infant beds was laminated at the centre for this project. The fabric was then tested at SITRA. It has been stitched into a coverall and the seams need to be tested too. The centre will test the seams and if these meet the standards, the coveralls can be stitched. “This fabric will not allow micro-organisms to penetrate. Some industries are also said to be getting into production of these coveralls here,” she said. The Centre of Excellence has the capacity to make nearly 5,000 metres of fabric a day and the stitching can be outsourced, she said. The centre worked on the fabric before the lockdown came into force and got the test result recently. The centre is also into making of masks.
01 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police arrest 680 persons||The police arrested 680 persons for violating prohibitory order in Coimbatore district on Monday. While the city police arrested 147 persons in 144 cases, the rural police held 533 persons in 494 cases. Those arrested were released on bail. The police seized 483 vehicles in city and rural limits. Man held The Bazaar Street police on Monday arrested a man on charges of preventing a Corporation official from discharging his duty. N.J. Murugesan (50) of Ayyasamy Kovil Street was arrested based on a complaint filed by M.M. Kanagaraj, Corporation Assistant Commissioner (in-charge) for Central zone. The police said that during an inspection near Ramar Kovil market, Mr. Kanagaraj found the accused who allegedly blocked the official and said that the Corporation was not disinfecting his locality.
01 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Fodder, feed availability worries cattle growers||P. Kanagaraj, a resident of Ganapathy Ganesh Layout, is worried about the 15 cows at his house. “I milk around 130 litres a day to make around Rs. 650 a day, after deducting expenses. But now I’m worried – not necessarily because I can’t make that much money. But because my cows are going without food.” He feeds 50 bundles of green fodder and 100 – 150kg of feed that is a mixture groundnut cake, bran, cotton seed and a few other items. “Now, during this lockdown, I’m unable to source either green fodder or the feed,” he rues. R. Kalyanasundaram, a resident of Vadavalli, says there is no green fodder almost anywhere in Coimbatore as the district is dependent on Erode. R. Mylsamy of K.N. Palayam, Sathyamangalam, says he used to supply around 2,000 stacks of maize – the green fodder – to cattle growers in Ganapathy, Sanganur, Edayarpalayam, Vadavalli, Vellakinaru, Saravanampatty, Vilankurichi and a few other areas. But with police stopping vehicles and he having paid advance to farmers, is stuck. “On the one hand, I’m unable to transport goods to Coimbatore, and, on the other, the advance I’ve paid to farmers to harvest maize is as good as gone as the crops are wilting and I cannot ask them to return the advance.”  Farmers’ Association (non-partisan) general secretary P. Kandasamy says the Association has taken the issue to the notice of the officials concerned. In fact, the Agriculture Department Secretary has on March 24 written a letter to all officials to allow movement of agriculture goods and keep open shops selling agriculture goods, including fertilizers. Since the transport of fodder is covered under this, officials manning check-posts should have no problem in allowing movement of vehicles carrying green fodder or animal feed from anywhere in the State. But, the reality is that, many officials who man the check post are unaware of such an order. Collector K. Rajamani says farmers and cattle growers have brought the issue to his notice. He has had a word with the Erode Collector, who apparently has asked the Revenue Department officials in Gobichettipalayam to permit movement of vehicles with fodder.
01 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bharathiar University develops mask prototype||A new mask for the protection of people against COVID-19 appears to be in the offing as a team of researchers led by faculty and researchers in Bharathiar University has begun the process of securing the Government of India’s approval and patent. An inter-disciplinary research team with faculty and researchers in Mizoram University, Sankara Nethralaya, Chennai, Sree Balaji Medical College and Hospital, Chennai, Thiruvalluvar University, Avinashilingam University, a stem cell lab in South Korea and University of Portsmouth, England and Bharathiar University (BU) had worked together to develop the mask, said Vellingiri Balachandar, group leader and assistant professor, Department of Human Genetics and Molecular Biology at the BU. The work began sometime in February this year after the members of the team decided to develop the right mask before a vaccine was in place to fight COVID-19. The size of the COVID-19 virus was 120-125 nano metre and most of the present masks that had the capacity to stop only microbes of 300 nano metre were not suited for the current situation. The mask, the prototype of which was ready, was made of cotton intertwined with fibres containing molecules of AYUSH Ministry-approved herbs spun using electro spinning technology, Mr. Balachandar said and added that all herbs and molecules used were in the list of items approved by either the Food and Drug Administration of the U.S. government or the AYUSH Ministry and were as per WHO standards. A release from the BU said, the researcher team came up with the mask because it wanted to prevent aerosol with microbes. The mask would be an efficient viral inactivation system as it used active compounds from naturally occurring medicinal plants in nano-fibres. The team’s strategy was to develop fibrous filtration with three-layered mask using the compounds from medicinal plants for viral deactivation. The Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj was in the forefront of securing the Government of India approval and patent. Once the approval was through, there could be mass production of such a mask but that again depended on the government’s approval.
01 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs concerned over bank branches not receiving communication on interest repayments||Several public sector banks announced on Tuesday that they had permitted a three-month exemption for repayment of interest on loans. However, the micro, small and medium-scale enterprises (MSMEs) expressed concern as several bank branches here said they had not received the required communication. On Tuesday, the last day of the financial year, the representatives of MSMEs starting going to the banks and asking details about exemptions regarding repayment of interest. They expressed concern as the bank branches, except a couple of banks, here told the customers that they had not received any communication yet on the exemptions that were announced by Reserve Bank of India Governor recently. Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president R. Ramamurthy said he had asked the members to submit letters individually to the respective bank branches seeking exemption from repayment of interest. “There was anxiety among the members as they feared auto-debit from their accounts,” he said. Nil interest The banks should ensure that even if the amount had been deducted, it is reversed to the accounts of the units. The banks should charge nil interest on all loans and cash credits to the MSMEs during the lockdown period, he added. All banks and financial institutions should extend ad-hoc additional credit of 25 % for working capital. The MSMEs work on week basis and plan their finances accordingly. The units will have no collection this week and hence will not have money next week. They will have to pay wages, meet the other mandatory needs when the units re-open. So they need the ad hoc amount, he said. The accrued interest should be recovered from June 30, he said. Stimulus package He urged the government to come out with a stimulus package to the MSMEs for loss of business during the lockdown period. M. Raveendran, president of Coimbatore Compressor Industries Association, said there were several MSMEs in Coimbatore that supplied components to the railways. They had not received payments since November last year. Since the industries are under lockdown now, they are not able to receive the dues. The railways should take special steps to release the dues to its suppliers, at least partly, he said.
01 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SDRF assists police||Members of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have joined the police here in enforcing the prohibitory order issued as part of the lockdown. A senior official with the Coimbatore City Police said that around 75 SDRF members were allotted to the city. They would assist the police while conducting vehicle checks at various locations in the morning and evening. The SDRF members would also be part of patrols conducted by the police to check to enforce the prohibitory order. While on duty, they were using protective gears such as masks and special suit. The official added that the force would not be engaged in other activities of the police namely distribution of food to the needy and also helping those stranded due to the lockdown.
01 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||College offers premises for isolation wards||Kalaignarkarunanidhi Institute of Technology (KIT) in Kannapalayam on the outskirts of the city offered its campus premises to be converted into temporary isolation wards for COVID-19 patients. Former minister Pongalur N. Palanisamy of DMK, who is the founder chairman of the college, on Tuesday wrote to Collector K. Rajamani listing the various facilities in the college. A total of 250 hostel rooms, 800 beds, 15,000 sq. ft. auditorium, 15,000 sq. ft. kitchen and 100 class rooms were available on the premises, which could be used as temporary isolation wards, Mr. Palanisamy said in the letter.
01 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Personal appearance postponed||The annual, mandatory personal appearance for the State government pensioners is postponed. A release said every year, the pensioners would have to appear for interview either at the treasury or sub treasuries in April, May or June. But given the current extraordinary situation and lockdown, the State government had issued an order allowing the interviews to be held in July, August or September. The government would stop pension disbursement from November for those who failed to appear, the release added.
01 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||The Coimbatore Hoteliers Association has decided that its members would keep the restaurants closed till the end of the lockdown period. “We need to maintain at least a minimum strength to operate the hotels and people should get back to routine life for the hotels to get adequate footfalls. Hence, it was decided not to open the restaurants till the end of the lockdown period,” said M. Sivakumar, secretary of the association.    State Bank of India (SBI) has launched mobile ATM service in the city to help the public draw money. They can use the ATM card of any bank. On an average, the ATM will visit four locations a day from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. The locations are all public places, located close to hospitals. The service will be available till April 4.
01 April 2020||CUMBUM,TAMIL NADU||Awareness created||Citizens here were educated on the consequences of COVID-19 through a short play screened by the police and officials of the Information and Public Relations.  When some local residents moved on their two-wheelers, the Cumbum North Police Inspector Silaimani and team educated the people, instead of imposing fines or other forms of punishment.
01 April 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Five held for injuring SI||Police on Tuesday arrested five persons for breaking through vehicle checks and injuring a Sub Inspector in a speeding car. According to police, a speeding car which was heading towards Dharmapuri from Hosur hit a police check post at Kadichepatti here. Police immediately alerted next check post through wireless message. Though police tried to intercept the vehicle at Vellichandai check post, the vehicle did not stop and a Sub-Inspector Sarathi suffered injuries in the incident, police said. Later, police intercepted the vehicle near Karimangalam. Mahendramangalam police have registered a case against Pazhani,a resident of Pallacode, and four others
01 April 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Car, two-wheelers gutted||A four-wheeler and two motorcycles were completely destroyed in a fire accident which broke out in a private godown at Gopalpatti near Natham in the district on Tuesday. Police said that the godown, which belonged to Hariharan, 49, of Natham had stocked mangoes. He had parked the car and the two motorcycles. With COVID-19 pandemic, the government had ordered a 21-day-long curfew. Under such circumstances, the private shops and establishments had locked their outlets since March 24. It is suspected that some short circuit may have led to the fire. Sanaarpatti police have registered a case. Local residents attempt to put out the fire from being spread to other areas came in for appreciation.
01 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Personal distancing flouted at vegetable market in Erode||Despite 20 positive cases of COVID-19 reported in the district and personal distancing insisted to prevent spread of the disease, people continue to overcrowd the vegetable and fruit market that functions in the corporation’s central bus stand here. The wholesale market functions from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. every day while the retail market functions from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. on the premises. On the first two days, personal distancing was insisted and police personnel were also present to monitor the crowd. However, on Monday and Tuesday, people started thronging the market in large numbers and no personal distancing was maintained, both by the people and shopkeepers. Most of the shopkeepers were found sitting near to each other selling the vegetables while they were also found to be moving in the crowd. “All the arrangements and rules of purchase were flouted and we fear that it is a place where the virus could spread easily”, said Mohan Ram of Sampath Nagar, who returned without purchasing vegetable. He said that though policemen were mere spectators on the premises, the responsibility is with the public to maintain personal distancing of at least one metre from others. At any given time over 500 people had gathered at the market for purchasing without maintaining personal distancing which is a major concern.
01 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 1,000 assistance distribution from tomorrow||All the ration card holders in the district will be provided financial support of Rs. 1,000 at ration shops from April 2. Collector C. Kathiravan in a press release said that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had announced recently that to fight against COVID-19, all rice card holders would be given the cash at their respective ration shops from April 2. The release said that tokens would be issued to the card holders by the supervisors of the ration shops that will have date and time of issue and card holders should visit the shop and maintain personal distancing and receive the money. The release said that one of the family members whose name is figured in the ration card can visit the shop and receive the money. Eligible people, who do not have smart ration cards, can visit the ration shop with a copy of their Aadhaar card and obtain the cash. Also, they can receive rice, sugar, cooking oil and Dal at free of cost. Card holders, who did not receive the provisions for the month of March, can also pay the money and receive the items, the release added.  Salem Staff Reporter adds:  The district administration is making arrangements for distribution of COVID-19 relief of Rs. 1,000 to all rice ration card holders and Sri Lankan refugee families. According to officials, as many as 9,75,741 rice ration card holders and 882 Sri Lankan refugee families would receive the relief in the district. About Rs. 97.66 crore would be spent for this purpose here, a release said. According to officials, to prevent crowding at ration shops, necessary precautions are being taken and relief would be distributed according to token system. According to release, relief would be distributed area or street wise and details would be placed outside each ration shop here. Separate queues for men and women and personal distancing would be ensured while distributing relief items. Officials said that differently-abled persons and senior citizens need not wait in queues. District Collector S.A.Raman said in a release that those not interested in receiving the relief materials can register through tnepds application or through the websitewww.tnpds.gov.in. According to officials, public could raise complaints on this regard in the number 0427-2451943.
01 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Motorists continue to violate prohibitory orders||Despite lockdown, movement of vehicles, especially two-wheelers, is on the rise in the district as the police have a tough time in regulating the motorists here on Tuesday. Section 144 was clamped in the district to contain the spread of COVID-19 and motorists were allowed to ply on the road only to purchase essential commodities. The police have erected barricades on arterial roads. However, many were found to be taking their ride without valid reasons as police register case against them and impound their vehicles. With complaints of police high-handedness, the police started registering cases against motorists who were riding without valid reasons and also for violating orders. On Monday and Tuesday, many motorists, in the pretext of purchasing medicines, groceries, transporting farm products, could be seen on the city roads leading to frequent vehicle movement. Police personnel had a tough time in questioning them. Senior police officials said that over 500 cases were registered against motorists and their vehicles impounded in the past one week. Also, 18 persons were arrested for violating the order and case has been registered against them for the first time under sections of Disaster Management Act, 2005.
01 April 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal introduces e-pass||Karaikal administration has initiated an e-pass system, obviating the need for traders and others intending to travel beyond the district for genuine reasons during the COVID-19 lockdown period to approach the Collectorate in person. The applicants will henceforth be required to send their details to a designated Whatsapp number: 9488770024, for obtaining the e-pass. The applicants are required to furnish their name, address, type of goods and services, reason for travel, date of travel, time of travel, the vehicle type (motorcycle or car, registration number, travel route, photo ID proof, the number of persons taken along, and Whatsapp mobile number. The request will be processed promptly and the e-pass will be sent to the Whatsapp mobile number of applicant. The e-pass can be shown to the police for inter-district travel, Karaikal Collector Arjun Sharma said. Mr. Arjun Sharma said the administration has identified a team of 17 doctors through the Indian Red Cross Society to provide consulting services in allopathy and other systems of medicine through mobile and telephone numbers. To ensure the livelihood of the poor and migrant labourers, the district administration will mobilise voluntary donations in kind. Clothing material for stitching masks and protective gear, mattresses, groceries, rice, flour, atta, dals, soap, sanitisers, disinfectants, and other essential commodities of good quality will be collected from donors from their doorsteps by representatives of district administration who could be called over phone: 9487087199 / 9786499558. With effect from Wednesday, all vegetable shops, markets, and grocery shops will be kept open from 6 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. Petrol bunks will be kept open from 6 a.m to 6 p.m. However, the public will be allowed in the petrol bunks only till 2.30 p.m. Only govt. vehicles and govt. employees could purchase fuel until 6 p.m. by producing ID cards.
01 April 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||‘Shed fear over presence of Iranian vessel’||Seeking to allay public apprehensions over the docking of an Iranian ship at Karaikal port, the district administration on Tuesday made it clear that cargo movement by seaports has been permitted by the Central Government, and that there was no cause for fear since the personal distancing protocol was under strict observance. Urging the people ‘not to create undue panic or fear’, Collector Arjun Sharma said the ship was under surveillance of the police and other authorities. In compliance with the safety protocol, the district administration has not permitted any contact with the crew, the Collector said. For vessels arriving from ports of infected countries, additional measures have been specified.
01 April 2020||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Salary contributed||The Vice-Chancellor, officers, teaching and non-teaching staff of the Alagappa University here have decided to contribute one-day salary towards the COVID-19 fund. The Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had appealed to the people to liberally donate to the CM Public Relief Fund to fight the spread of the COVID-19 virus in the State. According to a press release issued here on Tuesday, Registrar Prof. H Gurumallesh Prabu, they would contribute the one-day salary to the fund.
01 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||From homeless to volunteers||R. Srinivasan, J. John, K. Palani and H. Shahul Hameed are among the 120 homeless people rescued by Idhayam Trust in the wake of COVID-19 and housed in a makeshift shelter at Park Murugan Temple. Now, the quartet have volunteered to help others like them. “I am a carpenter by profession. I used to sleep at the temple here as I was abandoned by my family. I help the elderly at the home,” says Palani. What’s more, a habitual drinker, he has turned over a new leaf. R. Srinivasan from Villupuram says he came to the district to visit his sister. Following the lockdown, he found himself stranded without money, when he was rescued. The four men help the elderly in using washrooms, distributing food provided by the Corporation to inmates and cleaning the premises. Most importantly, they ensure that sanitation is maintained at the homeless shelter. Corporation officials and trust members, closely involved with the shelter, say the rescued men were encouraged to take up volunteering and now they feel motivated to help others. Similarly, homeless people accommodated at Kakkaipadiniyar Corporation School have also been encouraged to volunteer their services.
01 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Students must schedule their day meaningfully to avoid anxiety’||The current spread of COVID-19 pandemic across the country has affected the psychological and mental well-being of different age groups. With disruption in their everyday routine and lifestyle, children and adolescents are among the most vulnerable groups who are also influenced by their parents’ anxiety, stress and change in lifestyle. However, following a well-planned schedule and keeping themselves engaged with different activities throughout the day can reduce anxiety among them, say mental health professionals. The experts also point out that the 21-day lockdown can be a golden period for families to spend quality time with each other . C. Ramasubramanian, a senior psychiatrist and founder of M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation, says that a section of students are regularly consuming more content on COVID-19 through various social media platforms, thus leading to unnecessary panic and anxiety. “Ultimately it will lead to depression. To overcome this, some children might resort to consumption of banned tobacco products,” he warns. To overcome this, students must prepare a meaningful schedule. They must exercise regularly; spend time with their family members, and unwind themselves with hobbies such as reading books, listening to music and gardening. Lack of clarity over the schedule in conduct of Class 10 State Board examinations has also created anxiety among students appearing for them. However, a positive attitude is essential as students can utilise the period effectively and excel in their examinations, says S. Selvamani, project head of Happy Schooling programme, an initiative implemented in Madurai Corporation schools aimed at promoting emotional well-being of students. “Students must see this as a period where they can analyse themselves and explore the career choices that they would like to pursue in the future,” he says. Net addiction Lakshmi Vijayakumar, psychiatrist and founder of SNEHA, says prolonged use of electronic gadgets and addiction to social media is also discouraged. “They can rather use social media platforms to do group yoga or exercise. They can also use the time to learn new skills and help in household chores,” according to her. Mr. Selvamani says that this time can be seen as an opportunity for parents and their children to understand the needs of each other. Dr. Ramasubramanian says that children and their parents must stay indoors as part of the lockdown. “They must be confident that everyone can stay united and overcome the pandemic successfully.”
01 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Now, vegetable bags||In a move to prevent crowding of customers at markets in the wake of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, Madurai Corporation has arranged take-away vegetable bags that will be sold through mobile vegetable vending outlets from Wednesday. According to a Corporation official, the vegetable bags will be introduced at 10 mobile vending outlets in the first phase on Wednesday and later extended to cover all wards across the city. Each bag will have 19 essential vegetables including potato, onion, cabbage, carrot, tomato, brinjal, green chili, lemon, coconut and ginger. It will be sold at Rs. 250. Volunteers from various non-governmental organisations will work with vegetable vendors’ associations and prepare the vegetable bags, Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said. “The civic body is facilitating this by providing light commercial vehicles to the vendors,” he added. The bags will be sold from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. at the mobile vegetable vending outlets. Customers will be requested to maintain personal distancing while purchasing vegetables.  Shops shifted A release from the civic body says shops will be temporarily shifted from the wholesale fish market at Karimedu on New Jail Road to M.G.R. Bus stand at Mattuthavani. Earlier, the civic body had announced that the shops will be shifted to Arapalayam bus stand. Since residents opposed the idea of shifting the shops to Arapalayam bus stand, they were again ordered to be shifted to M.G.R bus stand.
01 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Parents of special children come up with different coping mechanisms||For S. Balamani, a single mother who takes care of her 22-year-old daughter with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), the last few days were more challenging than ever before. The 21-day lockdown to prevent the COVID-19 transmission has disturbed her daughter’s evening walk and her daily routine. “She gets emotionally affected as her regular outdoor activities get disturbed. She screams and sometimes tends to become violent. We live in a rented apartment and our houseowners get irritated when my daughter throws a tantrum,” she says. Like Ms. Balamani, many parents of special children are having a hard time handling their children amid the lockdown. With the closure of special schools and restrictions in their outdoor activities, the daily routine of these children is disturbed, making them emotionally vulnerable. Due to the lockdown, these children are unable to attend their therapy sessions, says Saravanan Indiravel, a parent. “My son regularly attends a speech therapy session and is progressing well. Now we are worried and we do not know how our son will continue his sessions after a long break,” he says But, in the backdrop of these problems, parents are coming with different coping mechanisms to tackle the issue. S. Jerald Rajan, a parent, says the most important aspect in managing the child is to keep him engaged throughout the day. “We must make a schedule for the children for the entire day. Since my seven-year-old son is interested in cooking, we give him kitchen chores every morning. We ask him to peel off potato skin or pour idli batter into the mould. We also spend time with him on the terrace every evening. We are a family of four and abiding by a schedule, each one of us spends time with him,” he says. For T. Arun Prasad’s nine-year-old son, long drives in a car, is a compulsory component in his weekend schedule. “But, since the lockdown, my son and I sit in the car every evening. We listen to music inside the car for half-an-hour and my son is happy,” he says. During this current crisis, there is a need to create a conducive atmosphere at home for the special children, says K.S.P. Janardhan Babu, Director (Programmes) of M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation. “Involve the children in activities they like the most - drawing, painting, watching television, cooking or gardening. The parents can ask their children to do household chores like mopping the floor as physical activities help them sleep peacefully,” he says. ‘Parents, take care’ Mr. Babu also adds that parents also have to take care of their emotional well-being. “They can meditate or do yoga. Also, every member of the family must take turns to take care of the child,” he says. In the long run, there is a need to establish community-based rehabilitation centres with essential support system for special children in every district, says A. Chandrasekar, a parent.
01 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP announces competitions to beat boredom||The nation-wide curfew due to COVID-19 threat has literally kept elders and youngsters alike indoors. The prolonged lockdown for 21 days has also left them in boredom. To beat their boredom and add colour to the unexpected break from their regular chores, Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has come up with a series of competitions for children and parents that will help them to hone their artistic skills. “When even elders are finding it difficult to while away time during the lockdown, it will be a bigger challenge for children, who miss their friends and playground. Parents are also at their wits’ end to keep their children engaged,” Mr. Venkatesan said. Hence, the MP has announced various competitions like story-writing, poetry, drawing, short films and stand up comedy. Story-writing: Children can write stories in Tamil or English. They should be in 100 words for elementary students, 300 for students from class 6 to 9 and a minimum of 500 words for those from class 10 to 12. Poetry competition: Both Tamil and English for students from class 6 to 12. Drawing: Students can do pencil drawing, portrait or cartoon with crayons, water colour or paint or using digital tools like computer and mobile phones. The competition will be held under two categories: students up to class 6; those from class 7 to 12. Short film: Students from class 6 to 12 should make short films running for a minute with mobile phones. Stand-up comedy: Students can record their stand up comedy for a minute in mobile phone. All students from Madurai district can take part in the competitions. Each one can send multiple entries for all categories. Ten winners in each of the 12 categories will get Rs. 250 prize money each, every day from April 2 to 11. The students should mention their names, class, school name, phone number and residential address. The prize money will be deposited in the winners’ bank account. The best entry in each category will be given Rs. 10,000 each. Parents should share the experience of their children’s participation the competition and send them between April 12 to 14. Twelve best entries would get Rs. 5,000 each. Aparajitha Corporate Services is sponsoring the prizes. The entries should be sent to the relevant e-mail addresses: mpmaduraistory@gmail.com; mpmaduraipoem@gmail.com, mpmaduraiart@gmail.com (WhatsApp 88389-04390) mpmaduraishortfilm@gmail.com (94421-11729) mpmaduraistandup@gmail.com (94880-56502) and mpmaduraiparents@gmail.com
01 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Fear of being forced to resort to begging again haunts them||Lack of stable income and access to food supply in a time of pandemic has deeply impacted physically challenged couples like M. Jeyaraman and J. Santhi. The couple rue their inability to provide two square meals a day to their two children. “We are borrowing heavily and apprehensive about how long it will take for us to recover. Also, we are unable to buy and stock up because of our physical condition. Had we been notified in advance, we could have taken steps to buy adequate basic provisions,” says Mr. Jeyaraman. R. Mariammal, member, Tamil Nadu Crawling Differently Abled Persons Federation, says the State government has deprived them of all dignity. “We usually earn a living by selling small plastic toys or writing petitions outside the Collectorate. Now, many have taken to begging. It is the only way to get food on the plate and, unfortunately, there are not enough passersby to even throw some change at us.” Although Amma Canteens are open and free food is supplied, only a few have access to them. “Those who are able to stand in queues end up buying in bulk quantities. Since we crawl, it takes us a long time. People are merciless now since they too need to care of their families, Jeyaraman points out. K. Nagabaskar, another physically challenged person, says though the Corporation has provided phone numbers for home delivery of groceries, they are never reachable. “When I finally connected with someone, I was told that my house was far away and delivery was not possible.” A delivery executive with an app, he does not have enough money to fill petrol for his two-wheeler for the day-long work. Things look dire and the next two weeks will be a personal disaster, he says. He expects the recovery to be tough. S. Raja, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Crawling Differently Abled Persons Federation, wants the State government to ensure that the physically challenged are seen and heard by authorities. “We should be provided with additional income so that we can sustain ourselves. We should not have to resort to begging again as many of us have made huge efforts to come out of it.” Ration shops must deliver essential commodities to their homes, he adds. Collector T. G. Vinay says administrative staff, particularly Tahsildars, have been asked to ensure that differently abled persons in each block are identified and cared for. Since many of them have complained about lack of intervention by authorities, he promises to look into the matter.  The State government has deprived us of all dignity R. Mariammal Tamil Nadu Crawling Differently Abled Persons Federation,
01 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Protect poor’||The State government must ensure that adequate measures are taken to protect minorities and economically weaker families, C.J. Rajan, coordinator of Save Nation Movement, said on Tuesday. Financial assistance announced by the government must reach migrants, daily wage-earners, differently abled, fishermen and other minorities, whose livelihoods had been affected. They must be exempted from water tax and electricity charges. Drinking water must be supplied free of cost. MPLADS funds must be utilised to purchase ventilators. Authorities must ensure that essential commodities were not sold at exorbitant rates. Conservancy workers and ambulance drivers must be given PPE, a release said.
01 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two more test positive||Two men, aged 40 and 45 and residents of Narimedu and P and T Nagar, tested positive for COVID-19 at Government Rajaji Hospital here on Tuesday, taking the total number of positive cases in Madurai district to six. The duo attended a religious conference at Nizamuddin in New Delhi on March 9 and 10. They were tested on March 29 after the district administration traced them through a list received from the Centre, said Collector T. G. Vinay. Thirty-one persons from the district took part in the conference out of which 10 from Melur were in isolation ward. Nineteen others did not return to Madurai and two others went to Ramanathapuram and Chennai. Also, three other family members of the first COVID-19 victim in the State were in isolation. A containment and buffer zone was being created in Narimedu and P and T Nagar to ensure that the potential spread could be monitored by health workers over an area of two km from the houses of the patients. They were also working to establish a containment plan in Melur. At present, over 4,000 people were under home quarantine. To accommodate growing cases, the isolation ward from the old building of the GRH had been shifted to the latest multi-speciality hospital built under Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana. A total of 500 beds, a dedicated OP department, consultation and an ICU had been readied, he said.
01 April 2020||Namakkal/ Salem,TAMIL NADU||Those who returned from Delhi quarantined: Collector||District Collector K. Megraj said that a few persons who has returned from Delhi in the district has been quarantined and their health condition is being monitored. Mr. Megraj, along with Superintendent of Police Ara.Arularasu, visited Namakkal Kottai and nearby areas and advised public to stay indoors. Mr. Megraj said, “a few persons in the district have returned from Delhi and they have been quarantined at hospitals here. They were in home quarantine earlier and they have been moved to hospitals now for better care. Their family members have also been instructed accordingly.” He also advised public to not to venture out unnecessarily. “Public need to venture out of their houses only to buy essentials. Home delivery has also been arranged for this purpose and numbers have been provided, public can also contact district control room no. 1077. Public should understand the seriousness of the situation and stay indoors”, he said. Somasundaram, Deputy Director, Health Services, said that 24 persons from Namakkal had attended Tablighi Jamaat conference at Nizamudddin in Delhi and they have been quarantined. He added that their samples have been collected and sent for tests. Currently, there are 659 persons under home quarantine in the district, he said. In Salem, District Collector S.A. Raman said that 27 persons who attended the Nizamuddin event have been quarantined and their health is being monitored. He said that a college hostel have been taken up in each taluks for isolation purposes.
01 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Fire fighters in Pudukottai turn good Samaritans||Fire fighters in Pudukottai district have been silently helping the homeless and feeding the street dogs everyday alongside discharging their official duties. Ever since the nation-wide lockdown was announced in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, fire fighters took up this noble task preparing food at the fire stations and feeding the homeless people and street dogs. Each fire station in the district provides food to 10 to 20 homeless people found on the roadsides besides feeding street dogs, says the District Fire Officer, Pudukottai S. Chezhian. Fire fighters pool in money at the respective fire station to do their bit for the homeless in this time of crisis situation, Mr. Chezhian said. A team of fire fighters prepare variety rice at the respective fire station and pack them neatly and provide it to the homeless people living nearby. This is being done on the instruction of the higher authorities, Mr. Chezhian further said. Fire fighters were also being engaged for spraying disinfectants at various places in the district on a regular basis.
01 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Now, takeaway vegetable bags||In attempt to keep residents indoor and avert the need to venture out to purchase vegetables and groceries, the Department of Cooperation has started selling packs of vegetables and commodities at Rs. 100 a bag through a mobile outlet in Pudukottai. District Collector P. Uma Maheswari, who inspected the sale in Pudukottai town on Tuesday, said that the bags would have nine items, including onions, tomato, and two other vegetables besides a coconut, thuvar dhal, urad dhal, pepper, cumin seeds and fenugreek. The mobile outlet would visit different places to sell the bags to residents. Customers should strictly follow personal distancing while purchasing the bags. This apart bags containing 13 vegetables including brinjal, ladies fingers, radish, raw plantain, greens, tomato, small and big onions, potato, lemon, green chillies, coriander and curry leaves are being sold at Rs. 150 a bag at the uzhavar sandhais in the district, she said and appealed to the public to avail the facilities so as to avoid spending much time at the markets. Later, Ms. Maheswari also inspected the shelter and other amenities extended to a group of labourers from Bihar, employed in a private firm, at Kepparai village in the district. Ms. Maheswari said that labourers from other States in district are being identified and being provided with shelter, food and face masks. The Collector, who also distributed nilavembu kudineer concoction to build immunity of the elderly inmates of Dharmambal Home in Pudukottai town, said special medical teams have been constituted to screen destitute elderly citizens. Besides, food packets were also being supplied through the Revenue department, she said. She also disclosed that 13 medical teams have been constituted in the district to screen the general public and identify patients with cold, cough and fever. Such patients would be referred to the nearest primary health centre or government hospital.
01 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||10 test negative||Swab tests of the 10 persons of the district who were kept in isolation ward at the Aranthangi Government Hospital after they returned from Delhi where they had gone to attend an Islamic conference proved negative. The results of a Malaysia returned man also proved negative, said senior Health Department officials. However, the 11 persons would continue to be under medical observation in the isolation ward at the Aranthangi hospital.
01 April 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||37 arrested in Salem||The Salem district police on Monday arrested 37 persons for violating prohibition orders here. According to police, 22 cases have been registered and 37 persons were arrested and released on bail for defying lockdown orders. Police have also seized 17 vehicles for venturing out unnecessarily. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger inspected arrangements at Deevatipatty check post here on Tuesday and reviewed arrangements. She also distributed hand sanitisers and other safety gadgets to police personnel. There are 20 check posts in the district and 750 police personnel has been deployed on shift basis for duty in the district.
01 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||6 held for playing carrom in public place||Salem Town Police on Monday arrested six persons for playing carrom in open during lockdown here. They were later released on bail.
01 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Grocery kits distributed||Grocery kits were distributed to conservancy workers under Salem Corporation on Monday. Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheeshdistributed the kits. According to a release, the kit includes 16 grocery items. Corporation officials said that they are operating community kitchens in all its four zones and food is being provided to nearly 3,000 elderly and street dwellers every day.
01 April 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Appeal to residents||Collector J Jayakanthan and team of officials visited the municipality here on Tuesday and appealed to the residents to stay indoors. After 26 persons, who had been to New Delhi recently and attended a conference by the Jamaat, had symptoms of COVID-19, they were taken to isolation wards and kept for observation. The officials visited the neighbours and urged them to voluntarily undergo tests.
01 April 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Food available for differently abled persons||Collector S. Pallavi Baldev said that a total of 13 differently abled persons were being provided free lunch at their homes through volunteers in a bid to ensure that they get proper meals during times of COVID-19. In a press release, the Collector said that a community kitchen is providing them meals from the State Government and efforts are on to ensure more people can be served. For those with speech and hearing impairments, can contact 9700799993 as the facility also allows for communicating through sign language via video call. Those who are physically challenged can call the toll-free 18004250111 to state their needs. Others who require radiation therapy and dialysis can contact 108 and 104 for ambulances and workers of the Chief Minister's Health Insurance scheme through 18004253993, their helpline number. Others who are undergoing mental distress and those who are differently abled, can call the helpline number of National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) through 08046110007.
01 April 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Counselling available||Collector M Pallavi Baldev on Tuesday announced that people in self-quarantine in the district may contact the following mobile numbers and seek counselling as they were in isolation as mandated by the government to distance from the COVID-19 virus. Psychologists and psychiatrists can be reached at 95979 61176, 94860 09440, 94436 90880 and 94433 45837, a press release said.
01 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Overseas air cargo surpasses set target||The Tiruchi international airport, one of non metro airports in the country, has surpassed the target set for overseas cargo handling during the 2019-20 financial year even before the nation-wide lockdown and cancellation of international flights in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The international air cargo terminal at Tiruchi handled over 7,900 metric tonnes of overseas freight by February itself thereby exceeding the target of 7,500 metric tonnes set for 2019-20 financial year, a senior Airports Authority of India official said. However, stakeholders feel that the current lockdown and the cancellation of all international flights since March last week in the wake of spread of COVID-19 pandemic would have an impact in respect of overseas cargo movement from Tiruchi airport in the early period of the 2020-21 financial year due to the crisis at the global-level. All international flights have been cancelled up to April 14 as per the Centre’s directive. On an average, the Tiruchi international air cargo terminal used to handle more than 550 metric tonnes overseas cargo every month during the 2019-20 fiscal. There have been occasions when the figure exceeded 700 and 800 metric tonnes in certain months during 2019-20, according to Airports Authority of India statistics. Perishables such as vegetables, fruits and flowers continue to account for ninety-nine per cent of the consignments lifted from Tiruchi airport which is surrounded by agrarian districts. In the absence of any freight service, cargo is being booked in international passenger flights that were being operated to select foreign destinations in South Asia, South East Asia and West Asia from here. Singapore is a big market for the exporters from here as bulk of vegetables used to be shipped to that country, say export circles here. Amid uncertainty looming over resumption of international flights due to the current COVID-19 spread, exporters here say even if overseas flights were to resume from mid –April onwards it would still take a couple of months to get back to normal situation. Predictions could not be made about air cargo exports given the current crisis situation across the globe in the wake of the spread of the viral disease world-wide. “There is a greater possibility of reduction in the movement of international cargo movement at least in the first quarter of the 2020-21. As things stands now, it would take time up to August for air cargo export business to get back to the pre-lockdown period, says S.A. Sayeed, president, Express Courier Operators Association, Tiruchi.
01 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Fee collection by CBSE schools during lockdown irks parents||In the backdrop of the Ministry of Human Resource Development directing the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and other autonomous bodies to tweak the academic calendar to tide over the COVID-19 crisis, online collection of fees by some CBSE schools in the city even before the commencement of the academic year has caused consternation among parents. The HRD Ministry had, last week, sent a circular to all States and autonomous bodies such as the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), the National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT), the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to work on an alternate academic calendar. But, that has not deterred the CBSE schools from fixing stiff deadlines for parents to pay the fees online. Parents lament that the schools feel emboldened as the Tamil Nadu government has not made its position clear on the issue. While warning schools last year against conducting the admission process during the vacation, the Education department did not make any specific mention about school fee collection. Also, the government follows a hands-off policy when it comes to CBSE schools. On the other hand, a number of other State Governments including those in Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Himachal Pradesh have issued clear warnings to the schools, irrespective of board affiliations, that their recognition will be withdrawn if they flout the order not to collect fees at the time of nationwide lockdown. A CBSE school in the city had issued a circular to parents on March 28 instructing them to make the fee payments before April 7. Another CBSE school has fixed April 14 as the deadline. Most of the private schools are now in the process of collecting the fees, a former member of State Consumer Protection Council, Government of Tamil Nadu, said. An official of the School Education Department said it was normal for CBSE schools to start the classes during April. “There has been no specific instruction from the government so far regarding postponement of the last date for fee payment in CBSE schools in view of the nationwide lockdown,” the official said. According to a representative of a private school management, there was a necessity for CBSE schools to start the academic year in April since the syllabus cannot be completed. The mid-term exams in September warrant timely completion of portions which will not be possible if the classes begin in June. It was a common practice for CBSE schools to collect the fee before commencement of the academic year, which, had to be postponed this time around due to unforeseen circumstances. But, the schools will have to fall in line and defer collection of fee at this juncture if the government issues an order to that effect, he said.
01 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of tokens for ration cardholders begins||The process of distributing tokens for ration card holders to disburse the Rs. 1,000 financial assistance, announced by the State government as relief in view of the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, began here on Tuesday. The tokens were being issued door-to-door by employees of the respective ration shops in their jurisdictional areas. Three hundred tokens would be issued during the exercise According to District Collector S. Sivarasu the process would continue on Wednesday and the disbursement of the money at the ration shops would begin on Thursday. As many as 7,84,587 rice card holders and Sri Lankan refugees would get the dole. All ration card holders would also be supplied essential commodities such as rice, dhal, cooking oil and sugar free of cost for the month of April. The dole and essential commodities would be distributed through 1,224 ration shops in the district. The disbursement of the money and commodities are planned in phases – initially from April 2 to 4, April 6 to 8 and April 10 to 12. From April 2 to 4, 100 eligible card holders each would be issued the relief amount and the commodities in a day. Thirteen card holders would be given the money in an hour. Personal distancing would be followed while disbursing the amount, Mr.Sivarasu said. Those who are not able to get the money and commodities can get the same in the forenoon of April 5. From the afternoon of April 5, the ration shop employees would resume distribution of token for the next phase of distribution. The issue of tokens would continue after every phase of distribution until all card holders are issued the money and commodities. Those who have failed to draw their quota of essential commodities during March can draw the same now, Mr. Sivarasu added and urged the people to extend their full cooperation to the exercise. Complaints, if any, can be lodged over telephone by dialling 0431-2411474 or 9445045618.
01 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Violators continue to be booked in Central Zone||Crackdown against those found violating the prohibitory orders continued with the police booking over 1,200 cases in the Central zone on Tuesday. More than 1,300 persons were arrested across the zone and subsequently let on bail. The seizure of two-wheelers exceeded 900. Thanjavur district was on top in respect of cases booked with the figure surpassing 400 followed by 300 cases in Tiruchi Rural Police limits, said police sources. In Tiruchi City Police limits alone, more than 800 two-wheelers which were seized ever since the prohibitory order was enforced a few days ago have been stationed at the Armed Reserve ground here. The vehicles were driven by those who did not have any valid and genuine reason to venture out of their home thus violating the order, said the police.
01 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Amma Canteens to the rescue||Sales in Amma Canteens have doubled in the city in the wake of closure of restaurants and eateries due to the lockdown. There are 11 Amma Canteens in different parts of the city. Since the enforcement of curfew the canteens, which offer subsided food to the customers, have been witnessing heavy crowds. Besides homeless people, orphans and roadside dwellers, the destitute and elders, who are unable to cook on their own, visit the canteens in large numbers. They wait in long queues in the morning and afternoon. Each canteen, in normal days, would prepare 1,200 idlis, sambar rice for 300 persons and curd rice for 150 persons. Since the beginning of the lockdown, each canteen prepares 2,400 idlis and sambhar rice for 400 persons. “To meet the food requirements of needy persons, we have doubled the volume of preparation. We make sure that no one returns with empty stomach after visiting Amma Canteens,” says S. Sivasubramanian, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation. He said that the canteens were open from 7 a.m. to 3 pm to serve food for breakfast and lunch. Considering the plight of the needy persons in the absence of restaurants, the canteens have been asked to prepare dinner too.Mr. Sivasubramanian said that the State government had allocated a special fund of Rs. 2 lakh each for the 11 canteens in the city in the wake of the lockdown. A proposal had been sent to the State government to allocate Rs. 55 lakh for serving subsidised food to the customers, he added.  We make sure that no one returns with empty stomach after visiting Amma Canteens S. Sivasubramanian Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation
01 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Temporary markets open in Musiri, Lalgudi and Thuraiyur||In an attempt to de-congest markets and ensure personal distance while people buy vegetables, the district administration has opened temporary markets in Musiri, Lalgudi and Thuraiyur. The existing vegetable markets and farmer markets in Musiri, Thuraiyur, and Thuraiyur have been closed. Instead, the authorities have earmarked spacious places, mainly school premises, for selling vegetables until further notice. In Musiri, the farmers’ market has come up at the Government Boys Higher Secondary School. Similarly, the playground at the Zamindar Higher Secondary School in Thuraiyur has been made as a temporary market for selling vegetables. Collector S. Sivarasu said that the temporary markets at Musiri, Thuraiyur and Lalgudi had already started functioning. The officials have been asked to find out school premises in other leading towns, including Thottiam, Manapparai, Thuvarankurichi and others for allowing the traders to sell vegetables and fruits. The school premises have turned out to be ideal locations for forming temporary markets as they would invariably have sufficient space. It would allow the people to maintain at least one metre distance while standing in queues for buying vegetables. Besides revenue officials, Mr. Sivarasu said that the police personnel would man the temporary markets in order to regulate the buyers. If needed, the authorities were asked to set up public address system to educate the buyers. Similarly, the traders would be given identity cards so as to transport vegetables and set up shops at the temporary markets.
01 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||20 admitted to isolation ward in Tiruchi GH||Twenty persons, who returned to Tiruchi after attending a religious conference in New Delhi recently, were admitted to the isolation wards at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Tuesday. Since several of those attended the conference have tested positive for COVID-19 virus, the Health, Revenue and Tiruchi Corporation authorities traced them by visiting various parts of the district, and put them in the isolation ward. Upon admission, the hospital authorities collected throat swabs of 13 persons and sent them for laboratory test. With the admission of 20 persons on Tuesday, Collector S. Sivarasu said that the total number of those admitted to the isolation wards had gone up to 28. Of them, samples of eight patients were sent for laboratory test and five of them have tested negative for COVID-19 virus.
01 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||He is just a call away for stranded truck drivers||A social worker in Thuraiyur has taken it upon himself to help truck drivers and their attenders stranded on the highways near his town due to the lockdown enforced to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. S. Sureshkumar, 53, a real estate dealer and contractor, has spent over Rs. 1 lakh to fund a series of relief efforts in his vicinity after the nationwide lockdown was announced last week. “I was moved by the plight of the inter-State truck drivers who were unable to cross borders once the closure was announced. With all the roadside eateries downing shutters, many of these transporters were left without any means to feed themselves,” Mr. Sureshkumar told The Hindu over telephone. “So I sent out a WhatsApp message asking stranded lorry teams to contact me from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., to receive basic provisions, which they could cook on their portable stoves. Seven teams (of a driver and attender each) have been helped so far. I am looking at petrol bunk employees and auto rickshaw drivers next,” he added. Mr. Sureshkumar has also been working with local authorities to spread awareness about Coronavirus, and hygiene measures. He has purchased over 5,000 masks to be given away to the public. “The pandemic has created a fear among people, but it is sad to see the safety norms being violated in many places. I hope the mask will remind the recipients to maintain appropriate personal distancing and cleanliness while interacting with others,” he said. In addition to this, Mr. Sureshkumar has offered the use of two cars within 10 kilometres of Thuraiyur town, for those who require emergency medical care during the lockdown. Keen on maintaining a low profile, Mr. Sureshkumar, who declined to be photographed, says more privileged people should come forward to share their wealth with their fellow citizens, especially in time of crisis. “Your money should make a difference to someone in need.” Mr. Sureshkumar’s can be reached on WhatsApp at 9443704327.
01 April 2020||Tiruchi/ Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Social distancing goes for a toss as people come out||Despite various measures implemented by the Revenue and police authorities to enforce the prohibitory orders imposed in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, heavy movement of people on the roads, large gatherings at markets, grocery shops and pharmacies have caused a sense of unease for administrators and medical professionals. On Tuesday, a large number of people thronged the temporary markets along the Cauvery Bridge and the Anna Stadium and personal distancing went for a toss as many crowded in front of shops in their anxiety to purchase their requirements. In many places, policemen were helpless. Many also were seen crowding at the places designated for parking vehicles. Medical professionals say it is very important for people to remain indoors and maintain personal distancing if at all they need to venture out in emergency situations. “There is no need for panic. But at the same time, people should avoid going out unless absolutely essential - say in an emergency situation. If they go out, people must maintain personal distance of at least two metres or six feet and practice hand hygiene,” said Senthilkumar Nallusamy, senior cardiologist in the city, pointing out that a large number of patients would be asymptomatic and when venturing out they may be interacting with several immuno-suppressed people. The government, he pointed out, had announced the 21-day lockdown taking into account the 14-day incubation period of the virus and allowing another week to be on the safe side. People should remain indoors and self protect through this entire period, Dr. Senthilkumar said. Officials in Thanjavur too bemoan the lack of awareness among the people. “The decentralising of vegetable sale by setting up temporary mini-markets at bus stands, school and other open grounds and formation of special teams at the public distribution shop-level to assist people in procuring essentials were conceived and implemented to ensure that people remained indoors and prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic,” Thanjavur Collector, M. Govinda Rao, pointed out. However, people coming out in search of their needs continued. In some places in Thanjavur, people claimed that they were not aware of the constitution of special teams. “I would not have stepped out of my house if I had come to know about such facility”, said a staff of judiciary, Murugan, of Kumbakonam. Meanwhile, Kumbakonam Municipality has stepped up publicity exercise by pressing into service public address fitted vehicles to convey the message to the public about the formation of special teams and decentralisation of the Palakarai market.
01 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Toiling hard on streets with immense satisfaction||No one is watching them even from a distance. But the conservancy workers, sporting masks and gloves, clean the garbage scattered everywhere along the almost deserted roads of Drivers’ Colony in NGO Colony. While a male conservancy worker with the long garden broom gathers garbage strewn all around, two female workers collect the degradable and the non-degradable waste in separate bins kept in a battery-operated garbage vehicle. “Vanakkm Amma... Romba nandri amma,”... the greetings from Drivers’ Colony Residents’ Welfare Association president Nallaperumal diverts the conservancy workers’ attention from collecting the garbage and they reciprocate it with folded hands and broad smile. And their work continues even as everyone is behind doors of this middle class residential area as COVID -19 scare is everywhere. The conservancy workers, drawing paltry daily wages, start their work at 6 a.m. sharp and the work continues until the target given for them for the day is achieved. Besides cleaning the garbage, the conservancy workers desilt the drainage channels, sprinkle bleaching powder along these desilted drainage channels, spray disinfectants around the wet nauseating silt and their colleagues remove this silt in the lorries once it dries-up. The cash-starved and short-staffed Corporation has deployed 1,077 conservancy workers in Tirunelveli, Thatchanallur, Palayamkottai and Melapalayam Zones to carry-out the cleaning operations in the wake of the dreaded pandemic threat. Their laudable work attracts everyone’s attention as they, without anything from anyone, concentrate on their work. Since there is no roadside teashop, they have to wait for the arrival of a vendor without stopping their work. Apart from this routine work, conservancy workers in small groups are taken for cleaning operation and putting lime powder circles in the temporary vegetable markets created with 479 shops to ensure ‘personal distancing’ to avert community transmission of SARS –CoV- 2 virus. Moreover, the conservancy workers deployed along the streets housing the individuals under home quarantine have to spray disinfectants thrice a day besides the regular work of keeping these areas clean. The increased arrival of the homeless and the labourers to the ‘Amma Unavagam’ has burdened them with more work. Most of their families have three children and most of them are studying in the schools. “We’ve told them not to come out of our houses as COVID – 19 threat is everywhere,” the women conservancy workers say even as their work continues. Though most of these workers are entangled in debt and their borrowings from the local moneylenders continue, there is no sign of worries on their face as they draw immense satisfaction from their work. “This is the job that feeds us and our families... We should do it with utmost dedication and do it as we do usually even as pandemic threat looms large everywhere now,” the conservancy workers say while leaving the Drivers’ Colony area with the collected garbage even as no one is monitoring them.
01 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Sudden spurt in admission to isolation ward panics people||The admission of 23 of the 24 persons, who attended a religious conference in Delhi recently, in the isolation ward of Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, where one COVID – 19 positive person is already undergoing treatment has triggered panic among the public. Since only three persons had been in the isolation ward till Monday and one youth from Samooharengapuram, who tested positive for COVID – 19, is undergoing medication in the ‘treatment ward’, there was a little relief among the residents here as they console themselves with the thought that penetration of the pandemic in one of the hottest districts of Tamil Nadu is less. When the social media were abuzz on Tuesday with the information that 23 persons had been admitted to the TVMCH’s isolation ward, most of the residents here lost their peace. Besides making calls frantically to the journalists to confirm the panicky news that they have received, they also wanted to know if they had tested positive for COVID – 19. Of the 24 persons, 17 are from Melapalayam, 3 from Pettai, 2 from Valliyoor, 1 each from Kalakkad and Seythunganallur near Palayamkottai in Thoothoukudi district. Sources in the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital here said 23 of the 24 persons, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi, had COVID – 23 symptoms and had been admitted to the isolation ward. “We’ve lifted samples from these cases and we, at this stage, cannot say anything on this issue. We’ve to crosscheck the results we got at TVMCH with the results with a Pune-based lab,” a senior doctor of TVMCH said without saying anything concrete about the outcome of the clinical investigations done here. Another senior doctor of TVMCH said the samples would usually be sent for crosschecking only when the patients test positive for a viral infection. “Since the samples of these 23 patients have been sent to Pune for crosschecking or confirmation, one can infer that they might be COVID – 19 positive as per the results of TVMCH,” he explained.
01 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 positive cases: Collector orders isolation of Melapalayam||As 23 persons from Tirunelveli, mostly from Melapalayam in Palayamkottai, have been tested positive for COVID – 19, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish has asked Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor to ensure complete isolation of Melapalayam from rest of the city till April 14. In a communication to the Police Commissioner, Ms. Shilpa said all roads leading to Melapalayam should be closed for vehicular traffic and entry of people to avert possible infection of the virus as a large number of people from abroad and other States had returned to Melapalayam. The residents of Melapalayam should remain indoors. Since arrangements had been made to ensure the sale of essential commodities and vegetables in all street-corners, unnecessary movement of the public in Melapalayam should be completely checked. Moreover, personal distancing in the points where vegetables and essential commodities are sold should be ensured. While movement of all vehicles inside Melapalayam should be strictly prohibited, one person from each family can be allowed to buy the vegetables and the essential commodities. Those who come out of their houses to go to hospitals should be allowed to go only with medical records and separate registers maintained to record their return from the hospital, Ms. Shilpa said. The Collector, while asking the Police Commissioner to deploy police personnel in adequate numbers in all check-posts to be erected around Melapalayam, did not mention in the communication that these actions are being taken after 17 persons from Melapalayam have been tested positive for COVID – 19 on their return from a religious conference in Delhi.
01 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘No community transmission in Tiruppur district’||Following the completion of a door-to-door survey in Tiruppur district for COVID-19 symptoms, no evidence of community transmission was found among the residents yet. Top sources from the district administration told The Hindu the exercise involved surveying 27,236 residents. Although 52 were found to be having fever, no COVID-19 symptoms were found. Nearly 280 staff members from the Health Department and the district administration were split into 70 screening teams for this survey, which was completed on Sunday, according to the sources. The survey was done for the residences in the containment and buffer zones demarcated around the residence of the district’s first COVID-19 positive case in Tiruppur city, the sources added. The Department of Health and Family Welfare demarcated a five-km radius around the residence of the positive case as the containment zone along with additional two-km radius as the buffer zone. Surveys to check whether the residents in these zones showed COVID-19 symptoms would be carried out.
01 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Demand for mobile markets||Consumer rights organisation Consumer Awareness and Protection Association (CAPA) urged the State government to convert the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation buses into ‘mobile markets’ to curb overcrowding at vegetable markets. In a letter to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday, CAPA president N.R. Ravisankar said that this initiative would help people uphold personal distancing in the next two weeks.    Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan on Tuesday wrote to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami objecting to the lack of invitation to MPs for the COVID-19 review meeting held by the district administrations in Tiruppur and Erode. MPs must be invited to participate in these meeting to highlight the issues pertaining to COVID-19 in their respective constituencies, Mr.Subbarayan said in his letter.
01 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable, meat stalls for each ward in Ooty, Coonoor from today||To prevent crowd at the regular markets. each ward in Udhagamandalam and Coonoor towns will have a vegetable and a meat stall from Wednesday The Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya told presspersons that people had been advised to buy provisions only from the new shops that would function from 6 a.m to 2.30 p.m. The Collector also said that many people continued to defy prohibitory orders. Vehicles passes would be issued to persons using their vehicles to get to their work places to provide essential services. Police said vehicles of persons found moving around without justifiable reasons would be impounded. Eighty vehicles had been seized over the last few days. The district administration also warned quarantined people against venturing out. In Gudalur, cases were registered against two persons who violated the quarantine rule. Out of 733 people quarantined across the district, the quarantine period of 50 people had ended, officials said. The police said that 487 cases had been registered against people for violating the prohibitory orders. People could be arrested if they violated the orders.  Essential items   handed over  The district administration handed over essential items to differently abled persons residing in Kagguchi near Udhagamandalam. Essential supplies were handed over to 62 families on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the surrounding villages had also chosen a few youths to patrol the villages and ensure people did not venture out of their homes. This move also aimed at restricting outsiders from entering the villages.
01 April 2020||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||Fake doctor lands in police net||Police and health officials raided a clinic and arrested a doctor near Ranipet, on Tuesday, following complaints about him treating patients with allopathic drugs, without any qualification. Madhavan, 34, was offering medicines for the prevention of COVID-19.
01 April 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Effective steps have controlled spread of virus in Tamil Nadu, says Minister||Despite having a higher population than Italy, Tamil Nadu had a far less number of COVID-19-infected people, thanks to the right action taken at the right time by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, said Dairy Development Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji. Reviewing the COVID-19 preventive measures being taken at a few local bodies here on Tuesday, Mr. Bhalaji said that precautionary measures were being taken on a war footing. “The CM has been working hard day and night to contain the spread of the viral infection with a view to safeguarding the people of Tamil Nadu and migrant workers in the State,” he said.  Mr. Palaniswami had declared a lockdown in the State even before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the curfew across the country, he added. The effective steps taken by the officials of various departments had contained the spread of the virus with the death of only one person, who had contacts with those from other countries, he said. Mr. Bhalaji asked officials to continue closely monitoring disinfecting activities taken up across the district. Community kitchens were catering to the aged, differently abled, mentally retarded and homeless people as well as those living below poverty line, he added. Collector R. Kannan said that bags of 22 essential grocery items were being door-delivered to the people. He said that the grocery items were grown in rain-fed regions without using chemical fertilizers. The bag contains turmeric, cumin seeds, saum, muster, fenugreek, pepper, toor dal, urad dal, moong dal, black chenna, tamarind, fried gram, sugar, broad beans, wheat flour, asafoetida powder, red chilli, rava, edible oil, salt and a tea packet. The goods came at a cost of Rs. 1,000. People from Sivakasi, Sattur, Virudhunagar and Aruppukottai could call 97509-43814 and 97599-43816 and 92454-12800. The goods would be delivered within 24 hours.
01 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Swab tests done on 13 persons||Swab tests were on Tuesday conducted on 13 persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamat conference in New Delhi. These 13 persons, who were kept under home quarantine, were shifted to isolation ward in Virudhunagar Government Hospital on Monday. Collector R. Kannan said that the samples have been sent for test and the reports are expected in a couple of days. Meanwhile, containment exercise that was already taken up in Rajapalayam was extended to Srivilliputtur, Virudhunagar, Aruppukottai and Tiruchuli as a precautionary measure.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||The dilemma of a hospital administrator||The Shakespearean dilemma, “To be or not to be”, holds good for most doctors and surgeons in the country right now. The extraordinary times we live in, with the pandemic looming large and around us, a much-needed 21-day lockdown enforced by the Prime Minister seems the last resort left to take the viral pandemic by its horns. However, remember the viral illness isn’t the only illness and other non-communicable diseases still continue to be the major killer. This includes diseases related to diabetes mellitus, hypertension, cardiovascular and neurological diseases. The most notable among these are cancers. Most diseases, with the exception of cancer, require a patient to comply with recommendations of a healthy lifestyle, monitoring and drug intake. The compliance could potentially reduce the need to travel to a clinic/hospital, temporarily reducing footfall inside a healthcare facility, where less-immune people are prone to coming together. However, one needs to weigh the risks and benefits of visting/not visiting the doctor. We doctors use our learning to decide the need for a planned procedure — the so-called elective procedures. Can we afford to sideline the “elective cases” during the pandemic? Why is it important to withhold elective/planned surgeries/procedures? Unlike any other profession, we doctors deal with humanity at its most vulnerable. It is not just science, but empathy and trust between the doctor and patient that forms the keystone of this scenario. So why is it important to say no to a surgery/procedure to a patient who needs it, but who is not in immediate danger?The learning from the West and the East has been clear, with hospitals becoming the major source point of infection spread. The lockdown is the biggest social experiment we have undertaken since the partition of India. The current situation warrants a doctor to use his utmost clinical judgement to reschedule the procedure to break the chain, by reducing the contacts of the vulnerable ones. It is also important to reduce the occupancy of patients beds, ventilators and other resources, which will become necessary if a potential need arises. Clear directions from the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) and PMO to postpone all elective procedures for a month, is a step taken to handle pandemic transmission. But the buck doesn’t stop there — the recent development of implementing a tele-health policy through the recently formed board of governors (replacing the MCI) is a disruption in itself. With high speed internet-enabled smartphones in most hands, tele-consultations for all non-emergency visits is just a click away. What was thought as a tool to reach the unreachable sectors of the society has taken a different avatar now, enabling us to reach everyone. It is often quoted “chaos is the ladder of opportunity”. This pandemic brings forth a lot of fundamental thinking and action in all sectors of society. A society where public health takes precedence over economy, where family takes precedence over self indulgence, where priorities and culture of the organisation towards its employees matter more than the take-home packages or bonuses. All it requires for us to do is to sit back and relax, as that’s the strongest weapon to fight the pandemic, and I am sure we will lead by example.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In highest single-day rise in cases, 57 more test positive||Among the remaining seven patients, four were from Chennai and were admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) and private hospitals. A 43-year-old man, a resident of Pozhichalur with a travel history to Thiruvananthapuram, tested positive and was admitted to RGGGH. He is a family contact of a previously positive patient, a 73-year-old woman of Pammal, who had no travel history. A 28-year-old co-worker of another earlier patient — a 25-year-old woman who worked at a shopping mall in Chennai — also tested positive. He was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Tiruvannamalai. A 35-year-old man from Kanniyakumari also tested positive and was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Kanniyakumari. The number of persons under hospital isolation increased from 364 on Monday to 630 on Tuesday. A total of 2,354 samples have been lifted for testing so far. As of now, 77,330 persons, including those who had arrived at airports and by trains and persons with a travel history identified during door-to-door surveillance, are under home quarantine. The State has got the approval from the Union Health Ministry for establishing more testing facilities — at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, Microbiology Lab, Veerakeralam Road, Coimbatore, and YRG Care, Chennai. With this, T.N. has 11 testing facilities in the government sector and six laboratories in the private sector for COVID-19 testing. Meanwhile, the Greater Chennai Corporation has appealed to those who had visited the Visa Application Centre at the Good Shepherd Building on Kodambakkam High Road in Chennai on March 15 to “home quarantine and isolate” themselves as one person who was there on that day has tested positive for COVID-19.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Prison inmates make masks to meet demand||In order to meet the growing demand for masks, one of the protective wears that helps to prevent the spread of COVID-19, Tamil Nadu Prison Department has started making them in large number through inmates. Coimbatore Central Prison authorities said that its inmates were making 5,000 pieces of the essential commodity per day. The masks are supplied to the police and health departments, they said. G. Shanmuga Sundaram, Deputy Inspector General of police, Prisons, (Coimbatore range), said that they already supplied 10,000 masks for the police in Erode district. “These are triple layered mask made of nonwoven fabric. The masks are sterilized after making. We have raw materials to make 2.5 lakh masks,” he said. Around 40 inmates of the prison trained in tailoring are engaged in making masks. They were already working in the stitching centre at the prison. R. Krishnaraj, Superintendent of Coimbatore Central Prison, said that the mask was priced at Rs. 10 per piece. The mask was, however, not being sold at the prison bazaar on Dr. Nanjappa Roiad where products made by prisoners are sold.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Delhi meet: 141 admitted to isolation wards||A total of 141 persons from Madurai, Dindigul, Tirunelveli and Sivaganga, who recently attended a Tablighi Jamaat event in New Delhi, have been kept in isolation wards, health officials said on Tuesday. The patients comprised 89 from Dindigul, 24 from Tirunelveli, 26 from Sivaganga and two from Madurai. Initial inquiry shows that around 1,500 persons attended the conference held last week. Many of the participants had symptoms of COVID-19 and they have been admitted to isolation wards in their districts, the officials said. Test samples have been sent to labs and further treatment will begin based on the results. Those who test negative will be discharged and advised to remain in home quarantine for a specified period. The patients are being constantly monitored by doctors, according to Collectors of the districts.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||BU postpones personal contact programmes||Bharathiar University School of Distance Education has postponed all personal contact programmes – theory and practical – at its departments, affiliated colleges (LSC centres) for all programmes till April 14, said a release.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Alumni association donates Rs. 1 lakh||The alumni of the 1992-95 batch of the PSG College of Arts and Science on Tuesday presented a cheque for Rs. 1 lakh to the Collector. Batch convenor Mayura S. Jayakumar said the money was to support the government’s fight against the spread of COVID-19.
01 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Man, son drowned in village well near Gokak||A 15-year-old boy who went to learn swimming and his father who tried to teach him drowned in the village well in Rajapur near Gokak in Belagavi district on Tuesday. The bodies of Parashuram Kamate (15) and his father, Satyappa Kamate (60), were retrieved by the police with the help of the villagers. The farmer had tied an empty box to the back of the boy and also tied a rope around his waist. But water entered the box through a hole and the boy started drowning, the police said. The farmer jumped into the water to save him. The boy panicked and tried to grab his father. There was no one around to save them, the police said. A case has been registered at the Ghataprabha Police Station.
01 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Belagavi has nearly 1,000 migrant workers in camps||There are around 1,000 migrant workers in various camps set up across Belagavi district, officials said here on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli told district in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar that they had all undergone preliminary tests and none of them had shown any COVID-19 symptoms. They include those who were stopped by officials while they were trying to cross the district on foot. Some workers from North India who were working in various establishments in the district are also part of the group. They are housed in government hostels, residential schools, community halls and other facilities in Belagavi, Bailhongal, Hukkeri and Kittur. In Belagavi, the migrants are housed in Social Welfare Department hostels at Nehru Nagar. However, there are some issues that officials are grappling with. Officials are supplying them rice bath but the workers are not used to eating it. Some of them told the officials who visited them to see that they get rotis and sabzi and not rice items. The district administration officials, however, said that this demand is difficult to fulfil. However, migrants from Goa and Maharashtra are walking to their destinations and passing through villages in Belagavi district. They are being offered food and water by villagers and police officers in some places. It is difficult to keep track of all of them, said a senior officer.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Apartment associations step in to crack down on loiterers||Over the past three days, morning walkers and joggers of an apartment in Jalahalli have been warned against coming out. Two security guards have been deputed to advise them to go back to their homes and venture out only to buy essentials. Though the number of people venturing out for walks has seen a sharp decrease, the apartment association is not taking chances. It has threatened to levy a steep penalty on violators. Several apartments in the city are adopting similar measures to ensure that the pandemic doesn’t make its presence felt in their vicinity. Govindan Nair (name changed), a resident of Aristocrat Apartments in Kasturinagar, said the apartment association has stopped all helpers from coming to work. “Even newspapers are arranged at the main gate from where residents have to pick it up,” he said. At Golden Palms Apartment in Kothanur, repeated messages are being sent to residents to dissuade their wards from playing in the designated area together. Suresh Kaimal, a resident, said messages requesting residents not to venture out unnecessarily and maintain social distance even at the grocery shop within the community have been sent. A.S. Khan, president of Aquila Heights Apartment Owners’ Association, said the Board of Members was debating on levying a fine on those venturing out. “There are many senior citizens living in the community. We can ill afford to take a risk. If there is even one case, the entire community will be shut down. We have been requesting all residents to cooperate,” he said. Another apartment, Sumadhura Sawan, in Whitefield is also contemplating on restricting movement. According to Rishita Sharma, a resident, until a few days ago, residents were allowed to go out on walks within the premises, provided they wore a mask. “However, many people were found violating this. The association is now thinking of restricting movement unless absolutely essential,” she said. The police personnel have been visiting several apartment complexes and making public announcements requesting residents to stay indoors. The BBMP has also issued several such advisories.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A crucial week in battle against COVID-19||The next one week will be crucial in the battle against COVID-19 and the State is gearing up to contain the spread of the disease. Although Karnataka has been recording cases without any foreign travel or contact history, and spread in clusters is a cause for concern, more than 90% of the infected are those who either travelled or were in contact with someone who did. It has been a week since the Centre stopped the entry of international flights into India. If anyone who entered Karnataka on March 23 has developed symptoms in the past one week, it means he or she contracted the infection before March 23, said experts. “While the mean number of days for manifestation of symptoms after contracting the infection is five to seven days, the incubation period of the virus is 14 days. We have already finished one week, so the next one week to 10 days are crucial,” said V. Ravi, senior professor and head of neurovirology at NIMHANS While the government is taking measures to flatten the curve of cases, it is important for people to strictly follow the lockdown norms and maintain social distancing. “If the cases do not peak in the next 10 days, then we can say the lockdown has been effective,” he told The Hindu on Tuesday. C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Chest Diseases, who is part of the State’s COVID-19 task force, said that in severely affected countries such as China, Italy, Spain and the United States, there was a surge between the third and fourth weeks of the outbreak.  “Now, as the infection is also spreading in clusters, the focus should be on preventing this case to cluster transmission. The onus is on people to strictly follow the lockdown conditions. This is the only way to stop the spread,” he said. K.K. Aggarwal, former national president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said it was important for COVID-19 patients to continue to remain in quarantine even after the disappearance of symptoms. Quoting a study published in the American Thoracic Society’s American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine , he said the study showed that patients treated for mild infections did not shed the virus even after the symptoms disappeared. “They continued to be contagious for up to eight days after the symptoms disappeared,” he said. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education), said the departmenthas strengthened contact tracing and is working in coordination with other States.“We have circulated a list of passengers from Karnataka who could have travelled to neighbouring States and have procured a list of their passengers who could have come to Karnataka. All international passengers have been quarantinedand fever clinics have been set up for preliminary screening,” he said.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Friendly neighbourhood grocer comes to the rescue||With big online retailers struggling with backlog and deliveries, citizens are rediscovering their local kirana stores and supermarkets that have emerged as a lifeline across Bengaluru providing essential items and kitchen staples at a time when the city is under a lockdown on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. But supermarkets are facing an uphill task with stocks running low on account of panic buying and disruption of supply chains, along with a labour crunch and sometimes unsympathetic customers. Many shopkeepers are dreading the start of the month, when they will have turn away regular customers who usually buy supplies in bulk. “I have been forced to close my store for five days as I have run out of supplies. The APMC yard opened on Tuesday, but only for a few hours. I couldn't restock my shop. Next, the yard will open on Thursday. I have over 80 customers who have been buying their monthly supplies from my store for years now,” said Rajashekhar, who runs a store in Kodigehalli, north Bengaluru. Reputed retail stores are in the same boat. “Items have been flying off the shelves over the last 10 days due to panic buying. Now, it has relatively stabilised. But new stock is not arriving,” said Niyas M.K., one of the partners of M.K. Retail which has seven stores in east and south-east Bengaluru. Staff shortage Supermarkets are usually labour intensive and the biggest problem most of them face today is staff crunch. “Most of my employees have returned to their villages. We are presently working at 20% of our staff strength,” said Mr. Niyas, adding that they have suspended home delivery. Contrary to popular perception, supermarkets have taken a financial hit. “Even if stocks are available, the transport costs have shot up several times, which does not make business viable. We are worried about payment of rent and other bills," said Amarnath Setty, who runs a kirana store in Chamarajpet. Lack of empathy There is also the risk of contracting the coronavirus from customers. Almost all supermarkets are allowing only three or five customers at a time. However, not everyone is willing to cooperate. “Many are impatient with the queue system and argue with us. We usually ask them to leave,” said a manager at a corporate retail chain. A common complaint is customers who refuse to understand the gravity of the situation. “Many customers want door delivery. A customer argued with me insisting that instead of 10 people coming to the store risking infection, my employee should deliver to 10 houses,” said a grocer who runs an organic store in east Bengaluru.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Protect pourakarmikas collecting waste from houses with home quarantined persons’||Pointing out the risk posed to pourakarmikas while collecting waste from the houses where persons subjected to home quarantine reside, the Karnataka High Court has directed the State government to take special measures for protecting pourakarmikas who collect waste from such houses across the States. A special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna issued the direction on Monday while hearing PIL petitions on issues cropped up due to enforcement of measures to check spread of COVID-19, through video conferencing. The State government has pointed out that the respective municipal authorities have already provided the pourakarmikas with personal protective equipment, like 2 face masks, one set of gumboots, four sets of hand gloves, apron, etc, as per the norms. Also, the government has stated that on March 19, it directed all the 282 urban municipal bodies to provide personal protective equipment, like face masks and hand gloves, to all the 17,767 pourakarmikas working in these local bodies in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. However, the bench found that the government needs to come out with a policy decision to take special measures to protect pourakarmikas while collecting municipal solid wastes from the houses where person have been subjected to home quarantine. Further hearing was adjourned till April 3. Though it was stated on behalf of the BBMP that one set of face mask, hand gloves, required quantity of sanitizers and disinfectant solutions were provided and another set is to be provided, the counsel representing the BBMP Pourakarmika Sangha disputed these claims. Hence, the bench directed the BBMP to ensure that safety equipment is provided to every pourakarmika. Transport and breakfast The bench also directed the government to ensure that appropriate transport facilities are made available to the pourakarmikas across the State while pointing out that transport arrangement is of vital importance as, on failure to do so, this category of workmen will not be in a position to report to duty though they are playing a vital role during lockdown. Though BBMP said that it is providing Rs. 100 as transport allowance to pourakarmikas, the bench found that it not practical when the public transport facility is shut across the State. Also, the bench directed the government to ensure that all pourakarmikas are provided breakfast at mustering points in the morning, which will take care of their need for food as their duty timings have been restricted from 6.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. during the lockdown. The bench also noted that the BBMP was already providing readymade breakfast to pourakarmikas at 545 mustering points.  Wakfs board  The court directed the Karnataka State Board of Wakfs to take note of the March 24 order of the Ministry of Home Affairs prohibiting all religious congregations and closure of all places of worship, and should do the needful. When it was pointed out by a counsel that direction should be issued to the wakfs board to take steps to control gathering at the time of prayer in mosques, the bench pointed out that the MHA’s March 24 order specifically directs closure of all places of worship to the public.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police wear ‘virus helmets’||The Bengaluru Traffic Police have taken a leaf out of the Chennai police’s book and are now using helmets in the shape of the corona virus to crackdown on people and motorists stepping out of their houses. The police in the city have been instructed not to use force. In an attempt to get motorists to follow the rules of the lockdown, they have started enacting how the coronavirus can infect people. Videos of cops crouching around two-wheeler riders and cars with the strange helmets have been going viral on social media. Two constables wearing these helmets intercept bikers, while another constable uses a megaphone to inform the offender of why it is dangerous to step out of the house. “We are repeatedly telling people to stay at home but they are not listening, We hope that by showing how the virus attacks people, they will listen to us,” said a traffic constable.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||312 train coaches to be turned into isolation wards||South Western Railway is gearing up to convert 312 coaches into isolation and quarantine wards. They will be modified as per the prototype approved by the Railway Board, SWR said in a release on Tuesday. An official said the modification of coaches began on Tuesday, and it will benefit 2,400 people. As per the prototype, middle berths and ladders will be removed for better comfort and space. They will also be equipped to hold oxygen cylinders, and will have electric sockets. Two bathrooms and two lavatories are provided diagonally in the coach, which will also have charging points for mobile phones and laptops. “Indian Railways is planning to initially modify 5,000 passenger coaches to meet the requirement of any possible exigency. This has been possible due to the nationwide lockdown from March 25 and Indian Railways has suspended all passenger train services across the country,” the release stated. Around 120 coaches will be converted at the Hubballi workshop and another 120 at the Mysuru workshop. Depots in Hubballi, Bengaluru, Yeshwantpur, and Mysuru will convert 18 coaches each. The work is expected to be completed by April 15. A total of 240 people are working on the modifications. An SWR official said that 2,400 beds would be provided in the 312 modified coaches.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||78 belonging to Tablighi Jamaat from State in quarantine||As many as 78 people from Karnataka belong to the Tablighi Jamaat and all of them have been quarantined in government isolation centres. They will all be tested for COVID-19 and their samples are being collected, said Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education), on Tuesday. He said the congregation had become a source of spread in the country. Although the department does not have information on whether all 78 members participated in the congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi from March 8 to 20, they all belong to the Jamaat. “All of them were home quarantined three days ago. The person from Sira who succumbed to the infection was one of them,” Mr. Akhtar said. He also appealed to those who participated in the congregation, and those who came in contact with them, to self-report to the Health Department by calling 080-29711171. Earlier in the day, Health Minister B. Sriramulu tweeted that the possibility of all those who participated in the prayer meeting being infected could not be ruled out. As many as 26 of the 78 are from Bidar, he said. Foreigners Meanwhile, the State police have traced as many as 50 foreign nationals in the congregation. These include 19 from Kyrgyzstan, 20 from Indonesia, four from South Africa, three from Gambia, and one each from the United States, United Kingdom, France, and Kenya. Efforts are on to quarantine the 300 or so people who attended the programme from various parts of the State. Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood has requested those who attended the programme to inform the authority concerned for a medical check-up. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the State government had succeeded in tracking down 24 people from Bengaluru who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event. He said the government had alerted thee district administration and sought the support of leaders of the community to track down them down. Terming the tracking of people who attended the programme a challenging task, he said the police have been doing so with the help of the rail authorities.
01 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Agri War Room set up||In a bid to restore normality to farm operations during the lockdown, the Agriculture Department on Tuesday launched an ‘Agri War Room’ in Bengaluru to attend to the problems and complaints of farmers and other stakeholders. Agriculture Department director B.Y. Srinivas told The Hindu that the objective is to resolve problems in getting agricultural inputs and farm implements. Pointing out that farmers needed fertilizers, pesticides, seeds and various other inputs to carry out their activities, he said the department had instructed all its joint directors in various districts to take steps to ensure that service providers open their sales units. These service providers, including shopkeepers, will be provided ‘green passes’ to operate during the lockdown. Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil and Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar reviewed these measures on Tuesday. The joint directors have been instructed by the department to work in coordination with Deputy Commissioners to ensure there is no shortage of harvesting equipment. They have been told to make arrangements to get them even from other States, barring Kerala. Four officers will operate the war room in two shifts (8 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 2 p.m. to 8 p.m.). The helpline numbers are 080-22212818 and 080-22210237. Meanwhile, a release stated that the Karnataka State Agricultural Produce Processing and Export Corporation authorities have been told to provide cold storage facilities for storing farm produce when it is not possible to get them to markets or sell them locally. Karnataka has a total storage capacity of 4,40,883 tonnes in 136 cold storage units, including 122 private ones.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Provide free treatment, open more testing centres: Cong.||The Congress has demanded that the State government open testing centres for the novel coronavirus in all taluk and district headquarters for providing free treatment to the infected. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, the party’s COVID-19 task force head K.R. Ramesh Kumar and other senior leaders participated in the first meeting of the task force and urged the government to provide medical insurance coverage for doctors working in government facilities and private hospitals.  The party also said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa must convene a meeting of the State-level bankers’ committee to issue directions to bankers on deferring repayment of loans by farmers and others by three months. Besides providing food to people stuck on the border areas, Mr. Shivakumar said the government should arrange transport for the poor to get to their native places. He also appealed for the provision of adequate publicity to State and Union government orders issued during the lockdown. Mr. Shivakumar also instructed Congress leaders, legislators and workers to donate money to the party’s relief fund.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pandemic hits HAL deliveries||The COVID-19 pandemic has shut down regular manufacturing activities across HAL centres owing to the nationwide lockdown since March 24. The crisis has affected the final tests and certification of certain additional aircraft which were in final stages of production. It has delayed customer trials of the first Advanced Light Helicopter customised for the Coast Guard with nine new systems. The ALH awaits a new date at Kochi. The delivery of the first LCA-Tejas in the final operational clearance version has also been deferred from February. HAL expects to deliver it in April when operations resume. While HAL and its staff have contributed Rs. 26.25 crore to the new PM’s relief fund, the salaries of daily wage earners throughout the company are being paid in advance, HAL said.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six-member team to handle essential items||The government has set up a six-member State Supply Chain Management Cell with the Agriculture Secretariat for the supervision and handling of issues, complaints and feedback on essential farm commodities and inputs during the 21-day lockdown. IAS officer P.C. Ray is the coordinator of the cell. Shivaraju B., MD of Karnataka State Agricultural Produce Processing and Export Corporation, is the co-coordinator, according to an order issued by the government. The government has also established a State Supply Chain Management of Essential Commodities and Agriculture Inputs Team. The team members have specific commodity-wise tasks. The team has been handling major commodities such as rice, wheat, jowar, cooking oil, ragi, pulses (all foodgrains), fruits, meat and fish, milk and milk products, sugar, bakery products, processed food units, the packaging industry, crop harvesting and distribution of seeds, fertilizers and pesticides, and sale and transportation of cocoons. For any information, contact 080-22353939/22032529 or write an email to controlroomsupplychain@gmail.com.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Industrialists chip in||Industrialists in Karnataka have joined hands with the State government to fight COVID-19. Several firms have announced donations under CSR to the Chief Minister’s relief fund. Asian Paints has donated Rs. 2 crore, Toyota Industries Engine India Pvt. Ltd. Rs. 31 lakh, Xiaomi Technologies and JM Financial Rs. 25 lakh each, Toyota Kirloskar Auto Parts Rs. 23 lakh, Kennametal Rs. 15 lakh, and Brigade Enterprises Ltd. Rs. 10 lakh, according to a release. Samsung R&D has announced that it will import health kits worth Rs. 1 crore from Korea. Toyota Kirloskar is also providing 500 bodysuit sets to doctors and nurses and food for 1,200 poor families in Ramanagaram district. Himatsingka Seide has taken the responsibility of providing pillow covers, towels, and bedsheets worth Rs. 10 crore, the release said.
01 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Shops see big rush as lockdown is relaxed||The roads in Hassan city were busy in the morning on Tuesday, as the district administration relaxed the lockdown to allow the public to purchase essential goods. Shops selling grocery, fruits, and vegetables and malls were open till noon. Hundreds of people visited these establishments and stood in the queue for a long time to purchase essentials. The shopkeepers had clear instructions to ensure social distancing. The staff at malls allowed only a handful of people inside at a time, while the rest had to wait outside. People purchased grocery items in bulk. The district administration had allowed the weekly market at three places. The KSRTC bus stands at Channapatna and the city, besides the district stadium, were converted into market places for the day. The administration had made markings so that shopkeepers and buyers could maintain social distance. Hundreds of people thronged the market places early in the morning to purchase vegetables and fruits. B.M. Road, R.C. Road, M.G. Road and other roads leading to the market places were all busy till afternoon. As per the new norm in effect this week, shops selling essential items will be open only between 7 a.m. and noon on all odd dates, while on the even dates shops that sell milk will be open only for two hours in the morning. There was a long queue of vehicles at petrol pumps on the day as they are opened only on alternate days. So far, there has been no positive case of COVID-19 in the district. As on Tuesday, 255 people are under home isolation and five in hospitals.
01 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||FIR against constable for assaulting auto driver||The Pension Mohalla Police have registered a complaint against a constable for assaulting a person during the lockdown here on March 27. Video clips of the police constable hitting Shabbir Ahmed, an autorickshaw driver, had gone viral on social media and attracted severe criticism. Wife files complaint The police registered an FIR on Monday, based on a complaint filed by Reshma, wife of Ahmed, 39, who has been undergoing treatment in a private hospital. The accused has been named Ganesha A.B. In her complaint, Reshma alleged that the police constable assaulted her husband while he was taking their son to a clinic around 10 a.m. The case has been registered under Sections 506 (criminal intimidation), 504 (intentional insult) and 324 (causing hurt by weapon) of the IPC.
01 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Tractor transporting 45 quarry workers seized||The Hassan police, on Monday night, stopped a tractor taking quarry workers to their native place in Yadgir district. The district administration has made arrangements for the stay and other essentials of the 45 people, including 12 children. According to a communiqué from the district administration, the workers were employed at a quarry near Kattaya in Hassan taluk. Following the lockdown, they were on the way to their native place as they had no facilities for food here. The police seized the tractor and with the help of senior officers, the workers were convinced to stay back in the district. They have been provided with shelter at Ambedkar Bhavan and the quarry owner has been asked to look after their basic needs.
01 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Waste from quarantined houses to be disposed of scientifically in twin cities||In an initiative to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in the twin cities, the Dharwad district administration and Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation have taken steps to dispose of in a scientific way waste generated from houses where foreign-returned persons have been quarantined. The administration has decided to dispose of waste from such houses through scientific process, as it would do in the case of bio-medical waste. As per a Government Order, waste from houses of quarantined persons is treated as bio-medical waste. According to a release issued by the authorities, the regular pourakarmikas (civic servants) have been asked not to gather waste from such houses and that an agency has been fixed for the purpose. Accordingly, waste from such houses is being collected by trained staff from Rio Green Environ India, located at Tarihal Industrial Estate in Hubballi. The staff wearing safety wear and protective gear are collecting waste and taking it to the unit where it is burnt in incinerators as per guidelines. Environmental Engineer of Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation Sridhar said that the data pertaining to home quarantined persons had been shared with the agency to enable it to collect waste on a regular basis. They would be assisted by health inspectors in case of any issues, he said. Aniruddh Bengeri of Rio Green Environ said that apart from the requisite staff no other employee was being allowed to enter the incinerator premises and all necessary precautions were being taken. Shortly, a time-table for door-to-door collection would be finalised to streamline waste collection, he said. Another environmental engineer attached to municipal corporation Nayana said that there were a total of 36 such houses in the twin cities. “There are 20 houses of persons home quarantined in Hubballi and 16 in Dharwad. All necessary help is being extended to the agency concerned,” she said.  Control room Meanwhile, Hubballi Rural taluk administration has set up a control room with Ph: 0836-2233844 for helping the general public in getting information related to combating COVID-19 pandemic. The control room will work round the clock, Tahsildar Prakash Nasi has said in a release.
01 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Why deploy only teachers in COVID-19 combat teams?’||Taking exception to only teachers being included in teams formed to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, former Minister Basavaraj Horatti has shot off a letter to Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar. In his letter, which was released to the media here, Mr. Horatti has drawn the attention of the Chief Secretary towards the latter’s circular dated March 26 pertaining to constituting 100 primary teams to combat the spread of COVID-19. Move welcome While welcoming the move to constitute the teams, which he said was relevant, Mr. Horatti pointed out that as per the circular there has to be one teacher in the primary team and two teachers in the secondary team. “When I was Minister for Primary and Secondary Education and you were Principal Secretary of the department, the question of why only teachers were being deployed to various government works was raised. Subsequently, we had taken a decision that apart from teachers, employees of various government departments should be deployed to such works. Subsequently, a letter was written to the Election Commission against deploying only teachers for election work. An order was then issued to utilise the services of employees of all departments for government works,” Mr. Horatti recalled in the letter. Latest circular He has further pointed out that according to the latest circular on COVID-19 teams, apart from paramedical staff, only teachers had been included and other departments had been left out. “Already, various government departments have declared holidays and several have been asked to work from home. Such employees could be deployed for COVID-19 related work,” he has said. Clarifying that he was not against deploying teachers for the work, Mr. Horatti sought to know why only teachers were singled out for such works. “In various departments there are instances of employees not being available during office hours even when there is a lot of work to do,” he has said. Mr. Horatti has said that teachers should not feel that they were being targeted while allotting such work. “I only want responsibility to be shared by the employees of all departments. I have also brought this issue to the notice of the Minister concerned and I request you to review your decision to deploy only teachers,” he has said in the letter.  Teachers should not feel that they are being targeted while allotting such work. I only want responsibility to be shared by the employees of all departments.Basavaraj HorattiFormer Minister
01 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Fighting withdrawal symptoms||At a time when the country is fighting COVID-19 through a 21-day lockdown, those addicted to alcohol are facing yet another kind of health issue. Psychiatrists have stressed the need for proper counselling and treatment for such people as non-availability of liquor during lockdown is likely to adversely affect their mental health. According to Mahesh Desai, Director of Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (DIMHANS): “Alcohol is a neuro-toxin acting on the individual’s brain, depressing its activity. Continuous and long-term use can cause various mental and physical disorders. Since the time of abrupt stoppage of alcohol, a person dependent on it will experience withdrawal symptoms,” he said. These symptoms might manifest as tremors (shaking of hands), sweating, restlessness, headache, and insomnia. More serious problems like seizures may occur in 12 to 48 hours of stoppage of alcohol consumption. In such a period, persons can also have hallucination. “Sudden stoppage of alcohol consumption might also lead to a condition called delirium tremens, which usually starts within 2-3 days. Under the condition, the person becomes disoriented and experiences sweating, visual hallucinations, high BP and in some cases, fever. Some may lose touch with reality,” he said. Dr. Desai said all these conditions have definite treatment and persons with withdrawal symptoms or their relatives should immediately approach the nearest healthcare facility or DIMHANS. DIMHANS has an exclusive de-addiction cell. “At the cell, we will offer counselling and treatment to those experiencing withdrawal symptoms,” he told The Hindu .
01 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Section 144 extended in Kalaburagi||Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code 1973, which was clamped on the entire Kalaburagi district on March 15 for three days and later extended till March 31, is once again extended till April 14. Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate B. Sharat issued the order on Tuesday under the same section before the expiry of his earlier order. The restrictions under Section 144 of of the CrPC would be in force till 8 p.m. on April 14. “Prohibitory order was already imposed under Section 144 of Cr.PC 1973 as a precautionary measure after an old man died of COVID-19. Avoiding mass gathering is inevitable to control the spread of coronavirus. That is why it is required to extend the restrictions for the next 14 days,” Mr. Sharat observed in the order. Mr. Sharat clarified that the order would not be applicable to essential services. He further made it clear that the organisation of religious or private programmes and moving in groups and unnecessary roaming without a valid reason were strictly prohibited. Police patrolling has been further intensified. After a warning from Mr. Sharat and Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol against unnecessary movement of individuals, the police have seized more than 100 vehicles.
01 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||One more COVID-19 case in Kalaburagi||A fortnight after the last case, Kalaburagi reported one more case of COVID-19 on Tuesday. It is a 60-year-old woman (P99) and the contact of P9, the 63-year-doctor who treated India’s first COVID-19 casualty — P6 (the 76-year-old man who died on March 10 and later tested for the disease on March 12). The latest patient has been isolated at a government hospital in the city. With the new case, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases rose to four in the district, including the 45-year-old woman (P8) and a close contact of P6 who was discharged. Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat said that the second test of P8 conducted 14 days after she tested positive and the third test done 24 hours after the second test, came negative. She was discharged on Tuesday.
01 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Hosapete turns into a fortress||Soon after the news of three people from a family in Hosapete of Ballari district testing positive for COVID-19 on Monday night, the police swung into action blocking all roads leading to the town. Especially, S.R. Nagar, the area where the affected persons lived, was completely barricaded from all sides preventing the entry and exit of people. The infected persons, a 52-year-old man, his 48-year-old wife and his 26-year-old daughter, recently returned from Bengaluru. They had no history of foreign travel or contact with any affected persons. Since they had developed some of the symptoms after returning from Bengaluru, they were isolated at a hospital in Ballari. The district administration has now initiated contact tracing.
01 April 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||Chikkamagaluru to get rectified spirit from Mandya district||The Mandya district administration on Tuesday imposed restrictions on the sale of mutton and sea food till April 14, in accordance with measures to combat the spread of COVID-19. The licence holders can sell only mutton and local breeds of fish on Sunday, by strictly adhering to the conditions of maintaining cleanliness at the place, Mandya Deputy Commissioner M.V. Venkatesh has said. The sellers/people who cut and clean the meat should regularly clean their hands with antiseptic solutions, lotions or hand sanitisers. They should sell only healthly mutton, he said. Meanwhile, the district administration has decided to provide 250 litres of rectified spirit to the Chikkamagaluru district administration to prepare hand sanitisers/disinfectants. Currently three private sugarmills are functioning in the district and one of them has handed over 500 litres of rectified spirit to the Mandya district administration, the DC said. Excise SI Shivaprasad and district information officer T.K. Harish were present.
01 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Wenlock Hospital is now fully dedicated to testing, treatment||The Government Wenlock Hospital has now been completely dedicated to COVID-19 treatment and diagnosis. Following directions by the State government to have a dedicated hospital for COVID-19, district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary and other officials decided to shift 350-odd non-COVID patients to private hospitals. There were 218 patients in the old block, while 140 children were in the Regional Advanced Paediatric Care Centre of the hospital. The process of shifting started on March 27 and completed on March 29. Hospital Superintendent Sadashiva said while some were discharged, others were shifted to eight hospitals of private medical colleges in the city. Destitute people were moved to a community health centre and the destitute rehabilitation centre in Pachhanady, he said. Doctors and health staff of the Wenlock Hospital were now working in shifts for COVID-19 cases, he said. The district administration first set up an isolation block in the hospital’s administration block. The isolation block has now been shifted to the 20-bed AYUSH block of the hospital. The newly built super speciality block has also been dedicated for COVID-19. Y. Bharath Shetty, MLA, on Monday called a meeting of administrators of private hospitals and asked them to provide good service to 80 dialysis and other patients of Wenlock Hospital. They were asked to be prepared to lend services in case of exigencies for COVID-19 patients.
01 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Heavy rush in Mangaluru during relaxation period||When shops selling essential commodities were opened for about nine hours on Tuesday morning after the three-day complete shutdown in Mangaluru, there was a mad rush at the Central Market — the wholesale vegetable and fruits market, while people waited in endless queues elsewhere in the city to buy essentials. District in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari had announced the three-day shutdown to combat the spread of COVID-19 pandemic by discouraging people from venturing out. What transpired on Tuesday was exactly the opposite with people keeping aside social distancing in market places to buy essential commodities under panic. On the other hand, they had to wait in very long queues for hours together near supermarkets and grocery shops, under a harsh Sun, to buy essential commodities. Meanwhile, MLC Ivan D'Souza and city corporation councillors met district in-charge Secretary V. Ponnuraj demanding at least a four-hour window every day for people to buy their supplies, failing which, they said, people’s representatives would resort to selling essential commodities themselves. Mangaluru City Corporation Civic Group Coordinator Nigel Albuquerque said that the three-day shutdown was unscientific as it resulted in a mad rush on Tuesday. He wondered why the administration failed to adhered to the directive by the Director-General and Inspector-General of Police to keep shops selling essential commodities open round-the-clock in the State. Durga Ramadas Kateel, a resident of Bejai, said that he stood in a queue in front of a popular grocery shop at 7.45 a.m., got inside at 11.10 a.m. and came out with his supplies at 12.15 p.m. Two elderly people, who fainted after standing in the queue under the harsh Sun, were allowed immediate entry by the shop management, he said. Manjunathaswamy, a resident of Chilimbi, said that he had to wait for over four hours to enter a supermarket in the locality. It was chaos at the Central Market where people jostled for space to buy vegetables and fruits even as fruit merchants used the occasion to dispose of old stock. Hardly any social distancing was observed thereby defeating the purpose of lockdown, said Jatin Raj, who was there to buy his supplies. On the pandemonium, orthodontist P.N. Ramaraj said that the much-talked about door delivery had not taken off yet; this rush could have been avoided if it had been implemented. Each councillor should have been given responsibility for this, he said. Ramakrishna Acharya, a resident of Kadri, said that people resorted to panic buying only because of excessive restrictions. If the administration had allowed the sale of essential commodities during the day as done elsewhere in the State, there wouldn’t have been this rush, he said.
01 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Not everyone has to wear masks: advisory||The Health and Family Welfare Services Commissionerate on Tuesday issued an advisory stating that not everyone needs to wear a face mask. The advisory comes in the backdrop of many people, ranging from shopkeepers to policemen, demanding thateveryone going out in public wear a mask. The advisory states that a person has to wear a mask if he or she has symptoms such as cold, cough, fever or any other respiratory problem. Those caring for COVID-19 patients also need to wear a mask. While the former can wear a triple-layered mask, the latter has to wear an N-95 mask. The advisory comes a day after the Bengaluru City Police circulated a video showing an officer giving a “lesson” to an individual for not wearing a mask. Policemen across the State have been insisting that people wear masks when venturing out of their homes. However, the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health do not indicate that wearing of face masks is compulsory for every citizen. Only those directly dealing with COVID-19 patients in hospitals are required to wear safety gear, including N-95 masks. Triple-layered masks, which the police are insisting should be worn by people in public spaces, are advised only for those visiting healthcare facilities. The State government too has, on many occasions, asserted these facts. Aditya V. Bharadwaj, a Mangaluru-based consultant physician and intensivist, said wearing of masks was not essential for a healthy person and would not ensure that he or she does not contract the disease. However, those suffering from cold and cough are advised to wear triple-layered masks to prevent infections. Several pharmacies in Mangaluru, Bengaluru and other cities do not have stock of triple-layered as well as N-95 masks.
01 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||No complete shutdown from today||Admitting that the three-day shutdown of the district and subsequent relaxation on Tuesday had failed to ensure social distancing, district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari on Tuesday said that shops selling essential commodities may remain open from 7 a.m. to noon henceforth. In a recorded video message, Mr. Poojari said that Tuesday’s experience showed that people could not maintain social distancing while buying essential commodities. In the same message, MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said that the administration had to take the harsh decision in view of five non-Dakshina Kannada and two Dakshina Kannad COVID-19 positive cases in the recent past. The three-day shutdown had ensured that not many positive cases were being reported.
01 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru police send notices to violators||The Mysuru City Police, which has seized more than 300 vehicles for violating the lockdown rules on Monday, has also begun sending notices to owners of vehicles that were out on the streets and captured on CCTV cameras. “If they give a satisfactory explanation, they will be let off. Or else, their vehicles will be seized and a criminal case will be booked”, said Mr Prakash Gowda, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Mysuru City Police. “We have issued notices to 14 vehicles that had violated the lockdown rules on Monday. We will continue this drive”, he said.
01 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Ban on meat in Kodagu stays||Minutes after permitting the sale of mutton in Kodagu, minister in charge of the district V. Somanna on Tuesday imposed a ban on sale of any kind of meat in the district.
01 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Youth venturing out to beat the heat has officials on edge||In Malnad region, violation of the lockdown order through reckless acts such as venturing out for swimming to beat the heat and for kerebete (fishing in ponds) by persons from Bengaluru who have returned to their villages, has become a cause for worry for officials of the Department of Health and Family Welfare. In Devakathikoppa village of Sorab taluk, a professional from Bengaluru, who was asked to remain in home isolation by the health officials, participated in kerebete in a nearby pond with 11 of his friends on Friday. On a complaint lodged by the health officials, the police booked a case against the professional for violating the home isolation order. In Ambligolla reservoir backwater, more than 50 persons from Tyagarthi village, including those who had returned from Bengaluru, had ventured out for fishing. Acting on a tip off from the locals, the police swung into action and seized the fishing nets, hooks, and wires. The police cautioned them to remain indoors. Another group of 20 youth from Talagauppa and surrounding places had come for swimming in the Sharavati backwater. On a complaint lodged by the members of the gram panchayat, the police cautioned the youths of stern action for violating the lockdown. To prevent people from venturing out for swimming, residents of some villages in Tirthahalli, Sagar and Sorab taluks blocked the road that connects the river bank by placing tree branches and by digging trenches.
01 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Marriage in just five minutes||On account of the lockdown in view of COVID-19 pandemic, a couple got married in just five minutes at a temple in Bijoor village of Byndoor taluk in Udupi district on Monday. The marriage was conducted without any pomp or playing of musical instruments and without any large gathering except for the minimum required. Dinesh and Nagalakshmi were married at the Sri Arekallu Mahalingeshwara Temple just by exchanging two simple garlands. Nagalakshmi is a resident of Nagur, while Dinesh is a resident of Bijoor in the district. The marriage was scheduled to be held at a marriage hall in Uppunda village. As large gatherings are prohibited during the lockdown, the two families decided on having the marriage conducted during the already fixed auspicious time itself on Monday. Hence, the marriage was held in a simple manner with the couple exchanging garlands and the bridegroom tying the mangalasutra. Only a bare minimum number of relatives attended the event in keeping with the prohibitory orders.
01 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||T.M.A. Pai Hospital to treat cases from today||H.S. Ballal, Pro-Chancellor of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), said on Monday that MAHE had decided to dedicate the Dr. T.M.A. Pai Hospital here to treat all COVID-19 positive patients with the support of the State government and it will become functional from April 1. Addressing presspersons here, Dr. Ballal said that the hospital has 11 ICU beds, 15 High Dependency Unit (HDU) beds, 36 bed single room, which can be used for isolation purpose, and 43 general bed facility. “Our team of doctors from Kasturba Hospital and Dr. T.M.A. Pai Hospital, and a team of nursing, paramedical and housekeeping staff will manage the situation 24X7,” he said. The Kasturba Hospital, Manipal, was currently treating three COVID-19 patients, Dr. Ballal said.
01 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Food being provided to 4,000 migrant workers: DC||G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner, said on Monday that there were 4,000 migrant workers in Udupi district and the administration was already providing food packets and grocery kits to them. Addressing presspersons here, he said these migrant workers worked in construction, fishing and other sectors. They could not return to their native places after the lockdown was announced. As many as 435 workers had been kept in different camps. Grocery kits were given to migrant workers who were staying in houses. The house owners have been told not to take rent from them for the next two months, he said. There were over 385 workers from other districts and States who worked in boats at the Malpe Fisheries Harbour. The Malpe Fishermen Association was providing lunch and dinner to these fishermen. The administration was planning to open fever clinics in all taluks. It had already held a meeting with the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) to ensure that there was proper supply of grocery items. The rice and oil mills in Udupi district had been directed to start their operations immediately to ensure that there was no shortage of rice and oil, he said.
01 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Youngsters join hands with admn. to feed the needy||While the lockdown has forced people to stay indoors, a group of youngsters in Vijayapura ventures out twice a day not for fun but to feed the needy. Till a few days ago carrying large bags containing food packets, these youngsters visited all major hospitals of the city twice a day to offer food free to patients admitted and also their attenders. The youngsters have been doing this since COVID-19 pandemic broke out in the region. Now, their routine has changed a bit in the wake of restrictions imposed because of the lockdown and apprehensions about the spread of the pandemic. They now hand over food to the municipal staff for distribution among the needy. The municipal staff, in turn, send it to localities where there are needy people and distribute it among them. Some of these patients have been discharged from hospitals but are unable to travel back because of the lockdown, while others are still under treatment for various illnesses. “We have identified such people in the city, and decided to offer food to these people as they have no means to get food. Several of them are poor and can’t afford to buying food in permitted eateries or takeaway centres,” said Azim Inamdar, founder of Kranti Association, a voluntary organisation. “Earlier, the number was around 300. They were mainly destitute, but after the lockdown, others too are facing this problem. And, we extended our service to all those in need. The number increased to 700 and now it has gone up to 1,200,” he said. Interestingly, Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil had asked organisations to suspend such distribution in the wake of fear of volunteers becoming carriers of infection. Instead, he said, they can join hands with the administration in doing the service in a proper manner. Since then, such help is routed through the administration and now, more people are being served. Mr. Inamdar’s organisation is supported by philanthropists who have offered help by supplying vegetables, groceries and some financial assistance. He wanted others to join hands with his organisation in an effort to serve more people in need. The organisation can be contacted on Ph: 9886043249.  Now, they are distributing food with the help of the municipal staff
01 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Traders warned of criminal cases||Issuing a strict warning to those who are increasing the prices of essential commodities, the administration has said that criminal cases would be booked against such traders. The announcement was made after several complaints were received from the people that some of the traders were increasing the prices of commodities. “This is not the time to take advantage of the situation. This is the time to show humanity and solidarity. People must realise the sensitivity of the situation. The traders must not hike prices, which will only put the poor and common people in trouble as they are already facing financial issues due to lockdown,” said zilla panchayat CEO Govind Reddy during a review of the COVID-19 status. He said that though people have been allowed to venture out to buy essential commodities, those who are suffering from diabetes, heart ailments or the elderly should avoid venturing out.
01 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Clinics, hospitals told to remain open||With complaints coming from the general public, the Yadgir district administration has directed Indian Medical Association members to keep open their private clinics and hospitals to extend health services to the needy. Additional Deputy Commissioner Prakash Rajput has, in a release here on Tuesday, stated that considering health-related issues of the general public, private doctors should keep their clinics and hospitals open. He also said that the Ministry of Health Affairs has clearly directed medical institutions, private hospitals, laboratories, nursing homes, pharmacies and others that are related to the medical sector to remain open for the purpose of public health services.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Positive cases cross 100 in Karnataka||Speaking of the infections at Nanjangud in Mysuru district through a pharma company worker, Mr. Akhtar said the results of swabs of the raw material packages from the company had tested negative for COVID-19. “So, the possibility that the person could have contracted the infection from the packages has been ruled out. We are consulting with NIV, Pune, on whether we should test the raw material that the company got from China. We are also exploring if any foreign delegation or foreign visitors had come to the company prior to the first case showing symptoms,” he said. As the guidelines mandate that all those with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) should also be tested, the department has directed all private hospitals to mandatorily report to the District Surveillance Officer all SARI cases admitted under them. “We have also recommended the empiric use of Chloroquine tablets for prophylaxis of SARS-CoV-2 and instructed Deputy Commissioners to ensure that health workers are provided with the tablets. We have adequate stocks to administer the first dose of tablets to health workers — once a week for seven weeks. Their family members will be given the tablet once a week for three weeks,” he said, adding that more stock is in transit. No shortage of PPE kits Mr. Akhtar asserted that the State had adequate stock of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits to meet the requirement. “We have placed orders and the supplies we are getting are sufficient to meet our requirement. We are not really taking into account bulk supply. What we are more interested in is regular supply to meet our needs,” he said.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Lockdown games||
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Testing times||
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Doing their bit||
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Safety gear||
01 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Control room set up at Alappuzha Collectorate||A round-the-clock control room has been opened for migrant workers at the Alappuzha district collectorate in view of COVID-19. District Collector M. Anjana said here on Tuesday that migrant workers could directly call the control room for any issues. Ms. Anjana said all arrangements had been made to provide food, medicine and shelter to migrant workers in the district. Three personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police who can speak multiple languages have been appointed to attend calls. Contact number: 0477 2239040. Meanwhile, no new case of COVID-19 was reported in the district for the seventh consecutive day. Officials said one person was hospitalised with symptoms. Five suspected cases were discharged after their samples tested negative. As of Tuesday, the number of people under observation in hospitals stood at 11. Besides, 6,945 people were in home quarantine. The district had witnessed two COVID-19 cases. The person who tested positive for the disease last week was at a hospital. Of the 273 samples collected so far, 243 have been tested negative. Results of 28 samples including 20 sent on Tuesday were pending, she said. The police registered 143 cases and arrested 171 people for violating the restrictions. Authorities seized 71 vehicles. Officials said the registration of the seized vehicles would be cancelled along with suspending the licence of the drivers for six months. As many as 15,994 people were served lunch through community kitchens. Among them, 12,664 were given free food. Imposition of Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been extended till April 14 midnight.
01 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||5 held for illicit brewing of liquor||The Arthunkal police on Tuesday arrested five people and seized 30 litres of ‘koda’ (undistilled spirit) from a house at Thyckal. The arrested have been identified as Navaroji, 48, of Cherthala South, Vishnu, 27, of Pattanakkad, and Arun Babu, 27, Jitheesh, 38, and Omkarji, 25, all from Kadakkarappally. They were produced before a local court and remanded in judicial custody. At Ramakkalmedu A Correspondent writes from Idukki: The Excise Department seized 600 litres of ‘koda’ kept for illicit brewing of arrack near Ramakkalmedu on Monday. The seizure followed a tip-off that illicit brewing was going on after liquor shops in the border areas were closed down. An official of the Excise Department said it was on the lookout for who was behind it.
01 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Shortage of feed hits chicken project||The Kerala Chicken, an ambitious project of the State government, has been hit as close to 1.5 lakh chicks in poultry farms in Kasaragod, Kannur, Wayanad, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kozhikode districts are struggling for survival due to shortage of poultry feed. When the project was launched two years ago, 86 prospective farmers entered the venture expecting a better return from the project. “Though we have got a sustainable income from the project for the past many months, now it turnds out to be a great loss owing to dearth of poultry feed,” Ashraf Mampuzha, a farmer says. He is rearing as many as 10,000 chickens. It is a common sight in the farms where chicks fight each other for food and die, farmers say. Fatal fights Once it is wounded in the fight, it would die soon, Mr. Ashraf says adding more than 2,000 chicks rearing in various farms in Malappuram and Palakkad were killed in the fight in the recent past. The farmers are also facing difficulty to market chicken and eggs owing to the difficulty in transporting it. The condition of other farmers in the State is not different, he adds. Though the poultry feed haw been included in the essential goods, the border States of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are not allowing trucks to enter the State, says M.V. Santhosh, administrative officer, Kerala Chicken project. The decision has been taken at the ministerial level, but it is yet to be executed at the grassroots, he adds. Abattoir The Brahmagiri Development Society (BDS), the nodal agency for the project, has established the first multi-species abattoir in South India, the Malabar Meat products. It has been given Rs. 20 crore as part of budgetary allocations for hatching out the Kerala Chicken brand. The project was launched to tap the Rs. 4,000-crore poultry meat market of the State, ensuring quality meat for consumers on affordable price and fair income for poultry farmers. A cooperative initiative under the Department of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry, the BDS will be supported by the Poultry Development Corporation and Kudumbashree in the mission.  More than 2,000 chicks rearing in various farms in Malappuram and Palakkad have been killed in the recent past.
01 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||KVASU to provide equipment||The Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU) has adopted various steps to support society in the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19. The university would provide four Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction machines to the Health Department for diagnosis purpose. Other facilities All its hostels and other facilities on various campuses would be given for accommodating those under observation, M.R. Saseendranath, Vice Chancellor, KVASU, told The Hindu . The dairy plant of the varsity has been functioning round the clock to supply milk to the public through its sales outlet at Mannuthy in Thrissur. Meat and eggs are are also being sold through the varsity outlets. Feed for cattle, pig, goat and poultry is being supplied from KVASU’s feed mills at Mannuthy and Thiruvizhamkunnu in Palakkad district to farms under the Animal Husbandry Department, Dr. Saseendranath added.
01 April 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||One more tests positive in Kannur||On Tuesday, a man who returned from Dubai recently tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of those under treatment for the disease in Kannur to 44. Three persons, who had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier and were under treatment, have tested negative and have been discharged from the hospital. According to District Collector T.V. Subhash, the 23-year-old man reached home from Dubai via the Calicut International Airport on March 22. He was admitted to the Thalassery General Hospital after he showed symptoms of COVID-19. Mr. Subhash said there was shortage of certain medicines in medical shops in the district due to lack of adequate transport facilities during the lockdown. However, steps have been taken to address the shortage of essential medicines and they would be available in two days’ time, he added. Testing of samples Meanwhile, to expedite testing of samples, a virology lab has been set up at the Malabar Cancer Centre (MCC), Thalassery. The lab is equipped with facilities to check 30 samples a day. It was set up on March 25 and received approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research on March 26. The first test result was handed over to the Health Department on Monday.
01 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC norms to hear bail pleas of undertrials||The Kerala High Court has issued guidelines for hearing and disposal of bail applications of undertrial/ remand prisoners who are not covered by Monday’s interim bail order of the Full Bench. The guidelines included filing of bail applications through emails and hearing them through videoconferencing by sessions courts making group call on WhatsApp or Google Duo.  Competent court The Principal or Additional District and Sessions Judge holding charge of the district has been made the competent court for receiving and hearing the bail applications send by undertrial or remand prisoners. Procedure details According to the Official Memorandum (OM) issued by the High Court, they have to send an email to the official email ID of the court requesting the judge to consider their bail plea. The email should contain the case/crime number, name of the police station, offence alleged, name and address of the accused, advocate's phone number (WhatsApp/ Google Duo). If permission is granted, the judge will inform the advocate in a reply mail. The advocate shall send by email to the court scanned copies of his/her photo ID card, duly signed bail application and vakalath/memo of appearance. Advocate’s declaration The advocate shall also send in a declaration in his/her official email ID that a copy of the bail application has been served on the public prosecutor. The judge concerned will assign a temporary number to the bail applications and hear the public prosecutor and the advocate who has filed the application through videoconferencing on the next possible date and time, and will pass an order on the application. A signed copy of the order will be scanned and send thorough email to the advocate and the public prosecutor. The OM is available on the website of the Kerala High Court.
01 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||In six days, the virus changed our lives forever, says victim’s son||When the State’s first COVID-19 victim, a 69-year-old man from Mattancherry, was laid to rest last Saturday, none of his children could make it to bid adieu to their father owing to the strict safety protocols in place. Now, his second son, who is in Dubai, has written a heartrending Facebook post, revealing the trauma of not being able to see his father one last time, while exhorting people to take the pandemic seriously so that no one else will have to go through the ordeal. “My father was genuinely active, smiling and going about his usual routine, but in a matter of six days, this deadly virus changed our lives forever. We kept reading about the conditions in other countries where it hit the most — China, Italy, Spain etc., and never in our wildest dreams thought it could affect us. Well, it did, and we don’t know how, when, where and from whom he contracted the virus and these are questions, we will never get answers to,” he wrote. His mother has also tested positive for COVID-19, and is currently under isolation in the same hospital. “The worst part – neither me, my elder brother or younger brothers could attend our father’s burial (due to travel restrictions/safety protocols being followed), and we cannot even be there by our mother’s side. Such is the impact of this virus, and its implications on our normal lives,” he said. He then goes on to warn people how their carelessness could affect older people around them. “The virus can be anywhere, and anyone could be carrying it, without actually showing the symptoms, so please be aware and also educate your friends, family and peers on following the safety measures... Don’t wait until it’s too late,” he wrote.
01 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC seeks report on migrant workers’ care||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to inform the court of the steps taken to provide food and shelter to migrant workers across the State during the lockdown period. A Bench comprising Justice A.K. Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly passed the directive when an application filed by Parvathi Sanjay, amicus curiae in a pending suo motu case relating to migrant labourers, came up for hearing. Food and shelter Highlighting the pathetic condition of migrant workers, especially in Ernakulam and Kottayam in the wake of the lockdown, she sought a directive to provide food, safe and temporary shelter and medical assistance to the labourers. Additional Advocate General Ranjith Thampan submitted that the government had already taken steps to address the issues of migrant workers. Mr. Thampan said he would file a comprehensive statement in this regard. The amicus curiae, in her application, said the migrant labourers were thrown to the streets in the wake of the lockdown without food or shelter. Norm violation They are not able to maintain the statutory distance and the protocol which they ought to follow as per the Epidemic Diseases Act and the rules and regulations framed by the State government. It is not only a serious and severe case of violation of basic human rights but also an alarming possible situation of a medical emergency, she said.
01 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Shortage of staff hits door delivery of goods||A section of the traders here has started taking orders from customers through WhatsApp and SMSs in view of the lockdown though their efforts to deliver goods at the doorstep remain unsuccessful owing to the shortage of employees. The service has mostly been offered by margin-free shops and kirana stores as a measure to reduce the number of customers turning up at shops. “We had sent a WhatsApp message to a few customers stating that we will accept orders through mobile. The message was shared among many others. On an average, we get 30 to 40 orders,” said the owner of a margin-free shop in Aluva. The system has helped reduce visitors considerably after it was launched two days ago. “The only hurdle is that I am able to get items ready the next day only as there is a shortage of workers. Those staying at faraway places are not coming to work. I am now managing with a few inter-State workers and my family members,” he said. Customers get a message when orders are ready. Some traders have taken an extra step by arranging a few auto drivers who are ready to deliver goods at the doorstep. However, the restrictions imposed by the police on vehicular movement have stopped a few traders from taking orders through WhatsApp. A store owner in Padivattom said that he had no other choice, but to retain the earlier model as there was a shortage of staff.
01 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Biomedical waste not a worry for COVID centres||With extremely contagious biomedical waste getting generated at all coronavirus disease (COVID-19) care centres in the State, the Indian Medical Association Goes Eco-Friendly (IMAGE) is reaching out to each such centre to safely dispose of the refuse. Gloves, masks, incubating tubes, and personal protection equipment make the bulk of the waste besides other materials such as cotton wool and syringes. With the lockdown in place, the daily collection of biomedical waste from other hospitals has come down by about 25%, according to IMAGE. The government has provided permission for movement of IMAGE vehicles. IMAGE is now collecting 42 to 43 tonnes of biomedical waste daily, which include about 1,200 bags from COVID-19 care centres. Each bag weighs about 4 kgs. “COVID centre waste is collected in separate vehicles as mixing it with other biomedical waste would create issues in safe disposal,” said Dr. Sharafudheen K.P., secretary, IMAGE -CBWTF (Common Biomedical Waste Treatment Facility). Of the 58 vehicles that are collecting waste from hospitals across the State, eight were exclusively for waste generated at COVID-19 care centres, he said. IMAGE is now collecting waste from 63 such care centres in the State. “The amount of waste depends upon the number of patients in the centres...All biomedical waste from these centres is incinerated,” said Dr. Sharafudheen. IMAGE started collecting waste from the centres on March 19.
01 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Milma to procure less milk as sales plummet||The 21-day lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 pandemic has turned the world of dairy and poultry farmers upside down with problems ranging from plummeting sales to severe feed shortage hitting them hard. The Ernakulam Regional Cooperative Milk Producers Union has said it will procure only 2.75 to 2.76 lakh litres of milk everyday from April 3 from farmers in Ernakulam, Kottayam, Idukki, and Thrissur districts. The action follows the steep fall in sales. John Theruvath, president, said the apex cooperative had no other choice but to curtail procurement to cut losses. “It will be financially unviable to procure more than the quantity we have decided upon,” he said on Tuesday. The Milma’s Ernakulam region used to sell around 3.5 lakh litres of milk a day on a local procurement of around 2.75 lakh litres. The deficit being sourced from the Malabar region as well as from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. However, the situation has turned on its head. Now the procurement is around 3.5 lakh litres and sale is around 2.75 lakh litres per day. The excess milk comes from farmers who have been selling their produce in the unorganised sector during the normal times. The situation has been compounded after Tamil Nadu refused to allow lorries carrying milk from Kerala for conversion in factories in the State following the spread of the pandemic. Excess milk used to be turned into skimmed powder in Tamil Nadu factories in the past. However, a consignment of 70,000 litres has not been allowed into Tamil Nadu now. Dairy Department sources said that Milma might even consider stopping all procurement or drastically cutting milk procurements in view of the situation. Cutting procurement is the only way to curb losses. Milma is already in a bad financial position with the fall in sales, Mr. John said. Online sale goes up However, online sale of milk has boomed. There was order 3,000 litres of milk online on Monday. The orders are expected to go up in the coming days, Mr. John added. Poultry scene Poultry farming in the State has plunged into a crisis this week with bird aggregators from Tamil Nadu “disappearing” altogether from the State and feed supply drying up, said Baiju Kadavan, president of the Kerala Poultry Farmers Association, here on Tuesday. He said there are around two lakh poultry farmers, who run small farms with 2,000 to 5,000 birds. They source their chicks, feed, medicines and expertise from Tamil Nadu entrepreneurs, who buy back the birds for Rs. 7 a kg. However, with feed supply drying up for a fortnight now, the aggregators have gone missing totally. The other poultry farmers too are in trouble because of the feed shortage, said Mr. Baiju. With the farmers in distress, chicken price came down to Rs. 45 a kg on Tuesday. The problems associated with bird flu in some of the northern districts had added to the speed of the price fall, he added.
01 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||648 more in home quarantine||The district surveillance team in Ernakulam sent 648 people to home quarantine and released 869 who completed the stipulated observation period on Tuesday. Five persons were brought in for hospital isolation on Tuesday, taking the total number of people under hospital isolation to 31. There are 5,281 people in home quarantine in the district. A total of 5,312 people are under observation in home and hospital. Fourteen COVID-19 patients are being treated at the Government Medical College Hospital here. On Tuesday, 35 samples were sent for testing. Control Room can be accessed at 0484-2368802, 2428077, 2424077.
01 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Another case in Kollam||The district reported a second COVID-19 case on Tuesday with a close relative of the first patient testing positive. Currently admitted to the isolation ward at Government Medical College, Parippally, the patient belonged to the high-risk category for having direct contact with the first infected. After a Prakkulam resident tested positive on Friday, the Health Department had collected the samples of all primary contacts and quarantined the rest. Since the person had visited a couple of hospitals including the Thrikkaruva PHC, all procedures according to the WHO protocol were carried out. Two hospitals were closed after shifting the patients and all persons including medical staff were placed in quarantine. Meanwhile, the district administration, local bodies and the Health Department have identified 110 reserve corona care centres for emergencies. As many as 3,336 single occupancy rooms will be available with food, medical aid, and other facilities, says District Collector B. Abdul Nasar. In order to ensure safe disposal of biomedical waste generated in isolation wards, hospitals and quarantine centres, the guidelines issued by Central Pollution Control Board will be followed. Bins, bags and containers with colour codes will be placed in wards and a special team of sanitation workers will be collecting waste. Two-layer bags will be used to avoid leakage and containers and trolleys will be disinfected everyday. COVID-19 sample collection centres and labs have been instructed to handle biomedical waste as per the regulations of Bio-Medical Waste Management Rules, 2016. Home quarantine Kollam currently has 17,023 persons in home quarantine and 34 among them are foreign nationals. It also includes 6,398 persons who have recently returned from UAE including 1,954 persons from Dubai. On Tuesday, 246 persons entered home quarantine and the number of persons in medical isolation at present is 19. Among the 759 samples sent from the district to the virology institute, 686 turned negative and the results of 73 are awaited.  Kollam now has 17,023 persons in home quarantine and 34 among them are foreign nationals
01 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Nodal officer visits camps at Payippad||Inspector General of Police S. Sreejith, the nodal officer for ensuring the welfare of the community, visited the labour settlements at Payippad here on Wednesday. The visit, carried out in the wake of a protest staged by the workers here three days ago, was aimed at analysing the issued faced by the migrants camping in the village. During the visit, the official interacted with the workers and apprised them of the legal restrictions in place. Later, he held a meeting with the building owners who had provided accommodation to the migrant workers. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Sreejith said steps were in place to ensure the welfare of the migrant workers. “We will ensure that no one in the camp is starving. At the same time, the building owners too have certain responsibilities and they must take care of the workers. The government will consider providing assistance to building owners who are facing financial difficulties. The district administration too will chip in with adequate support,” he said. Earlier in the day, the police probing the conspiracy behind Sunday’s protest arrested one more person. The person was identified as Anwar Ali, a native of West Bengal. Messages Investigations revealed that Anwar Ali had circulated messages exhorting the migrant workers to mobilise and protest. He, along with Muhammad Rinju, another accused in the case, was later released on bail. Meanwhile, the district health wing and Fire and Rescue Services personnel jointly carried out a sanitation drive at the labour camps in Payippad.
01 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||North Kerala cases have roots in Dubai’s Naif||Fresh evidence has emerged that a majority of the COVID-19 cases in north Kerala, especially in Karasagod district, could be linked to Naif neighbourhood, one of the densely populated areas in the emirate of Dubai in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Already the State Health Department has confirmed that the SARS-CoV-2 positive cases could have reached the northern parts of the State possibly in March first week. With more confirmed cases, the Dubai health authorities are carrying out a door-to-door screening in Naif district. The Al Ras area has been locked down for two weeks from Tuesday to intensify disinfection. “The connection between Naif, one of the congested areas in Dubai, and Kerala is well known. Many could have been carriers of the disease. Social distancing of these expatriates may have been challenging for them. Now, identification and isolation are being carried out,” Balu Bhaskar, Director, Intensive Care Medicine, The American Hospital, Dubai, told The Hindu over phone on Tuesday. Immune system Since the SARS-CoV-2 virus is pervasive, he said those infected could be more than the actual numbers. “But the immune system of those living in Naif could possibly be strong,” said Dr. Bhaskar, an India-born Australian citizen, who is a specialist in critical care medicine. “In the last two decades, the area has turned into a low income neighbourhood. It is a sort of glorified slum in Dubai. Here, nationality or religion does not matter,” Vinod Chacko, a entrepreneur and resident of Dubai for the last 25 years, said. He said the old apartments that house the blue-collar workers at Naif and its vicinity have spacious rooms. “The rent is comparatively low and there are no stipulations on the number of tenants. An apartment with three rooms has more than 30 occupants and these include people from delivery boys to mobile shop salesman to waiters,” he said. Naif district is not just home to the gold souk and museums, but also to auto spare parts, textiles, electric and electronic goods. The Dubai health authorities have done spot screening and travel history of the residents and they are being tested for COVID-19.
01 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||TCMC issues norms for online consultation||The Registrar of the Modern Medicine Council under the Travancore-Cochin Medical Councils (TCMC) has issued guidelines for online consultation of patients and prescription of medicines in the State. The consultation shall be for minor ailments and for routine follow-ups. The doctor should be aware of the medical history of the patient. No injectable should be prescribed. Prescription for clinically suspected COVID-19 cases cannot be allowed. Patients’ identity The doctors should record the identity of the patient for whom prescription is given. The prescription should be on the letter head of the registered medical practitioner with name, registration number, registered qualification, and full signature. This should be in PDF format and each patient’s history should be recorded with serial number. The prescription must superscribe an order number, date of the order and the word ‘online consultation.’ The doctor must be a registered person under the TCMC medicine council and the patient must be within the radius of direct consultation. Medical records  Medical records should be prepared in each online consultation in PDF format and it should be emailed to the TCMC after the current period of lockdown. No consultation outside the TCMC jurisdiction is allowed. The online consultation should be subject to the prevailing laws. Any violation will invite penal action. The Registrar said the TCMC may at any point withdraw the order enabling online consultation without prior notice, and it may automatically be cancelled once normality returns in Kerala.  The prescription should be on the letter head of the registered medical practitioner with name, registration number, registered qualification, and full signature.
01 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Tablighi meet: Kozhikode natives under observation||Two natives of Kozhikode district, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference at Nizamuddin in New Delhi earlier this month, are under observation, District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao has said. This is to prevent a possible transmission of COVID-19. The district administration had collected details of three others who were present at the Tablighi mosque between March 18 and March 20. They had not attended the conference. They returned on March 23 by train and were put under observation, Mr. Rao added.
01 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Prohibitory orders extended||Prohibitory orders declared under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) have been extended until April 14 in Malappuram district. District Collector Jafar Malik has announced the extension in view of the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Malik said gatherings of five or more people would not be permitted anywhere in the district during the period. He said all dharnas, marches, processions, and prayer gatherings would come under the ban. He said no more than 10 persons should gather for a wedding, and that it should be held at home after informing the village office and the police station concerned. Meanwhile, 543 more persons were placed in quarantine in the district on Tuesday. The district has 12,642 people in quarantine, with as many as 102 of them in different hospitals. Government Medical College, Manjeri, which is the designated COVID-19 hospital in the district, has 87 people under observation, the District Hospital at Nilambur has nine, the District Hospital at Tirur has five, and the Taluk Hospital at Tirurangadi has one.
01 April 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Hospital gets equipment||V.K. Sreekandan, MP, has given Rs. 1 crore to the District Hospital here to procure equipment to manage COVID-19. Five multipara monitors meant for monitoring the vital parameters of critical patients reached the hospital on Monday. District Medical Officer K.P. Reeta handed over the equipment to Hospital Superintendent Rama Devi.
01 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||A succour for farmers, people||Horticorp has launched a mission to address the shortage of vegetables and fruits in the State against the backdrop of the lockdown implemented to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Talking to The Hindu , Horticorp managing director J.Sajeev said the corporation had already started procuring vegetables from farmers, who too were desperate for want of market for their produce. The corporation had already procured over 100 tonnes of vegetables directly from farms in Thrissur, Ernakulam, Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Idukki, Alappuzha, Kollam, and Thiruvananthapuram. He said pineapple and mango procurement too started the other day. A total of 20 tonnes of pineapple and five tonnes of mango had been procured from Vazhakulam in Ernakulam and Muthalamada in Palakkad. Horticorp had also started procurement of vegetables, mainly snake gourd, cucumber, pumpkin, beans, and spinach, from the 200-acre Mambara fields at Cheriyanad, near Chengannur, on Monday. The target of the corporation was to procure about 80 tonnes of vegetables a day from different parts of the State, he said.  Competitive rates Mr. Sajeev said Horticorp was procuring vegetables at competitive rates from farmers. Vegetables and fruits procured from the farms were being transported to the 100 Horticorp outlets and 200 franchisees in different parts across the State for supplying them to the needy households. The corporation would also supply vegetables to community kitchens opened across the State. Mr. Sajeev said Horticorp had joined hands with AM Needs for supplying vegetables online in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. He said the corporation would also procure banana from farmlands in Wayanad.
01 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No new cases in Pathanamthitta||No new case of COVID-19 was reported from Pathanamthitta for the sixth consecutive day on Tuesday, according to a medical bulletin released here at 8 p.m. A total of 13 persons are at present admitted to the isolation wards at various hospitals in the district as on Tuesday evening. In different hospitals Of the total persons admitted, five persons have been quarantined at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, five at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, and three others at the Pushpagiri Medical College Hospital in Thiruvalla.
01 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||300 from State were at Nizamuddin meetings||The government on Tuesday braced itself to contain a possible spread of COVID-19 infection from a large group of persons who returned from the Tablighi Jamaat centre at Nizamuddin in New Delhi early March. At least 300 persons from Kerala had attended the back-to-back meetings from which the disease radiated to outlying States. Officials said there was cause for concern but not panic. The first batch left the centre on March 5 and at least 80 persons reached Kerala. A random check revealed that none of them tested positive for the virus, and most passed the incubation period unaffected. However, the situation could change as the testing gets more extensive. Of the 300 attendees, an estimated 150 persons from the State left the centre to other regions for religious work. The government was ascertaining their status. Some hunkered down in New Delhi to weather the curfew. The police tracked down the seminarians to different parts of Kerala. One, a retired chemistry professor from Pathanamthitta, died in the national capital. The police are on overdrive to identify local people who might have put themselves at risk by interacting closely with the returnees. Law enforcers are analysing the mobile phone usage history of the attendees to retrace their movement. The State government is also concerned that scores of persons from nearby Salem, Madurai and Erode stayed at the sprawling Tablighi seminary in New Delhi along with the Keralites.  Social, commercial links The State has strong social and commercial links with the regions in Tamil Nadu. The police said delegates in Tamil Nadu might have been in touch with their friends and relatives in Kerala. An official said the delegates sheltered in mosques in different parts of the country during their journey back from New Delhi. The police were trying to identify the spots. A senior State police officer said religious leaders from Thailand and Indonesia too attended the meeting. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs has identified most of them and send advisories to their respective countries.
01 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||For quite a few, work is home||Devadasan has been sleeping every night on a narrow raised platform inside the security room of an apartment complex in Vazhuthacaud, ever since the nationwide lockdown was announced on Tuesday. Without a vehicle of his own, he is not able to go his house in Vellanad, almost 20 km away. “Since the lockdown began, the other security guard, with whom I have a rotational arrangement, is unable to reach here since he lives outside the city. So, I decided to stay here. Today is the fourth day. Sometimes, the flat association arranges food for me. If not, I order food from a restaurant here,” says Devadasan. Mohanan, security guard at an apartment in Kowdiar, shares an almost similar plight. The only advantage that he has a scooter on which he takes a quick trip to his home at Kachani every morning. “The other guard is from Nedumangad, and it is impossible for him to reach here as there is no public transport. The police sometimes stop me on my way home in the mornings. Only after repeated pleas do they allow me to proceed,” says Mohanan. During this lockdown, many are not privileged enough to stay safe inside their homes. They are being forced to take the risk of travelling or taking up extra work, for their colleagues who have no way to travel. The lockdown has been especially hard on the daily- wage labourers, who stand to lose their wages if they do not appear for work. Petrol pump staff Most of the petrol pumps in the city are working with less than half the number of employees, as many of them live in the city’s suburbs or in the panchayats outside, where the rents are much lower. “I am able to work because my husband drops me here early in the morning from our home in Vazhayila. For many, transportation is a problem,” says Sandhya, who works at a petrol pump in the city. At a petrol pump in Pattom, most of the women staff are not reporting for work, due to the lack of transport. “Four of our employees, all of them women, have not been coming for work. With hardly any vehicles on the road, the ones who are coming have less work too. The working hours of the 24-hour pump have been reduced,” says Thomas, the pump manager. Quite a few women, like a few working at a petrol pump in Kowdiar, walk all the way from their homes, several kilometres away.
01 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||232 foreign tourists evacuated from Kerala||As many as 232 foreign tourists, including 180 Germans and those from other European Union (EU) countries, stranded in Kerala following the ban on international flights and the 21-day lockdown to contain COVID-19 were evacuated on Tuesday morning. A chartered flight of Air India, AI 3003, carrying the tourists and the crew took off from the Thiruvananthapuram international airport at 9.40 a.m. to Frankfurt. The Boeing 777-300 ER made a brief stopover at Mumbai for refuelling. This is among five chartered flights to be operated by Air India to Frankfurt on Tuesday from various Indian airports to evacuate Germans and other EU nationals stranded in the country. The AI 1667 flight will return from Frankfurt as a ferry aircraft. KTDC facility The tourists stayed overnight in the State-owned Kerala Tourism Development Corporation’s Mascot Hotel, Samudra at Kovalam and Chaithram at Thampanoor and they were shifted on six buses by 6 a.m. to the airport terminal. Anja Ross Kuntz and Anja Burger from Germany, who stayed in KTDC’s Bolghatty Palace at Kochi, thanked Kerala Tourism for the excellent hospitality and arrangements. “The KTDC staff were courteous, food was excellent and it was a good experience for us,” they said. Although the aircraft can accommodate 300 passengers, there were only 232 on board the flight. The 52 non-Germans were accommodated on their request and they will go to their home country after reaching Frankfurt, sources said. A team led by Biju. B. S., Deputy Director, Marketing, Kerala Tourism; Tourist Information Officer Sajeev K.R.; Kannan Nair, First Officer of the Consulate of Federal Republic of Germany; worked overnight to make the arrangements for a hassle-free return for the holidayers.
01 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Case for reverse quarantine to keep the elderly safe||The death of a 68-year-old man owing to COVID-19 at Pothencode, near here, without any evidence of how he could have contracted the infection has thrown open the possibility that silent transmission of the disease could be happening in the community. However, one can clearly establish community transmission only when more such cases surface in the community. Isolated cases “One has to move away from the assumption that total prevention of COVID-19 is possible and accept that despite the best efforts, isolated cases with no known source will turn up in the community. Our best bet would be to try and contain the spread to a specific geographic locality and reduce the speed of transmission through stringent social distancing and lockdown measures. Low-level community transmission might actually render herd immunity to the community but special measures will have to be taken to protect the elderly during this time,” a public health expert said. He pointed out that the significance of the route map of the deceased was more an indication of the places he could have acquired the infection from. For every single case of infection with unknown source, there will be several with mild infection and scores of those who are asymptomatic.  Geographic location “In such situations, a core geographic location should be fixed, based on the recent activities and local travel history of the deceased. After leaving a good buffer zone around this area, all people within this geographic circle should be quarantined and all those with respiratory symptoms (if the infection has been passed on, symptoms would surface after the median incubation period) should be tested for COVID-19. Another strategy which should be immediately implemented wherever possible is reverse quarantine, wherein the elderly should be protected by keeping them separate from the rest of the people within homes and preventing anyone from introducing an infection to them,” a senior epidemiologist said. Ideally, a hospital should be included within the circle of quarantined area, where facility to collect samples, oxygen facility, and appropriate ventilation should be arranged, where those who develop symptoms can be isolated and treated, rather than move them all to busier hospitals where there is risk of cross infection to other patients. The Health Department has already swung into action and has locked down Pothencode and three adjacent panchayats for the next three weeks and people have been asked to stay at home.
01 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Revenue fall: Kerala may tighten purse||The government is reported to be contemplating tough expenditure curbs to cushion the mounting strain on State finances following an alarming dip in its own revenue. Finance Department sources told The Hindu that harsh measures have become inevitable to overcome the crisis triggered by COVID-19 and different options are being explored to rein in all expenses, including the monthly committed expenditure, to an affordable limit. A lion’s share of the income is now being channelised for meeting the committed expenditure and that would come up for a thorough scrutiny, the sources said. “The decision of the neighbouring Telangana government, which is a revenue surplus State, points to the intensity of the crisis. Considering the lack of inflow of resources and the additional expenditure incurred for virus containment, it has already issued orders for deferring payment of wages and salaries. Though not to an extreme limit, the Kerala government too would have to opt for stringent measures in the current context,” the sources said. Income sources The prime income sources, returns from the sale of lottery tickets amounting to Rs. 1,350 crore, and excise duty have virtually dried up following the lockdown and prohibition. Tax from the sale of petrol and diesel has slimmed down to a trickle. The declining oil sale had been a matter of concern for the government for the past few months. GST collection Fall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection and impasse in the realty sector have compounded the fiscal woes of the government. Moreover, the government had to grant entertainment tax concession, more time for paying power and water bills and also vehicle taxes and other concessions in view of the looming virus threat. Extra expenditure The additional expenditure incurred for providing free ration and kits of essentials to legions irrespective of their economic status and bolstering COVID-19 testing and other health-care facilities in hospitals are all being met from the frugal resources at its command. The alleged cold-shouldering of the State’s refrain for more has also prompted the government to opt for tough measures, the sources said.  Harsh measures have become inevitable to overcome the crisis triggered by COVID-19
01 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Fighting pandemic from behind the counters||They may not be on the front lines of the fight against COVID-19. But they are playing an important role amid the lockdown by ensuring the supply of life-saving medicines to people and keeping them safe. In every locality, besides grocery and vegetable shops, it is the chemist stores that open every day without fail. With the rise in number of cases, scores headed straight for pharmacies seeking masks, sanitisers, and gloves. For people who are ill or on medication for various health problems, these shops often make the difference between life and death. Medicines, baby food, diapers and sanitary napkins – the shops, present in almost every neighbourhood, stock them all. The lockdown though has forced chemists also to make adjustments to how they function. With fewer people stepping out of homes, the shops do not remain open late into the night. Asim Basheer, who runs a chemist shop at Vallakkadavu, says he gets more customers in the morning hours. At night, they close around 8 p.m. if there are no customers. Taking precautions When they are open, they take social distancing very seriously. Only one customer is allowed at the counter, the rest have to wait a safe distance away. Home deliveries are being made initially, but have now been stopped. And medicines are sold only if doctors’ prescription are produced. While they quickly run out of masks and sanitisers each time these are replenished, they are faring better with medicines. There are concerns though over possible shortage as distributors do not have enough people to supply medicines to stores. “If medicines do not reach us, then we will have to go and pick them up,” says Mr. Basheer. They have adequate stocks of drugs such as insulin or hormone tablets that require refrigeration apart from other medicines, but it is baby products that they are swiftly running out. “People are buying these in larger quantities fearing that these will become unavailable soon, especially if the lockdown gets extended,” he says. People are buying medicines too for a month or two together, Mr. Basheer says.
01 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police warn against pranks||The police will take stern action against those using social media to post fake messages on COVID-19 and the lockdown on April Fool’s Day. A press note quoting State Police Chief Loknath Behera said persons creating and posting such messages and those forwarding them would be arrested and legal proceedings initiated against them. The Hitech Crime Enquiry Cell, Cyberdome, cyber police stations, and district-level cyber cells would keep a close tab on social media to identify miscreants posting such messages, the release said.
01 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala’s airspace becomes live again||Kerala’s airspace has become active again with the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) granting permission to operate special flights to clear stranded passengers and cargo flights to ferry medical supplies within the country and perishables to West Asia. Domestic and foreign carriers have already commenced cargo operations as the airspace has been closed for domestic and international passenger flight operations till April 14. Emirates, which has secured permission to operate flights from Dubai to uplift cargo from nine airports in the country, including Thiruvananthapuram and Cochin, till April 12, and Spicejet are in the forefront of operations to Kerala. Emirates and SpiceJet have started shipping cargo from Thiruvananthapuram and Cochin. The other day, Transaviaexport Airlines used a Boeing 747 freighter to take 35 lakh sterile surgical gloves to Belgrade. SpiceJet also flew 34 tonnes of cargo from Kochi to West Asia. Close on Air India’s chartered flight operations from here to Frankfurt, Russia, the Maldives, and Malaysia are considering special flights to clear tourists stranded here. With 232 being evacuated, 477 tourists are still held up in Kerala. “Enquiries are coming for operating special and cargo flights and all have been asked to seek the DGCA nod,” Director of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport C.V. Ravindran told The Hindu . Air India and its subsidiary Alliance Air have been tasked by the Centre to ferry medical supplies. Air India has said it will be operating a cargo flight to the State capital. As the 50-odd scheduled international flights to Thiruvananthapuram, Cochin, and Kozhikode airports cannot ship 170 tonnes of fruits and vegetables daily to West Asian destinations, Emirates had pressed into service its Boeing 777-300 ER to carry cargo. Compared to 100 tonnes that can be taken in a freighter, the passenger flight is able to carry only 60 tonnes. This has come as a big relief to Non-Resident Keralites in these countries, exporters, and farmers. As there is no incoming cargo for Emirates flights, Agricultural Products and Processed Food Exporters Association secretary Dil Koshi said the airline was charging Rs. 160 a kg compared to Rs. 65 a kg levied for scheduled flights. SpiceXpress, SpiceJet’s dedicated cargo arm, has been doing doorstep deliveries of essential supplies.
01 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District panchayat Budget presented||The Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat’s annual Budget for 2020-21 with focus on social welfare, agriculture, environment, and infrastructure development, with a projected revenue of Rs. 705.34 crore, expenditure of Rs. 686.98 crore, and surplus of Rs. 18.36 crore, was presented on Tuesday. Owing to the COVID-19 outbreak, the Budget presentation was held with all safety precautions. Patheyam, one of the civic body’s most important ongoing projects providing food daily to 6,592 indigent persons at their doorstep, gets an allocation of Rs. 3.25 crore. The LIFE project gets Rs. 22 crore. The Saphala project for cultivation of pesticide-free vegetables in fallow land gets an allocation of Rs. 1 crore. The Kedaram project to promote coconut farming gets a sum of Rs. 3 crore. Health care The Snehasparsham project to provide financial support for mentally challenged children gets an allocation of Rs. 2 crore. An allocation of Rs. 1 crore has been made for the Ashwas project for poor patients. With a focus on gender budgeting, more than half of the funds have been set aside for projects meant for women. Later, district panchayat president V.K. Madhu said in a press meet that no specific funds had been set aside for fighting COVID-19, as the civic body was already spending from its own funds, from which any amount can be used for the purpose.
01 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Free ration from today||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said the inclusive distribution of free rations for all would commence through ration shops on April 1. In a bid to prevent huge queues, the government has asked only citizens with ration card numbers ending in ‘0’ and ‘1’ to turn up to collect their supplies on Wednesday. The government has allotted morning time for beneficiaries of the Antyodaya Anna Yojana scheme and priority households. The others can collect their supplies in the afternoon. Schedule The collection date for cardholders with numbers ending in ‘2’ and ‘3’ is on Thursday, ‘4’ and ‘5’ on Friday, ‘6’ and ‘7’ on Saturday and ‘8’ and ‘9’ on Sunday (April 5). Elected members of local bodies and volunteers can collect the free rations on behalf of senior citizens and aged persons who may be hard-pressed to come to ration shops. They can also extend the service to those in home quarantine.
01 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two more test positive||Two more persons were positive for COVID-19 in the district on Tuesday. Those tested positive are two children, a 13-year-old girl and an eight-year-old boy, of the Dubai-returnee hailing from Malayinkeezh, who had earlier tested positive. Meanwhile, the wife, daughter, and two grandchildren of the Pothencode native, who died on Tuesday, have tested negative. A total of 306 people have been newly put under observation. On Tuesday, cases were registered against 91 people and 65 vehicles were seized.
01 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||DEl.Ed. exams postponed||The Diploma in Elementary Education (DEl.Ed.) semester-end examinations for semesters two and four that were set to begin on Wednesday have been put off owing to the national lockdown in the wake of the COVID-19 spread. New dates will be announced later, SCERT director J. Prasad said in a statement here on Tuesday.
01 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Hoarders, black marketeers under VACB lens||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday asked the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) to act against hoarders, black marketeers and those who hike prices of essentials. He asked the stakeholders to ensure unimpeded distribution of cooking gas. The Agriculture Department has readied vegetable seeds for household-level delivery. Rubber subsidy He said the government would distribute the subsidy for rubber farmers in April. He was unwilling to commit to whether or not government employees would have to take a salary cut. He said the government would consider the case of its army of casual workers and part-time employees sympathetically. The plants that processed milk in Tamil Nadu were running in full capacity. Hence, it was reluctant to take more milk from Kerala. The neighbouring State has always aided Kerala. It would restart procurement at the earliest, he said.
01 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cut down on wasteful spending: KPCC||KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran has urged the State government to cut down on wasteful expenditure and embrace a new culture focussing on frugality in view of the financial crisis. A press note quoting him urged the government to drop the move to procure a helicopter and dismiss the Chief Minister’s advisers. He urged the government to disband the Administrative Reforms Committee and cancel other superfluous posts such as the liaison officer in Delhi and the special liaison officer in the High Court.
01 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3-week lockdown at Pothencode||The Pothencode grama panchayat and its surrounding areas, including the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram city, have been kept on high alert following the death of a COVID-19-infected 68-year-old man on Tuesday. The Thiruvananthapuram district administration has decided to enforce a total lockdown in the region for at least three weeks with curbs on residents’ movements. State Police Chief Loknath Behera has tasked the Crime Branch with tracing those who came in contact with the man. He also appealed to the public to assist the police and health workers in identifying the contacts. The body of the deceased was buried at the Kalloor Juma Masjid, near Pothencode, at 2.15 p.m. in adherence to the WHO-recommended guidelines. The body, secured in a triple-layer body bag, was buried in a 10-ft deep pit in the presence of two mosque officials and five health workers. Three-week quarantine Devaswom and Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, who convened a meeting to take stock of the situation, said the residents of Pothencode grama panchayat and parts of the Andoorkonam grama panchayat and the Kattayikonam ward of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation will be required to go into “complete quarantine” for three weeks. He appealed to those who had gone to the region from abroad or any other place that has reported to have confirmed COVID-19 cases after February to contact the district authorities by calling 1077 (toll-free). All others who came in close proximity with the deceased have also been requested to subject themselves to medical examination and quarantine. To ensure that no one fell through the surveillance net, the police have been directed to obtain the passport details of natives who returned home from abroad after February.  Contact tracing The government has already quarantined health workers in the Thonakkal primary health centre and the Sree Gokulam Medical College, Venjaramoodu, who came in close contact with the deceased. Based on the details provided by his family members and relatives, the district administration released a patient flow chart for contact tracing on Monday. He was found to have participated in a relative’s wedding that is estimated to have had several hundreds of people in attendance. These included people who had come from the United Arab Emirates and Kasaragod that has reported numerous COVID-19 cases. The deceased also attended two funerals at a mosque in Nagaroor and had gone to a sub-treasury office near the medical college in the city to collect his pension. It has now emerged that the details with the authorities are incomplete. The deceased had participated in a Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) meeting at the Manjamala Lower Primary School where two of his grandchildren study. The government also ordered a branch of the Ayiroopara Farmers’ Service Cooperative Bank be closed down after it came to light that the deceased had attended a chit fund auction there .
01 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||New case in Thrissur||One more person tested positive for COVID-19 in Thrissur district on Tuesday. The 40-year-old woman is undergoing treatment at Thrissur Medical College Hospital. There are now six persons undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in the district. There are now 20,588 people under observation. Of them, 47 are in hospitals. Screening test was done for drivers and other visitors at Sakthan Market on Tuesday. Fire and Rescue Services personnel and volunteers disinfected Viyyur Central Jail and KSEB station. Two persons from the district had attended the religious gathering at Nizamuddin. However, both of them completed the quarantine period. They haven’t shown any symptoms of the disease so far, according to the District Collector. A total of 18,455 food packets were distributed from community kitchens on Tuesday. Sufficient isolation wards and ventilator facilities had been arranged according to A,B,C plans prepared by the district administration, Chief whip K. Rajan said.
01 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||‘Migrants happy with arrangements’||Migrant workers in Thrissur district were happy with the arrangements made by the district administration, said District Collector S. Shanavas, who visited various camps of the workers on Tuesday. The respective civic bodies had been given instructions to arrange social and health security measures. The grama panchayat representatives and officials were effectively intervening in their issues, he said. The Collector also visited various camps for destitute including the Government Model Boys School and Government Model Girls School where they have been accommodated. He also visited the kitchen at Thoppe School, where food is cooke for them. Fogging will be done at camps for disinfection, he said. In all, 1,098 homeless people are staying at 30 shelter camps in the district.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safe transactions||
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Caring for the community||
01 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two test positive in Anantapur district||Two distant relatives of a COVID-19 victim, a 70-year-old woman from Gauribidanur in Karnataka who died last week, tested positive on Tuesday. They were quarantined last week along with 29 other close relatives of the woman, but all others tested negative. While the first positive case from Anantapur is a 10-year-old boy, the second one is a 34-year-old woman and both hail from Lepakshi. Confirming this, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said both were relatives of the Gauribidanur woman who went to Mecca and later visited the families of the two persons, who have now tested positive. Cause for concern While 31 persons related to the old woman were quarantined at Hindupur Government Hospital, another 145 persons are also being monitored as they had come in contact with the deceased woman in Anantapur district during her visit to Balaji Hospital in Hindupur. Meanwhile, the district administration has declared two colonies - Tipu Colony and Dange Colony - ‘Red Zones’, where the two persons who tested positive reside. The district medical authorities, however, said both the persons have very mild symptoms. However, the cause for utmost concern is the identification of 78 persons as COVID-19 suspects and 29 of them have been quarantined at the Cluster Livelihood Resource Centre (CLRC) in Anantapur. Out of the 78 persons, 49 had attended the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi. The remaining persons are either family members or have contacts with the persons who came from Delhi. Four of the 49 have not come to Anantapur. One has migrated to Hyderabad, while the other is in Khammam. One is still in Delhi and the fourth is in Bihar. Samples have been collected from all the 29 persons, who were quarantined on Tuesday morning. Samples of the other 45 persons will be obtained as and when they reach the quarantine facility at CLRC in Rapthadu, according to officials.
01 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sathya Sai Trust to provide medical kits||Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust has decided to provide medical kits to 14 COVID-19 quarantine centres. These medical kits would cost Rs. 1.80 crore, a letter from SSSCT Managing Trustee R.J. Ratnakar to District Collector Gandham Chandrudu on Tuesday said. The District Collector had appealed to all major institutions to donate generously in order to overcome the crisis caused by coronavirus.
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not allowed to collect fees, some schools mull salary cuts||As big corporations are announcing salary cuts, people employed by private schools are worried about job security, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown. What’s cause for concern is that school managements have been told not to collect fees for the next academic year, a fact they cite as reason for not having enough money to meet their recurring expenditure. Some school managements are contemplating paying only half of the next month's salary to their staff. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, pointed out that the government is yet to pay the RTE reimbursement to schools amounting to lakhs of rupees. “On the other hand, they're empowering parents of pupils not to pay fees. All we are saying is let parents at least pay last year's fees. Many had requested for time, which was granted. They would usually pay up the remaining amount before the exams. But now that the academic calendar has been thrown out of gear, we haven't even got the pending amount. How are we supposed to pay staff?” He also said budget schools, which make up the majority in the private school sector, are suffering. "We will not be able to maintain this in the long run. Of 1,700 students in our school, for example, 400 are yet to pay. We may have to pay only half the salaries for staff next month. And we may also have to see more staff being let go," he said. Managements of a few schools in the city are being criticised for terminating the contracts of some of their staff, like bus drivers, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown . A school in central Bengaluru has allegedly terminated the services of bus drivers from the next academic year. One of them spoke to The Hindu on condition of anonymity. "I have been working here as a bus driver for three years. After completing two years, they said they'll make my service permanent. Now all of a sudden, the principal has called me and said they no longer require my services," he said, visibly distressed. He said he has been told that there is "excess staff" in his department. "We are 24 drivers and I heard one more driver has also got a similar call. The government has been reiterating that people should not be removed from their jobs, but it's still being done. How will I provide for my family now? How will I manage house rent?" However, the principal of the school denied the allegations. “There are no lay-offs because of the lockdown. Every year, we take stock of the performance of the probationary and ad hoc staff. In fact, March salaries were given much in advance,” said the principal.  Let parents at least pay last year’s fees. They usually pay before the exams. But now that the academic calendar has been thrown out of gear, we haven't got the pending amount. How are we supposed to pay staff? D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka
01 April 2020||Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Southern States launch operation to identify Markaz delegates||Authorities in the southern States scrambled on Tuesday to identify the large number of people who had attended a congregation at the Markaz Nizamuddin, international headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi, and their contacts throughout their journeys. Tamil Nadu appeared to have the largest number of delegates to the event, followed by Telangana, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. Tamil Nadu’s Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said a total of 1,500 persons had attended the conference in Delhi. Of this, 1,131 had returned to Tamil Nadu. Health officials managed to trace and quarantine 515 of them. Tracing all those who travelled to Nizamuddin to prevent and control the spread of COVID-19 was being pursued in high gear. Over half the total COVID-19 positive cases in Tamil Nadu were directly or indirectly linked to the travellers. Health officials said that the clustering of cases was unexpected and had turned the trajectory of COVID-19 in the State, which otherwise reported positive cases mainly among those who had travelled abroad and their contacts. 500 from A.P. In Andhra Pradesh, officials launched all-out efforts to trace the Tablighi Jamaat members. More than 500 individuals from almost all districts of Andhra Pradesh travelled to Nizamuddin for the prayers held from March 15 to 17, travelling mostly by AP Express and GT Express between March 10 and March 20. Police were trying find out whether the members used any other mode of transport. ‘No need to panic’ Kerala also braced itself for possible spread of COVID-19 after a large group returned from the Delhi event. At least 300 delegates were from Kerala. Officials said there was cause for concern but no panic, and among the first batch who left on March 5, at least 80 reached Kerala. A random check revealed none of them were positive for the virus, and most had passed the incubation period unaffected. However, the situation could change with extensive testing. Among the 300 attendees, an estimated 150 from the State had left the centre for other regions for religious work, and the government was ascertaining their status. Some had stayed on in New Delhi during the curfew. The State government is also concerned that scores of people from Salem, Madurai and Erode had stayed at the Tablighi seminary along with those from Kerala. An official said the delegates had sheltered in mosques in different parts of the country during their journey back, and they were trying to identify the spots. Isolation centres About 78 members from Karnataka belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat were quarantined in government isolation centres and would be tested for COVID-19, said Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education). Mr. Akhtar said the department did not have specific information if all the 78 members belong to the Jamaat. “An Order had been issued to shift all of them to government quarantine centres. They had been home quarantined three days ago. The person from Sira, who succumbed to the infection, is one of them,” he said. Over 1,000 in Telangana In Telangana, 1,030 persons from 29 districts were identified as ‘returnees’ from the Markaz prayers. On Tuesday, officials of erstwhile Adilabad district were on their toes preparing a list of those who had attended. The administrations in Adilabad, Kumram Bheem Asifabad, Mancherial and Nirmal districts intended to put them in mandatory isolation at home or at special centres. Many devotees had gone to the national capital on their own from rural places and do not figure in the records. Over 50 people were identified as having participated from Adilabad district, but only 12 were in Jamaat records. Authorities in Nirmal district located over 50 Jamaat returnees and they were placed in isolation wards in a polytechnic college. Some 80 people had made the visit. Nizamabad Collector C. Narayana Reddy said that 39 persons who returned from Delhi along with the retired employee who was found COVID-19 positive were quarantined. Besides, 55 others who came in contact with them were also shifted to isolation wards. None except a retired employee had symptoms, he said. In Medak, Sangareddy and Siddipet districts, 46 persons travelled to the congregation. Sangareddy Collector M. Hanumantha Rao and Additional Collector Veera Reddy and other senior officials visited the hospital asked officials to post a police force there.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, Karnataka and Hyderabad)
01 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||28 from Delhi meet quarantined||The district administration was on its toes on Tuesday following information that as many as 46 persons from the district were among the Jamaat gathering in Delhi. District Medical and Health Officer M. Penchalaiah said that while two persons were not traced, 15 were said to be out of station. Samples were collected from 28 persons and all were quarantined, including eight persons in Srikalahasti and six at Tirupati. Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta held an emergency meeting with the medical, revenue and police departments here in connection with the Jamaat returnees in district. He said that the officials on the COVID-19 Task Force duties should immediately launch door-to-door survey regarding the returnees from New Delhi. “All the persons who show signs of COVID-19 should be sent for quarantine,” he said. The Collector sought the voluntary organisations and officials to coordinate in providing food to the stranded families from outside the State. Mr. Gupta further sought the officials on COVID-19 duties to strictly follow all precautionary measures regarding their health. Vehicle intercepted Unlike the previous days of the lockdown period since a week, Tuesday witnessed an uneasy calm at the public places, with crowds voluntarily huddling back home by 10 a.m. as against the fixed time of 11 a.m.  Meanwhile, the Madanapalle rural police on Tuesday intercepted a milk container, clandestinely carrying seventy-three migrant workers, including women and children, at Cheekalabailu in the district, while on their way to Rajasthan from various places of Tamil Nadu, mostly the textile parks of Coimbatore. They were shifted to government welfare hostel at Madanapalle outskirts and were made to follow social distancing. Steps were initiated to put them under screening. In cooperation with the local voluntary organisations, the police temporarily arranged food for the migrant families.
01 April 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGOs, police distribute food, masks to the poor||Members of the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS), representatives of various non-governmental organisations (NGOs), police and advocates distributed food to sanitation workers and the needy in the town on Tuesday. They also supplied water and buttermilk packets at different centres. Philanthropists distributed rice and vegetables to the poor in some colonies. In some areas, they supplied milk packets to labourers who remained jobless for the past 10 days in wake of the lockdown. Police distributed food packets, masks and sanitisers to the homeless and the migrants who have been staying under bridges, on pavements and at other public places. Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao distributed masks to the public at the Fire Station Centre. The IRCS staff were seen cautioning people over the public address systems and explaining the symptoms of COVID-19.
01 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur district reports five COVID-19 cases in one day||Guntur district reported five fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, prompting the district administration and civic bodies to launch unprecedented sanitising measures. While Guntur city reported two new cases, taking the total count to four, Macherla reported two cases while one case was reported from Karempudi. All the cases have been linked to the congregation at Tablighi Jamaat at Hazrat Nizamuddin in Delhi, where more than 700 persons from Andhra Pradesh are believed to have taken part. Areas in Mangadasnagar, Anandapet and Sangadigunta have been declared as containment zones and movement of people was restricted. Teams from the Health Department and Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) began collecting details of those showing symptoms of influenza even as another team began to aggressively sanitise the area. In Guntur, the GMC launched a Japanese sprayer usually used in farm operations. The sprayer, resembling an aircraft, can be used to spray solution of sodium hypochlorite at public places. Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar, Deputy Inspector of General PHD Ramakrishna, Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar and Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha visited the affected areas in the town and asked the health personnel to ensure that all the areas were sanitised. Later, the Collector rushed to Macherla and Karempudi and along with Guntur Rural Superintendent of Police Ch. Vijaya Rao took stock of the situation. Mr. Samuel distributed 4,000 masks and sanitisers to the personnel. The daily health bulletin on Tuesday revealed that 56 persons were admitted to isolation wards on Tuesday, and all of them were tested. So far, 198 persons have been tested, of which the results of 124 persons turned out to be negative. Nine persons have tested positive so far, while results of 65 tests were still awaited. As many as 143 persons have been kept under isolation and 59 of them were discharged. In Guntur district, 1,634 persons have been traced with foreign travel history, and 28 persons were placed under quarantine.
01 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials trace 184 from Guntur who attended Nizamuddin event||The Guntur district administration has identified 184 persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat, a religious congregation at Hazrat Nizamuddin, in Delhi in which more than 1,000 persons from all over the country as well as from Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, Indonesia took part between March 15 and 17. As of March 31, 24 persons linked with the event have tested positive for the coronavirus in the country. Hunt for 39 persons District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar told reporters on Tuesday that out of 184 persons who have returned from Delhi on March 18, 145 persons have been identified and tests for infection of coronavirus were conducted on 103 persons. Thirty nine persons who have gone to Nizamuddin are yet to be traced. The police and task force personnel are on the job of tracing the 39 persons. The district has so far recorded nine positive cases, who are among the 103 persons tested during last week. Four persons of them were from Guntur city, two from Macherla and one person is from Karempudi. Appeal to people “I am appealing to the remaining persons who have not been tested to voluntarily disclose their identities to the administration and get themselves tested. There is no reason to panic as 80 per cent of those infected will not show any symptoms, 15 per cent need hospitalisation and 4 per cent need ICU treatment,” said the Collector. He further said that home quarantine has been advised to those with recent travel history to Delhi. Eighteen members admitted to isolation ward at the Katuri Medical College have been discharged and advised to observe home quarantine till April 20. The Collector said prohibitory orders are in place in Guntur, Macherla and Karempudi and violators will be prosecuted under Disaster Management Act, 2005. The relaxation of lockdown would be in effect from 6 am till 11 am. The Guntur Municipal Corporation began sanitising areas in Sangadigunta, where persons with travel history to Delhi have been identified. ‘Contact tracing is on’ Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar said essential commodities would be continually provided at ration shops till April 14 and the second spell would commence from April 15. Each beneficiary would get 5 kg of rice and 1 kg of red dal and one kg of sugar. All kirana shops have been asked to supply the 11 identified essential commodities. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Urban, P.H.D. Ramakrishna said that the the process of identifying the primary contacts of 184 persons who have gone to Delhi is on and said that the rule to observe social distancing would be made more stringent.
01 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relief for migrant workers||A day after The Hindu published a story on the plight of over 1,000 migrant workers stranded due to nationwide lockdown, the Chief Ministers’s Office directed the district administration to make necessary arrangements for providing them with food. On Monday, over 1,000 migrant labourers mostly from Bihar, gathered at Mirchi Yard urging the State government to pay heed to their plight or send them back home. Following the directions of the CMO, the district administration swung into action and ensured that the workers were given free meals on the premises of Agricultural Market Committee. Mandal Revenue Officer, Guntur, Tata Mohan Rao said that following the directions of Collector, details of the workers had been collected and necessary assistance would be provided to them.
01 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andhra Bank fades into history||Come April 1, it will be curtains for Andhra Bank as one of the oldest and well-known household names in the region gets amalgamated with Union Bank of India. A part of the Central government plan to create four larger banks by merging 10, the move will see Andhra Bank over time coming to be identified as Union Bank of India. While its fading into history is certain, what, however, will remain in public memory is the long association it built with lakhs of customers, earning their trust and rendering decades of service. For the Telugu States, it will be second, home grown bank they will have to let go. State Bank of Hyderabad (SBH) was the first when it got merged with the State Bank of India (SBI) in April 2017. Under the present plan of the Centre, four sets of merger will come into force on Wednesday. One of them will see Andhra Bank and Corporation Bank amalgamating into Union Bank of India. The combined entity will be the 5th largest public sector bank and will have the 4th largest branch network of any bank in India, Union Bank of India said. Hoary history Andhra Bank was founded by freedom fighter Bhogaraju Pattabhi Sitaramayya and commenced business on November 28, 1923 with a paid up capital of Rs. 1 lakh and an authorised capital of Rs. 10 lakh. The present network of the bank comprises nearly 2,900 branches and almost 3,800 ATMs. Union Bank of India Managing Director and CEO Rajkiran Rai G. had recently said the combined entity will have 9,500 branches and 12,000 ATMs across the country. Of the 9,500 branches, 700 plus are to be rationalised because of their proximity. But it will not happen immediately. Maybe around 300 branches will be rationalised in the first year, he had said. Thus it is expected to be business as usual when Andhra Bank customers walk into their branches, for some time April 1 onwards. Sources in the bank said for now it will be a balance sheet merger. Lockdown impact While other changes were on cards, their implementation has slowed down because of the COVID-19 triggered lockdown. Clarity on various other aspects was also awaited, the Andhra Bank official, who did not wish to be named, said. Mr. Rai had said the amalgamation will create an employee base of 75,000, of which 37,000 are from Andhra Bank and Corporation Bank put together. FAQs on Union Bank of India website said all branches of the three banks will continue to operate for now. There will be no closure of ATMs for now. The existing account number, IFSC code, MICR code, debit card number will continue even after amalgamation. Existing cheque books and pass books will continue to be valid and any change will be communicated in advance. Post amalgamation, customers of Corporation Bank and Andhra Bank will be able to access Union Bank of India’s ATMs and vice versa without any additional charges.  (With PTI inputs)
01 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uneasy calm in Kadapa district as 17 from capital congregation untraced||With only 24 out of the 59 members from Kadapa sent to quarantine on their return from Delhi after participating in the Nizamuddin Jamaat, there is uneasy calm among the residents of the district. At least 17 persons of the rest are learnt to be ‘not traced’ and their whereabouts are not known yet. People from several places in the district participated in the Jamaat, but in the aftermath of the clamour caused with some of them showing signs of fever, the others have gone into hiding. Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha on Tuesday appealed to such members to voluntarily come out, while urging the general public to disclose the details of such people in the hiding. “There is no need to panic. If you cooperate with the government by furnishing your details and follow home quarantine, you will be saving your life and those of others,” he said at a review meeting. Notwithstanding his call, the silence seems to turn eerie as the 17 missing are feared to spread the virus to many others in the district by staying in close proximity to them, especially the easily susceptible ones. The police have launched a manhunt for those who are hiding. The kin of such people in hiding show stiff resistance and pick up a row with the ward and village volunteers going to the households for verification.
01 April 2020||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 applications for liquor on Day 1||Alcoholics  who succeeded in securing prescriptions from doctors to get their daily dose of booze may have to wait for one more day to get their hand on the bottle. Since the first day of every month is observed as dry day in the State, they may not be able to buy their quota of alcohol from the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) on April 1. On April 2, Bevco may make alcohol available on production of the medical pass certified by the Excise Department. Since the government has ordered the closure of liquor outlets, including retail outlets of the corporation, bars, clubs, and toddy shops, alcohol may have to be made available through the warehouses or godowns of the corporation, a senior Bevco official said. Bevco is working on the logistics to make alcohol available based on the permits to be issued by the Excise Department. The quantity of the Indian Made Foreign Liquor to be made available will depend on the permit issued by the department, he said. On Tuesday, the first day after the government issued an order permitting medical passes for the alcoholics, the Excise Department received as many as 30 applications. “Some applications were rejected as the certificates indicating that the patient had alcohol withdrawal symptoms were issued by retired doctors. Only serving government medical doctors are authorised to issue such certificates,” said S. Aananthakrishnan, Excise Commissioner. The valid applications are being processed. The role of the department is confined to the issuance of passes and the distribution of alcohol will be the responsibility of Bevco. The department expects a few more applications in the coming days as there can be more such persons, he said. Those alcoholics who want to get medical passes should present themselves for examination at government hospitals. They will be provided a fixed quantity of alcohol if the doctor certifies that the person has alcohol withdrawal symptoms. The medical passes for procuring alcohol will be issued after the certificate is verified at the nearest range or circle office of the Excise Department, according to a government order. Congress leader V.M. Sudheeran has urged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to roll back the decision, which is unethical and against the accepted treatment protocol. KGMOA protest Meanwhile, the Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association would observe Wednesday as black day and all doctors in the Health Services would be wearing black badges to work. This is to express their protest against the order that makes doctors liable for an act that could lead to further deterioration of an individual’s health, directly or indirectly. KGMOA president Joseph Chacko said the government order was unethical. “A prescription is incomplete without the treatment protocol. If a person is diagnosed with alcohol withdrawal symptoms, the treatment too should be written down.”
01 April 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Kannur-Virajpet route can be considered’||The Karnataka government on Tuesday submitted before the Kerala High Court that it could consider the demand of the Kerala government that the Kannur-Iritty- Koottupuzha-Mangoor-Virajpet route be opened for transportation of essential commodities if an appropriate letter was sent by the authorities in Kerala to the Karnataka Home Department. PIL Karnataka Advocate General P.K. Navadgi made the submission when a public interest litigation (PIL) against the erection of earth embankments on arterial inter-State roads by Karnataka came up before a Division Bench of Justice A.K. Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice Shaji P. Chali. Additional Advocate General of Kerala Ranjith Thampan submitted the Kerala proposal. Transportation routes Advocate General of Karnataka also submitted that the Kannur-Iritty-Mananthavady-Sargur- Begur-Nanjangud-Mysore and Kannur-Sulthan Bathery-Gundlupetes-Mysore routes have been opened for transportation of essential commodities and will continue to be so throughout the lockdown period. The court directed the Kannur District Collector to immediately send a communication to the Secretary of the Karnataka Home Department so that the matter could be considered by the latter immediately. The Bench asked the Karnataka and the Kerala govenrments to make submissions on the arrangement that could be made for catering to the medical needs of patients in Kasaragod based on the proximity of the hospital concerned in Karnataka. Overburdened The Karnataka Advocate General submitted hospitals in Mangaluru district were already overburdened due to COVID-19 pandemic and it was difficult to cater to the needs of patients from Kerala. Counsel for the petitioner, Kerala High Court Advocates Association, pointed out that Karnataka's action amounted to infringement of right to life and health care under Article 21 as well as right to freedom of movement under Article 19(1)(d) of the Constitution. Hearing today The Bench posted the petition for further hearing on April 1. Meanwhile Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Karnataka was yet to open its border with Kasaragod district. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had promised to resolve the issue. “He is yet to get back to me, though he had promised he would. Maybe he still working on the case,” he said.
01 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||SI saddles up to spread the word||For Peapully Sub-Inspector of Police G. Maruthi Shankar, horse riding is a hobby during his leisure time, but now, he has turned it into a weapon to create awareness among the rural masses on the threat posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. What really prompted Mr. Shankar to paint his friend’s horse with red coloured coronavirus pictures before he rode on it was the urge to make people aware of the gravity of the situation. “Horse is among the the fastest animals and gallops at breakneck speed, and what better way can be there to tell the rural masses that if they do not adhere to lockdown rules, the virus could catch up with them very fast,” Mr. Shankar told The Hindu . The SI took the permission of his bosses as soon as the idea struck him. Mr. Shankar said he would cover other parts the district if his superiors gave him permission, and thanked Superintendent of Police Fakkerappa Kaginelli for allowing him to do this.
01 April 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials swing into action in Prakasam||The Prakasam district administration on Tuesday swung into action as eight more persons tested positive for coronavirus, taking the total to 11 in the district. Panic-stricken people confined themselves to their houses as the authorities stepped up surveillance. Meanwhile, reviewing the situation in Nellore, Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas alias Nani attributed the spurt in COVID-19 cases to a large number of people from the State returning after taking took part in a religious congregation at Nizamuddin near New Delhi in which persons from Indonesia, Malaysia and other countries too had participated. The infected persons had either travelled with an elderly couple from Chirala to New Delhi to take part in the programme or had come in contact with them after the couple's return on March 17 to the district while taking part in social gatherings. Of the eight new cases, three each were from Kandukur and Chirala and one each from Ongole and Kunkalamarru, near Karamchedu. Members of the Rapid Response Team (RRT) began cluster containment programme in Ongole, Chirala, Kandukur and Kunkalamarru to prevent the spread of the disease. All entry and exit points to the localities from where the infected persons hailed were sealed. Persons, who had come in contact with the infected persons were isolated. A sanitation drive was also undertaken by the civic staff in all localities in Ongole and other parts of the district. Civic staff went round the localities and cautioned people not to come out of their houses in view of the developing health situation. ‘It’s now or never’ Meanwhile, health workers monitored the condition of 964 foreign-returned persons who were put under home quarantine. Reviewing the situation with District Collector P. Bhaskar and other district officials, COVID-19 Special Officer in-charge of Prakasam district B. Udayalakshmi along with Inspector General Mahesh Chandra Ladha said coordinated efforts by all concerned were the need of the hour to tackle “the now-or-never health situation.” The IG wanted the staff concerned, including police personnel, to trace all foreign-returned persons and put them under observation.
01 April 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special teams on trail of Nizamuddin meet attendees||Officials, who are taking measures to prevent spread of coronovirus in the State, are making all-out eforts to trace the Tablighi Jamaat members who attended the Markaz prayers at Hazrat Nizamuddin in Delhi. According to sources, more than 500 persons from Andhra Pradesh travelled to Nizamuddin and attended the prayers held from March 15 to 17. People from almost all districts attended the programme and a majority of them travelled by AP Express and GT Express between March 10 and March 20. Religious heads from Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Saudi Arabia and other countries attended Markaz. Police are trying find out on whether the members used any other mode of transport. Sources in the Railways say some hundreds of passengers from Visakhapatnam, Rajahmundry, Eluru, Vijayawada and other locations boarded and alighted the AP Express before March 20. Many of them travelled in general coaches, the railway authorities said. “Special teams have been constituted to identify the persons who attended Markaz. We are worried about second contacts from the public who attended Ijtema (annual congregation), as there is a spurt in COVID positive cases in the State,” said an officer. Samples collected Police with the help of the South Central Railway (SCR) and the district Collectors identified about 300 persons, who travelled in AP Express and referred medical tests and kept them under quarantine. Samples of some Tablighi Jamaat members have been collected and sent for testing. “Some passengers who attended the prayers are yet to be traced. We appeal to the members who travelled in reserved and unreserved compartments to contact the officials concerned immediately and take necessary treatment,” an officer said. Intelligence officials are trying to gather more details on Markaz. “We are looking into the matter from all angles,” an official said. Based on mobile phone numbers and addresses mentioned in the reservation forms, particulars of the jamaat members who travelled by AP Express were provided to the COVID control room and Collectors, said a railway officer. “A few from A.P. boarded the trains at Khammam and Warangal. Intelligence sleuths are also tracking the movements of those who attended Ijtema after return from Nizamuddin,” said an officer.
01 April 2020||Special Correspondent VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC staff to be deputed to police, revenue wings||In the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown to prevent the spread of the virus, the government wants to depute 25% of the staff of the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) (now Public Transport Department - PTD) to the police and revenue wings to meet the emergency situation. The decision, however, has not gone down well with the RTC Employees Union leaders who insist that the corporation staff be allowed to work for its parent wing.  Request by Collectors Following requests made by the district Collectors with the Regional Managers of the corporation for arrangement of transportation of the stranded passengers at border points and of people from the quarantine centres to villages besides shifting of vegetables and medicines, it was decided to depute the PTD staff to police and revenue departments. The services of the Divisional Managers and the supervisory staff of RTC are to be utilised for emergency operations. Employees above 55 years of age would be made to sit in office or utilised for emergency duties while services of women employees would be utilised in the second phase. If their services were needed in the first phase, they would be deputed in batches by rotation. Pregnant women and differently-abled staff have been exempted and all employees deputed for special duties will attend in full uniform. ‘Threats being issued’ RTC employees’ union leaders Y.V. Rao and P. Damodara Rao, in a statement on Tuesday, said after the RTC merger and creation of the PTD, they were part of the government and it was their duty to assist the government in such hour of crisis. But they found fault with the ‘authoritarian’ attitude of the second-rung officials in the corporation who, they alleged, had threatened the staff of strict action if they failed to report to the respective departments allocated to them. Practical problems The leaders said deployment of RTC staff to ‘unrelated departments’ was not a good idea as they neither had any proficiency in handling the situation nor were they given any training for the purpose. They said the RTC management should also think of the health aspect of its staff being deployed to other departments. In view of the lockdown, it would also be difficult for the RTC staff to reach their duties immediately, they pointed out and reiterated that the government roll back its decision and allow them to work from their own department.
01 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prepare to handle crisis, doctors told||Srikakulam Collector J.Nivas on Tuesday said that the district administration had prepared itself to extend medical service to 5,000 patients at a time in future. He said that all the private hospitals and nursing homes should work in association with the government to save lives of patients if necessary. In a meeting held with private hospitals, Mr. Nivas said that all the private hospitals and nursing homes were supposed to extend their service to the government since the Centre had declared health emergency in the country. Mr. Nivas said that there were no positive cases in the district so far, but asked the medical staff to prepare themselves to handle crisis in future.
01 April 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||70 Nizamuddin Tablighi Jamaat returnees identified in Kurnool||The district authorities have confirmed that 70 people have been identified in Kurnool district who returned after attending the Tablighi Jamaat meeting held at the Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah in New Delhi between March 13-15. All of the 70 have been quarantined in the isolation facility set up at the Rayalaseema University, as of Tuesday afternoon. The officials have also informed that samples of the persons returned from Delhi would be taken once someone starts developing symptoms. Earlier in the morning, the Finance Minister (FM) Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, accompanied by the District Collector G. Veerapandian and other officials visited the varsity and inspected the facility. The Minister told people present at the facility to maintain social distance from each other. Later, he, and Labour Minister Gummanuru Jayaram conducted a meeting with Mr. Veerapandian, Superintendent of Police Fakkerappa Kaginelli, Joint Collector Ravi Pattansetty, DMHO Rama Giddaiah and COVID-19 Task Force on the action being taken in the district to restrict the spread of the disease.
01 April 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||26 meet attendees traced||East Godavari District Medical and Health Officer B. Satya Susheela on Tuesday said that a total of 26 persons, who attended a religious gathering in Nizamuddin recently, have been traced and sent to the isolation wards at GGH in Kakinada and Rajamahendravaram. “As many as 20 persons from Rajamahendravaram have been found attending the Nizamuddin meeting. A group of six persons from Kakinada have also attended the same meeting and traced on Tuesday,” Ms. Susheela told The Hindu . The door-to-door survey is being done to identify and trace the remaining persons, who attended the meeting, from the district.
01 April 2020||Staff Reporter KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. steps in to help edible oil units resume operations||Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu and East Godavari officials led by Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha on Tuesday ensured all support from the State government to the edible oil companies on the Kakinada coast to resume operations. Operations in about 10 edible oil companies came to a grinding halt since COVID-19 lockdown came into force as workers stopped coming citing the health alert. The major groups engaged in the edible oil production and trade on the Kakinada coast include GEF, Adani, Wilmer, Ruchi, Kaleswara and Agarwal. The representatives of the edible oil companies have sought the intervention of the State government to persuade the workforce to resume duties and sought permission for inter-State transportation.“Since edible oil is an essential commodity, All the field-level initiatives are being taken to resume the operation of the oil companies and in return, the companies have also pledged some incentives and special care for workers till the lockdown is over,” Mr. Lakshmisha told The Hindu . Addressing the representatives of the companies, Mr. Kannababu said that the State government would address the shortage of workers in the companies in Kakinada and Krishnapatnam. MARKFED Managing Director Kantanath Reddy and other officials were present.
01 April 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Plans afoot to draft staff from other depts. for emergency duty’||The fight against COVID-19 becoming a challenging task for the departments in the frontline such as police, GVMC, district administration and health every passing day. Considering the limited manpower resource, it has been proposed to draft staff from various other departments into the exercise. The city police wing with limited manpower of about 3,000 men is finding it extremely difficult to keep its men agile, fit and motivated for a 24/7 operation. “Keeping this in mind, we have proposed to Collector V. Vinay Chand to draft men from other departments such as teaching, forest, excise, agriculture and others to assist us in our daily duty, said Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena. Change in shift timings “One or two of our men will form a team with men from other departments and take up various tasks, this will bring down the load on each of the departments in the frontline, as the work force will increase by at least 1,000 to 1,500 men,” said Mr. Meena. As of now, each policeman is working on a 12-hour shift. But from now they will work for 8 hours a shift and on rotation basis, so that each of them gets at least 16 hours of rest and quality time with family, said Mr. Meena. Moreover, according to the Police Commissioner, all men and women above 55 years and suffering from chronic ailments such as diabetes or hypertension have been withdrawn from frontline force and deputed to back-end operations such as manning the control room or command control centre. According to him, the police department has already received about 20,000 masks but there is shortage of gloves and sanitisers. He also informed The Hindu that the police force have been given strict instructions to allow free movement of all vehicles carrying essential commodities, including petroleum products.  Dhabas opened “Moreover, we have opened five dhabas along the 72-km stretch of NH-16 from Anandapuram to Anakapalle, to facilitate the inter-State and inter-district transporters to have food. All dhabas will operate on takeaway model and we have asked them to keep soap, and sanitisers,” he said.
01 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala records its second death||Kerala recorded its second COVID-19 death on Tuesday after a 68-year-old man, who had been in a critical condition in the ICU at the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here since the past one week, died. An official statement issued by the Thiruvananthapuram MCH authorities said he was admitted to the ICU on March 23 and that his condition had worsened progressively as he had several co-morbidities, including high blood pressure and thyroid-related issues. He had been on the ventilator since the past five days after his kidneys failed, requiring him to be on dialysis. While his first test had come out as negative for COVID-19, the second sample showed him to be positive on March 29. The Minister for Tourism, Kadakampally Surendran, told reporters that the Health Department had not been able to pinpoint the source of the man’s infection as he had not been anywhere abroad nor had he been in contact with anyone with known history of foreign travel. “He developed mild respiratory symptoms after March 17 and had been to the local primary health centre (PHC) at Thonnackal twice. He was taken to a private medical college hospital at Venjaramood on March 23, from where he was referred to Thiruvananthapuram MCH on the same day,” the Minister said. The district health administration has, with the help of his relatives, brought out a route map of his movements since March 3 and efforts are on to trace all he had been in contact with. “He was well-known in the locality and we have a clear idea of who the primary contacts would be.” Mr. Surendran said. His family members, the staff at the PHC and the staff members of a local bank have been quarantined.
01 April 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID scare at Tirumala||Tension gripped the hill town when a youth was admitted to the TTD-run Aswini hospital after he complained about severe cold, cough and high temperature. The youth, a resident of Balaji Nagar, is believed had returned from Punjab on March 18. The doctors on suspicion immediately rushed him down to SVIMS where he was admitted into an isolation ward.
01 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||21 test positive for COVID-19 in a single day||Twenty-one new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the State on Tuesday, and a majority of them had attended the Tablighi Jamaat, a religious congregation, recently at Nizamuddin in New Delhi, officials told Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at a review meeting. ‘Info being gathered’ Based on the initial inputs, information pertaining to the people from the State who had attended the meeting and those who travelled by trains was being gathered, the officials said. “The information is being gathered from the police, the Railways and the jamaat organisers. The identified people are being sent to quarantine and isolation facilities. Emphasis is being laid on the participants and the areas in which they reside,” the officials said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the people who were in touch and contact with the participants of the meeting to come forward and avail themselves of the treatment voluntarily. The health and police officials would have to work in tandem in the identification of and providing treatment to the participants of the religious meeting, the Chief Minister said. ‘Bills cleared’ “The government has cleared all pending bills to the network hospitals under the Aarogyasri scheme. The onus now lies on the officials to ensure that quality healthcare is provided by the hospitals,” he said. Referring to the survey in the urban areas, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy sought to know whether every house was being covered. “Every house should be under constant watch in the urban areas. An uninterrupted survey is necessary until further orders,” he told the officials. Educated persons should report their health condition directly on the web, or to the Control Room – 0866 2410978; Health Advisory – 104; or Call Centre – 1902. People with coronavirus symptoms should come forward and take necessary treatment. Else, their families would be at the receiving end, the Chief Minister said. He also enquired about the functioning of the task forces at the district and constituency levels, and whether the Ministers were conducting review meetings. Aqua units The officials told the Chief Minister that work resumed at 41 of the 69 aqua processing units, and safety steps had been taken in view of the COVID-19 threat. Aqua exports from Visakhapatnam and Kakinada began on Monday, and passes would be issued to the workers in the processing units, the officials said.
01 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu asks Jagan to hold online all-party meeting||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday wrote a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, urging him to convene an all-party meeting through online facility to discuss the measures to tackle the COVID-19 crisis. Suggestions of all parties should be taken and decisions taken accordingly, he said. Mr. Naidu, in the letter, said decentralised distribution of essential commodities at the doorstep was the need of the hour. The distribution of ration for ration cardholders had gone wrong and one old woman died during the process. “Hence, we once again reiterate that the government has to immediately chalk out a plan for decentralised distribution of essential commodities at the doorstep utilising the 4.5 lakh-strong volunteer network.” This would also prevent people from coming into contact with each other, he said.  ‘Help people deal with emotional distress’ In addition to the financial distress, many people are on the verge of nervous breakdown and counselling and necessary assistance should be extended to them. A financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 should be extended to each household , he said. The government has to address key issues such as minimum support price to horticulture, aquaculture, sericulture and poultry farmers. Those who cultivated crops such as paddy and pulses during rabi should get a fair price for the produce. The government has to take immediate measures to save the farmers, he said. Supply of proper personal protection equipment to frontline warriors, increase in medical infrastructure was required. It had come to the TDP’s notice that more than 700 people from Andhra Pradesh attended a programme organised by Tablighi Jamaat at Hazrat Nizamuddin in Delhi from March 15 to 17. The government should take steps to trace the participants and conduct COVID tests. The government should realise that any complacency on its part would lead to a catastrophic situation, he warned.
01 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||All beneficiaries will get ration: Minister||Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao said that every ration card holder in the State would receive ration. Speaking to the media on Tuesday, the Minister said that in the next two to three days, ration would be supplied to all beneficiaries. “People were seen standing in queues at ration shops from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. in the wake of the countrywide lockdown. It takes time to weigh dal, sugar, and rice for every beneficiary, which is why the dealers are able to distribute ration to only 20 people in an hour. The ration shops will remain open until the last beneficiary receives the ration. To prevent the spread of coronavirus, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has ordered providing of ration without the need for taking fingerprints,” Mr. Rao said. “TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his partymen are trying to defame village volunteers who are working hard under adverse conditions. Those who mocked village volunteers in the past are now asking why volunteers are not delivering ration at the doorstep of beneficiaries,” Mr. Rao said. The door delivery system which was launched in Srikakulam should have been implemented across the State by August. But due to the coronavirus outbreak, the government is continuing with the existing system, the Minister said. The volunteers are busy with fighting the pandemic. They are working with the health department and surveying every house on a day-to-day basis, he said.
01 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||U. Chalapathi Rao passes away at 103||Uppalapati Chalapathi Rao, 103, said to be among the last freedom fighters hailing from Krishna district, breathed his last in the early hours of Tuesday (March 31) at Poranki n Vijayawada. Mr. Chalapathi Rao is survived by two daughters and a son. His nephew is N. Bhaskara Rao, founder chairman of the Centre for Media Studies in New Delhi. Mr. Chalapathi Rao was known for his active role as a freedom fighter and then as a progressive liberal in the Congress Party. He was also one of the first few in the country to refuse the freedom fighter pension offered by the Union Government. He raised his voice against group politics in the Congress in 1955-60 and refused to succumb to caste and money pressures. The then Zilla Board Chairman, Kakani Venkatratnam, recognised his integrity and entrusted him the responsibility of ensuring justice to the poor at the grassroots. He was also actively engaged in the construction of the Krishna District Freedom Fighters building at Bander locks in the city, over two decades ago, and was in constant touch with national leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
01 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to supply ration for inmates of child, senior citizen homes||Officials of the Department of Women, Child, Differently Abled and Senior Citizens Welfare will supply ration to the orphans and the aged persons staying in Child Care Institutions (CCIs) and the old age homes across the State. In the wake of COVID-19 lockdown up to April 14, the government has decided to supply rice and dal to all inmates staying in the shelters. Review meeting Steps were being taken to supply ration to the CCIs and government and private-run old age homes immediately, according to Principal Secretary (Women Development and Child Welfare) K. Damayanthi. “During a review meeting, it has come to the notice of the government that CCIs and old age home owners are facing a problem in getting essential commodities due to the lockdown. Taking the matter seriously, the decision has been taken,” said Women Development and Child Welfare, Differently Abled and Senior Citizens Welfare (WDCW&DA&SC) Director Krithika Shukla. Rice, dal The Civil Supplies Commissioner, district Collectors and WD&CW authorities will take measures for supply of 10 kg rice and one kg dal per inmate. The ration will be supplied during the entire lockdown period, Ms. Shukla told The Hindu .  Medicines “In Andhra Pradesh, about 729 Child Care Institutions are there in which 24,695 children are staying. The home managements were asked to send the inmates to their parents and guardians, and 2,944 orphans remained in the shelter homes,” the Director said. Likewise, the State government was running 87 homes for senior citizens and 83 were being run by different NGO across the State sheltering about 2,000 persons. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has also ordered supply of medicines to all old age homes. Measures should be taken to maintain social distance and hygiene at the homes,” Krithika Shukla said. ‘Monitor ration supply’ The Assistant Directors, Project Directors, District Probation Officers and the District Child Protection Officers should visit all the CCIs and the old age homes and monitor the supply of ration, availability of sanitisers and masks and maintenance of sanitation at the centres , the Director added.
01 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF conducts mock exercise on COVID-19||Officers of the National Disaster Response Force’s (NDRF) 10th Battalion conducted a mock operation on COVID-19 in the city on Tuesday. The teams, led by NDRF Chief Medical Officer Dr. B.V. Rao and assistant commandant D.N. Singh performed the mock exercise at Red Circle Centre. The personnel, wearing personal protective equipment, gave a demonstration on the screening of the patient, shifting of patients, keeping them in isolation wards, providing treatment in quarantine, sanitising the infected areas and objects in the locality, said Battalion Commandant Zahid Khan. They explained the preventive steps and stressed the need for maintaining hygienic conditions in colonies and houses. They gave a presentation on dos and don’ts, and asked the public to comply with the lockdown and follow the instructions of the State and Central governments strictly. Officials of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), Fire Services, VMC and other departments participated.
01 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSCHE revises last dates||The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has extended the last date for submission of online applications without late fee for the Common Entrance Tests (CET) such as APEAMCET, APECET, APICET, APPGECET, APLAECWT and APPECET up to April 17 (Friday). The last date without late fee for APEdCET will remain April 24. The last dates with fine and other schedule (corrections, downloading of hall-tickets etc.) will be announced later.
01 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civil servants contribute to CM’s Relief Fund||IAS officers have contributed their three days’ salary to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to fight the spread of coronavirus. Chief Secretary, Department of Tourism and Culture and Sports and Youth Affairs and general secretary of the IAS Officers’ Association, Praveen Kumar said 162 civil servants belonging to A.P. cadre had contributed Rs. 20 lakh for the purpose.
01 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||KDCC to arrange mobile ATMs for farmers||The Krishna District Cooperative Central Bank (KDCC) will arrange mobile ATMs at different centres to facilitate farmers to withdraw cash without any difficulty, said bank chairman Yarlagadda Venkatrao. In a press release here on Tuesday, Mr. Venkatrao said farmers were facing severe inconvenience while making payments because of the lockdown. He said that farmers could utilise the mobile ATM service by calling 9949688340 or 9949688362. The nearest point and timing would be duly communicated to them. ‘End of an era’ Mr Venkatrao said it was most unfortunate that Andhra Bank, which was founded by Bhogaraju Pattabhi Seetharamaiah, who was also the founder of KDCC Bank, would not be in existence from today. Pattabhi Seetharamaiah founded KDCC even before he founded Andhra Bank, Mr. Venkatrao recalled. Photographs of Pattabhi Seetharamaiah and Aiyyadevara Kaleswara Rao, who founded the banking institution, have been put in all the 58 KDCC branches and 425 Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies (PACS), Mr Venkatrao said.
01 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Official inspects shelter homes||A.P. State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (APSCPCR) member V.S.V.Krishna Kumar inspected the Child Care Institutions (CCIs) run by various NGOs on Tuesday. Mr. Krishna Kumar along with District Probation Officer K. Bhaskar Rao and Protection Officer (institutional care) G. Rama Devi enquired the staff about the diet being supplied to children in the homes and the steps being taken to prevent coronavirus. Members of the commission visited the homes at different places in the city and instructed the staff to provide quality food. He asked the home managements to maintain cleanliness, sanitize doors and windows, remove curtains, wash clothes, bedsheets and pillow covers regularly. The SCPCR member asked the staff to maintain hygiene in kitchens, dining halls and toilets in the shelter homes.“The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has issued some guidelines to be followed in the CCIs in wake of the COVID-19. A report would be sent to the NCPCR after inspecting some homes across the State,” Mr. Kumar said.
01 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor donates one month’s salary to PM fund||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has contributed his one-month salary to the ‘PM Cares – fund’ and Rs. 1 lakh to the A.P. Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, to deal with COVID-19. In a statement on Tuesday, he appealed to the people to come forward and donate generously to the ‘PM Cares – Fund’ as well as the AP CM Relief Fund to strengthen the Centre and State governments and to enable them to handle the crisis. VIT gesture The management of Vellore Institute of Technology-A.P. campus has donated Rs. 25 lakh to help the government fight against COVID-19 pandemic in the State, Chancellor G. Viswanathan said in a statement. Lecturers’ contribution Responding to the call for help, members of A.P. Junior Colleges’ contract lecturers contributed a sum of Rs. 44.52 lakh to the CMRF.
01 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||40 Delhi meeting returnees shifted to isolation ward||The district administration has identified 62 persons including those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting organised at the Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah in New Delhi between March 13 and 15 and those who have came in contact with them. Around 40 of them have been shifted to the isolation ward at Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD) in the city on Monday and Tuesday. The district COVID-19 prevention cell swang into action following the instructions issued by the Union government, after Telangana reported six deaths of persons who attended the Delhi meeting . “We have received a list with names of 34 persons by Tuesday morning. Again by the evening, we received another list of people who had travelled to Nizamuddin, list of passengers who travelled in various coaches along with these persons and close contacts,” said an official. ‘Number may go up’ The number of people is likely to increase, as the cluster committee teams and the police, under the guidance of Collector V. Vinay Chand, are still tracing people in the list.A high alert has been sounded in many districts of the State.
01 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VPT agrees to waive penal charges for port users||The Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) has agreed to waive off penal charges for underperformance by the cargo handling agents and other users during the lockdown. VPT Deputy Chairman P. L. Haranadh told The Hindu on Tuesday that they would consider failure of contractual obligations by the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) operators on a case-to-case basis as per the concession agreement signed with them. What is ‘ force meajure’  Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industry, meanwhile, said that in view of the unusual crisis arising out of the coronavirus outbreak and subsequent nationwide lockdown, they were declaring ‘force majeure ’, a notification exempting the port handling agents, stevedores and other stakeholders from payment of penalty for failure to complete their contractual commitments within a specified time. Based on a circular issued by the Ministry of Shipping on March 24 following declaration of the lockdown, several ports including those at Mudhra, Krishnapatnam, Gangavaram and Gopalpur have declared ‘force majeure ’. “We want the major port in Visakhapatnam to take a decision on ‘force majeure’ with retrospective effect, as was implemented in the aftermath of Cyclone Hudhud in October 2014,” said G. Sambasiva Rao, managing director of Sravan Shipping Services. “There is no doubt that COVID-19 is a disaster of unprecedented proportions, and yet, the port community is doing whatever it can. We also expect the government to take suitable measures to help us,” Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industry honorary secretary G. Veeramohan said. “The Union Government must stem the decline of the shipping industry by urgently taking proactive measures, one of which is declaration of ‘force majeure’ in government-owned ports like VPT,” he said.
01 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rapid Response Teams to check COVID-19 in urban areas||In an attempt to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in the urban areas, the district administration has decided to form Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) in the GVMC limits, Narsipatnam and Elamanchili , Collector V. Vinay Chand has said. The teams comprising senior medical officers, physicians, paramedics and urban planners will have ambulances ready. The teams will work under the supervision of Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana in the GVMC limits and under the Zilla Parishad CEO and District Panchayat Officer in the municipalities. High surveillance “Field Surveillance Committee and Control Room Committee must remain alert. As soon as a phone call is received, they should note down all details and location, and take the necessary steps, including informing the RRT if the situation warrants,” said Mr. Vinay Chand said at a meeting with Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana, Andhra Medical College principal P.V. Sudhakar and Paderu Sub-Collector S. Venkateswar on Tuesday.
01 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||74 prisoners temporarily released from central prison in Vizag||Following guidelines issued by the Supreme Court and the High Court, the authorities of Visakhapatnam Central Prison released 74 inmates, who included seven women, on interim bail to reduce overcrowding and curtail the risk of COVID-19 spread, here on Tuesday. Among those released were 53 undertrials and 21 convicts. Among the undertrials, 47 were from Visakhapatnam and the remaining from Vizianagaram, East Godavari and Srikakulam. Among the convicts, 15 were from Visakhapatnam district, five from Vizianagaram and one from to Srikakulam. The prisoners were released in the presence of Seventh Additional Metropolitan Magistrate Jagadeesh Kumar and Superintendent of Visakhapatnam Central Prison S. Rahul. “The prisoners have been given passes and the police have also been informed about their release. They shall have to come back to the jail after one month,” said Mr. Rahul.
01 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||First COVID-19 positive patient discharged||A 65-year-old man from Allipuram area in Visakhapatnam, who was the first to test positive for COVID-19 from the city and was under treatment at Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases, was discharged from the hospital here on Tuesday. He was discharged only after all the three samples that were sent to the labs in the last three days tested negative. The 65-year-old, who had a travel history to Saudi Arabia, was the first positive case from the city. His family members and a few other persons who had come in contact with him were identified and quarantined. One of his family members, a 49-year-old woman, also tested positive at a later date and is undergoing treatment at GHCCD. But according to sources in the hospital, even her samples had tested negative in the first test. Sources said that the woman would be discharged only after further tests. Success story Doctors have cited the 65-year-old’s case as a success story, as he has managed to make a recovery despite his age; across the world, people aged over 60 have been the most vulnerable to COVID-19. “There was no anti-virus treatment. We just administered symptomatic treatment and kept his co-morbidities under control,” said Andhra Medical College principal Prof. P.V. Sudhakar. The 65-year-old was diabetic, and was also suffering from hypertension. Sources said that he was administered insulin thrice a day to keep his diabetes under control and had allowed the virus to die on its own.
01 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister asks RTC to help transport vegetables||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has asked the APSRTC Regional Manager to operate special buses to help farmers transport vegetables to rythu bazaars. The Minister visited the rythu bazaar opened at the Chaitanya Engineering College Ground at Kommadi on Tuesday and suggested that some vegetable stalls could be shifted to near Chandrampalem Zilla Parishad High School. Buses should be provided to farmers to come to rythu bazaars from Anandapuram, he said.  Ration distribution Appealing to the public to adhere to social distancing norms, the Minister said there was no cause for worry to collect rations from fair-price shops as the cardholders could get their April quota for the next 15 days. People from Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts could also collect their ration in Visakhapatnam, he said. Later in the day, the Minister distributed food and vegetable packets in Seva Nagar (6th ward) and Sagar Nagar (8th ward) free of cost. Joint Collector L. Shiva Shankar was present.
01 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘AU students studying in Sweden institute are safe’||The Andhra University authorities conducted a review meeting through video conferencing with the officials of Blekinge Institute of Technology ( BTH ), Sweden to enquire about the 14 students from the AU who are studying there, amidt the outbreak of COVID- 19. As per the directions of AU Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy, Dean International Affairs E. Dhanamjaya Rao conducted the meeting in which the 14 students from AU also took part. From BTH Sweden, Mats Walter, Director of International Affairs; Gurudutt Velpula, Deputy Director of International Affairs; Carmen, International Coordinator participated in the meeting. Andhra University has a collaboration with the BTH, Sweden on 3+1 B.Tech programmme and 14 students of AU are studying their final year at the Blekinge Institute of Technology (BTH). “All the students said that they were safe and healthy. They are taking the necessary precautions as advised by the BTH and Swedish Health Authorities,” said Mr. Dhanamjaya Rao after the meeting.
01 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety gear sought for sanitation workers||GVMC Contract Workers’ Union (CITU) has written to Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana, seeking provision of safety gear and other amenities for sanitation workers. AP Municipal Federation president G. Subba Raonoted that the workers had been toiling hard to ensure sanitation amid the pandemic. “Yet, the workers are not being provided with safety gear, identity cards and transportation facilities,” they said.
01 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schools conducting exams will face action: DEO||District Education Officer (DEO) B. Lingeshwar Reddy on Tuesday said that strict action would be taken against the managements of schools if they tried to open their institutions or even conduct examinations. “The government has extended the holidays till April 14 and the principals must abide by it ,” Mr. Lingeshwar Reddy said, adding that the principals and Mandal Educational Officers should educate the parents on social distancing norms over phone.
01 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Odisha govt. providing relief to its workers stranded in A.P.||The Odisha government has been providing succour to the stranded Odia workers in a novel way. While refusing to arrange transport to their native places due to COVID-19 crisis, the government appointed an IAS officer to coordinate their care during the lockdown period. Most of them work in hotels and construction sector. A senior official told The Hindu that they were involving prominent Odias and Odia socio-cultural organisations to provide food and medical help for the people of the State stuck in various parts of A.P. and Telangana. “We have identified 500 to 600 workers from Odisha in three North Andhra districts for providing nutritious meals,” Utkal Sanskrutika Samaj president J.K. Nayak, who has been asked by the Odisha government to coordinate assistance locally, said. They were also supplying masks.
01 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||JC in the guise of farmer visits rythu bazaar||Vizianagaram Joint Collector G. Ch. Kishore Kumar visited rythu bazaar in the disguise of a farmer here on Monday in the wake of allegations that wholesale dealers jacked up prices of vegetables. He said that he had done so to get first hand information. He promised to control the rates by holding a meeting with wholesale traders.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visitors not welcome||
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Without a care||
01 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Jail inmates manufacture sanitiser||The 150 inmates of Adilabad District Jail, who are manufacturing hand sanitisers and masks, the two things which are in great demand given the COVID-19 pandemic threat everywhere, have proved that even jail birds can be useful to society. “We have made the sanitiser as per WHO norms and are selling it at Rs. 50 apiece which is also in tune with its recommendation on pricing,” observed Deputy Jail Superintendent R. Shobhan Babu who, holding a Masters degree in Organic Chemistry, is guiding the prisoners. Tuesday was the first day when the authorities set up a makeshift shop to sell ‘My Nation Hand Sanitiser’.
01 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||32 Jamaat returnees intercepted||Authorities on the inter-State Telangana-Maharashtra border on Penganga river on NH 44 in Adilabad district intercepted a lorry carrying 32 persons in the small hours of Tuesday. They were headed home in Medipally of Jagtial district after attending the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in New Delhi between March 13 and 15. The group had reportedly visited Ajmer after the Delhi event and it was reported that they were bundled in a lorry and sent off after all modes of public transport were cancelled given the lockdown. The local police had informed their counterparts in Jagtial district who took away the COVID-19 suspects to Medipally under police escort.
01 April 2020||DOLLARA (ADILABAD DIST.),TELANGANA||Inter-State border resembles a war zone||But for sympathetic authorities on either side of the inter-State border that Adilabad district shares with Yavatmal district of Maharashtra on the bridge on Penganga river on NH 44, the scene would have resembled a conflict zone as groups of migrant workers and others made desperate efforts to cross the dividing line during the last two days in the manner that refugees do. The steady stream of hundreds of workers, mostly ‘fleeing’ the lockdown from Hyderabad on foot carrying rations and other bare essentials as head loads to destinations as far as Kanpur and Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh, among others, even took to sidetracking and crossing the river when stopped by the police on the bridge. People like Dileep Uttam, Veerender Sonkar and Sarvan Sonkar from Movaiyya in Fatehpur district of UP, who sold ice-cream in Ghatkesar, had managed to partly walk and partly hitch a ride offered by sympathetic lorry drivers, to cover the 320 km to reach the border on March 30, only to be told that they would not be allowed into Maharashtra. They waited for sometime and joined another group of migrant workers from Hyderabad which sidetracked the NH and crossed the river. Some of the workers were not lucky in so far as food was concerned as they missed the groups of do-gooders who supplied meals at regular intervals all along the road. Ram Bilas Kushwaha and his group of 14 got to eat only once during the 24-hour that the members were on road before they reached the border. Like most migrants on the road Prem Niyogi, a skilled floorer from Madhya Pradesh, was on the edge of despair. “I fled as the contractor did not pay up my wages for the last week. “The Telangana government should seek cooperation from other States to where the workers belong so that the latter can at least reassure them with regard to food and shelter,” police said.
01 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Race against time to identify Jamaat returnees||With as many as 1,030 persons from 29 districts of the State identified as ‘returnees’ from attending Markaz prayers in Nizamuddin, New Delhi, earlier this month, the district administrations are on an overdrive to zero in on those suspected to be infected with COVID-19. On Tuesday, top district officials of erstwhile Adilabad district were on their toes to prepare a list of persons who had attended the religious congregation between March 13 and 15. The administrations in Adilabad, Kumram Bheem Asifabad, Mancherial and Nirmal districts are sparing no efforts in tracking them down, intending to put them into the mandatory isolation either at home or at special centres. Mandal-wise teams comprising officers from revenue, medical and police departments have been making efforts to track down the returnees. The list of persons who have attended the Jamaat has been obtained from the local Jamaat authority. The task, however, has been rendered difficult as many devotees had gone to the national capital on their own from rural places and do not figure in the records. For example, over 50 of them have been identified as having participated in the religious congregation from Adilabad district, but only a group of 12 were in the records of the Jamaat. Authorities in Nirmal district also tracked down more than 50 Jamaat returnees so far. Second largest contingent As many as 80 persons have been identified to have visited Hazrath Nizamuddin in Delhi from the integrated old Nizamabad district, the second largest number in TS. Collector C. Narayana Reddy said that 39 persons who came back from Delhi along with the retired employee who was detected to be COVID-19 positive were shifted to a quarantine centre. Besides, 55 others who came in contact with them after their arrival were also shifted to isolation wards. However, none of them except the retired employee carried coronavirus symptoms, he said. The Collector said that all the members of their families were kept in isolation wards under the observation of medical and health department. The entire area inhabited by these people has been under surveillance and survey was done with police, revenue and medical and health staff for three days. 46 identified in Medak The administrations of Medak, Sangareddy and Siddipet districts have identified as many as 46 persons who attended the religious meeting. In Sangareddy district, the administration identified 29 persons and brought them to MNR Medical College at Fasalwadi. Collector M. Hanumantha Rao and Additional Collector Veera Reddy and other senior officials visited the hospital and examined the arrangements. The officials were directed to post a police force at the hospital as a precautionary measure. Some of the identified persons, residing in Sangareddy, Kandi and other areas, have already been brought to the hospital on Tuesday afternoon and the process was expected to bring identified persons from Kohir, Zaheerabad and some other places. Samples will be collected from them and will be sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB). On the other hand, the administration has also identified another nine persons who attended similar meetings held at Faziabad and Lucknow between February 10 and March 19. In Siddipet district, five persons were identified and shifted for quarantine at Surabhi Medical College. In Medak district, 14 persons were identified and already put in quarantine about four days ago. Two of them reside in Hyderabad. One person proved positive, while reports of two persons are yet to come. The remaining persons were discharged from Gandhi Hospital where they were sent. 11 in Karimnagar Meanwhile, the Commissionerate of Police here had identified all the 11 persons who had attended Markaz prayers and shifted them to quarantine centres in Karimnagar. “We have collected the swab samples from the quarantined persons who participated in the prayers. We are also on the job of identifying people who were in direct contact with the 11 persons and would quarantine them very soon,” police stated. In Vemulawada, police identified four persons and shifted them to quarantine. Police are on the lookout for around 20 persons from Peddapalli town who participated in the prayers in Delhi recently. In Sircilla town, police have started shifting people to quarantine, sources stated. On tenterhooks The district administration in the erstwhile Warangal district was on tenterhooks after coming to know that scores of Muslims attended a religious meeting at New Delhi and came back silently without submitting themselves to quarantine. According to Warangal Urban district Collector Rajiv Gandhi Hanumanthu, a total of 32 persons from the district went to New Delhi to attend the religious conference. Of them, 19 were identified and shifted to MGM Hospital for treatment. He made a fervent appeal to the others to identify themselves and come forward. Mahabubabad Collector V.P. Gautham said two persons from the district attended the meeting at Delhi and both were brought to the district hospital on Sunday. Also members of seven to eight families with whom they came in contact were put on home quarantine. “A total of six persons are admitted to the hospital on suspicion and no positive case is reported in the district till date,” he explained. 54 from Nalgonda All the 54 persons, who attended the Markaz prayers, hailing from undivided Nalgonda, are stable and safe, Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy said on Tuesday. Mr. Reddy said the number, as confirmed to him by officials, was 31 from Nalgonda, 12 from Suryapet and 11 from Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri districts – a total of 54. According to Yadadri- Bhuvanagiri District Collector Anita Ramachandran, six persons – one from Rajapeta mandal and five persons from Yadagirigutta were transferred to Gandhi Hospital on Sunday. On Monday, more persons from the two mandals and from Bhuvanagiri town were also identified and quarantined. Police in Suryapet were proactive in identifying 12 persons and geo-tagged their residences last week, with inputs from the intelligence wing. Of the 12, one residing in Hyderabad was moved to the facility at Gandhi Hospital, and the rest are at the Imampet isolation centre. They hailed from Arvapally, Suryapet town, Kodad and Mellacheruvu. In Nalgonda, medical and police officials were seen conducting door-to-door enquiries in the old town on Monday, to gather information and trace more of the 31 persons. The Bhadradri-Kothagudem district administration has stepped up efforts to trace all those who participated in the Markaz congregation. The authorities have intensified surveillance to identify and quarantine all those who attended the religious event from the district. As many as ten participants of the religious event have been traced and sent to government quarantine facilities. Collector M.V. Reddy appealed to people to pass on information if they come across persons who attended the recent religious congregation, to the 24×7 control room on phone numbers 08744 241950, 9392305104 and 9392307840.   (With inputs from S. Harpal Singh (Adilabad), P. Ram Mohan (Nizamabad), R. Avadhani (Sangareddy), K.M. Dayashankar (Karimnagar), G. Srinivasa Rao (Warangal), Sridhar (Bhadradri-Kothagudem) & B. Pradeep (Nalgonda).
01 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||It is not salary cut but only deferment, clarifies TS govt.||The State government has asserted that there will be no cut in the salaries paid to different sections of employees and that it has decided to defer the payment of full salaries in view of the impact of Coronavirus on the state’s economy. The government clarified that the orders would come into force for the gross salary for the month of March payable on April 1 and the measure would continue to be in force till further orders. The government, according to sources, took the decision as there was steep fall in the revenues in view of the lockdown imposed across the State from March 22 and the lockdown would continue till April 14. Accordingly, it had ordered deferment on payment of wages/salaries, including all allowances and perks/pensions had been contemplated. The deferment in gross salary in respect of the Chief Minister, Cabinet ministers, members of Legislative Assembly, members of the Legislative Council, chairpersons of corporations and elected representatives of local bodies would be 75 % while it would be 60 % of gross salary in respect of All India Services officers, including IAS, IPS and IFS officers. The deferment in respect of all other categories of the employees would be 50 % in gross salary, except for Class-IV employees and in respect of Class-IV employees, outsourcing and contract staff, the deferment in payable salaries would be 10 %. Similar deferment would be effective for retired employees as per their category and deduction of salaries/pensions of employees of all PSUs/government aided institutions/organisations would be on par with the government employees.
01 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Health dept. suspected a pattern||It was from last weekend that officials from Telangana Health and other departments started suspecting that people who returned after attending a three-day-long religious congregation in New Delhi could have contacted coronavirus. One of the first cases in the State, with the travel history, was detected on March 26. It was followed by more cases in Hyderabad, Rangareddy and other districts. Alerts were sent to senior officials in multiple departments who got on to the task of further investigation and the suspicion turned into a pattern. On Monday night, the State government confirmed that six persons who attended the religious congregation contacted COVID-19 and died in the past few days. Several from the State had attended the congregation and many contacted coronavirus. The information on the number of people from each district was collated and sent to the Health department which was passed on to District Medical and Health Officials (DMHO). Based on the names, phone numbers, addresses in some cases, staff from Health department, GHMC, and other departments went to their homes to enquire if any with the travel history developed symptoms. “Those who attended the religious congregation and showing symptoms are admitted in isolation wards of government hospitals. Samples were collected and sent for tests. If there are no symptoms, they are admitted in quarantine centres,” officials said. The rank and file of the Health department got on to the task of finding the dates they have returned to their home towns in Telangana, the places they have been to, people they met and other details. List of primary contacts, secondary contacts was prepared. “If any of the suspects tests positive, we will start monitoring the health condition of his contacts,” another official said. In fact, it was learnt that family members of a few COVID-19 patients, who attended the congregation, walked into government hospitals with requested to get tested. They were admitted and samples were collected for tests. Officials are taking regular updates on the results.
01 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||463 Delhi markaz event returnees spotted||A total of 463 persons, who had returned to the city after attending the Tablighi Jamaat event at Delhi, have been located by exclusive teams constituted by the State government on Tuesday. Of these, 74 persons who had COVID-19 like symptoms have been shifted to Gandhi Hospital and Government General and Chest Hospital, Erragadda. Tests will be carried out on them to determine coronavirus infection, if any. Forty-one persons have been shifted to other quarantine facilities designated by the government for isolation. The remaining 348 have been asked to observe home quarantine for the mandated 14 days. Their family members too have been asked to remain under home quarantine. Those shifted to government designated quarantine facilities include aged and vulnerable persons with co-morbidities apart from those with insufficient space at their respective dwellings to observe quarantine. Of the 1,030 persons who had attended the religious event at Delhi from across Telangana, 603 were from the city, a statement from GHMC informed. A total of 140 persons have remained untraceable due to ambiguity in addresses, and efforts are on to trace them, it added. Two hundred exclusive teams, with members drawn from Police, GHMC, Revenue, and Medical and Health departments, have been constituted and deployed to locate the persons based on their addresses on Tuesday. They went from door to door inquiring and collecting details about the health status of the persons concerned and their family members, apart from their contract trail. Apart from these, already 150 teams had been on the ground across various divisions in GHMC area, keeping a watch on the persons under home quarantine, and identifying foreign returnees who need to observe quarantine for the stipulated 14 days. The teams check on the persons twice a day, and see if the mandatory home quarantine is being observed. Posters have been pasted near the doors of the respective homes, so that neighbours are aware of their status.
01 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hundreds of migrant workers queue up for ration||Hundreds of workers from other States living in the city queued up on Tuesday morning at the Quli Qutb Shah Stadium to collect their quota of 12 kg rice and Rs. 500. The queue for men wound round the stadium till the inner lane of Ghansi Bazaar. “I have been waiting from 10 a.m. from the time I got to know that they will distribute rations today,” Sahadev, who hails from Howrah and now lives near the Mehbub ki Mehndi area, said. Many of the men in the queue have been rendered jobless as all the workshops and goldsmith enterprises have shut shop due to the lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19. Police had a tough time maintaining order among people and at the same time, keep space between them. The distribution began at 3 p.m. and by 4 p.m., only 39 beneficiaries walked away with the rice and money. “It is taking time as we have to ensure the documents are correct and there is no misrepresentation,” said an official, who was collecting thumb impressions and checking the address on the Aadhaar card. “We have done away with biometric verification for this due to the fears about spread of the virus. The beneficiaries should have residential address of other states,” said the official, adding that the distribution will continue the next day as they may not be able to supply rations to all the waiting beneficiaries. “I wouldn’t have queued to collect this. But we don’t know when we will again start getting work and earning money. Something is better than nothing,” said S.K. Abdul, who shapes the moulds of gold ornaments. “The business was poor even before this. With this, I don’t know when we will start earning decently,” said Abdul, whose wages are linked to productivity.
01 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP urges CM to rethink on salary cuts||Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay has urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to rethink on reducing the salaries of government employees and pointed out that it has sent a wrong signal to scores of frontline staff working in the medical, health, municipal and police departments against the spread of COVID-19. In a letter addressed to the Chief Minister, a copy of which was released to the media on Tuesday, Mr. Sanjay pledged support to the government’s initiatives on COVID-19, however, he wanted it provide more support to doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, sanitation workers, police constables and officers working round-the-clock by paying them salaries in full. In addition, the government should ensure they are given the right protection wear to discharge their respective duties like masks, special suits, sanitisers and so on. The Karinmanagar MP said TS became the first State in the country to impose a cut in salaries and pensions earning itself a dubious distinction when Prime Minister Narendra Modi called upon the private sector and others not to retrench workers but provide them with full salaries during the lockdown period. ‘Wealthy State’  “Telangana had claims to be a wealthy State but within a fortnight of lockdown, the government has thrown up its hands, it is unbelievable. What is the message being sent across to the private and unorganised sector when the government itself wants to cut the salaries and pensions? Citizens already under strain due to the Coronovirus outbreak and lockdowns have become even more despondent,” he claimed. The BJP leader also called upon the Chief Minister to take steps to ensure that lakhs of construction labour are benefitted from the accumulated Rs. 2,300 crore of building cess by sending the money directly into their bank accounts. He appealed to the partymen to help the poor by providing them with essential provisions and food wherever possible.
01 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Release white paper on State’s finances’||Telangana Congress has strongly opposed the decision of State government to slash the salaries of employees and described it as ‘hasty’ and ‘ill-timed’. In separate statements here, Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy, former minister Shabbir Ali and TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayan Reddy accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of demoralising the government staff who are working overtime to save people in this hour of crisis, and cuts in payment for pensioners was ridiculous. Mr. Venkata Reddy demanded that the Chief Minister first release a white paper on the funds spent by the State government to deal with the coronavirus and the estimated revenue loss to the State’s exchequer due to lockdown. If just eight days of lockdown has forced government to reduce salaries by 50% it shows that there is something seriously wrong with the State finances, he said. Small amount Mr. Narayan Reddy said every month the State Government spends nearly Rs. 1900 crore on Salaries and nearly Rs. 860 crore on pensions. By affecting a cut by 50% in salaries and pensions, the State government, on an average, could save about Rs. 1370 crore in a month. “The Chief Minister should first give details of amount spent on treatment of coronavirus patients, including the cost on quarantine centres, upgradation of existing health infrastructure, establishment of new hospitals and related expenses. Further, he should come up with details on likely impact of coronavirus lockdown on the State’s economy,” he said. He said Finance Minister Harish Rao presented a budget for the financial year 2020-21 only 22 days ago, in which he has projected a revenue surplus of Rs. 4,482 crore. Even if the overall expenditure and losses due to coronavirus reaches Rs. 20,000 crore, then it would be around 10% of total budget. “The Chief Minister cannot force the employees and pensioners to bear the burden for his inability to manage State’s finance in an effective manner,” he said. Mr. Shabbir Ali said that the State government took the decision at a wrong time as it would demoralise the entire staff. “One can imagine the reaction of doctors or nurses, who are working relentlessly to treat coronavirus patients. They will be in an emotional shock and it will have a directly impact on their performance,” he said.
01 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No more Andhra Bank caps||It’s curtains for Andhra Bank as an entity in sports as it is going to be merged with Union Bank of India from April 1. The bank had achieved a formidable reputation in the sports field and had built a strong affinity with the people of the Telugu-speaking States since its inception. It will be a different experience, especially for the cricketers who have been representing Andhra Bank, which first played in the HCA League in 1971-72 season as an Institution Team. The Bank boasted of some 50 first-class cricketers and four internationals — M.V. Narasimha Rao, S.L. Venkatapathi Raju, V.V.S. Laxman, Hanuma Vihari — apart from kabaddi internationals like K. Jagdishwar Yadav, Srinivas Reddy (well-known coach in Pro Kabaddi League) and Sudhakar Goud.    A. Nandakishore, former cricketer and now qualified BCCI umpire says there is a tinge of sadness that this entity is lost. “But again, we are part of a system which has to keep going in the interests of the public,” he says. Jyothi Prasad, who was in the India camp along with Sunil Gavaskar and others in 1978, recalls that the only time Andhra Bank played in the All India Moin-ud-Dowlah Gold Cup was in 1977 when it was led by India off-spinner S. Venkatraghavan and included Anshuman Gaekwad, Surinder Amarnath, Duleep Mendis besides the local players like himself, Vijaya Paul and V. Ramnarayan. “Our Bank, led by Vijaya Paul, also has the distinction of completing four Grand Slams between 1974-79 winning all the four titles at stake — Behram-ud-Dowlah, Maharaja Kishen Pershad, Goraksekhar and Ghulam Ali,” recalls Jyothi Prasad, who recalls that the Bank gave everything to them and was like a mother to all the players. By all means, it will be a different and touching experience when the former and Andhra Bank sportspersons move around under a new banner!
01 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘On the very same day, 95% of the Markaz was empty’||Over a dozen people who were part of a Jamaat — a batch of Muslim preachers — from Hyderabad are quarantined in a property said to be a high-rise in the Narela area of Delhi, a source inside the Banglewali Masjid, the Alami (Global) Tablighi Jamaat Markaz (Centre) said. The source, who is a worker of the 96-year-old organisation, is from Telangana and left for the event on March 21. Requesting anonymity, he told The Hindu , “These people from Hyderabad are quarantined in buildings with 14 or 15 floors in Narela. There are two rooms in each flat and each room has one person. We are told that the place where they are kept is okay and so far there have been no problems.” Unofficial estimates suggest that between 800 and 1,000 people from both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh visited the Banglewali Masjid – where the meeting, known as jod – was organised. On March 7, a jod of senior Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) workers, in charge of their own jurisdictions, from across the world was convened. Around 10 persons from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh were said to be a part of this particular meeting. The TJ treats Telangana and Andhra Pradesh as a single jurisdictional unit. A jod of workers from Telangana and AP was organised from March 15 to 17, after which they dispersed to different parts of the two Telugu States. The TJ has maintained that it has complied with all directions of the local authorities in Delhi. “On the very same day, 95% of the Markaz was empty as people were being sent according to the States from where they belong. A senior Mufti (cleric) was doing this and I am a witness to this,” he said. Since the Banglewali Masjid serves a nerve centre for all Tableeghi activities, groups of preachers who were in different parts of the country returned. The numbers then rose. Curfew announced “Soon after they came, the Janata Curfew was announced. We sent many people out of the Markaz in an orderly fashion. But several international visitors were stuck. And after the Curfew, it became even more difficult to clear the premises as transport came to a grinding halt and flights were cancelled. Of course, we sought the authorities’ help to clear the Markaz,” the source said. While the source said that batches of workers were being taken away for quarantining and testing as he spoke, he is still in the Banglewali Masjid overseeing it.
01 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pensioners term cut unconstitutional||Opposition parties and pensioners alike have opposed the government’s decision to defer payment of portion of salaries and pensions to the government staff and pensioners citing the impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) on the economy. The Telangana Pensioners Joint Action Commission said the government’s decision was “unconstitutional” while the Opposition parties said deferment of payment of portion of salaries and pensions would impact the services that are being delivered by employees during the crisis. They demanded that the government rescind its decision so that the morale of the employees was kept intact. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, opposition parties led by CPI (Marxist) State secretary T. Veerabhadram and his CPI counterpart Chada Venkat Reddy said medical professionals, police personnel, sanitation staff and other departments that were working overtime to contain the spread of the virus risking their own lives and they would be adversely impacted by the decision. It was not appropriate on the part of the government to claim that the State’s economy suffered on account of 21-day lockdown. The decision comes at a time when the Chief Minister himself assured that he would convince the Central government and the RBI to opt for overdraft facility if need be to bridge the gaps in finances. “It is not proper on the part of the Chief Minister to retract from his claims in so short a time,” the letter said. Moreover, the decision comes in the light of the orders issued by the government asking the private sector to ensure that salaries of the employees were paid promptly without fail. The government’s decision could influence private sector which too could opt for arbitrary cut in the salaries being paid to the employees. They demanded that the government should instead reduce subsidies given to the rich and corporates and could consider levying new taxes on them to augment its resources rather than cutting down on the payments to employees. They demanded that the government call an all-party meeting to discuss the situation. Pensioners JAC representative K. Lakshmaiah said the decision was unconstitutional as Article 360 of the Constitution provided for cutting the salaries only during a financial emergency. In case of other calamities, the employees/pensioners could decide about the quantum of assistance they would extend for the relief works. Even the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 adopted by the government did not contain any provision relating to cuts on salaries of the employees, he said.
01 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Why tenders for KLIP now: Revanth||Congress MP A. Revanth Reddy has questioned the government’s motives to issue notices to farmers for land acquisition for Pharma city when the entire country was worried over the spread of coronavirus. In an open letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao here on Tuesday, he said that revenue officials have issued notices for land acquisition for Pharma City and that a Open House was scheduled to be conducted on April 3 when the government itself has declared lockdown till April 14. “What is the logic behind this,” he asked. When the country is facing a catastrophe, as a responsible opposition Congress is supporting the government, but it will raise issues of public interest and the ‘deceitful’ steps, he said in the letter. Mr. Reddy also said that tenders to the tune of Rs. 11,710 crore were called on Monday for lifting the third TMC water from the Kaleshwaram project. Tenders for another Rs. 10,580 crores were being called in a couple of days, he alleged and asked why the government was in a hurry to call for these tenders now. He said when the offices of companies were locked and government employees too were facing lockdown, how will they go to office and come up with the estimates, he asked.
01 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stage set for distribution of 12 kg rice||The stage is set for distribution of 12 kg rice each to the members of the white ration card holders from Wednesday. An estimated 3.36 lakh metric tonnes of rice worth little over Rs. 1,100 crore had been earmarked for the purpose and the rice would be distributed through the 17,200 fair price shops spread across the State. The Civil Supplies department would distribute tokens duly mentioning time slots on them to the cardholders to avail the benefit and the measure has been adopted to avoid overcrowding at fair price shops. Social distancing for consumers is made mandatory and the fair price shops have been instructed to ensure availability of soaps, sanitisers at their premises. The department has decided to exempt biometric authentication at the e-POS machines for cardholders who draw their ration regularly. Instead, the department has decided to utilise the third party authentication option.
01 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR to put rail staff in quarantine||South Central Railway (SCR) is going to put at least 90 of its staff, including ticket checking personnel, cleaning, and catering, who had served the six express trains on which people returned from Nizamuddin in Delhi to Secunderabad and Visakhapatnam, in quarantine for two weeks. Top SCR officials were shaken when the Telangana and AP governments sought passenger details on trains from New Delhi/Hazarth Nizamuddin and Secunderabad and Visakhapatnam between March 13-15. “We have given details of passengers to both the governments to trace them. It has come to our notice that most of the returnees had travelled by AP Express, Telangana Express, Tamil Nadu Express, GT Express, AP Sampark Kranthi and Duronto Express,” informed railway officials. Although it has been nearly two weeks since the journey, they don’t want to take any chances and are checking on the staff, 15 in each of the trains, they informed.
01 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BRKR Bhavan staffer attended event||There was a mild flutter at temporary secretariat Burgula Rama Krishna Rao Bhavan on Tuesday afternoon, following news that one of the employees attended the Delhi event. The employee, said to be a section officer working on the third floor of BRKR Bhavan, returned to the city and joined duty about a week ago. Doctors were rushed to the spot and his samples collected and sent for analysis. As the new spread, other employees rushed out of the complex immediately and the personnel engaged in maintenance of the building took up sanitation works.
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||Now, flying squads to trace contacts||Following Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s direction, a flying squad was set up in each of the 227 wards in Mumbai to trace contacts of COVID-19 patients, and also to look for those with pneumonia-like symptoms. The CM on Monday held a meeting with officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) via videoconferencing. Each team will consist of officials from the BMC, police, revenue department, and health department. The move will expand the scope of testing as more contacts and more symptomatic patients will be tested. Mr. Thackeray also reviewed of the city’s preparedness. “For people’s convenience, we had allowed shops to run round the clock. But if people are found misusing it to roam on the streets, we will have to discontinue that,” the CM said at the meeting. Late on Tuesday night, the CM said, “If there are foreign travellers who have not yet got themselves tested, then they should come forward. There was a list of countries published by the Centre initially. Even if they have travelled to the countries not listed by the Union government and yet not tested themselves, then they should do so now.”He asked the citizens to not hide any symptoms of cough, cold and fever. “There are a number of private medical practitioners who have closed their establishments for the time being. I appeal them to open them and treat patients with illness other than cough, cold and fever. Only government doctors will check patients with these three illnesses.” Mr. Thackeray, while asking citizens to avoid cold drinks, air conditioners and cold water, said these measures are not to curb the novel coronavirus. “But this is to avoid falling ill because of cough and cold. It will unnecessarily increase the burden and anxiety of all.” Meanwhile, BMC Commissioner Praveen Pardeshi has ordered all private doctors and pathology labs to continue to operate to reduce the burden on public health infrastructure. All patients should be screened at the outpatient department level. The private hospitals will continue to operate at routine level and if they are found to be shut, the administration can take action against them under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Besides, the BMC will be requisitioning private flats, lodges, and hostels to use them as quarantine facilities. ( With inputs from Alok Deshpande )
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||Police chief reaches out to citizens through Twitter||Police Commissioner Parambir Singh on Tuesday went ‘live’ on Twitter, answering questions from Mumbaikars in real time to clear their doubts about the lockdown in the city. From 3 p.m to 4 p.m. on Tuesday, Mr. Singh fielded queries through his official Twitter handle, @CPMumbaiPolice. Responding to multiple questions about the lockdown, Mr. Singh said, “We are ensuring strict enforcement of the lockdown orders and legal action will be taken against those violating it. We request Mumbaikars to cooperate with us.” Asked what steps are being taken to ensure that the lockdown orders are followed, he said all the locations are being monitored by closed circuit television cameras, patrolling vans and drone cameras. Replying to a bank manager who complained about being pressurised to vacate his house by society members as he is required to go to work every day, Mr. Singh said, “Banking is an essential service. No one can force you to vacate. Please approach the local police station. Appropriate legal action will be taken.” He said doctors do not need to provide any extra pass in case they want to travel for emergency cases, and their identity cards are enough. A large number of people were concerned about refuelling of their vehicles in case of emergencies and voiced concerns like petrol pump attendants claiming that only vehicles carrying essential commodities would be given fuel, which Mr. Singh categorically denied. People also raised concerns about their elderly parents living alone, and were advised to get passes from the nearest police station as well as limit their visits to the bare minimum. Mr. Singh also clarified that no orders have been given by the Mumbai Police to limit the working hours of grocery shops from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. “Shops selling essential commodities are allowed to stay open for 24 hours. We are recommending to housing societies to place collective orders from the nearest vegetable and grocery shops and that a few people collect them for all,” he tweeted. The interaction also threw up gratitude and appreciation towards the police for their tireless efforts. “All police personnel and their families are following the lockdown guidelines and health norms assiduously. They have been provided with adequate medical supplies and equipment to protect themselves from getting infected,” Mr. Singh said. He advised citizens to immediately report to the police any attempt at rumour-mongering or capitalising on panic.
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||Bimbisar Nagar, Dahisar slum in lockdown after five test positive||Part of Bimbisar Nagar in Goregaon and Ambavadi slum in Dahisar (East) were sealed off on Tuesday after five people tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has disinfected both the areas and is monitoring residents for COVID-19 symptoms. Worli Koliwada was the first area to be under total lockdown on Monday. At Bimbisar Nagar, a resident who had returned from the U.K. was found positive along with two others. A woman in her 20s had returned from the U.K. earlier this month. When she was screened on arrival, she did not have any symptoms and was advised home quarantine. Late last week, she developed symptoms and visited a local doctor who advised her to get tested. She then went to Hiranandani Hospital, where she was found positive on Saturday. Soon after, her father and brother also tested positive. “There are nine high-risk contacts in this case who were tested. Of them, the results of four have come. Her mother and a domestic help tested negative while her father and brother have been found positive. Results of the rest, including that of the doctor, are yet to come,” said Devidas Kshirsagar, assistant municipal commissioner of P South ward. On Tuesday, a large part of the colony consisting the building was declared a containment zone, and was locked down. Police personnel were deployed there, barricades were placed, and nobody was allowed to go in or out. “We are now going door to door, looking for anyone with the slightest symptoms. People are coordinating with us to report any symptoms. The entire area was disinfected. The objective of the lockdown is to make sure nobody else comes in contact with them,” an officer from the ward’s public health department said. The three confirmed patients have been admitted to a hospital while the other seven are in quarantine. Two in Dahisar slum On Tuesday, Ambavadi slum in Dahisar (East) was also locked down after two members of a family tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The slum is part of Valmiki Nagar. A person in his 60s, who had travelled to Nashik recently but had no history of foreign travel or contact with a COVID-19 patient, became the first confirmed case from the slum. His daughter-in-law was also found positive. Both have been admitted to Kasturba Hospital. The 11 other members of the family tested negative but as a precautionary measure, they are being kept at Ambedkar Hospital. “After this person returned from Nashik, that city reported its first positive case of COVID-19. We are checking if the two are related. Otherwise it might be a case of community transmission as there is no other source,’ said former Shiv Sena coporator Abhishek Ghosalkar. Sandhya Nandedkar, assistant municipal commissioner of R North ward, said, “The person had travelled to Nashik in public transport, so it seems to be a case of community transmission. He had no foreign travel history and had not come in contact with any known coronavirus patient.” Meanwhile, there is panic in the densely packed slum considering the close living quarters. The BMC has disinfected the area. Civic officials are monitoring everyone for symptoms.
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||IIT professors modify app to monitor people||Two professors with the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay have modified an application used for tracking students’ attendance to now keep a check on quarantine adherence. Professor Bhaskaran Raman and Kameswari Chebrolu of the Computer Science Engineering department of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay, had originally developed the application five years ago to solve the problem of keeping track of around 700 students without wasting too much time. Professor Milind Atrey, dean of the Research and Development Centre of IIT Bombay, said, “The application has been modified by a team led by the two professors and can be used by officials to keep a track of the people required to stay under quarantine. The application is called SAFE App and is capable of sending alerts once in five to 10 minutes to those advised home quarantine.” Prof. Atrey said the users, who are under quarantine, are required to respond to the alert immediately by sending a selfie. The location of the person is also tracked through WiFi and Global Positioning System (GPS). “The alerts can be scheduled or random. We have approached a lot of State governments along with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and a few of them are interested in the application, but due the chaos caused by the coronavirus it has been difficult to conduct meetings over this issue,” he said. The professor believes that the app will work as people will not leave their phones at home even if they do step out. “Not only does the app track the location of the user, but they also need to respond immediately to the alerts that can be sent every few minutes. This will ensure that a strict check is kept on them. A single server can keep a check on about 1,000 people at a time. The signal coverage can be increased or decreased as per the requirement of a specific area,” Mr. Atrey said. The application can hold all the information of users and ensure complete confidentiality. The IIT-B team is willing to provide its services free of cost to the government to help deal with the pandemic.
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||Face masks, sanitisers seized in two raids||In two raids conducted by separate units on Monday, the Mumbai Police Crime Branch seized large caches of hand sanitisers and face masks allegedly being hoarded to be sold at increased prices to capitalise on the novel coronavirus crisis. The first raid was conducted on Maulana Azad Road in Madanpura on Monday evening by the Crime Branch Unit III after police inspector Nitin Patil received a tip-off saying three-ply surgical masks were being sold at Rs. 25 apiece, instead of the Rs. 15 fixed by the government. “Acting on the information received, we raided the a room in the Patra Chawl in Madanpura and arrested Aquib Ansari (22). We seized 1.22 lakh three-ply surgical masks from the room, worth Rs. 30.52 lakh,” a Crime Branch officer said. Mr. Ansari has been charged under the Essential Commodities Act and is now being interrogated on the source of the masks. The second raid was conducted in the Sakinaka area by Unit VII, based on a tip-off received by police constable Deepak Khare saying a large quantity of hand sanitisers was being hoarded by people who did not have valid licences. “Accordingly, we raided Synergy Hygenic Corporation on 90 Feet Road in Saki Naka on Monday where sanitisers, manufactured by a company called Oshine, were being stored in unhygienic conditions in large quantities,” a Unit VII officer said.The police seized 1,362 bottles of 500 ml capacity and 360 cans of five litre capacity from the spot, collectively worth Rs. 22.13 lakh. The raid was conducted in the presence of Food and Drugs Administration officials. The police have arrested one Dilip Chamaria (32).
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||GRP constable tests positive; Palghar records first death||A 51-year-old constable with the government railway police (GRP) in Mumbai, who is being treated at Kasturba Hospital, tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. Ravindra Sengaonkar, Commissioner, Mumbai, said the constable’s wife and two children have been placed in isolation at the hospital. Meanwhile, Palghar reported its first COVID-19 death with a 50-year-old man who had tested positive succumbing on Tuesday. Sources said he was admitted at the rural hospital on March 28 and his samples returned positive on Tuesday. The victim worked in a Thane factory and had no international or domestic travel history.  Meanwhile, a 52-year-old resident of Vashi and two others from Nerul tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. The Vashi man was in touch with the secretary of the mosque who was in direct contact with a 68-year-old Islamic scholar from the Philippines, the index patient in Navi Mumbai, who had tested positive on March 13. The secretary had hugged the Filipino scholar when he visited the mosque, along with nine others, between March 10 and 12. It has been confirmed that the scholar had attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi. Two cases in Nerul The second new case from Navi Mumbai is a 32-year-old man who was in touch with a positive patient. “The patient was employed at BKC. His boss was an international traveller and his colleague was found to be positive,” NMMC chief medical officer Balasaheb Sonawane said. The third new case is a 38-year-old suspected to have a travel history. The family of the patient is said to be in home quarantine. The Nerul police have alerted residents of the area to be vigilant.
01 April 2020||Navi Mumbai,||PMC directs doctor to shut hospital||The Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) has asked a private doctor to shut his hospital on learning that the doctor’s daughter has just returned from the U.S. and is home-quarantined. On Monday, the PMC issued a notice to Dr. Mahesh Mohite, who runs Sai Child Care Hospital at Sector 19 , to shut his hospital till further orders. As per a notice issued on March 27 by the district collector and district judge to the Indian Medical Association, any doctor who has a member in the family who has returned from an international trip and is home-quarantined, should also stay home-quarantined. “The doctor’s daughter had returned from the U.S. on March 16 and was home-quarantined, of which he did not inform the PMC,” said PMC deputy municipal commissioner Sanjay Shinde.
01 April 2020||ADILABAD,||32 intercepted on Telangana border||Authorities on the Maharashtra-Telangana border intercepted a lorry carrying 32 passengers on NH-44 near Penganga river in Adilabad district early on Tuesday. The passengers, who were headed for their homes in Medipally in Jagtial district, were returning from the Tablighi Jamaat held at Nizamuddin in New Delhi between March 13 and 15. The group had reportedly visited Ajmer in Rajasthan after the New Delhi event. It was not clear whether they had hitched a ride on the lorry. The local police informed their counterparts in Jagtial district. The 32 were escorted by the police to Medipally.
01 April 2020||Ajeet Mahale Mumbai,||CR, WR to modify 892 coaches for isolation||The Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) will convert 482 and 410 coaches respectively into isolation coaches as part of the Indian Railways’ initiative to convert 5,000 coaches to aid the fight against novel coronavirus. To help local hospitals deal with the increasing number of COVID-19 cases, the Railway Board plans to convert 20,000 coaches into isolation wards. In the first phase, 17 zones have been asked to convert 5,000 coaches. Non-AC Link Hofmann Bush (LHB) coaches, which are over 15 years old, will be used for the purpose. Each coach will have nine cabins, with the first cabin towards the bathroom to be separated using two curtains and earmarked as storage or paramedic area. Two oxygen cylinders will also be provided with appropriate clamping facilities. Senior officials put the cost of the modifications at around Rs. 2 lakh per coach. On CR, the work will be undertaken by the Matunga workshop in Mumbai Division, while in WR, it will be done by Lower Parel workshop, Mahalakshmi workshop, Mumbai Central depot in the Mumbai Division as well as other divisions. WR officials said that currently they have 360 15-year-old non LHB coaches.
01 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Pay deferred||The Odisha government on Tuesday ordered deferment of part of salaries of the Chief Minister and Ministers in view of the economic impact due to COVID-19.
01 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Factory of fire safety firm sealed||The newly appointed District Magistrate of Noida, Suhas L.Y., sealed the Cease Fire Private Limited on Tuesday. The fire safety firm is directly or indirectly responsible for 29 COVID-19 infected persons in Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, and Bareilly. On Tuesday, another employee of the factory tested positive in Duhai village of Ghaziabad. Sanjeevani Hospital of Greater Noida was also sealed after a person was found infected with the virus in the hospital. After transferring the District Magistrate, the State government named A.K. Chaturvedi, the State Immunisation Officer, as the nodal officer of Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad. He has superseded the Chief Medical Officers of the two districts. In Ghaziabad, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath inspected the preparations at Santosh Medical College before changing his programme. He was expected to visit Meerut and Agra as well, but as the news of COVID-19 in the centre of Tablighi Jamat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin spread, he flew back to Lucknow. Isolation wards Ramping up its efforts to deal with the virus, the Ghaziabad administration has acquired sections of five major hospitals, including four private ones, in the city for the creation of 405 isolations beds, an official release said. District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey has acquired these hospitals under the Disaster Management Act and the Essential Services (Maintenance) Act. The hospitals are ESI Hospitals in Sahibabad (30 beds), New Sarvodaya Hospital (100) in Kavi Nagar, Flores Hospital (75) in Vijay Nagar, Narinder Mohan Hospital (100) in Mohan Nagar and Max Hospital (100) in Vaishali. The district administration is also planning to acquire three hotels in the city for developing quarantine facilities.  14 quarantined Meanwhile, in Deoband, 14 members of Tablighi Jamaat, including 12 Indonesians, have been quarantined in Jamia Tibbia isolation centre in the town. “They were living in a mosque in Rajopur village since March 6,” said Kamlesh Kumar, Tehsildaar, Deboand. He said the other two persons who have been isolated are from Assam. Their connection with the centre in Nizamuddin is being ascertained. In a related development, Darul Uloom Deoband has offered one of its buildings for the development of isolation ward for COVID-19 cases. In a letter written to the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister, Darul Uloom Mohatmim (Vice-Chancellor) has offered the seminary’s building near the state highway for the purpose.
01 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||COVID-19: When ‘GOA’ dodges lockdown norms in Guwahati||‘GOA’ is dodging the police in locked down Guwahati. The police have been cracking down on people across Assam who ventured out of their homes “unnecessarily” after the lockdown began. Rs. 5.64 lakh in fines Till Monday afternoon, the police collected Rs. 5.64 lakh in fines from traffic violators and detained 1,626 vehicles besides 425 people. This made many vehicle users, specially two-wheel vehicle riders, glue hand-written notes on the front and rear of their motorcycles and scooties. A few of them read: “On GOA duty”. ‘GOA’ expands to Government of Assam. Other such notes read “On GOI duty”, “On medical duty”, “Request patient attendant service” and so on. Some have managed to get past the police, some not. “The documents of such people are being checked and action is taken if they do not have a valid reason to drive or ride. Some people have taken passes from the authorities while those in essential services and exempted from restrictions are not disturbed,” Guwahati Commissioner of Police Munna Prasad Gupta told The Hindu . Those who know the lanes and bylanes of the city often give the police the slip. The lanes are where grocery shops – some selling vegetables too – attract mostly masked people for discussing conspiracy theories and their chances of surviving the “killer flu”. Many adhere to social distancing but some forget in a bid to be the first to take the foodstuff home. “Please stand apart for your own good and mine,” Tarunnagar resident Krishna Das requested a middle-aged man. But the Fancybazar and adjoining Machhkhowa areas remain a cause of concern for the local residents. These two areas are the commercial hub of the Northeast, and had witnessed a near-stampede when the administration relaxed the lockdown restrictions temporarily on March 28. “Vegetable vendors, buyers and wholesalers and their vehicles crowd the street where my house is located. The police arrive only after the business is done. We live in such dread that we have double-locked our gate,” said Musaddar Hussain, who lives on Fayaz Ahmed Road in Machhkhowa. Mr. Gupta denied the police were allowing vegetable trucks into the city and claimed they were ensuring the shops allowed to operate were following the social distancing norms. The near-empty roads, however, have not been insurance against accidents. On Monday night, a web portal reporter, Dimpy Kashyap, died when the two-wheeler she was on hit an electric pole. Hours later, a car hit and injured a barking deer that came out of its habitat to explore the Noonmati area of the city.
01 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Steep hike in positive cases in Jaipur worries health experts||The steep hike in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the Ramganj area of the Walled City of Jaipur has left the administration and health experts worried amid the measures to prevent community spread of the virus. Twelve persons, including a man who returned from Oman recently, have been diagnosed with the infection in the locality. The Rajasthan government on Tuesday ordered sealing of the Walled City, which was earlier placed under curfew, to completely stop the movement of people. Additional Chief Secretary, Home Rajeev Swarup asked all residents of the Walled City to return home and said no outsider would be allowed into the sealed area. Of the 12 infected persons, 11 belong to a single family residing in a multi-storey building in Ramganj. The 45-year-old man, who first tested positive several days after he returned from Oman via Dubai on March 12, came in contact with a large number of people before he developed the symptoms of the disease and went for diagnosis.  ‘Panic in the area’ Suraiya Parveen, a retired government school teacher residing in the Walled City’s Ziledarji Ka Chowk, said though there was panic in the area, strict actions being taken by the administration would instil confidence among the people. “We will be helping the healthcare authorities by staying at home... My son has imposed a ban on all family members from venturing out.” With the total number of 21 COVID-19 positive cases — including those of an Italian tourist couple — detected in the city, Jaipur is just behind the worst-affected Bhilwara town which has so far reported 26 cases. Medical & Health Minister Raghu Sharma said active surveillance and house-to-house survey were under way to find out the people who may be carrying the virus. Meanwhile, about 3,000 pilgrims stranded in the localities near Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti's dargah in Ajmer have appealed to the authorities to make arrangements for sending them to their native States. The Dargah Committee, which is a statutory body, has written letters to the Prime Minister's Office and Chief Ministers of States such as Telangana, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, seeking their intervention in the matter.
01 April 2020||Kolkata,||Third virus death in West Bengal||West Bengal on Tuesday recorded its third COVID-19 death. A 48-year-old woman from Howrah district who was admitted to the Howrah State General Hospital died late on Monday evening even before her test reports were received by the hospital authorities. “We got the samples by 12 noon (on Monday) and by late evening we confirmed that the patent from Howrah was suffering from COVID-19 infection,” a doctor at the Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, a State run testing facility in Kolkata told The Hindu.  The nurses at the State-run hospital in Howrah district, where the patient passed away, alleged that she was admitted to the general ward on Sunday and they were not provided with any personal protective equipment, while treating the patient.
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||To curb farmers’ losses, State to buy 10 lakh litres milk every day||The Maharashtra government will purchase 10 lakh litres of milk per day at the cost of Rs. 25 per litre directly from dairy farmers in the State, in a bid to avoid losses to them during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The decision, taken in a meeting chaired by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday, will be applicable for the next two months. According to data from the State Dairy Development Department, of the total milk production of 12 lakh litres per day, around 10 lakh litres is not being lifted during the lockdown. “Dairy farmers are facing the brunt,” said an official from the department. He said that due to the high supply of milk, private dairies are paying merely Rs. 15 to Rs. 17 per litre. “Apart from milk producers, it is affecting farmers and agricultural labourers as well. As a result, the State government has decided to purchase the milk through cooperatives,” said the official. Purchased milk will be converted into powder and stored for online sale. The scheme will be implemented through the State milk federation and is expected to cost the exchequer Rs. 200 crore.
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||Govt. tracing citizens who attended Delhi congregation||The State government has initiated the process to track if anyone from the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi mid-March had returned to Maharashtra. So far, only the Philippines national who died in Navi Mumbai is said to have attended the event. Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday instructed the authorities to trace citizens of Maharashtra who visited the congregation. Dr Anup Yadav, head of the Directorate of Health Services, confirmed that the 68-year-old Philippines national, who was staying at the mosque in Navi Mumbai, had attended the congregation in Delhi. He had tested positive on March 13 and died on the night of March 22 at the Hiranandani Hospital in Powai. “Besides him, we have not found any other person who had attended the Delhi event. However, we have informed all the district authorities to keep looking for such travel history,” Dr. Yadav said. Though the Philippines national had tested positive for COVID-19, the State has not counted him among the fatalities from the virus as yet and his death is still under review. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday 24 people who took part in the congregation have tested positive for the coronavirus. State Minority Development Minister Nawab Malik said Tablighi Jamaat has some followers in Maharashtra. “After learning that some 100 people from Maharashtra attended the congregation, I have asked my officials to find out how many actually attended it and their current location.”  (With PTI inputs)
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||Goa extends helping hand to stranded foreign visitors||Amidst the COVID-19 outbreak and the resultant 21-day lockdown, Goa is doing all it can for the 1,000-plus tourists stranded in the coastal State. As the sixth relief flight with 133 Russians left for Moscow on Tuesday, taking the number of evacuated foreign tourists to 930, the Goa Police put out videos showing its personnel providing supplies to tourists from the U.K. The tourists, who have been stranded without provisions at Palolem beach, 90 km from Panaji, had made a distress call to the police. The police have also been providing cooked food to construction labourers stranded across the State. The Foreigner Regional Registration Office in Goa has received applications from over 1,000 people seeking an extension of stay during the lockdown period. Most of these foreigners have been in the State since September 2019. For those wanting to head back home, the Indian government is in touch with their respective countries. A special nodal officer has also been appointed to ensure that this process is smooth. Between Monday night and early Tuesday morning, a special flight carrying 317 tourists from Germany and other EU countries took off for Frankfurt. Officials said that despite the skeletal staff in attendance, operations at Goa airport, led by director Gagan Malik, were under way round the clock. Several other tourists will be leaving the State after April 5. Quarantine update Chief Minister Dr. Pramod Sawant said there was no new case of COVID-19 in the State on Tuesday, adding that nine people had been put under home quarantine. Eight others, who were contacts of previous patients, had been sent to quarantine facilities, while 16 suspected patients were put under hospital isolation on Tuesday. Dr. Sawant said the newly set up COVID-19 testing laboratory at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMC-H), Bambolim, could not start conducting tests as pathologists faced some technical issues. The problems are being resolved with the help of doctors and private pathologists. “Today, 62 samples had to be forwarded to Pune for testing. Fixing the issue is our priority,” the Chief Minister said. Of the six samples sent for testing to Pune on Monday, four were negative while reports of two were awaited. A total 106 people are under quarantine in government hospitals. Health Minister Viswajit Rane clarified that samples were sent to Pune to ensure there was no backlog in testing. “We are trying to streamline the process. Four tests have been conducted during the day and more will be done overnight,” he said. Appeal to pvt. doctors The CM also appealed to private doctors to start operating their clinics after taking all precautions. “If they find symptoms of coronavirus then these cases can be referred to the State-run GMC-H,” Dr. Sawant said. He told reporters that over 80 trucks had crossed the Goa border from Belagavi in Karnataka, bringing vegetables, groceries and fruits.
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||‘Avoid April Fool’s pranks on virus’||Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday appealed to citizens to avoid playing pranks, especially related to the coronavirus outbreak, on April Fool’s Day on Wednesday. The minister tweeted, “Tomorrow’s April 1st. The annual tradition of making an ‘April Fool’ of people has already begun on WhatsApp & social media. The state govt won’t allow anyone to spread rumours/panic on #Corona. I’ve instructed @MahaCyber1 to act swiftly & strongly against such miscreants. #NoCoronaRumour.” In a video statement, Mr. Deshmukh said, “As you know, the entire State, entire country is fighting a battle against coronavirus. At this time, do not spread any such message which will lead to rumours or disturb the atmosphere. Please cooperate with the government.” Anyone spreading such messages will face action under the Cyber Crime Act, hesaid. The Maharashtra cyber cell, too, asked citizens to show restraint. “Everyone is requested to desist from spreading fake news and rumours. If found indulging in such activities, stringent legal action will be taken. Stay safe and stay indoors,” warned the cell’s official twitter handle.
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||CM apologises to citizens for inconvenience||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday apologised to the people of Maharashtra for any difficulty they have faced during the lockdown. “People need not worry about rations. The supply is ample and we will ensure that there will be no shortage. But yes, there is problem of transportation at some places. And it may have caused suffering to some of you, for which we are sorry,” he said in an address via social media. He reiterated his appeal to labourers not to travel to their native States. “We are giving food to over two lakh labourers from different States and over 1,000 centres have been constructed. I am in touch with CMs of different States and we will ensure everyone is taken care of.” On Monday, the CM said private doctors should carry out chest X-rays and haemograms of suspected COVID-19 patients to catch the infection at an early stage.  (With PTI inputs)
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||Gathering at Nizamuddin a highly irresponsible act, says Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the gathering at the Nizamuddin Markaz (centre) was a “highly irresponsible act” and the government had written to Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal asking him to refer the matter to the police. According to a Raj Niwas spokesperson, these directions came on Tuesday evening with Mr. Baijal directing the police to take “appropriate action as per law” in relation to the case. Of the 97 COVID-19 cases in the city, 24 were from the Nizamuddin centre or the Tablighi Jamaat, Mr. Kejriwal said. Rise in cases “There is no denying that there has been a considerable rise in COVID-19 cases in Delhi. Around March 12-13, people from across the nations gathered for a religious congregation. Many of them left for their homes but many stayed back. We are now bringing out the people who have stayed back and tests are being conducted now, out of which 24 cases have come out to be positive,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added: “In the last three days, 1,548 people have been brought out of the centre, 441 have been moved to hospitals and 1,447 to quarantine facilities.” The Chief Minister said the world was affected by the disease with even developed nations under its ambit. Thousands of peoplehad lost their lives in the U.S., Spain, Italy, China and many more, he added. If religious congregations of different faiths continued, it was going to be “a huge problem”, he said, terming the congregation at Nizamuddin “a serious act” and requesting religious leaders across different faiths to ensure that no gatherings are encouraged. “Navratri has been going on but we have seen no crowd on the streets and in the temples. Gurudwaras have been shut, people are not going to masjids, Mecca is empty, Vatican City is empty,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “Many people have gone back to other cities after attending this event. I hope not but think about the people that have been already affected by this. With folded hands, I request all the religious leaders and people to cooperate with the government,” he added. The government had written to the L-G for filing an FIR against the mosque administration, he said, adding: “Several reports of how the officials did not act on time are also coming up. If the involvement of any official is found out, strict action will be taken against them. Lives of many people present in the centre have been put at risk; six persons died after attending the event and reaching Telangana,” he added.
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||Priest had written to police on March 25 to vacate centre||The priest of a Nizamuddin mosque in Delhi, from where 24 COVID-19 positive cases have been reported in Delhi so far, had written to the police on March 25 itself stating that they have vacated 1,500 people and 1,000 people were still at their premises. “We still have more than 1,000 people of different states in the markaz. As per your direction we contacted respected SDM [Sub-Divisional Magistrate] for vehicle pass so that we can sent the remaining people to their respective places. SDM office has given time for meeting at 11 am on 25/3/2020,” the letter said. “You are therefore requested to kindly approach the SDM for early action. We are ready to compliance all your directions,” it added. In the March 25 letter, priest informed the local Station House Officer (SHO) that they were trying to shut down the centre as directed by the SHO on March 24. In another letter to the police on March 29, the mosque authorities stated that further efforts to vacate the premises of the centre were stopped midway due to the lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Markaz Nizamuddin in a statement on Tuesday said that they had submitted a list of 17 vehicles to ferry people who were “stranded” due to the lockdown at the markaz to the area SDM on March 25, but they were yet to receive permission from the SDM.  As per your direction we contacted respected SDM for vehicle pass so that we can sent the remaining people to their respective places Letter
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||AAP leaders attack Delhi Police||AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan on Tuesday attacked Delhi Police over a centre in Nizamuddin from where 24 people have been tested positive for COVID-19. “Around 12 p.m. on March 23, I had told the DCP [South East] and ACP Nizamuddin that around 1,000 people are trapped in Nizamuddin markaz. After that why did the police not make arrangements to send them,” AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan questioned the police in a tweet in Hindi on Tuesday. AAP MLA and member of the Political Affairs Committee of the party, Atishi, in a series of tweets sought action against both Delhi Police and the administrators of the centre at Nizamuddin. “Nizamuddin Police Stn shares a boundary wall with the markaz — they obviously knew what was going on! Therefore, strict action needs to be taken against concerned officials of@DelhiPoliceas well[sic],” she said in a tweet. “It was the job of@DelhiPoliceto enforce the order of Delhi Govt. prohibiting gatherings of more than 200 people [sic] !” read another tweet. She also pointed out that the Tablighi Jamaat had asked for assistance to move people out on March 24, whereas gathering of more than 200 people had been prohibited since March 13 by the Delhi government.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Andaman and Nicobar tribes under heavy security||After nine persons, who visited Delhi from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands earlier this month, tested positive for COVID-19, the authorities have stepped up security near the areas in the islands that are inhabited by indigenous tribes. An officer said out of the 10 persons who tested positive in the islands, nine of them visited Delhi to attend an event in Nizamuddin and returned to Port Blair via Kolkata on March 24. The tenth infected person is the wife of one of the patients. The Andaman police and the administration have made arrangements to keep the infected people in quarantine. They were part of a religious gathering in Delhi earlier this month, attended anti-CAA protests and also visited Old Delhi, said officials. “One of the persons was put under home quarantine but his wife got infected. We have quarantined the couple. Except for the people who attended the religious congregation in Delhi, no other person has been found infected,” the officer added. Director-General of Police, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dependra Pathak, said: “All of the suspected persons were screened at the Port Blair airport and shifted to quarantine. We sought help from the health department and later it was found that they went to Delhi for the religious meeting.” Mr. Pathak added that they are strictly following MHA guidelines and implementing a complete lockdown. When asked about the safety of isolated tribes, he said tribal habitats are no-go areas and attract severe prosecution. Further, movement of people or vehicles has been stopped even near their habitats. For instance, the ATR passing through the forests has been closed.
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||Saurabh- special branch||Delhi Police Special Branch has written to the Delhi government to take immediate action against persons, including foreign nationals, associated with Tablighi Jamaat who are currently staying at various mosques and places in Delhi. A total 157 people, including 94 from Indonesia, 13 from Kyrgyzstan, 9 from Bangladesh, 8 from Malaysia, 7 from Algeria and one each from Tunisia, Belgium and Italy are residing in the city. Remaining are Indian nationals, it said. They are presently staying in south-east Delhi, north-east Delhi and other districts in the city, it added.
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- brief||In order to strengthen the medical facilities, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation on Tuesday gave approval for private healthcare professionals to work at its institutions. “Many retired doctors, fresh doctors and medical students are voluntarily coming forward to serve the nation at this crucial time at free of cost in SDMC’s healthcare facilities,” the civic body said. They will be employed on a voluntary basis, it said. The approval has been given for a period of three months and may be extended depending on the requirement, it added.
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- Schools||Up to 91 schools run by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation have been earmarked as shelter homes, the civic body said on Tuesday. Food distribution and shelter facilities have been arranged for homeless people and migrant labourers in these schools. Arrangements have also been made to ensure that proper social distancing is maintained at all food distribution points, the SDMC said.
01 April 2020||Pune,||Dashboard, mobile app to help Pune combat contagion||In the wake of rising COVID-19 cases in Pune, the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Ltd. (PSCDCL), in association with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), has developed an integrated dashboard to coordinate its fight against the contagion. PSCDCL has also mapped each case using GIS, tracking healthcare operations at the city’s Naidu Infectious Disease Hospital and drawing up a containment plan using heat-mapping technologies. For this, it has converted its high-tech command centre into a ‘war room’ from where authorities can monitor operations to check the spread of the contagion. “The integrated dashboard will be monitoring quarantine facilities, track the health of suspected patients and their contacts placed under home quarantine,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner and chief executive officer of PSCDCL. The disaster management cell of the PMC will also provide help to quarantined people through a helpline. “The PSCDCL is using Geospatial Information System for tracking and monitoring the areas and create buffer zones where patients are diagnosed positive with the COVID-19 infection. This helps to implement the containment plan as per government guidelines. The mapping of the containment zones will reflect in the dashboard,” Ms. Agarwal said. The mobile application, which is called Sayyam, has been developed to provide comprehensive online support to quarantined people, said an official from the PMC’s IT cell. “The PSCDCL has also provided free Wi-Fi to those kept in the isolation centres. A massive awareness campaign is being carried out through social messaging on VMD screens, social media and the PMC website. Citizens can get updates on pmc.gov.in/covid,” the official said. The command centre already has the advanced technology in place to see various functions on screen at a click, so with some tweaking it could leverage the technology in supporting the war against the virus. PSCDCL had constructed the command and control centre three years ago to monitor various smart elements, such as variable message display screens, public announcement systems, emergency call boxes, municipal functions including street lighting, monitoring of bus movements and CCTV cameras for security. As the coronavirus hit the city, this command and control centre has diversified. Meanwhile, the PMC has opened relief camps at 15 civic-run schools to halt the exodus of thousands of migrant workers from the city and provide them with food and shelter. Ms. Agarwal said the schools had been converted into temporary shelter homes to accommodate the workers, while stating that social distancing norms were being strictly maintained in these places.
01 April 2020||Shamlaji (Gujarat),||Rajasthan cops refuse entry to Gujarat-based migrant workers||More than 500 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar were stuck at the Shamlaji border town in Gujarat after the Rajasthan Police refused them entry, an official said on Tuesday. The labourers are now being sent to shelter homes in Gujarat, said Inspector General, Gandhinagar Range, Mayanksinh Chavda. “It is true that Rajasthan Police caught the non-Rajasthani migrant workers and sent them back to the border on Monday night. While natives of Rajasthan are allowed to go to their villages, migrants from other States were asked to return to Gujarat,” Mr. Chavda said. “Following guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs, we are now taking care of them and have started the process of shifting them to shelter homes after conducting their medical tests,” the officer said. Some of the workers said the Rajasthan Police brought them brought to Shamlaji on the pretext of providing them food and transportation to their hometowns. “The Rajasthan Police asked nearly 500 of us to sit in their vehicles when we had already covered a good distance on foot in Rajasthan. Instead of providing us food and transportation as promised, we were brought back to Gujarat border. We don’t even have water to drink,” a labourer from Uttar Pradesh said.
01 April 2020||Surat,||42 untraceable after return from abroad||At least 42 residents of Gujarat’s Surat district, who returned to India from foreign trips this month, have not been found at the residential addresses mentioned in their passports, an official said on Tuesday. Of these 42 ‘missing’ persons, 16 are from Palsana area, nine from Bardoli, six each from Choryasi and Olpad localities, three from Mangrol and two from Kamrej, a disrict health official said.
01 April 2020||Madrid,||Spain reports record 849 deaths in a day||Once again, Spain hit a new record with 849 COVID-19 deaths in 24 hours on Tuesday although health chiefs said the rate of new infections was continuing its downward trend. After Italy, Spain has suffered the world’s second most deadly outbreak, which has now claimed 8,189 lives there. The latest figures came a day after the death toll fell slightly, dampening hopes it could have passed the peak of the crisis. Over the same period, the number of confirmed cases rose to 94,417 after another 9,222 people tested positive: a nearly 11% increase. That figure was seen as a setback after a week, in which the rate had been steadily failing, with Monday’s figures having shown a rise of just over 8%. “It’s true that today we have a slight increase in the number of cases,” said Maria Jose Sierra, from the health ministry’s emergencies coordination unit. But the downward trend “is continuing”, she added. This time last week, the rate of new infections stood at around 20% Now on day 18 of an unprecedented four-week national lockdown to slow the spread of the virus, Spain has sought to dramatically ramp up testing. It is sourcing kits from around the world in order to test some 50,000 people per day, up from the current 20,000. Meanwhile, Italy marked a minute of silence and flew flags at half mast on Tuesday to mourn the 11,591 people who have died. The death toll in Italy has climbed by 837 to 12,428, the Civil Protection Agency has said.
01 April 2020||London,||Harry and Meghan formally bid farewell to royal life||Prince Harry and wife Meghan posted their last message as working members of Britain’s royal family on Monday before officially embarking on new careers without their “Royal Highness” styles. The couple shocked Queen Elizabeth and the other Windsors in January by announcing plans to step back from their royal roles. A later deal brokered by the 93-year-old monarch means they will go their own way from April. So from Wednesday, the couple, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, will be free to pursue new careers, earn their own money and spend most of their time in North America. But they will no longer be able to use the word “royal” in their branding or carry out official duties and have agreed not to use the style of HRH — His or Her Royal Highness. Harry, 35, the Queen’s grandson and sixth in line to the throne, will remain a Prince but relinquish his military appointments. “While you may not see us here, the work continues,” the couple said in the last message on their sussexroyal Instagram page. The pair, along with their son Archie, relocated to California from Canada earlier this month.
01 April 2020||Washington,||U.S. death toll crosses 3,500||The U.S. death toll from COVID-19 climbed past 3,500 on Tuesday, eclipsing China’s official count. New York was the nation’s deadliest hot spot, with about 1,550 deaths statewide, the majority of them in New York City. President Donald Trump has been criticised for an initially slow response by the federal government to the now-accelerating pandemic spread. USNS Comfort, a Navy hospital ship with 1,000 beds that docked in New York on Monday, was expected to begin accepting non-coronavirus patients on Tuesday. A 1,000-bed emergency hospital set up at the Javits Convention Center began taking patients Monday night. And the Billie Jean King USTA National Tennis Center was being transformed into a hospital. The crisis became personal for New York Governor Andrew Cuomo with word that his brother was infected. Chris Cuomo tweeted that he suffered fever, chills and shortness of breath but will continue broadcasting from his basement. Seeking help On Monday, the Governor pleaded for help from volunteer medical workers, and close to 80,000 former nurses, doctors and other professionals were already said to be stepping forward. New York City sought to bring in 250 out-of-town ambulances and 500 paramedics and emergency medical technicians to help its swamped EMS system. The city’s ambulances are responding to about 6,000 calls a day, or 50% more than average, authorities said. Fire Commissioner Daniel Nigro said a five-day stretch last week was the busiest in the history of the city’s EMS operation. Mr. Trump said U.S. death rate was likely to increase for two weeks.
01 April 2020||MIAMI,||U.S. outlines plan for transition in Venezuela, sanctions relief||The U.S. is prepared to lift sanctions on Venezuela in support of a new proposal to form a transitional government representing allies of both Nicolas Maduro and opposition leader Juan Guaido, officials said. The plan, which will be presented on Tuesday by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, echoes a proposal made over the weekend by Mr. Guaidū that shows how growing concerns about the coronavirus, which threatens to overwhelm the South American country’s already collapsed health system and crippled economy, are reviving U.S. attempts to pull the military apart from Mr. Maduro. What’s being dubbed the “Democratic Framework for Venezuela” would require Mr. Maduro and Mr. Guaidū to step aside and hand power to a five-member Council of State to govern the country until presidential and parliamentary elections can be held in late 2020, according to a written summary of the proposal. The plan also outlines for the first time U.S. requirements for lifting sanctions against Mr. Maduro, officials and the oil industry. Those accused of grave human rights abuses and drug trafficking are not eligible for sanctions relief. But for sanctions to vanish, U.S. Special Representative for Venezuela Elliott Abrams said the council would need to be functioning and all foreign military forces — from Cuba or Russia —would need to leave the country. Still, any deal is unlikely to win Mr. Maduro’s support unless the issue of his future is addressed and he’s protected from the U.S. justice system, said David Smilde, a senior fellow at the Washington Office on Latin America.
01 April 2020||NATUNA ISLANDS,||China chases Indonesia’s fishing fleets, staking claim to sea’s riches||Dedi knows where the fish run strongest in Indonesian waters off the Natuna islands. The Chinese know, too. Backed by Chinese coast guard ships, Chinese fishing fleets have been raiding the rich waters of the South China Sea that are internationally recognised as exclusively Indonesia’s to fish. While Mr. Dedi catches the traditional way, with nets and lines, the steel Chinese trawlers scrape the bottom of the sea, destroying other marine life. So not only does the Chinese trawling breach maritime borders, it also leaves a lifeless seascape in its wake. “They come into our waters and kill everything,” said Mr. Dedi, who like many Indonesians goes by a single name. “I don’t understand why our government doesn’t protect us.” Wary of offending its largest trading partner, Indonesian officials have played down incursions by Chinese fishing boats. But with the Chinese presence growing more aggressive, fishers in the Natunas are feeling vulnerable. “There was a vacant period, then China came back,” said Ngesti Yuni Suprapti, the Deputy Regent of the Natuna archipelago. Global ambitions The latest episode occurred in February, fishers said, when Chinese boats flanked by coast guard vessels dropped their trawl nets yet again. It seemed as if the coronavirus outbreak peaking in China at the time hadn’t diminished the country’s global ambitions. The Indonesian Fisheries Ministry, however, denied any intrusion by the Chinese. China’s illegal fishing near the Natunas carries global consequence, reminding regional governments of Beijing’s expanding claims to a waterway through which one-third of the world’s maritime trade flows. But local leaders in the Natunas don’t control what happens near their shores. Chinese impunity was on full display in January when President Joko Widodo of Indonesia visited the Natunas. “There is no bargaining when it comes to our sovereignty,” Mr. Joko said. Earlier, Indonesian fighter jets buzzed the sky, while warships patrolled the seas. But the day after Mr. Joko left the Natunas, the Chinese showed up again. Its fishing fleet, backed by the coast guard, took days to leave the area, local officials and fishers said. The Fisheries Ministry denied that any such incident had taken place. “Little by little, I think the Chinese will take the Indonesian sea, the Philippine Sea, the Vietnamese sea,” said Wandarman, a fisherman in the Natunas. “They are hungry: oil, natural gas, and lots and lots of fish.” The Chinese fishers are helping feed the country’s growing appetite for seafood by trawling the South China Sea. But they are also serving a broader purpose. “Beijing wants Chinese fishers to operate here,” said Ryan Martinson, an assistant professor at the China Maritime Studies Institute at the U.S. Naval War College, “because their presence helps to embody China’s maritime claims.”NY Times
01 April 2020||Tehran,||Iran reports 141 deaths, raising total to 2,898||Iran said on Tuesday 141 more people have died from the novel coronavirus, raising the official toll in one of the world’s worst-affected countries to 2,898. Health ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour said 3,111 new infections have been confirmed over the past 24 hours, bringing the total to 44,606. He said 3,703 of those hospitalised are in a critical condition and 14,656 have recovered. Iran has been scrambling to contain the COVID-19 outbreak since it reported its first cases on February 19. After weeks of refraining from imposing a lockdown or quarantine measures, Tehran decided last Wednesday to ban all intercity travel until at least April 8. The government has repeatedly urged Iranians to stay at home. President Hassan Rouhani renewed those warnings on Tuesday as the climax of the two-week Persian New Year holiday nears. He said authorities would close parks across the country on Wednesday, in a move that effectively blocks the family picnics that traditionally mark the 13th day of holiday. Mr. Rouhani called on people to “leave this tradition for some other time” and said violators would be fined. The authorities have also stopped the print editions of all Iranian media until at least April 8, state news agency IRNA reported.
01 April 2020||Paris,||Study shows middle-age COVID-19 mortality risk||Middle-aged people, and not just the elderly, have a dramatically higher risk of dying or developing serious illness from COVID-19, says a study published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases journal. Researchers from Britain analysed more than 3,600 confirmed COVID-19 cases as well as data from hundreds of passengers repatriated from Wuhan. They found that age was a key determining factor in serious infections, with nearly one in five over-80s requiring hospitalisation, compared to around 1% among people under 30. Taking into account estimates of the number of cases that may not have been clinically confirmed — that is, mild or asymptomatic infections — the data showed the hospitalisation rate of patients in their fifties was 8.2%. It estimated that the mortality rate from confirmed cases in China was 1.38%. The Lancet study showed that 18.4% of patients in their 80s were hospitalised in China. This compared to 4.3% for 40 to 49-year-olds and roughly 1% for people in their 20s. “There might be outlying cases that get a lot of media attention, but our analysis very clearly shows that at aged 50 and over, hospitalisation is much more likely than in those under 50, and a greater proportion of cases are likely to be fatal,” said Azra Ghani, a co-author of the study.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Taliban team in Kabul to monitor prisoner release||A three-member Taliban technical team arrived on Tuesday in the Afghan capital to monitor the release of their prisoners as part of a peace deal signed by the Taliban and the U.S., a spokesman for the insurgent group said. Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid confirmed the team’s arrival in a tweet. It marked the first time a Taliban delegation has been in Kabul since the group was driven out by the U.S.-led coalition in November 2001. On Monday, Jawed Faisal, spokesman for the Afghan National Security Adviser’s office, said Afghan officials and the Taliban agreed during a video conference that the insurgent group should send a technical team to Kabul for discussions on the release of Taliban prisoners. The International Committee of the Red Cross agreed to assist the team in getting to Kabul. The prisoner release is part of a peace deal signed last month by the Taliban and U.S. that calls for the government’s release of 5,000 Taliban and the Taliban’s release of 1,000 government personnel and Afghan troops. The peace deal calls for the eventual withdrawal of all 13,000 U.S. soldiers from Afghanistan in exchange for guarantees from the Taliban that they will fight other militant groups
01 April 2020||Mandalay,||Myanmar scribe hit with terror charges||A Myanmar journalist faces up to life in prison for publishing an interview with a rebel group operating in the country's restive Rakhine state a week after the insurgents were classified as a terrorist organisation. A March 27 interview with a top representative of Arakan Army, a group seeking greater autonomy for Rakhine people, published by Voice of Myanmar led to the detention of editor-in-chief Nay Myo Lin, who was brought to court on terrorism charges on Tuesday. The government had classified the insurgents as a “terrorist group”.
01 April 2020||Jakarta,||Indonesia declares state of emergency||Indonesia on Tuesday declared a state of emergency as COVID-19 deaths in the world’s fourth most populous country jumped again. However, he has resisted calls for a nationwide lockdown. President Joko Widodo has been heavily criticised for not imposing lockdowns in major cities, including the capital Jakarta, home to about 30 million people. He announced $1.5 billion in beefed-up social assistance and subsidies for low-income workers. On Tuesday, 136 people died after contracting the virus, with 1,528 confirmed cases of infection.
01 April 2020||Moscow,||Doctor who met Putin tests positive||Denis Protsenko, the head of Moscow's main coronavirus hospital who met with President Vladimir Putin a week ago has tested positive, he said on Tuesday, as the Kremlin said the Russian leader's health was fine.
01 April 2020||Brussels,||12-year-old dies in Belgium||A 12-year-old girl infected with COVID-19 has died in Belgium, health officials said on Tuesday. Fatality at such a young age “is a very rare occurrence,” said government spokesman Dr Emmanuel Andre,
01 April 2020||Beijing,||China state media reports 19 people killed in forest fire||Nineteen people have died while fighting a raging forest fire in Sichuan province and hundreds of reinforcements were sent to fight the blaze and evacuate nearby residents, state media reported on Tuesday.AP
01 April 2020||Stockholm,||Stockholm, March 31, 2020 (AFP) -||Pakistani journalist Sajid Hussain, who was in exile in Sweden, has been missing for nearly a month, stoking fears that his disappearance is tied to his reporting on Balochistan, a press rights group said on Tuesday.AFP
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||An eye each on containment and welfare||The COVID-19 pandemic has spread around the world — 204 countries/regions/territories so far. In India, the first case was reported from Kerala on January 30, 2020. The first case in Tamil Nadu was reported on March 7 —a person in Kancheepuram who had travelled abroad. Realising the nature of this virus quite early on and even when this dreaded infection was confined to one country alone, in January 2020, I directed the State Health Department to screen all the international passengers who had arrived in the State. To curtail community spread, Amma’s [Jayalalithaa’s] government wasted no time in closing down educational institutions and all high-risk areas such as big commercial complexes, malls, theatres, places of worship and so on, on March 15. When positive cases began showing up in the neighbouring States, I announced the closure of the State’s borders as well, again on March 15. The Tamil Nadu government made a life-saving decision on March 24, which was announced by me in the Legislative Assembly — of a complete ‘lockdown’ and the imposition of Section 144 of the Code Of Criminal Procedure throughout the State till March 31. Our call for social distancing was further strengthened when the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India made the announcement of a national-level lockdown till April 14, 2020 on the same evening which was intended to break the infection chain. The participation by 1.3 billion Indians in this national exercise once again proves our unity in diversity.  Augmenting infrastructure Tamil Nadu shares its boundary with States which reported COVID-19 positive cases in the early days of infection in India. The four international airports and four major ports in the State also compounded the risk of infection in the State. But the Tamil Nadu government was ready and around 2.09 lakh international passengers have been screened besides screening data obtained from the Immigration Department on persons who are natives of Tamil Nadu but who have entered the country through an airport other than Chennai. As a result of this screening, around 43,537 people are under home quarantine and observation as on date for a period of 28 days. The houses of this high-risk category have been identified and stickers were pasted in front of their residences. They are being monitored through audio/video calls made from a dedicated district control room by doctors posted there round the clock. They have also been given medical advice and counselling. Since Tamil Nadu is right now transiting to Stage II of COVID-19 transmission, the State government has in place a detailed ‘Local Containment Plan’ of conducting door-to-door surveillance in the zones where positive cases have been identified. People who are identified through active surveillance will be facility quarantined. Passive surveillance to trace the contacts of positive persons outside the zone is also being undertaken in parallel. The first exclusive block to treat COVID-19 patients has been set up at Chennai’s Omandurar Government Medical College Hospital, with a capacity of 500 beds; Rs. 10 crore has also been allocated for the required medical equipment. There are also dedicated COVID-19 hospitals in each district to treat confirmed cases. All medical college hospitals and district headquarters hospitals have been designated as hospitals for the management of suspected patients. Quarantine facilities have also been arranged for passengers arriving from affected countries. These are at Poonamallee, Madurai, Coimbatore and Tiruchi, which are close to all four international airports in the State. The Health Department has earmarked about 17,000 beds in isolation wards; 3,018 of those are equipped with ventilator facilities. I have also ensured the scaling up of the procurement of essential medical equipment, protective gear for health workers, and drugs and medicines. The Health Department has managed to establish 17 COVID-19 testing laboratories to cover all the regions of the State. I am personally reviewing and monitoring these steps. I have extended full support to all frontline workers (doctors, nurses, para-medical staff and sanitary workers) who are working round the clock. A decision has been made to recruit 530 doctors, 1,000 nurses and 1,508 lab technicians to augment the robust medical team already in place. Ambulance services have also been increased, by 200. The challenges in providing adequate masks and other personal protective equipment for health-care workers are being met. I have advised the District Collectors to involve self-help group members to manufacture triple-layered masks and hand sanitisers to augment supply. Highly populated and crowded areas, market places, bus stands, other public places and dwelling areas are being disinfected regularly. Thermal screening is being done in public places and government offices. Besides creating awareness on frequent hand washing through advertisements, hand washing and sanitising platforms have been installed in places of public gathering. I have announced an additional one month’s salary in recognition of the untiring work by frontline health workers. Addressing fundamentals The national lockdown will have a telling impact on the poorest and daily-wage workers in the unorganised sector. An immediate and comprehensive relief package of Rs. 3,280 crore has been announced. All rice card holders will receive rice, sugar, dhal and edible oil free for April along with Rs. 1,000 each. Besides, as a mark of addressing their undue hardship, workers in the unorganised sector including auto-rickshaw drivers will get 15 kg rice, 1 kg dhal, 1 kg oil free and Rs. 1,000 each. Pavement vendors will get an extra Rs. 1,000 each. Also, migrant workers from other States will receive the commodities in equal measure. For those migrant labourers who are without shelter, community halls/marriage halls are being utilised, where hot, nutritious cooked food is being provided, apart from medical facilities. The nationally acclaimed State initiative, “Amma Canteens”, which provide meals at subsidised rates, will serve the needy. Keeping in mind the well-being of Anganwadi children, dry ration for 15 days is being provided in advance to families to meet nutritional requirements. Those under isolation are also provided with nutritious and vitamin-rich food. Senior citizens, who are being served by Anganwadi centres, will be provided food at their places of stay. I have announced an additional two days wages to cover those rural households which are dependent on their employment under MGNREGA for their livelihood. Around 1.5 lakh pregnant women who are due in the next 60 days are under close monitoring. Necessary steps have been taken to provide medicines for the next two months to patients with hypertension, diabetes mellitus, HIV and TB. Ensuring physical distancing The failure of many advanced countries in handling the pandemic has given us enough wisdom not to take the lockdown lightly. Since India has a large number of densely populated urban areas, the world is watching us to know how we are going to tackle the deadly virus. However, to make this happen, the singular message of social distancing should percolate to every individual citizen. Several effective communication materials have been circulated in the media and displayed in all the public places highlighting the necessity of isolation and staying at home. The State government has a dedicated website (https://stopcorona.tn.gov.in/) to pass on verified and valuable messages. Severe legal action is being taken against violators and those spreading rumours on the spread of the infection and its treatment. There are several initiatives to increase the number of field functionaries to create awareness and to monitor the home quarantine individuals; as on date, around 38,809 volunteers have registered themselves and the count is increasing every day.  For active enforcement of the lockdown and to address the important issues , we have constituted 11 co-ordination teams with senior-level IAS officers. I have also constituted a State-level task force headed by Chief Secretary to monitor the preventive measures. Using video-conferencing, we are frequently reviewing the District Collectors for effective and timely implementation of all the steps. With all the schools, colleges, shopping malls, and cinema theatres closed, adequate supply of daily basic necessities including groceries, agricultural products, milk and medicines are being ensured. Petrol bunks will operate till 2.30 p.m. Only parcel services are being allowed from restaurants. Call centres are operating 24x7 to offer assistance. I have also set up a ‘Crisis Management Committee’ in all districts under the chairmanship of District Collectors, with representatives from the Chambers of Commerce, private hospitals, NGOs and other stakeholders. I have directed all the Ministers to coordinate prevention and treatment aspects in the districts. Energising the economy It is the responsibility of State governments to ensure the welfare of the poor and the vulnerable. Like many State governments, Tamil Nadu too has also announced relief packages. The Centre has supported these measures with its Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana relief package. The timely intervention of the Reserve Bank of India in announcing liquidity and interest rate reduction measures will also help the economy. However, the economic impact of this unprecedented lockdown is likely to be very severe and State governments will suffer substantial reductions in tax and revenue receipts. A lot of measures will have to be taken to revive economic growth and to stimulate consumption and investment demand. The Centre should help the States continuously in this regard. To overcome this crisis, I have therefore written to the Prime Minister, requesting the Centre to allocate a special grant of Rs. 1-lakh crore to all the States including Rs. 9,000 crore to Tamil Nadu; relax, as a one-time measure, the fiscal deficit norm of 3% of GSDP for 2019-2020 and 2020-2021 and permit, during 2020-21, additional borrowing of 33% above the previous year’s level. At this juncture, our priority is to fully focus on the eradication of the pandemic. After achieving this primary goal, I hope the country as a whole will join hands and provide the necessary thrust to the economy. Edappadi K. Palaniswami is the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A pandemic in an unequal India||If the COVID-19 pandemic lashes India with severity, it will not be just the middle class who will be affected. India’s impoverished millions are likely to overwhelmingly bear the brunt of the suffering which will ensue. The privileged Indian has been comfortable for too long with some of the most unconscionable inequalities in the planet. But with the pandemic, each of these fractures can decimate the survival probabilities and fragile livelihoods of the poor. The measures adopted by the government to stymie the progress of the virus were first to introduce a ‘work from home’ measure, to urge people to wash their hands frequently, physical distancing, and then an unprecedented 21-day lockdown. Deepening a social divide Public health experts are divided about whether this lockdown was absolutely necessary and indeed implementable. It should have been clear that a total lockdown was possible only for the rich and the middle class with assured incomes during the period, homes with spaces for distancing, health insurance and running water supply. But how can we justify the choice of a strategy which throws the dispossessed, who lack all of the above, to both hunger and infection? When ordering the lockdown, did the government not remember the millions of informal workers and destitute people who would have no work if they stayed home, many of them circular migrants, estimated at 100 million? These include casual daily-wage workers; self-employed people such as rag-pickers, rickshaw pullers and street vendors; and people forced to survive by alms. Many among them are people whose earnings each day barely suffice to enable them to eat and feed their families. Does the government expect them to voluntarily starve and let their children die to prevent the spread of the infection? This crisis of hunger is even more dire for older people without caregivers, and persons with disability. The government also seems to be in amnesia about hundreds of thousands of children, women and men in every city whose only home is the pavement or the dirt patches under bridges.  Recorded messages on our phones urge us to wash our hands regularly. We forget, however, that millions live in shanties without water supply, and they buy a pot of water, sometimes for a fifth of their day’s earnings (irregular incomes which are further decimated by the lockdown). Regular cleanliness is a remote luxury beyond their means. We are also advised ‘social distancing’ (physical distancing) and ‘self-isolation’. How is this feasible for large extended families who crowd into narrow single rooms in slums and working-class tenements? Or for the homeless people who have no option except to sleep in overcrowded unsanitary government shelters, veritable breeding centres for infections? Or for destitute people in beggars’ homes? Indeed, prisoners in overcrowded jails? And I cannot forget those confined to detention centres in Assam, which are jails within jails. And then consider the capacity of the health system to deal with the pandemic if (or when) it actually submerges India. India’s investments in public health are among the lowest in the world, and most cities lack any kind of public primary health services. A Jan Swasthya Abhiyan estimate is that a district hospital serving a population of two million may have to serve 20,000 patients, but they are bereft of the beds, personnel and resources to do this. Few have a single ventilator. India’s rich and middle-classes have opted out of public health completely, leaving the poor with unconscionably meagre services. The irony is that a pandemic has been brought into India by people who can afford plane tickets, but while they will buy private health services, the virus will devastate the poor who they infect and who have little access to health care. The Union government has announced a package, including additional 5 kg grain a month for the next three months under the PDS; Rs. 500 per month for the next three months for women holding Jan-Dhan Yojana accounts; three months’ pension in advance to nearly three crore widows, senior citizens and the differently-abled; and Rs. 2,000 more for MGNREGA workers. If you and I were told that we have to survive on just two days’ salary and 5 kg grain a month, with no health insurance, how would the future look? The visuals of thousands of migrants, suddenly left with no food and work, walking to their homes hundreds of miles away, dodging the police, until the States were ordered to seal their borders, showed clearly that the lockdown is ineffective. What must be done Most of the official strategies place the responsibility on the citizen, rather than the state, to fight the pandemic. The state did too little in the months it got before the pandemic reached India for expanding greatly its health infrastructure for testing and treatment. This includes planning operations for food and work; security for the poor; for safe transportation of the poor to their homes; and for special protection for the aged, the disabled, children without care and the destitute. For two months, every household in the informal economy, rural and urban, should be given the equivalent of 25 days’ minimum wages a month until the lockdown continues, and for two months beyond this. Pensions must be doubled and home-delivered in cash. There should be free water tankers supplying water in slum shanties throughout the working days. Governments must double PDS entitlements, which includes protein-rich pulses, and distribute these free at doorsteps. In addition, for homeless children and adults, and single migrants, it is urgent to supply cooked food to all who seek it, and to deliver packed food to the aged and the disabled in their homes using the services of community youth volunteers. To ensure jails are safer, all prison undertrial prisoners, except those charged with the gravest crimes, should be released. Likewise, all those convicted for petty crimes. All residents of beggars’ homes, women’s rescue centres and detention centres should be freed forthwith. India must immediately commit 3% of its GDP for public spending on health services, with the focus on free and universal primary and secondary health care. But since the need is immediate, authorities should follow the example of Spain and New Zealand and nationalise private health care. An ordinance should be passed immediately that no patient should be turned away or charged in any private hospital for diagnosis or treatment of symptoms which could be of COVID-19. While one part of the population enjoys work and nutritional security, health insurance and housing of globally acceptable standards, others survive at the edge of unprotected and uncertain work, abysmal housing without clean water and sanitation, and no assured public health care. Can we resolve to correct this in post-COVID India? Can we at least now make the country more kind, just and equal? Harsh Mander is a human rights worker, writer and teacher
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Beyond social distancing to fight COVID-19||I agree with Eric Klinenberg’s recent submission to The New York Times that social distancing, advocated by health authorities worldwide, as a means of combating the spread of the coronavirus, can only be a part of firefighting. The rapid worldwide spread of COVID-19 has a lot to do with the fallout of globalisation, including the travel industry, tourism and the neoliberal attack on universal health care. Moreover, unfettered promotion of social distancing can reinforce existing social prejudices driven by different forms of social exclusion. The Korea example In illustrating how social distancing actually works in the periphery, I will draw from a few examples from corona-affected countries. The COVID-19 epidemic in South Korea started with the controversial Shincheonji Church of Jesus with a personality cult centred around 88-year-old Lee Man-hee, identified as a messianic saviour. This cult facilitated the transmission of the disease from Wuhan to South Korea because of frequent travel among its followers. Consequently, more than half of all COVID-19 patients at the onset of the epidemic belonged to this religious movement, which accounted for less than 1% of the Korean population. Social isolation among new immigrants in Korean cities was incidentally a major incentive for people to join this cult. In this context social distancing was not popular among them due to the simple reason that the movement served as an extended family for many of its members. In this instance, social distancing once successfully introduced may have actually served to contain the epidemic, but it also further stigmatised a religious group already in the margins of Korean society, interfering with disease containment. Iran became a leading COVID-19 hot spot in West Asia due to a unique set of circumstances. It was compelled to develop ties with China due to economic sanctions imposed by U.S.-led western countries. An Iranian trader who made a business trip to Wuhan was reportedly the very first COVID-19 patient in Iran. The initial hub of disease transmission in Iran was Qom, a popular pilgrimage centre for Shiite Muslims. The next centre was the Iranian Parliament, having strong ties with Qom, the spiritual hub of Iranian society. As many as 23 parliamentarians, comprising 8% of all MPs, were infected with the disease by March 3. Social distancing was contrary to popular forms of social greeting in Iran particularly among the ruling elite. In any case the coronavirus was introduced in Iran through globalisation-triggered international alignment and incubated through political and religious processes. Spread in Sri Lanka The onset of the COVID-19 epidemic in India and Sri Lanka has a lot to do with tourism and labour migration, processes intimately connected with globalisation. Both in India and Sri Lanka, the first cases were reported among foreign tourists from Italy and China, respectively. The tour guides who travelled with the respective tourists and their contacts became the first set of local people exposed to the disease triggering local transmissions. Both Sri Lanka and Kerala in India have large portions of their labour force employed overseas. Returnees from these overseas destinations have contributed to the upsurge in the COVID-19 epidemic in South Asian countries. For instance, among 18 conformed COVID-19 patients in Sri Lanka by March 15 as many as 11 (61%) were Sri Lankan returnees from Italy, a popular destination for Sri Lankan migrant workers from the 1990s. Thus, imported cases and those directly exposed to them comprise over 90% of all COVID-19 cases detected in Sri Lanka as of March 22. Roughly about 20.5% of confirmed cases are connected with tourism. Nearly 60% of all cases are among Sri Lankan workers returning from abroad and their contacts indicating that exposure to the disease through overseas employment has triggered the epidemic in Sri Lanka. Considering that nearly 50% of the entire caseload in Sri Lanka is among workers returning from Italy, it is important to note that many Sri Lankan workers in Italy work as live-in care givers for elderly people. The spurt of cases of Indian origin lately has led to identification of Chennai as a high risk region in Sri Lanka. Thus, the COVID-19 pandemic can be seen as a fallout of globalisation, particularly in the global South. The quarantine and social distancing processes may not be totally effective in so far as these workers and their families are often in between two states, experiencing difficulties at both ends. The workers returning from Italy and South Korea were the first to be sent to quarantine centres in Batticaloa and Kandakadu from March 10. Initially, they resented the mandatory two-week quarantine in a remote location. Both migrant workers and tourist guides already experience discrimination of various kinds because of their occupations and the risks involved. A military style lockdown though inevitable given the circumstances is likely to reinforce the existing prejudices. This clearly shows that we need to think beyond social distancing and address problems of the fallout from globalisation in dealing with the pandemic in the global South. It appears as if the much publicised problems of a run-away world have been finally crystallised in this deadly global epidemic. Kalinga Tudor Silva is Professor of Sociology at University of Peradeniya. E-mail: kalingatudorsilva@gmail.com
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The cost of a cure for COVID-19||The World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak a pandemic. However, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) declared COVID-19 an orphan disease, or a rare disease. Which of these statements is true? As of March 23, it seemed both. COVID-19 and the Orphan Drug Act In the U.S., under the Orphan Drug Act, 1983, companies are provided incentives to develop therapies, or orphan drugs, for rare diseases. The idea is that without these incentives, companies would find it difficult to recoup their R&D costs given the small number of people suffering from the rare disease. The Act allows seven years of market exclusivity and financial incentives to innovators of these drugs. As a result, orphan drugs are often exorbitantly priced. Privileges under the Act may be conferred to companies for drugs to treat a disease that affect less than 200,000 people in the U.S., or for a disease that affects more than 200,000 people but for which there is no hope of recouping R&D costs. Interestingly, according to the regulations for revocation, if the number of people suffering from the disease exceeds 200,000 after designation but before approval, this would not be a ground for revocation. In an egregious misuse of the Act, the FDA granted Gilead Sciences orphan drug status for its antiviral drug, Remdesivir, on March 23. Originally developed to treat Ebola but found ineffective, the drug is now being tested for treating COVID-19. Clinical trials are already in Phase III. But in an interesting turn of events, on March 25 Gilead announced that it had submitted a request to the FDA to rescind its designation for Remdesivir. It alluded to the fact that abbreviated trials were behind the initial designation, though it is well known that there are other avenues for abbreviated trials in such circumstances. The question that remains is, how did the Act apply to a potential drug for COVID-19, which is anything but a rare disease, with 800,049 confirmed cases across the world? How does the U.S. FDA justify conferring the status of an orphan drug on a therapy designed to treat COVID-19? Sure, as of March 25, the U.S. had 54,941 people suffering from the disease. But this is simply a technicality. Congressional findings for the Act state that the purpose of the legislation is to provide financial incentives for drugs that may reasonably expect to generate relatively small sales. Is it legal to apply the benefits of a statute to something entirely outside its stated objective and purpose? The simple answer is no. Gilead is reported to have said that it intends to make the drug accessible and affordable around the globe. However, Gilead’s exorbitant pricing of its drug to treat hepatitis C and its drug to treat HIV attracted attention in the past. Yet in 2017, Gilead placed its HIV therapy in the Medicines Patent Pool, a move that would make the medicine more accessible. For Remdesivir, Gilead’s suspension of its “compassionate use” programme raised alarm bells. The programme was reinstated for only children and pregnant women; Gilead said it cannot process “the overwhelming number of applications”. Gilead also stated that it had transitioned to an “expanded access” programme, for emergency use in severely ill patients. Public apprehension is somewhat justified, not least of all on account of the FDA’s conduct in conveniently interpreting a statute to benefit big pharma during a pandemic. Impact on the U.S. and India So, what would have been the impact of this orphan drug status for the U.S., given the status of its patents? Patents are open to challenge. Had Gilead not sought that orphan drug status be rescinded, generic manufacturers would not have been able to market a drug to treat COVID-19 with the same active ingredient till the seven-year period of market exclusivity had ended. This would have given Gilead free rein on pricing and licensing which would have had disastrous consequences on the healthcare system. What does this mean for India? While the orphan drug status of Remdesivir would have no impact on India, Gilead Sciences does hold a patent in India, which it is likely to claim for this use. As far as its patent rights are concerned, Indian law permits the government to issue a compulsory licence in certain circumstances of a public health crisis under Section 92 of the Patents Act. This would allow third parties to manufacture a patented drug without permission of the patent holder. Indian companies have already expressed their capability to manufacture the drug. The firepower under this provision has never been deployed before. If the government does not exercise its powers to issue a compulsory license if required, Indian manufacturers would not be able to manufacture generics (without challenging the patent). This would leave the people vulnerable to Gilead’s pricing policies and licensing conditions, should its drug be successful. Shyel Trehan practises in the Delhi High Court and the Supreme Court of India
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Weaker, later||Sport at its best is a glorious indulgence that blends adrenaline rush, exultant joy and mind-numbing grief both for the athlete and the expectant fan. However, in its worst form, sport is war minus the shooting while the cause of nationhood whips up jingoistic passions. But whatever be its intrinsic nature governed by context and history, sport can never exist in a vacuum and it needs a functional society to serve as its bedrock. In these distraught times of the pandemic and the resultant social distancing, basic survival takes precedence over moving limbs and the frenzied applause from a thrilled audience. And it was no surprise that sports events have been postponed or cancelled and the latest to face a disruption in its schedule is the Olympics. Football continues to be the beautiful game but the Olympics remains the world’s greatest congregation adhering to its eternal ‘faster, higher, stronger’ motto. Originally slated for a July 24 to August 9 slot at Tokyo this year, the high-voltage event got derailed once the coronavirus took flight from Wuhan’s wet market and coursed through the veins of an inter-connected globe. Initially, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and host Japan were in denial and Australia and Canada threatened to boycott the event before better sense prevailed and the Olympics was pushed to a July 23 start, next year. A postponement is a first in the chequered history of the modern Olympics since its inception at Athens in 1896. But worse has happened, especially the cancellations, during 1916, 1940 and 1944, when the World Wars drew vicious lines of hate. There were also the Cold War years when the United States and its allies boycotted the Moscow Games in 1980 and the erstwhile Union of Soviet Socialist Republics retaliated along with the Eastern Bloc by skipping the 1984 Olympics at Los Angeles. The most heart-rending was the ‘Munich Massacre’ during the 1972 edition in then West Germany when a Palestinian terrorist group, Black September, killed 11 members of Israel’s squad. Seen through that prism of a bloodied past, the latest postponement seems a mere quibble. IOC president Thomas Bach and Tokyo 2020 president Yoshiro Mori concurred that fresh logistics had to be worked out and ideally a year’s preparation was mandatory. Initially estimated to cost about $28 billion, a delayed Olympics will have to factor inflation and a shrinking economy coping with a pandemic. Over the next 12 months, it is hoped the virus will wane and a semblance of normalcy will set the stage for the Olympics. Sport then would be a welcome balm. But for now, universal health is the overriding priority.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Step up||With any big crisis comes great responsibility. In this time of a pandemic, while there is extensive, proven value in adopting recommended personal hygiene standards, maintaining physical distance, and demanding the States and Centre provide adequate facilities for testing and treatment for the ill, it is also essential to leave that word on the top of the pile — Responsibility. Every public health emergency requires community recognition that this is an extraordinary set of circumstances requiring far-from-ordinary responses. A reasonable restriction on citizens’ rights may come into play on invoking provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act. State police are already slapping cases on violators of the lockdown conditions; action is also being taken on those who violate quarantine. However, the strongest weapon that one can unleash against this pandemic is with every individual. The time to say this nicely is over. It is time to insist that every individual respond responsibly during this time: To inform authorities of relevant history of travel, stay in quarantine even if asymptomatic, follow all other protocols. Keeping health authorities in the loop could make the difference between life and death. Individuals volunteering information will help the Central and State governments narrow down on the cluster cases centred around the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Nizamuddin, Delhi. The spread of cases from this one spot, which reportedly had several foreign nationals who later tested positive, and where six among those who attended died, has emerged as a key milestone in India’s management of the epidemic. The conference was held on March 13, more than a week before the Sunday lockdown. Since then, people from the conference moved on, back home, and several, including Indonesian nationals who were present at Nizamuddin, have tested positive. While the State has deployed ‘hotspot’ containment strategies in ground zero in Delhi, it is the people who have spread out in the community that are absolutely crucial, over the next few days, to shaping one stretch of the course of the epidemic in India. While it is a massive exercise to track down all the attendees (it is now believed that thousands of people were present) and each of their contacts, it must still be done. Some States have already expressed being thwarted, without co-operation from the participants, and their close contacts. Unfortunately, this may leave the job half done, or undone, leading to disastrous consequences. It is indeed a Herculean task, and may even be considered impossible, unless those who went for the meeting in Delhi step up themselves, engage with health authorities, submit themselves to a test, and remain under quarantine for the prescribed period. Humanitarian crises such as pandemics invoke the worst among men and women, but also their best. The latter is eminently possible, as long as people believe that the enemy is the pandemic, and act responsibly.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Welcomed then, stigmatised now||Over a fortnight ago, an Italian tourist at Wagamon, a beautiful hill town in Kerala’s Idukki district, reportedly had to spend a night in a cemetery attached to a church. The reason? He had been denied a room in all the hotels and resorts in the area. At the time, government authorities had told hoteliers not to let in foreigners, particularly those from high-risk countries such as Italy, France, China and Iran. If they did, the hotels/ resorts were told to keep the tourists in isolation for a fortnight. In another town, Munnar, in the same district, a British tourist tested positive for COVID-19 on March 15. In a moment of high drama, the individual, along with a group of British tourists, “escaped” from the Munnar resort and boarded a plane at Kochi that was bound for Dubai. The ‘positive’ result came as the tourist was boarding the plane. The authorities got all the passengers offloaded, the flight’s departure was delayed by a few hours, and the British tourist group was kept isolated in a hotel. Briefly, there was even talk of shutting down the airport for fear of a virus outbreak. Viewed with suspicion Shocked by the news, Munnar imposed a lockdown the following day. The people in the town, which attracts thousands of foreigners during the tourist season, started to view every foreigner with suspicion. In Kochi, a foreign couple was turned out of a restaurant by fellow diners. In Kannur district, a French-Italian pair had to starve for a couple of days as restaurants refused to serve them. The same story played out in many places in Kerala, a State which otherwise prides itself on being extremely tourist-friendly. Such incidents were reported from other parts of the country as well. A Venezuelan tourist operator, Ma Dagnino, said: “All over India, foreigners began to be seen as a threat.” She said over a WhatsApp message: “If guests are treated like outcastes, and refused the most basic of courtesies, it is India itself that will be the most profoundly hurt.” COVID-19 is a huge threat to India and it’s natural that people will panic. But governments and the media need to be mindful that their decisions and reports, respectively, don’t evoke knee-jerk reactions from the people. Creating panic might serve to keep people on their toes in the initial stages, but this only becomes counterproductive later. When there is hype and panic, people view foreigners as enemies of the people and want them out of the country. In tourism-reliant States like Kerala, the economic cost of this kind of behaviour will be massive. The government’s steps against the virus should not lead to the kind of scare and stigma that were the outcomes of the anti-HIV/AIDS campaign during the early stages of the epidemic in India. Back then, some doctors refused to examine HIV/AIDS patients, and paramedics sent the afflicted people out of hospitals. The infection caused extensive social stigma and ostracism. For a sensitive campaign While working for this newspaper, I had reported an incident which showed how society viewed HIV/AIDS once. In 1996, in a village in Kerala’s Malappuram district, a group of men led by a school headmaster rounded up two young women claiming that they had been “spreading AIDS” in the village. The group thrashed the women and got their heads shaved. It was a campaign focusing on infusing fear and loathing against AIDS patients that resulted in such a response. The incident created immediate reactions and caused a drastic rethink on the way the anti-HIV campaign was being run in Kerala. “Please stop infusing fear among your citizens,” was Ma Dagnino's message to the government. “Don’t trash your own country by exchanging kindness for fear.” K.P.M. Basheer, a former journalist with The Hindu, is the CEO of a resort at Munnar
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Jyoti Basu shot at in Patna.||Mr. Jyoti Basu, Marxist leader and former Deputy Chief Minister of West Bengal, escaped with a minor injury on his little finger after an unknown assailant had fired at him at Patna Railway Junction this morning. But the bullet killed Mr. Ali Imam, a Life Insurance Corporation employee. Police announced that they had taken into custody one Surendra Prasad on suspicion. On interrogation by Mr. R. Sinha, Inspector-General of Police, and Mr. Robi Roy, Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Prasad is reported to have said that he had come to Patna on an errand in a self-driven car with a West Bengal number plate. An earlier report that the driver of the car, which has also been seized, was some other person and had not been taken into custody was not confirmed by the police who said only Surendra Prasad had been arrested. As the assailant’s hand shook as he drew the revolver, he could not take proper aim at Mr. Basu, according to eye witnesses. Quickly recovering from the initial shock, Mr. Basu was seen pointing a finger and heard shouting “catch him, catch him (assailant). I am alright.”
01 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Bricks fall apart for construction sector||The construction industry, which generally gets busy in the January to March quarter, has been severely impacted by the spread of COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown, industry executives said. From the time the WHO and Government of India declared the outbreak a pandemic, the construction industry experienced work disruptions and gradual lockdowns of its operations, said a spokesman for the Shapoorji Pallonji Group, one of India’s largest construction companies. “After the lockdowns were declared, all site activities in Mumbai and the rest of Maharashtra have come to a grinding halt. This includes government as well as private projects,” the spokesperson said. “Material supplies have stopped, and key subcontractors were unable to arrange resources for construction activities. All mobilised resources and plant and machinery are idling. Construction programmes have also been impacted due to these work stoppages,” he added. Work involving imported items and foreign construction crews have also been impacted. The COVID-19 crisis will seriously impact revenues of construction companies and almost all of them will face huge financial losses in the months to come, company officials said. “The financial stress upon the construction sector is expected to worsen over the coming year. It is too early to estimate the full financial impact of the COVID-19 crisis,” they added. “Even after the crisis is contained and work resumes, hopefully by end of April 2020, it would take another 7-8 months for things to return to normal,” the Shapoorji Pallonji company spokesperson said. “Moreover, the upcoming monsoon will additionally and severely obstruct construction works June 2020 onwards,” the spokesperson added.  ‘Unprecedented crisis’ Srini Srinivasan, MD, India, Project Management Institute (PMI) said, “As the COVID-19 spread escalated in China in early January, it became evident that we are facing an unprecedented crisis.” “We do expect a slowdown in the April-June quarter. However, if COVID-19 is controlled by the end of the second quarter, we will see a rebound in the third and fourth quarters for PMI,” he said. Housing slump The pandemic has already had a considerable impact on the Indian housing sector. Residential sales saw a 42% drop in the first quarter of 2020, compared to a year earlier, latest data from Anarock Property Consultants showed. “In the first quarter of 2020, residential sales in the top 7 cities stood at 45,200 units, against 78,510 units a year ago. On a quarter-on-quarter basis, housing sales fell 24%,” Anarock chairman Anju Puri said. “Meanwhile, new launches too fell by 42% annually from 70,480 units in Q1 2019 to approximately 41,200 in Q1 2020. Quarter-on-quarter supply also declined by approximately 21%,” he added.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Consumers find buying goods from stores easier than online, says survey||A majority of consumers have been able to buy essential goods from their local retailers during the ongoing lockdown as against from e-commerce platforms, according to a survey by online social community platform LocalCircles. About 55% of the respondents in the survey said they were still unable to get most essential goods via e-commerce platforms as against 38% who stated that they were unable to buy these from their local retail stores. The survey, between March 30 and 31, which received 17,048 responses from consumers located in 178 districts across the country, however, showed that the overall situation in terms of access to essential goods had improved from an earlier survey on March 27-28. That survey had showed 59% of those who ordered essential goods via an e-commerce app could not receive them, while 40% of those who went to local retail stores could not get most of the essential goods that they had wanted. LocalCircles noted that the e-commerce industry was still facing a challenge in obtaining curfew passes for delivery personnel in many parts of the country. In addition, availability of workforce was also a hurdle for warehousing and delivery, as migrant labourers were moving back to their hometowns. “As a result, most e-commerce platforms are still not accepting orders for essential goods in most cities and if an order is accepted, long fulfilment times of 5-6 days (versus 1-2 days in normal circumstances) is being promised to consumers. Latest feedback from consumers is also indicating that some platforms are doing last minute cancellations on 25-50% of the items ordered,” it said in a statement.
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||IndusInd deposit base drops up to 11%||IndusInd Bank has reported a reduction in deposits by up to 11% after the Yes Bank crisis. In a call with analysts on Monday, the bank said the total deposit base is lower by 10-11%. Citing reasons for the drop, IndusInd Bank said, “Almost two-thirds of the reduction is on account of government-related accounts — this is largely related to the general private sector bank stance. This will also result in a lower CASA ratio, but reduce our dependency on this category for deposits in future.” The bank has also said there was some reduction in wholesale deposits, which could possibly be because of the fall in stock price. Some private banks were seeing an erosion in deposit base after Yes Bank was put under a moratorium on March 5. The trend had continued even after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) clarified on several occasions in the last one month that deposits in Indian banks were safe. The central bank had also urged the State governments not to transfer their deposits out of private sector banks and clarified that apprehensions about the safety of deposits in private lenders were highly misplaced.  There was some reduction in wholesale deposits, possibly because of the fall in stock price
01 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Construction halt to hit L&T revenue||The COVID-19 lockdown in India has brought construction activities to a halt in the peak season, a move that will hurt revenues of engineering and construction major Larsen and Toubro (L&T), according to analysts. “We note that March is a peak month for construction activities in India. Even post the lockdown, there might be some more delays in resuming construction activities in full swing as labour, machinery and materials would need to be re-mobilised. Thus, we see a clear risk to our revenue growth assumptions for the fourth quarter of FY20 as well as FY21 estimates,” Motilal Oswal said in a research note to its clients. The brokerage has cut FY21 and FY22 earnings by 20% and 14% respectively and the target price to Rs. 1,320 crore. March activity Historically, the month of March is marked by higher execution and payments from government authorities, which brings down the closing working capital for the year. However, the fourth quarter of FY20 will not see execution as well as payment push. Moreover, L&T would have to continue supporting its vendor base, including sub-contractors, in these tough times, as it has been doing over the past many months. This is likely to increase its working capital further. Besides, the oil price crash is likely to weaken the prospects of the hydrocarbon segment in the near term, according to analysts.
01 April 2020||Mumbai,||IDBI Bank, IDFC First Bank implement EMI moratorium||Customers of IDBI Bank  who wish to continue with equated monthly instalments (EMIs) and do not want to avail the moratorium will need to inform the bank by sending a mail tomoratorium@idbi.co.in, the lender said in a communication. IDBI Bank said there was no separate request needed for availing the moratorium. “The [moratorium] scheme will be uniformly applicable to all standard term loans under housing loans, loans against property, auto loans, education loans and personal loans as of March 1. There is no separate request required from the borrower,” it said. IDBI Bank has said that in case the March 2020 instalment had already paid by the borrower, the relief would be applicable for the EMIs payable in April 2020 and May 2020. On the other hand, private sector lender IDFC First Bank has said that customers who want to avail the moratorium have to inform the bank from his/her registered email athelp@idfcfirstbank.comwith mobile number and loan account number. Housing finance company Indiabulls HFC has asked its customers to fill up a form available on its website to avail the moratorium. On Friday , the RBI had allowed all banks and financial institutions including non-banking financial companies, to extend a three-month moratorium period on EMIs falling due between March 1, 2020 and May 31, 2020 for all term loans. This is also applicable to auto, home and personal loans as well as credit card outstanding.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre to borrow 63% of gross in first half of fiscal||The Centre will borrow Rs. 4.88 lakh crore in the first half of the coming financial year 2020-21, or 62.56% of the gross borrowings of Rs. 7.8 lakh crore for FY21, Department of Economic Affairs Secretary Atanu Chakraborty said on Tuesday. “The government is committed to meet its requirements for fighting COVID-19, whether on account of health issues, or on account of protecting the economy, and also providing necessary stimulus at any point of time. The entire borrowing was designed in that fashion,” Mr. Chakraborty told journalists here. Cash management He added the plan would enable the government to have sufficient amounts for cash management to meet such requirements. The Centre proposes to revise its ways and means advances (WMA) limit to Rs. 1.2 lakh crore. This will be reviewed on a need basis, according to Mr. Chakraborty. The revised limit is significantly higher than the Rs. 75,000 crore limit imposed in the first half of 2019-20. The government will roll out weekly G-Sec tranches of Rs. 19-21,000 crore, higher than the Rs. 17,000-crore tranches in 2019-20. It plans weekly borrowings of Rs. 25,000 crore in the first quarter, with a net borrowing of Rs. 1,37,090 crore in the quarter, he said. The Budget announcement for G-sec issuances through Debt Exchange Traded Fund route will be operationalised in the second half of 2020-21, and will be rolled out by initiating appointment of required intermediaries, he added.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Taipa calls for boosting telecom network capacity||With data traffic in the country surging by at least 30% in the past few days amid most people working from home, the Tower and Infrastructure Providers Association (Taipa) on Tuesday said there is a need to quickly enhance telecom network capacity for which the States need to align their policies with the Centre's Right of Way (RoW) 2016 norms. “To maintain data usage and smooth functioning of telecom services 24/7, the telecom sector needs critical, robust infrastructure. With more than three years gone, only 16 States out of 36 States/UT’s have broadly aligned their policy with RoW Policy 2016,” said T. R. Dua, director-general, Taipa. “COVID-19 outbreak has created an unprecedented crisis across the globe because of which the government has directed public and private employees to work from home. This has led to over 30% increase in data consumption... Some cities like Hyderabad and Bengaluru have seen cellular network data consumption increase by 70% since the lockdown began,” the association said in a statement.
01 April 2020||Chennai,||Indian Bank, IOB slash lending rates||Indian Bank and Indian Overseas Bank have slashed their benchmark lending rates by 75 basis points. The rates will come into force from April 1. Indian Bank reduced its MCLR up to 15 bps across tenors. IOB’s repo-linked lending rate will come down from 8% to 7.25% per annum, the bank said. The bank has also reduced the one-year MCLR from the existing 8.45% to 8.25% from April 10.
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||Core sector growth up 5.5% in February||Eight core sector industries recorded a growth of 5.5% in February, the highest in 11 months, mainly due to healthy expansion in output of coal, refinery products and electricity, according to government data. The core sector industries — coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertiliser, steel, cement and electricity — had expanded by 2.2% in February last year. The last time these eight sectors recorded a higher growth rate was in March 2019 at 5.8%. In January this year, these sectors grew by 1.4%. Output of coal, refinery products and electricity grew by 10.3%, 7.4%, and 11%, respectively, during the month under review.
01 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Lakshminarayanan is MD, Sundaram Home Finance||D. Lakshminarayanan, whole-time director of Sundaram Finance Ltd., has been elevated as the managing director of its wholly owned home finance subsidiary, Sundaram Home Finance. He will take charge on April 1. Mr. Lakshminarayanan, who has been with the Sundaram Finance Group for well over a decade, will replace Srinivas Acharya who retired on Tuesday. Mr. Acharya had been the company’s MD since 2010 and had been a part of the Sundaram Finance Group for almost four decades, the company said in a statement. In FY2019, the company had posted a total income of Rs. 1,006 crore and a net profit of Rs. 145 crore.
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||BPCL bid date extended to June 13||The government on Tuesday extended the deadline for bidding to buy its entire 52.98% stake in Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd. (BPCL), to June 13. The government had earlier this month invited bids by May 2. This has now been extended to 5 p.m. on June 13 in “view of the requests received from the interested bidders and the prevailing situation arising out of COVID-19,” an official notice said.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mallya again offers to repay Kingfisher dues||Embattled liquor baron Vijay Mallya on Tuesday asked Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to consider his repeated “offer to repay 100%” of the amount borrowed by now defunct Kingfisher Airlines, in this time of COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Mallya is wanted in India on alleged fraud and money laundering charges amounting to an estimated Rs. 9,000 crore.
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Have to educate people and save lives’||As the world strives to cope with the COVID-19 virus, Yuvraj Singh, having been through spells of fear and dreadful solitude, speaks to The Hindu on how to stay positive and the need to be extremely disciplined. Your views on the current situation in the world following a lockdown... It’s heartbreaking to see so many people dying all over the world. People, rather than panicking, should visit the official health sites (WHO and Union Health Ministry) to really understand what the disease is. I was also very scared in the beginning (of cancer) but then I got the right information, went to the right doctor and hospital. There is rampant misinformation about the virus on social media. First of all people need to stop reading (social media) and look for correct information. How much have you understood from various official campaigns? Kids and middle-aged people should avoid hugging their parents (over 60 years) and grandparents. It is your responsibility not to spread the virus. My heart bleeds for the migrant workers because they are very susceptible to catch the virus. We have to guide and protect them. We have to educate people in rural areas. Don’t you think each individual matters in this fight? Yes. People often remark ‘How much will my one vote matter.’ If everyone begins to have this attitude, then what if five lakh people say how would an individual vote matter. In effect, it would mean five lakh people will miss sending the right information to others. We have to save lives. How are you coping with it? Everybody has to find a routine to follow. Can’t keep brooding. If you do that, eventually you will get tied down. I begin with a gym training (in the house). If you don’t have a gym, start doing exercises at home. Do lots of reading. You can do yoga, meditation, rather than mourn at the situation. Your experience of the lockdown? I have seen stars for the first time since I started living in Delhi. No air pollution and no noise pollution. We must take a pledge now that, when things improve, we won’t take our car out for a day, spend a day with the family, respect Mother Earth, plant trees, etc. [We need to] Cut down on creating pollution of any kind. On the cricket front, do you see anything amiss from your time? Today, the youngsters get such (lucrative) IPL contracts even before playing for India that they don’t want to play four-day cricket. The attitude towards four-day cricket and Test cricket is very poor. How do you view the recent struggles witnessed by Rishabh Pant and Prithvi Shaw? They play under a lot of pressure. I keep speaking to Rishabh. Prithvi is a great talent. But there are too many expectations from them. Lot of noise when they fail. Too much of scrutiny. I think we need to give them some time because they are the future. How to deal with Pant and Shaw then? Coaches and seniors have to be in touch with them constantly and tell them there are certain things they can’t do on and off the field. They really need guidance because they are at a fragile stage. They can either become great players or their careers could break.
01 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sania joins hands with NGO to help the needy||Tennis star Sania Mirza, winner of six Grand Slam titles, is donning a different role — saviour to the needy in these troubled times. Sania, who has just completed the mandatory 14-day self-quarantine on her return from the US, has joined hands with an NGO — Safa Society — to help daily wage-earners who have been badly hit by the lockdown. Irrelevant “The pandemic has made tennis, or for that matter, any sport irrelevant. Right now, I am not concerned about events getting cancelled, even Wimbledon. Tennis is a small part of our lives. We are fighting a larger issue,” said Sania in an exclusive chat with The Hindu on Tuesday. “First I donated to the NGO, then I felt it would be great to be involved in a collective effort for better results. I am glad within one week we could raise Rs. 1.5 crore,” Sania said. “This crisis has reminded us that we take many things for granted. I am saddened by visuals of people walking 800km just to reach their homes,” she said. On her activity during the lockdown, Sania said. “Given the kind of response from across the country, it has been a really challenging task to identify real beneficiaries. But, we are taking utmost care that the needy are well and truly addressed in Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, North Karnataka and Hyderabad to start with.” Sania said she and her family had always honoured their social obligations and as such she was proud to be associated with this initiative. On the post-virus scenario, she said, “Human beings adapt easily and we will move on.” The difference between an injury-break and this lockdown, she said, was “when injured you are focused on getting back into rhythm, for you know the problem and there is a solution and a time-frame. Here you are fighting a deadly disease,” she said. “I will be back on the circuit, and, hopefully, win a few more titles for I do believe that I have a lot more to give on the tennis court,” she said.  Special day  April 12 is a special day for Sania, as it was on this day in 2015 that she became World No. 1 in women’s doubles. “That is still the most memorable moment for me. And, also the fact that I finished two year-endings as numero uno,” she said.  Tennis is a small part of our lives. We are fighting a larger issue
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||How Australia was the start of something special for India — and one Indian||How did it all begin, we ask ourselves in these unsettling times. Not the pandemic — we know the answer to that one — but our personal passions. It is not just television that is replaying old matches and connecting us with past experiences; our minds are doing that too. In the winter of 1967, I fell in love with cricket. Completely, irrevocably, conclusively. First, in the pages of Sport and Pastime , and then on radio where I followed my first series as India played in Australia. The magazine was serialising Ralph Barker’s two books, Ten Great Innings and Ten Great Bowlers . My early heroes, thus, were Spofforth and Grace, Ranji and McLaren, Spooner and Lohmann. “This thing,” Spofforth was quoted as saying, “can be done.” I marvelled at the certainty of a bowler who could personally guarantee England would not score 85 runs to win. Today, it isn’t the words I remember so much as the emotions: my madeleine, unlocking memory in the Proustian manner. I remember my mother, ear fixed to the radio, keeping scores as Farokh Engineer and Chandu Borde put on a partnership. Mother kept scores and updated friends. She taught me the joy of listening to cricket. The sport was an audio treat before it became a visual one. When dad came home from work, they would discuss the day’s play. Dad and Mom fired a boy’s imagination, helped by an uncle who had played the game. Heroes began to emerge to replace those distant ones in books: Erapalli Prasanna, who claimed 25 wickets in that series and brought India back into the match many times. M.L. Jaisimha, who arrived in Brisbane one afternoon and scored a Test century the next day. Engineer, Ajit Wadekar, Bishan Bedi, and above all the captain, the Nawab of Pataudi, who missed the first Test, and finished with scores of 75 and 85, 74 and 48, 51 and 6 — I haven’t had to look these up! That 74 was in Brisbane where he shared the top score with Jaisimha; the 48 was a let-down. A few more, and India might have won the Test they lost by just 39 runs. Jack Fingleton wrote that India could have won two Tests. Pataudi said later that the Australians were not as good as the 4-0 scoreline suggested, and that if the series had begun with the Brisbane Test, the result might have been different. He was probably right, since India followed that with a 3-1 victory in New Zealand, their first series victory abroad (the West Indies under Garry Sobers who toured next could only draw 1-1). That tour was important, and not just for firing the imagination of a little boy far away. It was the first step India took to coming together as a team and demanding a place at the high table, something that would be conceded with series wins in the West Indies and England three years later. World-class spin combination A world-class spin combination came together. The spearhead, Bhagwat Chandrasekhar, had to return home after breaking down in the first Test. That brought the focus on off spinner Prasanna, who finished with 49 wickets in the twin series. India’s strengths and weaknesses were both on public display — the reliance on spin, and the woeful catching. Bob Cowper and Ian Chappell made big centuries aided by dropped catches. On one horrendous occasion, two fielders running for a catch — Rusi Surti and V. Subramanyam — clashed, and the latter broke his nose. That was another memory of that period. For, when Subramanyam returned to Bengaluru, he was admitted to the same hospital where an aunt was having surgery too. “Do you want to meet a cricketer?” my father asked. He had checked with Subramanyam, who had kindly agreed. I can recall the feel of dad’s hand as I slipped mine into it. Subramanyam, nose bandaged, speaking strangely, greeted me warmly. His was the first Test star’s hands I shook, a story I lived off for a while. Decades later at a function in Bengaluru, I narrated this story to Subbu (familiarity breeds contraction), and his spontaneous response was, “Of course I remember that handshake.” Lovely man. Over the years, members of the squad became good friends. Tiger Pataudi himself, a conversation-stopper whenever he entered a room. Bedi, whose biography I wrote. The late Jaisimha, in whose company I watched junior matches. Prasanna, who told me when I first began reporting, “I shall be keeping an eye on you.” Wadekar, whose room on tours when he was manager, was “liberty hall”, open to friend and foe alike. Chandrasekhar, whose self-deprecating humour remains unmatched. 1967 was also the year I determined to play for India. I calculated that some of the players on that Australian tour would be colleagues when I made my debut (in my mind I was a child prodigy). Sadly, I went from being a promising youngster to a has-been without a significant career in between. These things happen. ( A version of this appeared in UK’s Wisden Cricket Monthly )
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Crisis deepens in AICF as president removes secretary||The crisis-ridden All India Chess Federation (AICF) plunged into further turmoil when its president P.R. Venketrama Raja removed Bharat Singh Chauhan from the post of secretary of the federation on Monday. In a three-page letter, dated March 30, addressed to Chauhan, Raja detailed the reasons for his action, and said he had no option but to exercise his “extraordinary powers as the president of AICF under Article 15 (a) of the AICF Constitution and Bye-Laws.” It may be recalled that the AICF is awaiting a directive from the Madras High Court regarding fresh date of elections of its office-bearers. In February, Chauhan (secretary), Ajay Patel (president) as well as three others were declared elected unopposed to the principal posts of AICF. Later, the Madras High Court ordered fresh elections and the Supreme Court dismissed a Special Leave Petition challenging the verdict. When contacted, Chauhan questioned Raja’s authority and dismissed his action of removing him as a “malicious attempt to cover his tracks.” He argued, “Raja ceased to be the AICF president from February 11, the date on which the court-appointed Returning Officer declared Mr. Patel as the newly elected AICF president. “Despite the Hon’ble Madras High Court ordering fresh elections of AICF, Mr. Patel, being the last person to hold the AICF president’s office, remains the interim president till fresh elections are conducted.”  Strange development In another strange development, 12 affiliates have jointly called for AICF’s Special/Extraordinary General Body Meeting on April 24 in the Capital. The letter, written on Chandigarh Chess Association’s letterhead claiming representations from 12 States and Union Territories and listing a nine-point agenda, read, “We had sent to Hon. secretary, AICF, a requisition in writing to call a Special/Extraordinary General Body Meeting of AICF as per the rights and powers vested in them under Article 11 of the Constitution of the AICF and Section 28 of the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act 1975. As the Hon. secretary of AICF has expressed in a letter dated 29.03.2020 his inability to call such a meeting we have decided to call for the meeting.”
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||BWF freezes rankings||The Badminton World Federation (BWF) on Tuesday decided to freeze the world rankings, saying standings as on March 17 will be the basis for entry and seedings when it restarts the international calender that has been thrown haywire owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. There was a clamour for freezing the world rankings with Indians Saina Nehwal, B. Sai Praneeth, P. Kashyap and H.S. Prannoy leading the way in expressing their concerns. “The Badminton World Federation (BWF) can announce it will freeze World Rankings and World Junior Rankings until further notice. “The freezing of rankings will be backdated to Week 12, which is the week following the last international tournament that was played — the YONEX All England Open 2020,” BWF said in a release. “The ranking lists issued on 17 March 2020 will serve as a basis for entry and seeding into the next international tournaments — although it is difficult to say at this stage when this may be.” Shuttlers in the singles competition have to be inside the top-16 of the world rankings to qualify for the Olympics. The cut-off for doubles is also top-16. BWF said it will start reviewing the Olympic qualification system but a decision will take several weeks. “Following Monday’s announcement to reschedule the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games from 23 July to 8 August 2021, BWF will also initiate a review process to confirm any impact on the Olympic qualification system,” BWF said. “Please note that the consequences of freezing the World Rankings will not apply to the Olympic qualification system.”
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bindra for revising Olympic selection||Indian shooting was primed to finalise the team for Tokyo Olympics before the Games was postponed to 2021 due to the Coronavirus pandemic. Can the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) afford to select the team, when the situation settles down, more than a year in advance? “It may not help to announce the team, and hope that they all would be in prime form when the Olympics comes around. A year is a long time, especially in a sport like shooting,” said former World and Olympic champion Abhinav Bindra. Will clarity help? Will it not help to give clarity for the shooters, to get the nod when the situation becomes normal, so that they have a long time to prepare for the Olympics? “There can be argument both ways. There can be no ideal policy. You can’t make everyone happy. “There is that element of unknown. The nature of the sport is such that it can cut either way,” said Bindra. Conceding that a change in selection policy would be required, Bindra pointed out that it was important “to tune the policy quickly so as to ensure the best team represents the country in the Olympics. “There may be a rejig in the team, even though the process had been completed and the team was to be announced.” With 15 Olympic quotas secured, most of the shooters who won them were in excellent form throughout the season. Widen core group “The core group can be widened a bit. But, don’t open it for 30 shooters. One or two reserves in an event should be fine. Form the Olympic group, and back the shooters,” reasoned Bindra. More than anything, the Beijing Olympics gold medallist in air rifle, Bindra emphasised the need to put the best minds to work on the right path ahead and form the guidelines. “Get clarity, and find the right balance. And do it quickly. “Once you achieve clarity about what is required for the shooters to make the team, they will plan accordingly. There has to be coordination,” said Bindra. The NRAI will swing into action once the sporting world springs back to normal life.
01 April 2020||London,||The Hundred: ticket sales postponed||In view of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the tickets sale for the inaugural edition of The Hundred competition has been postponed. “... We feel it is appropriate at this time to postpone opening our second priority ticket window and general sale. We will continue to review this and will let you know any further information in due course,” said an official statement on the tournament’s website.
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||Social distancing in snow: Federer practises trick shots||Roger Federer is trying whatever he can to remain in touch with the sport and on Monday posted a video on Twitter in which he is playing tennis in the snow while social distancing. He hit a series of tweeners and behind-the-back shots with perfect precision against a wall and captioned the video “Making sure I still remember how to hit trick shots.”IANS
01 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Mithali Raj joins fight against COVID 19 with Rs 10 lakh donation||Mithali Raj has decided to give Rs. 5 lakh to the Prime Minister’s fund and a similar amount to the Chief Ministers Assistance Fund of the Telangana government. Deepti Sharma has contributed Rs. 50,000 to the West Bengal State Emergency Fund and also separately contributed to PM’s fund and UP relief fund.IANS
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Search for Self identity||Study of Vedanta focuses on the search for the ultimate reality and this begins and ends in self knowledge, atma jnana. This knowledge grows from the practice of dissociating the self from the body. But body identification is as unavoidable as the reflection in the mirror and one cannot wish it away, pointed out Swami Anubhavananda Saraswati in a discourse. But an ardent spiritual aspirant always tries to rise from the body level to the mind and further to the level of consciousness. After all, the mirror image is not independent and exists only because of the person in front of it. The mirror cannot reflect the image of one who is not present in front of it. The person alone exists and the reflection is a mere appearance. Likewise, one has to understand that the self alone always exists in each being; and that the body mind personality is able to function only owing to the self. The self is the ‘I’ sense or the ‘ahamkara’ and its identity is shaped by each one’s perception of it. It could be seen as the ‘I’ with a certain name, status, scholarship, who is involved with this world during one’s lifetime. This ‘I’ then takes up various roles as father, son, husband, etc, with great earnestness. The other option is to ponder over what it means if the ‘I’ is someone else altogether with no connection to the body mind personality at the moment. Then certain issues get revealed in the consciousness. This is the journey to be traversed and it is not in time and space but in the inner experience of each individual. One has to start playing the game of what it is like to be someone other than the body. This exercise helps one to shed body identification. It can free one from the stress and strain of daily living and can confer equanimity.
01 April 2020||April 01 2020 07:31 IST,||Sudoku - April 1, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Working with inadequate safety gear, say CATS ambulance staff||Drivers and emergency medical technician staff of CATS ambulances alleged that they are not being provided with adequate safety gear and are scared for their lives while transporting patients. A driver, on condition of anonymity, alleged that the quality of masks, gloves and sanitisers is poor and the amount inadequate. “There is no Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kit — which is used especially, when dealing with COVID-19 suspects or positive cases — given to us. The sanitisers which are given to us are mixed with water. The ambulances are not fumigated and disinfectant is not sprayed,” he alleged. Lack of measures Elaborating on the hazards of lack of these measures, he said that if a person who has symptoms of COVID-19 is transported to a hospital and the next call is for a pregnant woman, “in such a case, if the ambulance is not sanitised, it can be dangerous not only for us staffers but also for other patients”. CATS ambulance staff union president Narender Lakra said that drivers and EMT staff are scared to drive and are worried for their lives but are working because of monetary needs. He also said that of 264 ambulances, only about 100 are operational and running on the road. “At the time when they should be operational to the maximum, only one-third of them are running. The reason is that most of them need repairs,” he said. Punished for protesting A driver, identified as Sunil Kumar, alleged that he has not been getting work since he raised his voice against inadequate safety gear on March 17. “A couple of us gathered and protested demanding safety gear. The authorities got to know and told me that that we will not get work anymore and since then, I haven’t been called,” he alleged. Sources said that according to an internal report prepared everyday, at 4 p.m., there were 130 calls received regarding COVID-19 cases but only about 40 CATS ambulances were operational across the Capital. Adding to the fear, Mr. Lakra, claimed that one EMT staff has been tested positive but the claim has been denied by GVK-EMRI Pvt Ltd State head Manish Tinku. The Delhi government has outsourced operation and maintenance of CATS ambulances to this private company. Denying all claims, Mr. Tinku said that protective gear like masks, gloves and sanitisers were provided to all staffers in all ambulances. “The PPE kits are limited but so far, about 250 cases of COVID-19 have been transported and the kit was provided to the staffers. More sanitisers are being purchased,” he said. Mr. Tinku also said that about 200 CATS ambulances are supposed to operate in the Capital, of which 130 are operational. “The number 264 is old. Also, 50 of 70 which are not operational are due for repairs. We have taken special permission from the government for three workshops which have started helping us since Monday for repairs,” he added.  At the time when they should be operational to the maximum, only one-third of them are running. The reason is that most of them need repairs   Narender Lakra CATS ambulance staff union president
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||Dilshad Garden for stricter lockdown steps||Residents of a locality in Dilshad Garden, which has been identified by the government as a hotspot for COVID-19 cases, have demanded stricter lockdown measures to ensure safety of the area. A mohalla clinic doctor, his wife, and daughter, who have all tested positive for COVID-19, live in the locality. ‘Hardly any checking’ A 65-year-old resident who did not wish to be identified said that while there are barricades at the main gate and civil defence officials are on patrol, “there is hardly any checking on who enters and exits the area”. “People are still coming out for evening and morning walks, risking their own lives and that of others,” he said, adding that measures should be taken to ensure no one steps out of their homes unnecessarily, “those who do not live here and enter the area should be checked as well... patrolling also needs to be increased”. Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) president Devender Kumar Bhandari said that adequate measures are being taken and the RWA is in regular touch with the Seemapuri Sub-Divisional Magistrate and the local Station House Officer. The RWA has made an effort at its own level to ascertain the travel history of locals and ensure that families self quarantine. “The doctor and his family tested positive. There were also four individuals and three families who had travel history during this time. The SDM was asked to inform the families to quarantine themselves,” Mr. Bhandari said, adding that the SDM has visited twice to take stock of the situation. Mr. Bhandari added that upon request, the authorities conducted a door-to-door survey to ask families about their travel history. The authorities also made follow-up calls to residents whether they have developed any COVID-19 symptoms. While the houses pointed out by the RWA were sanitised, the residents had asked the SDM to sanitise the entire locality last week when he had visited the area. The process began on Tuesday. “This afternoon, EDMC officials had come and started spraying disinfectant around houses and gates. They said that the team will come every day and we should coordinate with them on which area should be disinfected,” Mr. Bhandari said. As a precautionary measure, all the gates except one main gate has also been closed for entry and exit, the RWA added. Municipal corporations on Tuesday carried out disinfection drives at areas including Nizamudin and Dilshad Garden. During the drive, streets, roads, walls of houses and other places were disinfected, it said. The drive would be continued for coming days it added.
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||Capital reports 23 COVID-19 cases||Twenty-three new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 120, according to the Delhi government. This is the second biggest single-day jump in the number of cases. There have been two deaths due to the disease so far in the city, but there was no death reported on Tuesday.  The Delhi government on Tuesday also converted five hospitals as “dedicated hospitals” for treatment of COVID-19 cases. The hospitals are Lok Nayak Hospital and G.B. Pant Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, and Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital. “Lok Nayak Hospital and G.B. Pant Hospital are in the same compound and hence, the government has considered it as one facility,” an official said. Monday, Sunday and Saturday had recorded the biggest single-day jumps till then with 25, 23, and nine new cases, respectively.
01 April 2020||Greater Noida,||Defiant migrants ready to confront anything that comes their way||They knew there were supposed to be no buses — State-run or private — to ferry them home; they were aware that inter-State borders had been sealed given the nationwide lockdown to contain the community spread of the COVID-19 epidemic. Still, migrant workers putting up at a government shelter set up near the transit hub of Pari Chowk in Greater Noida refused to acknowledge either the futility of their efforts or that of their hope here on Tuesday. While those with families, including children, sat on the main road adjacent to the Jhandewala Mandir Dharamshala camp with their bags packed, just in case some means of travel appeared, small groups of young men tried not to attract attention as they walked neighbourhood streets adjacent the highway to Delhi. Lone travellers on the Yamuna Expressway above, with heavy backpacks on their shoulders, had planned a 100-km-long walk to Agra and said they were willing to take their chances both with a police confrontation and with whatever else came their way as long as they could inch closer home. Ramjeet Singh, who was employed at a prominent refrigeration company’s manufacturing unit in Haryana’a Manesar, and his family of four quietly waited in the courtyard of the Jhandewala Mandir Dharamshala camp a stone’s throw away from the swanky Pari Chowk metro station. Tried and failed The only residents of the camp, which according to the administration has a capacity to house 200 inmates, Mr. Singh admitted they had tried and failed each attempt made by them to travel to Etah since they ended up here on Sunday evening. “We started from Manesar on Friday evening and reached the Gurugram border on foot at night but it was sealed. After spending the night there, we walked, hitched rides and were able to somehow make it to Greater Noida on Sunday night; but by that time the bus service on the Yamuna Expressway had stopped,” he said, his attention turning to inspect every vehicle passing him by on the main road as he spoke. “The police asked us and some boys, waiting for a bus, to make our way to this camp. We were exhausted so we spent the night here. My family and I were able to wash and bathe after two days. We decided to go home when those boys got into a private vehicle. We thought we could also get one, but when we couldn’t, the police asked us to return to this camp. So we walked back,” he said. His wife, Kiran, said it wasn’t as if she had any complaints against the facilities on offer. “There is food and there is a place to sleep; but it’s not home,” she said.  There is food and there is a place to sleep; but it’s not home Wife of Ramjeet Singh
01 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||DMRC running 2 trains daily to keep system ‘healthy and functional’||Two metro trains are being run daily from each terminal station, twice a day even as commercial operations remain suspended till April 14 due to the nationwide lockdown announced to curb the COVID-19 outbreak, in a bid to keep the system “healthy”, a Delhi Metro official said. Working in shifts With a complete shutdown of operations since March 22, the Delhi Metro network with 286 stations spanning over 390 km, was being maintained by a reduced number of staff, working in shifts, to ensure the “functionality of the system” remains intact, the official said. “Two trains run daily from every terminal station in the morning and evening hours except on the Airport Express Line and the Grey Line. On these two lines, train movement will be done every sixth day, in the morning hours only,” said a senior DMRC official. The official added, “The train movement exercise is aimed at ensuring good health and functionality of all the systems like track, traction, signalling, telecommunication and so on, which are required for smooth running of the metro services on normal days.” Terminal stations on all lines, interchange stations and depot entry or exit stations were also being manned round the clock, officials said while adding that the unmanned stations are inspected by the station managers, every sixth day. “Purpose is to visit the stations and check the health of the system periodically and ensuring all the systems are working fine,” the official said.  The train movement exercise is aimed at ensuring functionality of all the systems which are required for smooth running of the metro services on normal days DMRC official
01 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Relief camps’ inmates feel trapped, want to return||A makeshift relief centre at a “gaushala” in Manesar village here, near Delhi-Jaipur highway, is the new “home” for Dheeraj and his wife and their two-year-old daughter, for at least next two weeks now. Though the daily needs of his family are being taken care of, the family feels “trapped” like hundreds of other fellow inmates and wants to return to his village in Uttar Pradesh’s Hardoi. “ Sahab ji, khana to mil raha hai, lekin biwi bachche ke saath kab tak yahan reh sakte hain [Sir, the food is being provided, but for how long can one stay here with wife and the child],” said Dheeraj, a migrant labour at a textile mill in Panipat. Borders sealed His family along with 60-odd workers had boarded a truck to Agra from Panipat on March 28 night with the help of local police, but landed at the relief centre after the truck driver dropped them at Bilaspur and the administration sealed the borders. “We panicked after the exodus began and decided to leave. But the truck driver left us in the lurch. We slept at a petrol pump on Monday and the police picked us up and left us at this centre on Tuesday morning,” said Dhruv, also part of the group. The inmates said food was available all through the day and doctors also visited to attend those in need of medical care. RTI activist Ramesh Yadav said that Deputy Commissioner and Police Commissioner had visited the centre couple of times to oversee the arrangements. The district administration has been running around 30 night shelters in Gurugram to provide food and shelter to the poor, especially, to the migrant workers. However, the occupancy at these centres is very low, a little over 800. To open more centres Haraya Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran, Estate Officer-II, Vivek Kalia, said that most of the migrant workers had already left and these centres acted mostly as food distribution points to the poor. Having come to Haryana in search of labour during Rabi crop harvest season, around two dozen labourers from Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit were left stranded due to lockdown just two days before they were slated to return. The police guided them to a community centre at Sector 15 Part-II, now a makeshift relief centre. “We need not worry for food, but every time we call back home our families ask us to return. Our parents, wife and kids cry when we speak to them,” said Dinesh. Daily wagers at MCG’s Kadipur night shelter said they did not get enough to their fill, and only a few of them had masks. The inmates are provided food twice a day. The makeshift relief camp at Kherki Daula village, off NH-48, however, lied empty.  We need not worry for food, but every time we call back home our families ask us to return. Our parents, wife and children cry when we speak to them Dinesh Worker
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. to feed 10-12 lakh from today||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the Delhi government is preparing to arrange 3,000 centres, each with a capacity of feeding 500 people per day, to feed 10 to 12 lakh people in need from Wednesday. Currently, food is available at around 800 locations in Delhi. From tomorrow, 2,500 schools and 250 night shelters will start distributing food to 500 people, each bringing the total number of centres between 2,800 and 3,000. To avoid crowding “We were feeding 3.5 lakh-4 lakh people daily until now, and we will start feeding 10-12 lakh people from tomorrow. Upon further deliberations on this, we found out that people were crowding at the food centres. So we decided to create more centres,” he said. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said 10 schools in the Patparganj Assembly constituency had been assigned the task of providing food to 15,000-20,000 people everyday. Mr. Sisodia said officials and staff were strictly practising physical distancing while handing out meals at the centres.
01 April 2020||New Delhi,||HC panel eases criteria for release of undertrials||A high-powered committee, headed by a Delhi High Court judge, has relaxed the criteria for release of undertrial prisoners on interim bail from city jails in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The Supreme Court recently took up the issue of overcrowding of prisons as a matter of serious concern, pursuant to the spread of COVID-19 across the globe. To decongest prisons, a total of 1,500 convicts have been identified to be released on “Emergency Parole” for a period of eight weeks. At least, 500 undertrial prisoners were identified on the basis of earlier criteria to whom interim bail for a period of 45 days has been granted.
