01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Free foodgrain scheme till Nov.||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced that the free grain distribution scheme under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) will be extended by five months till the end of November, with an additional estimated outlay of Rs. 90,000 crore. Making the announcement in an address to the nation via television, he said the government’s decision to start the PMGKAY within days of the lockdown had ensured that the poorest of the poor were not left hungry, with 80 crore people having benefited from the free distribution of grains. ‘No hunger’ “Timely decisions of lockdown and distribution of free grains by both the government and civil society outfits ensured that our poor did not suffer hunger. Population twice that of the European Union, 12 times the population of the U.K., and two and half times the population of the United States was provided free grains... Under this scheme, for the next five months, 5 kg of free rice or wheat, and 1 kg of chana will be provided free to 80 crore Indians,” he said. Mr. Modi pointed out that while the country was entering Unlock 2, the economic activity during the monsoon was more concentrated in the agricultural sector than in others, and that it also segued into the festival season — starting with Guru Poornima in July to Chhath in November — when people would also be spending more. “Therefore, the government has decided to extend the programme to the end of November,” he said. Mr. Modi thanked the farmers and the “honest” taxpayers for making it possible to put this ambitious scheme in place.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Core industry output contracts for third month||The output of eight core sector industries shrank 23% in May 2020, the third straight month of contraction, according to data released by the Commerce Ministry on Tuesday. Although the contraction narrowed from the 37% decline in April, economists expect the trend to continue at least through June. Of the eight core sectors, the fertilizer industry was the only one which saw actual growth in output in May, rising 7.5% in comparison to May 2019. The rest continued to contract, with the steel sector performing the worst and recording a 48.4% fall, while cement production dropped 22%. The energy sectors also showed negative growth, with coal production falling 14% and crude oil and natural gas production dropping 7% and 16.8% respectively. Petroleum refinery production, which carries the greatest weight in the core sector index, saw a contraction of 21%, while electricity generation dropped 15.6%. “Optically, it is a better picture in May as compared to April, but the situation is still way below normal or pre-COVID levels,” said Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist at India Ratings and Research, the Indian arm of the Fitch group. “It is the kharif sowing season and there has been a good monsoon so far, with a good reservoir position, so we are seeing some growth in the fertilizer sector,” Mr. Pant said.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sharp fall in reporting of non-COVID-19 diseases||The ongoing novel coronavirus pandemic has led to India’s disease surveillance system recording unusually fewer instances of diseases other than COVID-19, according to information on weekly outbreaks available on the website of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), a Health Ministry body. The IDSP issues weekly reports on disease outbreaks across the country based on its surveillance network that spans at least 600 districts. In the week of March 16-22, the most updated report that is available, there were only six outbreaks/disease alerts reported. In the same week last year, there were 17 alerts; in 2018, there were 28, and in 2017, there were 45. An alert is when a sizeable number of cases from a region are reported. The reports include specific villages from where the cases emerged, the mode of diagnosis and the steps taken by the authorities to control the outbreak. The six alerts in Week 12 of the year included a case of Crimean-Congo Haemorraghic Fever from Gujarat, three cases of chickenpox from Bihar, and a case each of dengue and food poisoning from Karnataka and West Bengal respectively. No records after March In a typical year, IDSP reports are available online every week. However there are no records this year after week 12, that is after March 22. In week 11, the IDSP reported 110 cases of COVID-19. The IDSP network records the first cases of the virus infection in Kerala and until week 10 (March 2-8) appears to have regularly recorded disease outbreaks. For instance, in the first week of March, it recorded 36 outbreaks of as many as 15 diseases ranging from anthrax to measles, as well as seven cases of COVID-19. Officials said the under-reporting was due to the lockdown and the behavioural change that actually depressed instances of disease spread.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Banned apps will get chance to send in their clarifications||A day after the Union government banned 59 Chinese applications, including popular ones such as TikTok, Shareit, Mi Video Call, Club Factory and Cam Scanner, citing threat to national security and sovereignty, an Information Technology Ministry official said the banned platforms would be given a chance to submit their clarifications. This is in line with provisions of the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking of Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009. Following the ban, TikTok withdrew its app from Google Play Store and Apple App Store. In a statement on Tuesday, it said it had been invited to meet the authorities concerned and submit clarifications. The company’s India head, Nikhil Gandhi, said it had complied with all Indian laws related to data privacy and had not shared information of any Indian user with foreign governments, including the Chinese. “The government has issued an interim order for the blocking of 59 apps, including TikTok, and we are in the process of complying with it.”
01 July 2020||KOCHI,||Land acquisition for metro’s Kakkanad extension begins||The decks have been cleared for acquiring land to widen the Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium-Kakkanad stretch of the road to implement Kochi metro’s Kakkanad extension, with the Revenue Department issuing the final notification for the purpose. The aim is to hew out a 22-metre-wide, four-lane corridor on the 11.20-km stretch for the Rs. 2,500-crore metro extension. “The notification has been issued under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act of 2013. The land acquisition has to be completed within one year. We are confident of completing the process ahead of this time, since the stretch is being widened for the metro. Altogether, over seven acres of land has to be acquired,” said sources in the Revenue Department. The valuation of plots was currently under way, following which documents submitted by the land owners would be examined. Buildings, mainly shops, would have to be partially or fully demolished to make way for the four-lane road. There was plenty of “poramboke” land on the corridor, which fell into the hands of encroachers over the past many decades. All such land would be reclaimed, they said. An environmental and social impact assessment of the project got over much earlier, following which the widening project encountered a road block. The final notification will hopefully catalyse metro's extension to the IT hub. The Centre had accorded in principle approval for the extension in February 2019. Thripunithura extension In the meantime, land acquisition has not begun for the metro’s extension from SN Junction to Thripunithura Railway Station. “Funds are awaited from the State government since neither the KMRL nor the Thripunithura Municipality has funds for the purpose,” KMRL sources said. Since September 2019, the metro agency has been engaged in constructing the metro viaduct on the Pettah-SN Junction stretch and two stations en route. Work on the pier caps is under way after a two-month hiatus due to the lockdown. The stretch is scheduled to be commissioned by 2021-end.
01 July 2020||Madurai,||HC finds prima facie material to book policemen for murder||The Madras High Court (Madurai Bench) on Tuesday found prima facie material to book the policemen allegedly involved in the custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks in Sattankulam for murder, thanks to a woman head constable's statement, the medical report and the judicial magistrate's report. To ensure that the inquiry into the case was not scuttled, a Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi ordered that the probe be immediately handed over to the CB-CID till such time as the CBI takes charge of the investigation. “In our opinion, the ante-mortem injuries found on the bodies of the deceased, coupled with the averments in the report of the learned judicial magistrate no.1, Kovilpatti, especially the statement of head constable Revathy, would be prima facie enough to alter the case against the Sattankulam policemen, who were actively involved in the investigation of the case to one under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (murder),” the court said. Noting that Ms. Revathy's statement should be recorded by a judicial magistrate under Section 164 of the Cr.P.C., the court directed the Thoothukudi Collector to “immediately ensure the safety of Ms. Revathy and her family members”.
01 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Community spread evident, State reports 131 fresh cases||Local transmission of COVID-19 is on the rise in the State with 19 more persons developing the disease from the community on Tuesday. Nine of them are Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel in Kannur. The State reported 131 new cases, including one death on Tuesday. With 75 recoveries on the same day, the number of active cases in the State now is 2,112. One more death With the death of a 76-year-old at the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital on Saturday, the number of COVID deaths in the State has risen to 24. He had returned from Mumbai and had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The Malappuram-Palakkad and Kannur-Kasaragod belts are going to be a major problem for the State as far as COVID-19 containment is concerned as case cluster formation has begun to happen here in a small way. In the past five days, the number of people who developed COVID-19 through local transmission in the State, according to official figure, is 76. Interestingly, these past five days, the number of people who travelled to Tamil Nadu by flights and trains and were tested positive there is 42. Whether one chooses to call it community transmission or not, the fact remains that all these people contracted the disease from the community and that a chunk of them are asymptomatic cases.
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||5.5 lakh COVID-19 cases in Delhi by July 31 unlikely: govt. panel head||The head of a Delhi government-appointed committee, which predicted around 5.5 lakh COVID-19 cases in the city by July 31, on Tuesday said that the scenario was “unlikely” considering the current decline in new cases. “It is time to do a new forecast for Delhi,” Mahesh Verma told The Hindu . The number of new COV-ID-19 cases in Delhi has seen a decline for three straight days till Monday. However, the new cases increased slightly from 2,084 on Monday to 2,199 on Tuesday.  “When we made the prediction the doubling time was around 13 days. We thought that the number of cases will keep increasing exponentially,” said Dr. Verma. He said the three-day fall is too short a period to say whether it is a trend and cases would further decrease in the city. “It is a good sign and I hope this trend continues, but we can’t say anything at this point. We need to watch it for a few more days to call it a pattern,” said Dr. Verma. Giridhara R. Babu, professor at Indian Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru, also said the number of cases have to be looked at over a period of seven days at least to come to a conclusion. Based on the Verma-led committee report, the Delhi government had said on June 9 that 80,000 beds will be required in the city by July 31. “Looking at the dip in the new cases over the past week [barring June 26] and also the fact that the number of active cases has increased by only about 1,000 in the same time, I don’t think we would need the number of beds we are creating,” a Delhi government official said.
01 July 2020||Bengaluru,||4,500 beds sought from private medical colleges||In the light of increasing number of COVID-19 cases, the Karnataka government is now estimating the requirement of beds to treat patients in 11 private medical colleges in Bengaluru to be about 4,500 from the earlier notified 2,200 beds. This comes a day after the government sought 2,500 beds from private hospitals for COVID-19 patients. The doubling of requirement was conveyed to the private medical college managements by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who met representatives here on Tuesday. A total of 6,500 beds, including 2,000 in government medical colleges and 4,500 in private medical colleges, are to be made available for COVID-19 treatment in Bengaluru alone. There are three government medical colleges and 11 private medical colleges in the city. A note from the Chief Minister’s Office said that private medical college managements promised to join hands and sought time to ensure required facilities in phases. Mr. Yediyurappa also informed the representatives that a centralised bed distribution facility had been launched in BBMP already, and that it would be fully functional in the next two to three days. “A coordination committee will be established with private medical facilities and efforts will be made to use tele-medicine for treatment,” he said.  The CM also assured the representatives that insurance facilities would be extended to all medical and paramedical staff in private medical colleges involved in COVID-19 treatment. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that rates fixed for private hospitals would be applicable to private medical colleges also. He indicated that the government would modify certain treatment protocol, and a detailed notification would be released on Wednesday. Currently, he said persons with diabetes, blood pressure, kidney and lung ailments who test positive are being treated in COVID-19 hospitals, while asymptomatic patients are being treated in COVID-19 Care centres. He also said that post graduate students of private medical colleges will also be deployed at care centres. There have been complaints about non-payment of stipends to these students by some colleges. Already, notices have been twice to such colleges and if stipend is not paid, action will be taken against the colleges, he added.
01 July 2020||Belagavi,||Mixed response as govt. issues order shifting 24 offices to Suvarna Soudha||The State government’s move to shift one division-level office and 23 district-level offices to the Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi has received mixed response. The decision was announced through a Government Order issued on Tuesday. As per the order, the district administration has to make infrastructure arrangements to enable the functioning of these offices. All these offices, that were running from private rented buildings, should end their contracts and start working from the Suvarna Soudha from the first week of July. The district administration officers should provide drinking water and canteen facilities for workers and the public who frequent these offices. The State government has also asked the Public Works Department to create office spaces for workers in the alternative venue of the State Legislature. However, the PWD is not supposed to buy any new furniture. The office of the Karnataka Niravari Nigam is the only division-level office to be shifted. The other 23 offices include the office of the Deputy Director of Tourism, Land Acquisition Officer for irrigation projects, senior geologist, District Statistics Office and development corporations of various communities and social groups. Some organisations such as the Swami Vivekananda Youth Centre have welcomed the move. Raju Chikkanagoudar, convenor of the centre, said that this would help save a lot of money to the State Exchequer as all the offices working from private buildings would be shifted to the Suvarna Soudha. This is a long-pending dream of the people of the district that has come true, he said. However, others say that the decision would not help the people much. “It is meaningless,” said Revanasiddappa Darge, convenor of the Basava Bheema Sene. “We wanted the State government to shift secretary-level offices from Bengaluru to the Suvarna Soudha,’’ he said. He added that the Basava Bheema Sene will register its opposition to the decision.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Corps Commanders hold talks in Chushul||India and China held another round of Corps Commanders-level talks at Chushul in Ladakh on Tuesday aimed at reducing tensions along the border as earlier efforts made no headway. The talks were under way till the time of going to press. The talks between Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Maj. Gen. Liu Lin, Commander of the South Xinjiang Military District, began around 11 a.m. at the Border Meeting Point at Chushul on the Indian side.  Mutual consensus  The earlier round of talks was held on the Chinese side at Moldo, opposite Chushul. At the second round of talks held on June 22, the two sides had come to a “mutual consensus” to disengage along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and defence sources had said the modalities for disengagement from all friction areas in Eastern Ladakh were discussed and would be taken forward by both sides. However, there has been no progress on the ground since and officials described it as a wait-and-watch situation, even as further military build-up continued on both sides.
01 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Gas leak in Vizag pharma company kills two||Two persons died and four others were taken ill after inhaling hydrogen sulphide vapours that leaked from the reactor of a pharmaceutical company’s plant at Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City at Parawada, about 40 km from here, late on Monday. Commissioner of Police R.K. Meena told The Hindu that the leak at Sainor Life Sciences Private Limited had been brought under control. The deceased have been identified as shift in-charge Ragi Narendra and chemist Gowri Shankar. The others — L.V. Chandra Sekhar, P. Anand Babu, D. Janakiram and M. Surya Narayana — were rushed to a private hospital where the condition of Chandra Sekhar was said to be critical. The incident comes close on the heels of the styrene monomer vapour leak at LG Polymers on May 7, in which 12 persons died and hundreds were hospitalised. Mr. Meena, Vizag District Collector V. Vinay Chand and officials from the Fire Service and the Factories Departments rushed to the plant on Tuesday morning to assess the situation. Based on a complaint lodged by the VRO, police booked cases under IPC Sections 304 (2), 278, 284, 285 and 337. Police were deployed in strength and access to the plant was restricted. Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories K.B.S. Prasad said from preliminary investigation it appeared that the leak originated in a hose that connects the reactor to the centrifuge. The vapour leaked in a small quantity and accumulated near the reactor area over a period of time. The shift in-charge and the chemist were the first to be affected and the four co-workers, who went to their rescue, also inhaled some, Mr. Prasad said. This is the second incident in the Sainor Life Sciences plant since it began operations at JNPC. In September 2015, two workers were charred to death and five others injured in a reactor blast. Cases were booked against the company and it was allowed to resume operations only after the management paid a hefty fine. There have been about 40 industrial accidents in Visakhapatnam district, over 20 in pharma and chemical units alone, since 1997. About 130 lives have been lost and hundreds injured.
01 July 2020||Bengaluru,||BMTC, KSRTC ask 9,500 staff to go on leave||With the pandemic showing no signs of slowing down, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) and Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) have asked staff members who are 50 years and above to avail of leave. For KSRTC, this would mean 4,500 of its staff across districts off duty. Around 5,000 BMTC employees have also been asked not to report till further orders. The corporation has a staff strength of 32,000 of which a majority are drivers and conductors. In total, 9,500 personnel from transport corporations will remain at home. To date, 32 BMTC employees have contracted COVID-19. According to officials, 12 personnel have been discharged while the rest are still in the hospitals. The corporation has tested 2006 personnel at the depot level. BMTC Managing Director C Shikha told The Hindu that the decision has been taken as per the guidelines of the government. “Employees aged over 50 years and those who have comorbidities have been asked to avail of leave. Usually, each employee earns 30 leaves per year and senior staff members have more numbers of leaves in their account due to more experience. On Monday, a circular was issued keeping in mind their health and containing the spread of pandemic. Employees get paid as they are taking balance leaves. Those who do not have leaves in their account will be provided advance leave,” she said. Ms Shikha listed some of the precautionary measures that have been adopted across all depots. “We have taken several measures to conduct health checks for staff. Depots and buses are being cleaned on a daily basis. Each depot is supplied with pulse oximeters to test employees,” she added. Partition screens The BMTC had resumed bus services for the public on May 19, and since the lockdown restrictions have been eased, its ridership averages at around 10 lakh commuters a day. As the bus crew interacts with thousands of people every day, the BMTC is contemplating installing protective partition screens inside its buses. Officials have already examined three prototypes.
01 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||13 COVID-19 deaths in North Karnataka||Ballari district recorded six COVID-19-related deaths on Tuesday. Two patients each died in Dharwad, Haveri and Vijayapura districts and one died of COVID-19 in Belagavi district. Meanwhile, some of the districts in North Karnataka continued to register a rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday with Ballari district recording 61 followed by Haveri district with 49. Uttara Kannada district recorded 40 new cases followed by Vijayapura with 39 cases. Bidar and Dharwad districts recorded 17 cases each followed by Kalaburagi and Raichur with 15 each. Bagalkot recorded four cases, while Belagavi, Gadag and Yadgir districts recorded two cases each. As per a bulletin, 92 persons were discharged from hospital in Ballari district on Monday followed by 47 in Kalaburagi, 15 in Vijayapura, 11 in Bidar, six in Koppal, five in Dharwad, three in Belagavi and two in Yadgir districts.
01 July 2020||NELLORE,||APTDC official held for ‘beating’ colleague||A tiff over following social etiquette during the COVID-19 pandemic led to the arrest of an executive with the State Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) here on Tuesday. The incident took place at Harita Tourism Hotel, a designated COVID-19 quarantine centre, on Saturday. APTDC deputy manager C. Bhaskar allegedly thrashed Usha Rani, a differently-abled woman colleague who, on seeing him without a face mask, suggested that he followed the personal protective measure following a spurt in the cases in the city. At this, Mr. Bhaskar allegedly lost his cool and entered into a wordy duel with the woman before pulling her by her hair and beating her with a furniture handle. Fellow colleagues quickly came to her rescue and took him away from the spot. The CCTV footage of the woman being manhandled went viral on the social media platforms. Vasireddy visits victim Meanwhile, Women’s Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma visited the victim and directed the police to file charge-sheet within one week and ensure stringent punishment to the accused under relevant sections of the IPC and Disha Act. On a complaint filed by Ms. Usha Rani, who works as senior assistant in the APTDC divisional office, the police booked a case against Mr. Bhaskar under IPC Sections 354, 355, and 324. The arrest was made based on the CCTV footage, DSP J. Srinivasulu Reddy told the media. The accused was remanded to 14 days judicial custody later in the day. On the directive of Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao, APTDC MD Pravin Kumar placed the accused under suspension.
01 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Locals resist influx of tourists as infections rise||The influx of tourists, at a time when a sharp increase in the number of COVID-19 cases is being reported, is not going down well with residents of tourist destinations. They are especially angry with tourists who do not follow social distancing and other norms.
01 July 2020||Ballari,||DC orders inquiry into ‘dumping’ of bodies||Ballari Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul on Tuesday ordered an inquiry after a video showing bodies, allegedly of COVID-19 victims, being hurled into burial trenches in an isolated area. The video caused public outrage in Ballari, which has seen a spurt in cases.
01 July 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Guidelines on online classes ignored‘||Many schools are exceeding the time limit set by the government while conducting online classes, which until last week, had been banned for students up to class V. Some parents claimed that schools were also holding online sessions more frequently.
01 July 2020||Bengaluru,||‘The symptomatic more likely to spread virus’||An analysis of 3,404 positive patients between March 9 and June 1 in the State has shown that while both symptomatic and asymptomatic people transmit the infection, the former have greater propensity for transmission.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi riots: chargesheets filed in 3 murder cases||The SIT of Delhi Police on Tuesday filed three chargesheets in murder cases of three Muslim youths during the north-east Delhi riots in February.The victims were killed and thrown into a canal. The bodies were recovered on March 3.
01 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. Cong. chief detained in Lucknow, released||U.P. Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu and party workers were detained and later released in Lucknow on Tuesday as they staged a protest against the arrest of the party’s State minority cell chairperson Shahnawaz Alam in conection with anti-CAA violence last year.
01 July 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal wants flights suspended to curb COVID||West Bengal Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha on Tuesday wrote to Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation, P.S. Kharola urging him to stop domestic flights from places with high prevalence of COVID-19 cases to Kolkata for two weeks from July.
01 July 2020||Patna,||Groom dies, 95 guests test positive in Bihar||A groom died two days after his marriage, and 95 others, mostly those who attended the wedding ceremony, were found to be COVID-19 positive in Bihar. The ceremony took place on June 15 at village Deehpali in Patna district. The 30-year-old groom was a software engineer from Gurugram.
01 July 2020||HUBBALLI/BELAGAVI,||Transferred IAS officers take charge||Officers of the Indian Administrative Services (IAS) who were transferred on Monday night as Deputy Commissioners of various districts took charge on Tuesday with alacrity.
01 July 2020||Chennai,||HC grants two weeks to decide fee collection||The Madras High Court on Tuesday granted a week to the State government to come up with a solution on the issue of fee collection, balancing the interests of private schools and middle class parents who cannot pay huge amounts due to the COVID-19 lockdown.
01 July 2020||Chennai,||17.04 lakh tonnes of PDS rice issued in 3 months||A total of 17.04 lakh tonnes of PDS rice were distributed to ration cardholders in the State in the last three months to mitigate the hardship by COVID-19. This allocation is nearly half of the total PDS rice allocated to beneficiaries in a normal year. The rice was also distributed free of cost.
01 July 2020||Chennai,||Beds with oxygen lines being provided: govt.||The Health Department has expedited work on providing oxygen lines to available beds and distributing high-flow nasal cannulas to hospitals in Chennai and other districts in the State witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases.
01 July 2020||Chennai,||With 3,943 cases, T.N. breaches 90,000-mark||Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases surpassed the 90,000-mark on Tuesday, with another 3,943 persons testing positive. The State also crossed the 50,000-mark in the number of persons discharged so far.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Health workers must get vaccine first: PM||Vulnerable groups, including health workers and those in the general public, should be identified and prioritised for early vaccination, noted Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday while chairing a high-level meeting to review the planning and preparations for vaccination against COVID-19, as and when a vaccine is available. He said vaccination of India’s vast and diverse population will need to factor in issues including those related to management of medical supply chains, prioritisation of at-risk populations, coordination between different agencies involved, as well as the role of private sector and civil society. Universal access “The Prime Minister said that after the vulnerable population is vaccinated the same should be offered to “anyone, anywhere” without imposition of any domicile-related restrictions for getting the vaccine. Also the vaccination must be affordable and universal — no person should be left behind and the entire process from production to vaccination should be monitored and supported in real time with the use of technology,” noted a government press release. The Prime Minister also directed officials to evaluate in a broad manner available technology options that can form the backbone of the national endeavour to vaccinate everybody in the most efficient and timely manner and directed that detailed planning for such large-scale vaccination should be undertaken immediately. The current status of vaccine development efforts were also reviewed at the meeting. Meanwhile in an extensive exercise, Uttar Pradesh’s 1.6 lakh ASHAs workers have tracked nearly 30.43 lakh migrant returnees in two phases — 11.24 lakh in the first and 19.19 lakh in the second phase, noted a release issued by the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday. “They have assisted in contact tracing and community level surveillance. The ASHAs not only identified 7,965 persons with symptoms but also regularly followed up on their health status. They have facilitated sample collection from 2,232 returnees of which 203 were found to be positive and were referred to COVID health care services,” the Ministry added.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Wrong to blame China for India-Nepal dispute’||Nepal’s new political map was a response to a public demand to uphold its sovereignty, according to Chinese Ambassador in Kathmandu Hou Yanqi. In an interview to a prominent Nepalese online publication, she said Nepal’s territorial dispute with India at Kalapani should not be disturbed by “unilateral” action and those who said Nepal acted on behalf of China in fact intended to undermine China-Nepal ties. “This is a measure by the Nepali government to firmly safeguard sovereignty and territorial integrity and comply with the public opinion. Any so-called “Nepal at the behest of China” accusation is baseless and comes with ulterior motives. Such accusations are not only an insult to the will of the independent country of Nepal, but also are endeavours directed at disruption of China-Nepal relations”, said Ms. Hou in the interview to Rising Nepal . She argued that reports about China acquiring territory from Nepal in the northern part of the country were created by “irresponsible media and individual groups” as the Nepal-China boundary was already demarcated “without any dispute”. The envoy urged Nepal and India to resolve the territorial dispute at Kalapani. “We hope the two countries will resolve their differences properly through friendly consultations and refrain from taking any unilateral action that may complicate the situation”, she said. New map Nepal passed the new map in the Lower House of Parliament on June 13 and the Second Constitution Amendment, which gave constitutional guarantee to the map, completed the legislative process on June 18 with the authentication of the Bill by President Bidhya Devi Bhandari.  Indian Army chief General Manoj Naravane had said Nepal was working at the behest of a third country, hinting at Chinese support to Nepal’s territorial assertion in the Limpiyadhura-Kalapani-Lipulekh region.
01 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||19 cases in Kerala linked to community spread||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 20 deaths and 947 new COVID-19 cases. Seven patients each succumbed to the disease in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. In what was seen as more evidence of local transmission of COVID-19 in Kerala, 19 more people got the disease from the community as of Tuesday. Nine were CISF personnel in Kannur. Kerala reported 131 new cases, including one death. All except 19 were imported cases. With 75 new recoveries, active cases were 2,112. With the test results of a 76-year-old man, who had travelled from Mumbai and passed away at Thiruvananthapuram Medical College hospital on Saturday returning COVID-19 positive, the number of COVID deaths rose to 24. Northern Kerala, especially the Malappuram-Palakkad belt and the Kannur-Kasargod belt could pose a challenge as case cluster formation had begun to happen here, even through in a small way, data showed. Just in the past five days, the number of people who developed COVID-19 through local transmission in Kerala, as per official figures, was 76. Over the past five days, 42 people who travelled to Tamil Nadu by flights and trains tested positive there. Andhra Pradesh crossed the 14,000-mark in the COVID-19 case tally with the detection of 704 more cases from 18,114 samples. Seven persons succumbed to COVID-19, taking the toll to 187 and the tally rose to 14,595. Of the total, there were 7,897 active cases and 6,511 recoveries. Three deaths were reported in Kurnool and two in Krishna. One death each occurred in Guntur and Anantapur districts, the Health Department said. Karnataka reported 20 deaths and 947 cases. Tuesday’s deaths were the highest for a single day. The death toll touched 246. Total cases came to 15,242, of which 12,021 were reported in June. Telangana experienced a spike on Tuesday again, with 945 more testing positive. Cases totalled 16,339 and total fatalities stood at 260. Greater Hyderabad area contributed 869 positives.  T.N. cases cross 90,000 Tamil Nadu’s overall COVID-19 case numbers crossed 90,000 on Tuesday, with another 3,943 persons testing positive for the infection. The State also crossed the 50,000-mark on persons discharged, registering a recovery rate of 55.5%. T.N. reported over 3,000-plus cases per day since June 25. The overall COVID-19 case count stood at 90,164. Chennai, for the second consecutive day, saw 2,000-plus positive cases. On Tuesday, a total of 2,325 persons were discharged from hospitals. The State had 38,889 active cases. The toll increased to 1,201, with 60 more persons succumbing to the infection from June 25 to 30.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||Centre to focus on online education||With the social inequity in online education coming to the fore due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Centre has proposed long-term measures to bridge the divide, including plans to distribute laptops or tablets to 40% of all college and university students over the next five years, and to equip all government schools with information and communication technology (ICT). In a presentation to the Finance Commission on Monday, the School Education Department also estimated it would need to spend upto Rs. 1 lakh per school for sanitisation and quarantine measures in preparation for the safe reopening of schools that have been shut due to the pandemic. Basic measures The measures would include ensuring basic water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) facilities, safe drinking water, availability of alcohol rub/sanitiser, disinfectant, cleaning material and equipment for temperature checking. Funds for these measures are being provided under the composite grant for schools, ranging between Rs. 25,000 for small schools with less than 100 students and Rs. 1 lakh for schools with over a thousand students, according to the presentation to the Commision. In order for government schools to be reopened, funds will also be provided for awareness and community mobilisation to sensitise parents, students and local leaders, as well as a sum of Rs. 1,000 per teacher to encourage them to function as first-level counsellors, disseminate basic information about COVID-19 and provide digital/online/mobile education. For the 3.1 lakh government schools above upper primary level who do not have ICT facilities, the Centre proposes a budget of Rs. 55,840 crore to equip them with such facilities. Urgent matter For college and university students, the promotion of online education, which has become more urgent due to the pandemic, will be twofold. On the one hand, the Human Resource Development Ministry proposes to spend Rs. 2,306 crore on developing and translating digital course content and resources over the next five years. On the other, it intends to provide laptops and tablets to 4.06 crore students — that is, 40% of the projected student population — by 2026, at a total cost of Rs. 60,900 crore. The largest chunk of 1.5 crore students are to receive devices in the next financial year 2021-22. An average cost of Rs. 15,000 has been assumed per device. The Centre and States are to share the cost of making devices available, in a 60:40 ratio, according to the presentation to the Finance Commission.
01 July 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal wants flights suspended||West Bengal Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha on Tuesday wrote to Secretary of the Ministry of Civil Aviation P.S. Kharola urging him to stop domestic flights from high prevalence places to Kolkata. “West Bengal is witnessing a steep rise in cases...Accordingly, I request you not to schedule any flight to West Bengal from high prevalence places viz..Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai, Indore, Ahmedabad and Surat and to stop the movement of flights from these cities to Kolkata or Bagdogra for two weeks from July,” Mr. Sinha said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has been demanding ban on flights. During the day Ms. Banerjee threatened to acquire 6,000 private buses in Kolkata by Wednesday by imposition of National Disaster Management Act. To commandeer buses “If the owners do not operate buses by Wednesday, we will be left with no option but to acquire them.” also Mr Sinha wrote to Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla seeking permission to invoke the NDMA. The State government had proposed a Rs 15,000 aid to private bus owners but they were not willing to bring the bus on the streets. The bus owners were demanding a hike in the bus fares and commuters in Kolkata and suburbs have been having a tough time in reaching their destinations. In another letter addressed to the Prime Minister Ms Banerjee opposed the Centre’s decision to bring cooperative banks of the country under the Reserve Bank of India. “This is the only thing that we have in our control. The Union government should not take away that control. Our government has decided to write to the NITI Aayog chief against the decision,” the Chief Minister added.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘We have learnt from our mistakes in 2019’||Congress Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil said the Mahagathbandhan, or the grand alliance of Opposition parties, in Bihar has learnt its lessons from the disarray during the general election, and like-minded parties are working on providing an alternative to the voter.  The Mahagathbandhan failed to make any mark in the Lok Sabha election. What went wrong then? And has the Congress and its allies learnt any lessons from the debacle? We made a few mistakes in the run up to the Lok Sabha election. Till the very last minute we didn’t have clarity on seat-sharing and the tussle over who will contest on which seat didn’t go down well. Although we did get over the differences, at least among the top layers of the leadership, by then it was too late to bring a similar cohesion among the cadres on the ground. We have all learnt our lessons from this. All the alliance partners have to ensure that we do not get entangled in the number game and each ally is treated with respect. There are already cracks visible in the alliance, with Hindustan Awam Morcha (Secular) leader Jitan Ram Manjhi protesting against the RJD for not constituting a coordination committee. Does the Congress share his views on the subject? We had a preliminary meeting which was attended by all our alliance partners. It was held in a cordial atmosphere. It was decided that the RJD will organise a meeting of the State-level leaders and constitute a coordination committee. I don’t see a problem, I believe it will soon be taken care of. We have been hearing about a possibility of a third front, with the Congress walking out of the Mahagathbandhan along with the other parties. Would you comment? The Bihar voter is very unhappy. The BJP and the JD(U) are not on the same ideological plane and even their style of administration is diametrically opposite to each other’s. Because of this Bihar’s janata ( common people) is suffering. There is a crying need for a good alternative. The onus is on all the like-minded parties to stay united, keeping our egos and self-interest aside. And I believe if we stay together and fight well, the Mahagathbandhan will be able to form the government in Bihar. There has been a growing sentiment within the Congress in Bihar that an alliance with RJD is eroding their own electoral base and is slowly pushing the party towards extinction in the State. Would the Congress consider breaking the ties? The Congress has never worked for “power politics”; we work for our convictions and ideology. We don’t use and throw our allies like the BJP. Our party has internal democracy and everyone accordingly shares their thoughts. There is reluctance among the other allies about projecting Tejashwi Yadav as the face of the alliance. Does the Congress accept him as the face of the alliance? This is something for the allies to decide by consensus at an appropriate time. And when you unite on an ideology then the issue of projecting any one face is not relevant. During the Lok Sabha election, the Congress tried hard to bring the Left parties into the alliance but the RJD resisted. Will that change? I have said earlier, too, that all the like-minded parties should come together. And Left parties definitely fall under this category. We will be very happy if all of us can work out some space for the Left in the Mahagathbandhan .  The BJP and the JD(U) are not on the same ideological plane and even their style of governance is opposite to each other’s
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Status quo at Pangong Tso has been changed’||While attention has been focused on the Galwan Valley following the June 15 violence, another unprecedented face-off has been unfolding at Pangong Tso. By erecting tents and other structures on Indian territory between Finger 4 and Finger 8, China’s PLA has changed rules of agreements, says Colonel S. Dinny (retd.) , who commanded an infantry battalion at Pangong Tso until 2017.  Having served at Pangong Lake, how different is the current situation? The problem peculiar to this place is China’s perception of the LAC is at Finger 4 and our perception is at Finger 8. The Fingers [mountain spurs] are numbered 1 to 8, from west to east. So, there is a distance of 8 km where the entire conflict has been happening. Our post is between Finger 2 and 3, which is well connected by a road. There is a track to 1 km short of Finger 4, but it ends there. After that, it’s only a foot track. The Chinese are at Sirijap, which is 8 km east of Finger 8. They built a road up to Finger 4 in 1999 when Indian troop presence was limited because of Kargil. No vehicle can cross Finger 4. When we patrol up to Finger 8, we have to go on foot. The Chinese have the advantage as they can come up to Finger 4 on vehicles. They have been sensitive to our presence in this area because they felt they built the road, and they dominated up to Finger 4. They do not want us to come to Finger 8 frequently, so some times they stop us. As per agreements, when stopped, you cannot bypass them. We reciprocate, and stop them before they come to Finger 4. For many years, it was a one-man show and they were dominating. Only in the past seven or eight years, we have started pushing our infrastructure so our presence has increased. What [encounters] used to happen once or twice a month, is now on an almost daily basis. What explains the timing? Two things happen every summer. All the infrastructure work starts, and you have more troops in the area because annual exercises happen then. The winter at 17,000 feet is cruel. Summer is when you can both construct infrastructure and protest it, so you see escalation of conflicts. What is different this time? Firstly, the scale at which the status quo has been changed is blatant. In Pangong Tso, both sides know there is a dispute, but they have unilaterally changed the status quo and in a blatant way, by erecting structures [between Finger 4 and 8] for everyone to see, in a way that shows they do not respect past agreements. No country can allow such a thing to happen even if this territory is disputed. Also different is the scale of violence. What are India’s options? The approach of the Indian Army and government is the right one. We have ensured a balance of forces so if anyone wants to escalate, there will be no surprise. Having said that, my view is kinetic action is the last resort. People are jumping to that and saying we should evict them physically. We have not reached that stage. The talks itself are a positive sign that both want to de-escalate. Both will be looking for an honourable exit. If the situation is prolonged, it is ideal for the exit strategy because if it is abrupt, there is a sudden notion of victory or loss of face. Hopefully, we will have a gradual de-escalation by winter and be back to the status quo ante of April. Else, it will be a long haul, and other means will come into play. The violence on June 15 in Galwan Valley was unprecedented, and so are the multiple stand-offs at different points. What explains this? My reading is although the trigger was at Pangong Tso, slowly but steadily the scale has expanded. The June 15 incident definitely came as a shock to me. I always had this fear that someday things could get out of hand. By God’s grace, none of the troops opened fire. People have asked why they didn’t use weapons. I think that was a good decision from both sides to adhere to agreements and protocols despite the violence. If they did use weapons, the casualties would have been in hundreds. There is a sincere and serious requirement for revisiting these agreements now because our contacts are increasing. Asking for a border resolution is far fetched, but what both armies can definitely do is follow a no-patrolling zone in the 23 or so areas along the LAC where there are differing perceptions. Now we have unmanned aerial vehicles and other assets to observe this, and we do not need physical contact of troops. I don't want to say it, but the day is not far away when people may actually start using weapons. If there is a no-patrolling zone, you will find there is a drastic reduction in this kind of conflict, which would be a great thing for peace on the border.  Both armies can definitely follow a no-patrolling zone in the around 23 areas along the LAC
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||46 million girls went missing in India||One in three girls missing globally due to sex selection, both pre- and post-natal, is from India — 46 million out of the total 142 million, according to the UNFPA’s State of the World Population 2020 report released on Tuesday. The figure shows that the number of missing women has more than doubled over the past 50 years, who were at 61 million in 1970. The report examines the issue of missing women by studying sex ratio imbalances at birth as a result of gender-biased sex selection as well as excess female mortality due to deliberate neglect of girls because of a culture of son preference. Excess female mortality is the difference between observed and expected mortality of the girl child or avoidable death of girls during childhood. The report cites a 2014 study to state that India has the highest rate of excess female deaths at 13.5 per 1,000 female births or one in nine deaths of females below the age of 5 due to postnatal sex selection. The same study shows that in Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan excess female mortality of girls below 5 years of age was under 3%. However, the advent of technology and increased access to ultrasound imaging ensured that parents didn’t have to wait for the birth of their girl child to kill her but could terminate a foetus upon knowing its gender. This resulted in the number of girls missing due to female foeticide exceeding those that were missing because of postnatal sex selection. According to estimates averaged over a five year period (2013-17), annually, there were 1.2 million missing female births, at a global level. India had about 4,60,000 girls ‘missing’ at birth each year. These skewed numbers translate into long-term shifts in the proportions of women and men in the population of some countries, the report points out. In many countries, this results in a “marriage squeeze” as prospective grooms far outnumber prospective brides, which further results in human trafficking for marriage as well as child marriages.
01 July 2020||Mumbai,||HC suspends 2 FIRs against Arnab||Journalist Arnab Goswami was on Tuesday granted interim relief from arrest by the Bombay High Court. The court suspended FIRs against him for alleged communal coverage of the Palghar lynching case and an incident of migrants gathering outside the Bandra station. The court said, “We cannot have the spectacle of a Damocles’ sword hanging over the head of a journalist while conducting a public debate.” A Division Bench of Ujjal Bhuyan and Riyaz Chagla said, “India is now a mature democracy. Seventy years into our republic we cannot be seen to be skating on thin ice so much so that mere mention of a place of worship will lead to animosity or hatred amongst religious communities causing upheaval and conflagration on the streets. Subscribing to such a view would stifle all legitimate discussions and debates in the public domain.” In the Palghar case, the court said: “If the transcript, together with the first information, are read as a whole, we do not find any statement made by Mr. Goswami which can be construed to be against the Muslim community or the Christian community. In such circumstances, it cannot be said that any offence has been committed by Mr. Goswami of provoking rioting or promoting or attempting to promote, on the grounds of religion, disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between different religious groups which is prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony between different religious groups or which disturbs or is likely to disturb public tranquillity, thus prejudicial to national integrity. Neither any statement nor the conduct of the petitioner can be said to have been made deliberately and with malicious intention to outrage the religious feelings of any class of citizens of India or insulting any religion or religious beliefs of that class of citizens.” In the Bandra case, the Bench remarked, “On an overall reading of the FIR, statement of the informant and transcript of the broadcast, it would be wrong to say that Mr. Goswami had made statements in the broadcast with a view to defame or insult the feelings of any religious group or community. The tenor of the programme was Mr. Goswami trying to find out as to who were the people or which were the forces trying to derail or defeat the lockdown and encouraging violation of social distancing norms.
01 July 2020||BALLARI,||Ballari DC orders inquiry into ‘dumping’ of bodies||Ballari Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul on Tuesday ordered an inquiry after a video showing bodies, allegedly those of COVID-19 victims, being hurled into large burial trenches in an isolated area. The video caused public outrage in Ballari, which has seen a spurt in the number of cases, now totalling 834. Mr. Nakul told The Hindu that an inquiry would be conducted by the Additional Deputy Commissioner and he had been directed to submit the report at the earliest. “Whether the mortuary staff violated guidelines issued for burying COVID-19 victims will be confirmed only after the inquiry,” he said. He said there is no conclusive evidence to prove that the incident took place in Ballari district. “However, throwing bodies into a trench is disgraceful act. The victims should be buried separately in an isolated area.” Mr. Nakul said that serious action will be taken against those responsible for such insensitivity, if it is confirmed that the incident took place in Ballari district. The district reported nine COVID-19 related deaths on Monday and five deaths on Tuesday, he added. Total deaths in the district stands at 29.
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||Paswan welcomes PMGKAY extension||Union Minister for Food and Public Distribution Ram Vilas Paswan welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to extend the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) till November. Speaking to The Hindu, Mr. Paswan said, “This is a historic step and I would congratulate PM Modi for this. I would urge the State governments, who have not so far distributed the entire allocated amount of food grains, should immediately pick up necessary food grains from the nearest FCI godowns and distribute it to the needy.”  So far, 87% of food grains allocated under the scheme for April, May and June has reached the beneficiaries, the Ministry said. Only Chhattisgarh and Lakshadweep have achieved 100% distribution. Opposition parties and activists working in the field of food rights however, are not impressed. “Bowing to people’s protests, the Modi government has extended the provision of 5 kg grains free for 80 crore people for the next 5 months. This falls far short of the required 10 kg per month for six months to all needy to prevent hunger deaths,” CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted. CPI general secretary D. Raja questioned what was stopping the government on universalising public distribution at a time of crisis, especially when government godowns have stocks far exceeding the buffer stock range. Associate Professor of Economics and food rights activist Reetika Khera said while extending the food entitlements is a welcome move, Mr. Modi didn’t speak about the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme under which eight crore migrants, who are not covered under the National Food Security Act, were provided food grains for two months.
01 July 2020||SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT NEW DELHI,||When will you throw out Chinese troops, Rahul asks PM||A day after the Union government banned 59 Chinese apps, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday alleged that China had taken away India’s ‘sacred land’ and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tell the nation when he would push them out. In a video message on Twitter, Mr. Gandhi said, “ The whole country knows that China has taken away the sacred land of India. All of us know that the Chinese are inside Ladakh at four places. Narendra Modi ji, please tell the nation when will you push the Chinese troops out of India and how?” In a separate tweet, he took a dig at the government’s record with regard to imports from China. “Facts don’t lie. BJP says: Make in India. BJP does: Buy from China,” he tweeted and posted a graph that compared volume of imports from China during the BJP-led NDA government and the Congress-led UPA regime. The graph showed that India’s imports from China as a total percentage of its GDP grew from a little over 12% in 2009 (under UPA) to over 18% in 2018 (under NDA). It, however, shows a steady decline in India’s purchases from China between 2018 and 2020, At the party’s official briefing, Congress spokesperson Supriya Srinate termed the ban on Chinese apps a mere ‘symbolic’ gesture and asserted that the party would back the government in taking a more ‘decisive action’.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Venugopal gets a year’s extension as A-G||The Union government has extended the term of K.K. Venugopal as Attorney-General (A-G) for one year, Tushar Mehta as Solicitor-General (S-G) for three years, beginning July 1, appointed six new Additional Solicitors- General (ASGs) and extended the tenure of five ASGs. While the A-G was reappointed by President Ram Nath Kovind, the other appointments were notified by the Law Ministry late on Monday after the Appointments Committee of Cabinet (ACC), headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, cleared them. Mr. Venugopal was appointed in July 2017 after his predecessor Mukul Rohatgi resigned. Even though the usual tenure (including reappointment) of the A-G is three years, he has been given a one-year extension because he agreed for that period owing to his advanced age of 89. The AS-Gs who got a three-year extension are Vikramajit Banerjee, Aman Lekhi, Madhavi Goradia Divan, K.M. Nataraj and Sanjay Jain, an official release said. The senior advocates who have been appointed ASGs are Balbir Singh, Suryaprakash V. Raju, Rupinder Singh Suri, N. Venkataraman, Jayant K. Sud and Aishwarya Bhati. Besides reappointing Anil C. Singh as the ASG for the Bombay High Court and Satya Pal Jain for the Punjab and Haryana High Court, five new ASGs have also been appointed. They are Yezdezard Jehangir Dastoor for the Calcutta High Court, Chetan Sharma for the Delhi High Court, Sankaranarayanan for the Madras High Court, Krishna Nandan Singh for the Patna High Court and Devang Girish Vyas for the Gujarat High Court.
01 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Law and order is better: Nagaland CM||Almost a fortnight after Governor R.N. Ravi wrote to him complaining about “armed gangs” making hay, Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio said law and order in the State was vastly better than the pre-ceasefire years. The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM) had inked the ceasefire pact with the Centre in 1997. Other groups followed, but the rival Khaplang group walked out of the truce in March 2015. “The situation today is way better than the years preceding the Centre’s signing of ceasefire agreements in the 1990s and in the 1960s... Nagaland was also adjudged the best performing small State in law and order in 2018 and 2019 [by a Delhi-based publication group],” Mr. Rio told presspersons in the capital Kohima on Monday. He said the State Cabinet held a meeting at the Raj Bhavan on June 19, in which the Governor read out the letter he had written three days ago. Deputy Chief Minister Y. Patton, also the Home Minister, briefed the Governor on the law and order situation. In his letter, Mr. Ravi said the unrestrained depredations by more than half-a-dozen organised armed gangs, brazenly running their so-called “governments” and challenging the legitimacy of the State government without any resistance from the law and order machinery, created a crisis of confidence in the system. “Law-abiding citizens are made miserable by rampant extortions and violence by the armed gangs,” said the Governor, who is also the interlocutor in the Naga peace talks. “The State government development departments are under duress to give regular ransom to the armed gangs,” he said. The NSCN(IM) reacted to the letter last week, asserting that it did not extort from people but levied “legitimate taxes” on them. The working committee of Naga National Political Groups, a conglomerate of other rebel groups, also denied its involvement in extortion.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Products should display country of origin’||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court for a direction to the government to introduce law necessitating e-commerce sites and websites to display the country of origin of products advertised and sold on their platforms for customers to make an “informed decision”. The plea filed by lawyer Divya Jyoti Singh said a large influx of junk was made and imported from China. “Indian consumers are still kept in dark by not disclosing the country of origin... e-commerce portals surreptitiously do not disclose the country of origin for the products on their web-portals,” it said. There was a “wave” against Chinese products across the country due to the tensions in the Galwan Valley. “By non- disclosure of the ‘Country of Origin’ on the web-portals, these giant business houses/ e- commerce portals are not only playing with the patriotic feelings of the Indians but also are proving fatal in the efforts of each and every citizen of India in boycotting the Chinese products and also are blocking the way in promoting the local manufacturers/ brands as called for by our Prime Minister so that the country becomes self -reliant as is the need of the hour,” the petition said. It said the rules of origin in trade law was crucial. “One can always locate the ‘made in country’ labels while purchasing from the physical stores,” it stated. With the pandemic on and more shopping done online, it was necessary for platforms to be transparent about the country of origin of the products they hosted. it said.
01 July 2020||Srinagar,||Geelani admitted failure: J&K DGP||Jammu and Kashmir Director-General of Police Dilbagh Singh on Tuesday termed the resignation of Hurriyat chairman Syed Ali Geelani “an admission that his mission has failed and the Kashmir issue was used by separatists for personal gains”. Inaugurating a women’s police station at Rajouri, he said Mr. Geelani’s letter to the Hurriyat constituents was an “eye-opener”. “Geelani has admitted that they [the separatists] have miserably failed in their mission and the Kashmir issue was used by the people for their personal gains. He has confessed that his path was wrong, and they were propagating negative-thinking,” Mr. Singh said. Drug trade The DGP said Mr. Geelani also highlighted “how drugs were being traded from across the Line of Control to this side”. Mr. Singh said 128 militants had been killed in Kashmir this year. “This is for the first time in the many years past that in the month of June 48 militants have been killed,” he said. But he warned that militants were trying to use the Machil and Gurez routes to enter Jammu and Kashmir. Mr. Geelani, who resigned from the Hurriyat on Monday, has accused the Pakistan chapter of “indiscipline”. “The Azad Kashmir branch of the All Parties Hurriyat Conference is just a representative forum. It is not authorised to take any individual or collective decision. Accessing assemblies and ministries through their own families and then actively participating in the government structure there, lining up against each other internally, quarrels, financial irregularities and countless such issues have been the subject of public debate. Recently, on the basis of investigations, some of those involved were fired. Investigations into the remaining gentlemen were also under way, but your representatives there, considering this process of investigation as an insult, started calling separate meetings after which orders were issued to dissolve the organizational structure there until further orders,” his letter reads.
01 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana puts off all entrance tests||All Common Entrance Tests in Telangana for admissions into different courses, including the POLYCET 2020 scheduled for Tuesday were postponed by the government. Telangana High Court hearing a PIL plea seeking deferment of entrance tests in the State was informed by Advocate General B.S. Prasasd that the next dates of the exams would be announced in due course. The AG conveyed the decision of the State government to a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy which was hearing the PIL plea. National Students Union of India state president B. Venkat Narsing Rao had filed a petition seeking a direction to the government to postpone all common entrance tests in the State in the backdrop of COVID pandemic. After hearing the petitioner’s counsel C. Damoder Reddy’s contentions in the morning, the bench sought to know from the AG the likelihood of government re-clamping lockdown in Hyderabad, citing media reports. The AG sought time till 12 noon to ascertain the government stand on the matter. When the bench re-assembled at noon, he informed the court that the State Cabinet was likely to take a call on the lockdown in a day or two. To CJ’s query on the petitioner’s contention on deferment of CETs, the AG again sought time till 2.30 p.m., stating that the Chief Secretary was in consultation with all departments concerned on the matter. When the bench re-assembled at 2.30 p.m,, the AG announced the decision of the government to postpone all entrance tests. Unaware of the government decision, the counsel for State Board of Technical Education and Training Venugopal appealed to the bench to permit POLYCET to be held on Tuesday. As the counsel repeatedly appealed to the bench to allow the test, the AG had to intervene and tell him not to represent on the matter making it clear that government had already decided to defer all entrance tests. Referring to the undergraduate and post-graduate courses under Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, its counsel said a proposal to take average marks of all the seven semesters and the eighth semester were to be taken as the base for promoting students to the next semester. If the students were not satisfied with the grades awarded on the average of the previous semesters, they would be permitted to appear for the exams to be held in future. The matter was conveyed to the Higher Education department which had conveyed the same to the Telangana State Council for Higher Education to take the final decision. Meanwhile, the Osmania University counsel said that he would secure instructions from Higher Education department on conducting exams to under-graduate and post-graduate courses. The bench directed the counsel to convey the university’s decision on the matter which would be heard again on July 9.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||TS postpones all CETs||Unaware of the government decision, the counsel for State Board of Technical Education and Training Venugopal appealed to the bench to permit POLYCET to be held on Tuesday. As the counsel repeatedly appealed to the bench to allow the test, the AG had to intervene and tell him not to represent on the matter making it clear that the government had already decided to defer all the entrance tests. Referring to the undergraduate and post-graduate courses under Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, its counsel said that a proposal to take average marks of all the seven semesters and the eighth semester were to be taken as the base for promoting students to the next semester. If the students were not satisfied with the grades awarded on the average of the previous semesters, they would be permitted to appear for the exams to be held in future. The matter was conveyed to the Higher Education department which had conveyed the same to the Telangana State Council for Higher Education to take the final decision. Meanwhile, the Osmania University counsel said that he would secure instructions from the Higher Education department on conducting exams to under-graduate and post-graduate courses. The High Court bench then directed the counsel to convey the university’s decision on the matter, which would be heard again on July 9.
01 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Another lockdown looms large in Telangana||As re-imposition of restrictions to contain the spread of COVID-19 apparently becoming imminent, the debate is now on whether it will be total lockdown or whether the government will prefer announcement of containment zones with stricter rules. The development assumes significance as the Ministry of Home Affairs, in its fresh guidelines, has allowed the States to prohibit certain activities in areas outside the containment zones or impose restrictions as deemed necessary in areas under their jurisdictions. Neighbouring Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu governments extended the lockdown till July 31 to stop the surge of COVID cases, which are much higher in their jurisdictions as compared to Telangana, with stricter norms in their capital regions.  Decision soon The Karnataka government too dropped hints that it would enforce harsher measures like barring entry and exit of people from high-risk districts in the State. Given this background, it is being watched whether the government would opt for another lockdown or would prefer stricter enforcement of rules in containment zones to check the spread of the virus that has spiked significantly since easing the restrictions and opening up economic activities. According to Health Minister Eatala Rajender, the Chief Minister was in favour of strict enforcement of restrictions in containment zones and a stand on re-imposing lockdown, “a big decision”, would be taken by the State Cabinet scheduled to meet in a couple of days. The government could also consider limiting the lockdown to the GHMC jurisdiction which witnessed a major chunk of COVID-19 cases since the easing of restrictions. Schools closed till July 31 The MHA, in its guidelines, said schools, colleges and coaching institutions would remain closed till July 31 but there should be no restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods. The Centre had announced Unlock 2.0, the second phase of easing restrictions, starting Wednesday, opening up more activities that had been prohibited since the imposition of the lockdown in March last week. The MHA wanted lockdown to be implemented strictly in containment zones till July 31 with enforcement measures in line with the guidelines issued by the Union Health Ministry. “The States and Union Territories cannot dilute the restrictions imposed by the aforesaid guidelines,” Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said in a letter addressed to Chief Secretaries of the States late on Monday.
01 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||3 held for Ferrari theft||A sports car worth nearly Rs. 2 crore which went ‘missing’ was recovered by Karkhana police, who arrested three persons, including two from New Delhi. Karkhana police inspector P. Madhukar Swamy said the car – a red Ferrari – went missing from a residence in Secunderabad on June 23. The owner, Divesh Gandhi, a businessman, bought the car from a seller in Kerala through a city-based broker, Neeraj Sharma. Forms 29 and 40, a no-objection certificate, and other related documents were exchanged. Forged documents “The Ferrari car is worth nearly Rs. 2 crore. Divesh Gandhi handed over the original documents to Neeraj so that the registration of the car could be done in Delhi. For this, Neeraj gave documents to Delhi-based broker Prince Pathak, who then forged documents and transferred the car in the name of one Bilal. While all this was done, the car continued to remain in Hyderabad,” Mr Swamy said. Carefully planned Police said Neeraj and Bilal allegedly wanted to get the car from Mr. Gandhi, so they got in touch with their associates Bhupender and Saddam, also from Delhi. The duo reached the city on June 22 and stayed at Park Hyatt. Repair excuse The Ferrari was traced at the victim’s friend’s home, also in Secunderabad, and the duo went there and tried to unlock it with a key. However, they were unsuccessful. Meanwhile, an inmate of the house saw them and asked them what they were doing. “The accused said that the owner had sent them to take the car for repairs. The innocent inmate believed the duo, went inside and handed over the key after which they drove off. Soon after this happened, the owner lodged a complaint and the vehicle was traced in Toli Chowki area. Bhupender, Saddam and Neeraj have been arrested,” the inspector said. A case of cheating and conspiracy has been registered.
01 July 2020||Kozhikode,||Saudi, Kuwait, Qatar in Vande Bharat phase 4||Following popular demand, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has added more flights in the fourth phase of the Vande Bharat Mission beginning Wednesday by including destinations from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and Qatar. Initially, flights from these three Gulf Cooperation Council nations were excluded in the fourth phase. Instead, priority was given to three others - the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, and Oman. Now, the new list will benefit thousands of expatriates waiting to return to India following the COVID-19-induced air travel restrictions. About two lakh Indians stranded in Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and Kuwait have been desperately waiting for a positive response from the Centre, sources said. The MEA has announced a list of 566 flights from various destinations, including the United States, United Kingdom, Russia, Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan, Australia, Canada, and Kenya. Also, private airlines will play a major role in the fourth phase of Vande Bharat. In the earlier three phases, only Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express operated flights to different countries to bring back stranded Indians. Indigo will operate 192 flights from Qatar while Goair will operate 41 from Kuwait to various States. Air India and Spicejet will operate 16 flights from Saudi Arabia. The MEA has said “this is a dynamic list and is bound to undergo changes based on operational, technical and other considerations. The list should not be considered as final”.
01 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Aarogyasri in-charge coordinator in ACB net||Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Tuesday nabbed Aarogyasri Health Care Trust Siddipet coordinator T. Raghunath after the latter allegedly demanded and collected Rs. 25,000 bribe from a person. A doctor, Meera Sridhar, the complainant, was running Sri Laxmi Srinivasa dental clinic at Gajwel. His clinic was empanelled for treatment of patients under Aarogyasri scheme. “For that the clinic owner has to get a service contract agreement registered with a sub-registrar,” ACB Nizamabad range DSP T. Ravi Kumar said. Both clinic owner and Raghunath, by virtue of being in-charge director for undivided Sangareddy district, had to sign the agreement before the sub-registrar. “To sign the papers, Raghunath initially demanded Rs. 30,000 and eventually settled for Rs. 25,000,” the DSP said. Raghuanth, who is presently Rangareddy district co-ordinator, asked the clinic owner to come to his office at Lakdi-ka-pul. After meeting there, they started for the local SR’s office in a car. “Raghunath collected the money and hid it in his laptop bag while travelling. We caught him while the registration process was on at the SR office,” he said. Raghunath was presented before a special court and remanded in judicial custody.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||World Bank okays funds for Namami Gange||The World Bank has approved a five-year loan to the Namami Gange project worth Rs. 3,000 crore ($400 million) to develop and improve infrastructure projects to abate pollution in the river basin. The Namami Ganga or the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) has already received Rs. 4,535 crore ($600 million) from the World Bank until December 2021 as part of the first phase of the National Ganga River Basin project. So far, 313 projects worth Rs. 25,000 crore have been sanctioned under the mission. Some of the projects to be undertaken under the second phase of the mission include spillover projects from the first phase of the mission as well cleaning projects in tributaries such as the Yamuna and Kali. In the second phase, the loan would fund Rs. 1,134 crore ($150 million) for three new ‘Hybrid Annuity Projects’ in Agra, Meerut and Saharanpur for the tributaries of the Ganga. A sum of Rs. 1,209 crore ($160 million) is provided for the ongoing DBOT (Design, Build, Operate and Transfer) projects in Buxar, Munger, Begusarai. Other heads of distribution would include ‘Institutional Development’ ($20 million or Rs. 151 crore); ‘Improving Investments Resilience to COVID-19 Like Emergency Situations’ ($5 million or Rs. 38 crore); Performance Based Incentive for Urban Local Bodies ($30 million or Rs. 226 crore) and Programme Communication and Management ($16 million or Rs. 121 crore), said a release from the NMCG. “The government’s Namami Gange Programme has revitalised India’s efforts in rejuvenating the Ganga,” said Junaid Ahmad, World Bank’s Country Director.
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||LIC employees write to PM against disinvestment||The All-India LIC Employees Federation has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to stop the proposed disinvestment in the Life Insurance Corporation of India, saying the move would be against his stated mission of an Atmanirbhar Bharat. In a letter on June 25, the federation’s president and Rajya Sabha MP, Binoy Viswam, said the employees were concerned about news reports on the Centre’s decision to invite bids from consulting firms, investment bankers and financial institutions to advise the government on the proposed IPO process. “We wish to draw your attention and at the same time seek your intervention to immediately stop the disinvestment in LIC, one of the jewels in the crown of India, as it is against your much emphasised mission and rightly so of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Disinvestment in LIC will be a stepping stone for privatisation in future which will be against the national interest,” the letter stated. LIC provided a large number of Indians in rural areas and socially and economically weaker sections life insurance at a reasonable cost, it said. “National priorities and obligation of reasonable returns to the policyholders have been the main criteria of LIC’s investment. The total funds so invested for the benefits of the community at large are Rs. 29,84,331 crore as on March 31, 2019. If the government goes ahead with its plan of disinvestment in LIC, there will be implication for policyholders,” the letter said. With disinvestment, LIC would be forced to review its investments in social sectors like housing, power and irrigation, it said.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Corps Commanders hold talks in Chushul||Officials described it as a wait-and-watch situation, even as further military build-up continued on both sides. A similar consensus between the Corps Commanders on June 6 was reached following the violent clash in the Galwan Valley, which resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers, including a Colonel. India’s demand has been restoration of status quo of the pre-May 5 positions and de-induction of Chinese forces along the LAC. Contrary to disengagement, satellite images and reports have since emerged, showing further build-up of defensive positions by China in the Galwan area, Pangong Tso and Depsang plains in the last few weeks. The images show that in Galwan, China has rebuilt the defensive structures.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Core industry output contracts for third month||“But the decline in oil and gas and petroleum products shows that economic activity was not taking place in May, even though essential industries were allowed to function by then,” he added. He expected the decline to continue for several months to come, noting that daily mobility and petroleum consumption data for June had failed to come back to normal, although the lockdown was lifted. “Many people are still working from home, many industries are still functioning below normal demand due to the pandemic. We are likely to remain in the negative zone for a few more months,” he said. D.K. Srivastava, chief policy advisor at Ernst and Young, was a little more optimistic, although he also expected the contraction to continue in June. “The core sector data is on expected lines. The rate of contraction has come down. The decline will continue in June till the end of the first quarter, reflecting the loss of momentum in the economy although the lockdown has been lifted,” said Dr. Srivastava, who is also a member of the advisory council to the 15th Finance Commission. “But I expect to start seeing a mild recovery, beginning from the second quarter,” he added, noting that electricity generation and energy products would be likely to lead the way in the recovery.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Sharp fall in reporting of non-COVID diseases||“There were fewer instances of people reporting diseases other than COVID-19 in hospitals. However, after May 3, there is again an increase in reports of other diseases but the latest data suggests that it hasn’t completely normalised as compared to previous years,” said Dr. Sujeet Kumar Singh, Director, National Centre Disease Control (NCDC). The IDSP is a unit under this body. Dr Singh, however, denied the possibility that fewer outbreaks were reported because COVID-19 was prioritised over all else and monitors ignored other diseases. A.C. Dhariwal, former Director of IDSP said behavioural changes such as the use of masks and restricted movement had led to a possible decline in several viral borne diseases, including H1N1, mumps and measles. “Distancing and lack of contact may have seen a decline in contagious diseases as well as say water borne infectious diseases,” he noted. On April 24, the IDSP said nearly 9.45 lakh people from 734 districts were under surveillance for possible COVID-19.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Free foodgrain scheme extended till November||Mr. Modi pointed out that while the country was entering Unlock 2, the economic activity during the monsoon was more concentrated in the agricultural sector than in others, and that it also segued into the festival season — starting with Guru Poornima in July to Chhath in November — when people would also be spending more. “Therefore, the government has decided to extend the programme to the end of November,” he said. Mr. Modi thanked the farmers and the “honest” taxpayers for making it possible to put this ambitious scheme in place. He added that with the amount already spent since April, total outlay for the scheme would go up to Rs. 1.5 lakh crore. According to government sources, the next few months may see a slow recovery in the economy as the COVID-19 cases, as also mentioned by Mr. Modi, showed an uptick but with lower mortality rates compared to other countries.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 patient spends two days in his car||A man who had tested positive for COVID-19 sat inside his car for more than 48 hours waiting for a BBMP ambulance as he was worried about infecting his family members. The patient is a resident of Nagarbhavi. He was eventually taken to the Covid Care Centre in Haj Bhavan. For two days, his family handed him food in the car. He was forced to relieve himself in the open, said Kumar, one of his acquaintances. “His reports from the laboratory were to be sent to Nagarbhavi ward. When there was a delay in shifting him to a hospital, we checked and found that the reports had been sent to Rajarajeshwarinagar ward instead,” he said. It was after word spread in the media that BBMP officials sent an ambulance to pick him up. “Early Tuesday evening, he was shifted to Haj Bhavan. This confusion could have been easily avoided,” he added. Earlier in the day, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar told the council that the civic body is working towards reducing the time taken to shift patients to either Covid Care Centres (CCC) or hospitals from six hours to four. Towards this end, laboratories had been directed to update the ICMR portal before revealing test results to patients.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Banned apps to get chance to send clarifications||“We have been invited to meet with concerned government stakeholders for an opportunity to respond and submit clarifications,” he said. While government sources said an order to remove all the banned apps was sent to both Google and Apple, industry sources confirmed that both companies received an order relating to removal of only TikTok as of Tuesday evening. Helo, which along with TikTok is owned by China’s ByteDance, said it was working with the key stakeholders for an opportunity to respond and submit clarifications. Experts have said the move to ban the apps, which together are estimated to have over 500 million monthly active users in the country, may have a significant impact on the Chinese firms. “We need to wait and watch to understand the impact of banning these apps on the Indian economy as we are not sure about the anticipated counter from China. The economic impact on Chinese firms would, however, be significant,” Anand S., vice-president, TechVision, Frost & Sullivan, told The Hindu . He noted that some of the apps banned were very popular in India. For instance, the time spent on Tiktok in India in December last was more than the next 11 countries combined. “The fear that the implications could be followed in other countries is a bigger threat to the Chinese economy”, he said.
01 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||State amends FRBM Act||The State government has decided to amend the Telangana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act 2005, enabling it to opt for additional borrowings over and above the limits set under the Act. The government said there had been an unprecedented impact on revenues during the current financial year due to COVID and lockdown, when there was a need for additional resources to meet the unforeseen expenditure in connection with relief. The government promulgated an ordinance on Tuesday, enabling it to utilise an additional fiscal deficit of 2% above the permissible limits.
01 July 2020||KOCHI,||Plea against Josephine: HC slaps fine on BJP leader||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday dismissed a writ petition filed by BJP leader B. Radhakrishna Menon seeking the ouster of Kerala State Women’s commission chairperson M.C. Josephine from the post and slapped the petitioner a fine of Rs. 10,000. The fine amount shall be given to Ms. Josephine, ordered the Division Bench headed by Chief Justice S. Manikumar. It was following a recent statement of Ms. Josephine that her party, the CPI(M), was the police and court all rolled into one that the petitioner moved the court. The State submitted that the petitioner moved the court with political motives.
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||Jamaat members can be shifted: HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday permitted the shifting of 65 foreign nationals, who had participated in the religious congregation at Tablighi Jamaat centre in Nizamuddin here, to an alternative accommodation. The court passed the order after counsel for the Centre, Delhi government and Delhi police said they do not have any objection to shifting of them as they were facing certain issues, including unhygienic condition.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||39 Pakistan officials return home||At least 39 officials from the Pakistan High Commission returned home on Tuesday, diplomatic sources said. This came a week after India asked Pakistan to reduce the staff strength in the mission by 50%. A total of 143 Pakistani nationals, including family members, left through the Wagah-Attari border. India also evacuated 38 officials from the High Commission of India in Islamabad.
01 July 2020||Patna,||Groom dies, 95 guests test positive||A groom died two days after his marriage, and 95 others, mostly those who attended the wedding ceremony, were found to be COVID-19 positive in Bihar. The ceremony took place on June 15 at village Deehpali in Paliganj of Patna district. The 30-year-old groom, a software engineer from Gurugram in Haryana, had come to his village for the wedding. He was said to be unwell at the time of his wedding and having symptoms of COVID-19 but went ahead with the function under family pressure. Two days later, on June 17, he died even before he could reach Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). He was cremated without being tested for COVID-19. Later, a few villagers informed the Patna district administration about the man’s death and a team of doctors and paramedics rushed to the village to collect samples of those who attended the ceremony. Fifteen of them were found to be positive for COVID-19. On Monday, 80 more people tested positive. “Many who have tested positive for COVID-19 are those who had attended the ceremony,” said a health official.
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||Fresh rules on movement of people issued||The permit or e-pass system for inter-State movement of vehicles was done away with on May 30, when the first set of guidelines for opening up the economy under Unlock 1.0 were issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). However, if the local administration wanted to regulate movement in the wake of a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases, it was asked to give wide publicity in advance regarding the restrictions, the guidelines had said. As per the guidelines issued on Monday for Unlock 2, local authorities could impose restrictions based on their assessment outside containment zones but there shall be “no restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods” and “no separate permission/approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements.” Lockdown has to be strictly implemented in containment zones where “only essential activities are to be allowed.”
01 July 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. lawyer ‘thrashed’ by police booked||Nearly three months after a lawyer was reportedly beaten up by the police while he on his way to hospital in Betul, Madhya Pradesh, a case has been registered against him for allegedly violating prohibitory orders and manhandling the personnel. On March 23, when the policemen on lockdown duty spotted lawyer Deepak Bundele not wearing a face mask “without a valid reason,” they inquired with him. But he reportedly opposed the inquiry, “abused personnel and manhandled them after getting agitated,” the FIR said. Further, the FIR said Mr. Bundele reportedly threatened the personnel by saying he was a “senior advocate” at the (Madhya Pradesh) High Court. The case was registered on June 18 under IPC Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 294 (obscene acts and songs).  The FIR relies upon the police log book and statements of witnesses, including three members of the Rashtriya Hindu Sena, a right-wing group, who claim Mr. Bundele “fell on the ground on his own and started flapping his limbs on the ground and hitting himself with his hands”.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches assets in terror funding case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets in connection with a terror funding case. The attached properties include a portion of one residential flat in Delhi’s Jangpura, belonging to Aijaz Hussain Khawaja, a resident of Baramulla in Jammu and Kashmir. The balance in the bank account of his wife has also been attached. In 2006, Khawaja was arrested with a bag containing 2.05 kg of RDX and Rs. 49 lakh in cash by the Special Cell of the Delhi police. He was convicted by the court under the Explosive Substances Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment. Hawala operator The ED probe revealed that the accused was operating as a hawala operator for financing various terror-related activities in Jammu and Kashmir. He was in touch with Muktiar Ahmed Bhatt alias Ahmed, a Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba operative, to carry out hawala transactions for various separatist and militant activities, the agency said. “He had generated proceeds of crime to the tune of Rs. 8.50 lakh during that period,” the agency alleged.
01 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Nizam grandson calls for better care in hospitals||The kin of the last Nizam, Mir Osman Ali Khan, have requested the State government to implement one more phase of complete lockdown in Hyderabad to break the chain of COVID-19 spread. A grandson of Nizam VII and president of the Nizam Family Welfare Association, Nawab Najaf Ali Khan, appealed to the government to instruct the authorities to ease difficulties being faced by those testing positive in getting themselves admitted to hospitals and getting proper attention and medication.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||France condoles soldiers’ deaths||French Defence Minister Florence Parly wrote to her Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh condoling the death of 20 Indian soldiers in Galwan Valley, French diplomatic sources said on Tuesday. “This was a hard blow against the soldiers, their families and the nation. In these difficult circumstances, I wish to express my steadfast and friendly support, along with that of the French armed forces. I request you to kindly convey my heartfelt condolences to the entire Indian armed forces as well as to the grieving families,” the sources quoted Ms. Parly as having said in the letter on Monday. Recalling that India is France's strategic partner in the region, Ms. Parly reiterated deep solidarity and expressed her readiness to meet Mr. Singh to follow up on their ongoing discussions.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Down the drain||
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Modi’s address did not match the hype: Congress||Moments after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced his government’s decision to extend the free foodgrains offer until November, the Congress pointed out that the suggestion was first made by party chief Sonia Gandhi in a letter to Mr. Modi. The party said on Tuesday that the government should listen to their suggestion of direct cash injection. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, in a video appeal, asked the Centre to implement a minimum income guarantee scheme, like the Nyuntam Aay Yojana (NYAY) proposed by his party, for six months to boost demand and kickstart the economy. Reacting to Mr. Modi’s 17-minute long address, the Congress said it was disappointing, didn’t match the hype that was generated before the speech and the Prime Minister seemed “preoccupied with the idea of Bihar Assembly elections.” The party also questioned Mr. Modi’s claim that the COVID-19 battle was well under control, as the data portrayed a grim picture and India was now the fourth highest in terms of the number of cases. ‘No shortage of funds’ Mr. Gandhi said COVID-19 had “destroyed” the economy, and the poor, the workers and the middle and salaried class had been hit the hardest. He said the Centre had turned down the repeated requests to implement a scheme like NYAY citing shortage of funds. “I want to remind the nation that the government has waived crores of rupees in tax of 15 crony capitalists and in the last three months the prices of petrol and diesel have been increased by Narendra Modi government 22 times. There is no shortage of money, the government has Rs. 3 lakh crore,” he said. “Two things were clear from the Prime Minister’s address. One, that this crisis is going to last, at least until November, as he extended the existing schemes. And second, his preoccupation with regard to the Bihar elections, as he was repeatedly referring to Bihar,” said party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate at a press conference.  The Prime Minister seemed preoccupied with the idea of Bihar Assembly elections Supriya Shrinate Congress Spokesperson
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED questions Ahmed Patel again in Sterling Biotech Limited case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday recorded a statement of Congress leader Ahmed Patel in the Sterling Biotech Limited case. On June 27, it had questioned him for several hours. The probe is based on one of the two FIRs lodged by the CBI against Sterling Biotech and others in October 2017. While one case alleges routing of undeclared funds belonging to unknown Income Tax Department officials, the second alleges bank loan defaults to the tune of Rs. 8,100 crore. The ED has attached assets worth over Rs. 14,500 crore in the bank loan case.
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||Committee for reform in criminal law to start online consultation soon||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has constituted a national level committee for reform in criminal law. The committee, which has several leading legal academicians on board, would be gathering opinions online, consulting with experts and collating material for their report to the government. The consultation exercise would start on July 4 and go on for the next three months.
01 July 2020||Srinagar,||Infiltration foiled in Kupwara: Army||The Army on Tuesday said it foiled an infiltration by at least 6 to 8 armed men from across the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir's Kupwara district on the intervening night of Monday-Tuesday. “The intruders group was challenged at Parkian Gali along the LoC but it fled away taking advantage of darkness”, the Army added. Their suspicious movement was spotted on June 29-30 in two groups and “our own troops challenged the infiltrators with fire,” it said.
01 July 2020||Kolkata,||Must give fitting reply to China, banning apps not enough: Mamata||Pledging full support to the Union government on the tensions with China, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said banning apps is not enough and the Centre should give a befitting reply to the neighbour. “Only banning some apps will not give you the result. We want to give China a befitting reply. How do we do it, that they have to decide,” she said. Ms. Banerjee said unless there is an ‘aggressive’ response from the Centre, people of the country will wonder, “What is the government’s stand?”
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Asymptomatic patients forcibly taken to care centres: residents||Residents have complained to the Greater Chennai Corporation that its doctors have been forcing asymptomatic COVID-19 patients, already under home isolation, to go into institutional quarantine. According to officials of the Corporation, over 4,000 residents were getting tested at private laboratories every day in the 15 zones of the city. Many of those who tested positive were advised home isolation by their family physicians. Against medical advice Even after senior officials of the Corporation stressed the need for home isolation of asymptomatic cases, many Corporation doctors refused to permit it, against the advice of family doctors, who had been treating the patients. Residents said Corporation workers visited homes of patients and asked them to visit Corporation camps for another round of testing. “After I visited a camp in Valasaravakkam, the doctor said I will be taken to a hospital. Even after my doctor explained that I was already being treated while in home isolation, the official refused to let me be. They did not tell me the name of the hospital,” a resident of Nesapakkam said. “Residents have requested officials to be transparent about the details of government hospitals or COVID-19 Care Centres they will be taken to. We want support from officials during home isolation. But we request senior officials to advise Corporation doctors not to be arrogant in their behaviour with residents who may be scared of institutional quarantine. Deaths of residents under institutional quarantine has created a scare,” a resident said. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the civic body has created tele-counselling facilities to help residents who are worried about COVID-19. Toll-free helpline “Residents are requested to call 044-25384520 or 044-46122300 for any queries relating to COVID-19. We have received 2.77 lakh calls from residents during the pandemic. We will offer psycho-social support to people during the pandemic. Many residents who tested positive received support from psychologists to overcome suicidal tendencies. Thousands of residents have received assistance,” Mr. Prakash said. Following the complaints, a few tweeted about the improved facilities in the Corporation’s COVID-19 Care Centres. A COVID-19 positive patient tweeted, “Thanks to GCC. I was discharged from COVID-19 Care Centre, St. Joseph College, OMR. Very good care was taken for ten days. Thanks to all the hospitality service people and doctors at centre.”
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rising fuel cost, supply shortage send vegetable prices soaring||Disruptions in supply chain and a continuous rise in fuel prices have sent retail vegetables prices soaring in the city. Residents of various suburbs noted that most vegetables were priced at a minimum of Rs. 40-50 per kg in retail stores. The price of tomatoes suddenly surged to Rs. 70 a kg in some areas this week. Similarly, potatoes were also priced around Rs. 50. Onions and cabbage were among the very few reasonably priced ones. R.P. Sundari, a resident of Anna Nagar West, said even pushcart vendors were selling at different prices. “Tomatoes cost anywhere between Rs. 55 to Rs. 70 a kg in our area. We avoid buying beans and broad beans as a kilogram costs above Rs. 60. For two people, we spend Rs. 250 on a quarter kg of four-five vegetables every two or three days,” she said. With meat and fish shops closed during the lockdown, people who consume non-vegetarian food have shifted to a vegetarian diet. This has also led to a spurt in demand and price hike, traders said. Divya Prasanth, of Mogappair, said, “Vegetables are expensive now. But I am saving money as meat and fish prices sky-rocketed since the start of the lockdown.” Wholesale traders in Thirumazhisai market said fewer arrivals were one of the main reasons that pushed up the prices by 10-20% this week. Moreover, distance of travel for retailers and rise in transportation charges, because of the hiked fuel cost, have also added to the surge. Tomatoes sold for Rs. 20 a kg now cost Rs. 30 at the wholesale market. Potatoes were now priced Rs. 27 a kg. Capsicum and green chillies have jumped to Rs. 60 and Rs. 40 a kg respectively. D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of All Traders’ Associations of KWMC Periyar Market, said retailers travelled an additional distance of minimum 30 km to Thirumazhisai and the wait was six to seven hours longer. “Semi-retailers in Koyambedu market have not been allotted shops yet. This has led to a missing link. Retailers, who otherwise bought required quantity, have to buy in bulk and bear the cost of wastage. This is why the wholesale variations do not often reflect in retail prices. For instance, wholesale price of beans and broad beans dropped to Rs. 30 and Rs. 15 on Tuesday,” he added. The wholesale prices were expected to soar as farmers may cultivate less after repeated losses over the past few months, traders added.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State tally breaches the 90,000-mark||Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases surpassed the 90,000-mark on Tuesday, with another 3,943 persons testing positive for the infection. However, the State also crossed the 50,000-mark in the number of persons discharged so far, registering a recovery rate of 55.5%. Tamil Nadu has been reporting over 3,000-plus cases a day since June 25. Its COVID-19 tally stood at 90,167*. Chennai, for the second consecutive day, saw 2,000-plus cases. With another new high of 2,393 cases, Chennai’s tally soared to 58,327. A total of 34,828 persons have been discharged in the city so far. It now has 22,610 active cases and its toll stands at 888. On Tuesday, a total of 2,325 persons were discharged from hospitals in the State, taking the total number of persons discharged till now to 50,074. The State presently has 38,889 active cases. Toll rises The State’s toll increased to 1,201, with 60 more persons succumbing to the infection from June 25 to 30. Of this, 57 persons had co-morbidities. A 35-year-old woman from Chennai with hypothyroidism and diabetes was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on June 25. She died on June 29 due to bronchopneumonia and respiratory failure. A 42-year-old man who had coronary artery disease died at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on June 28 due to severe coronary artery disease, bronchopneumonia and respiratory failure. A 48-year-old man with co-morbidities died in a private hospital on June 30 due to severe acute respiratory infection and bilateral bronchopneumonia. He was admitted with complaints of fever, cough for two days and difficulty in breathing for a day on June 25. A 95-year-old woman from Chengalpattu was admitted to a private medical college hospital on June 26. She died on June 29 to COVID-19 pneumonia, sepsis with septic encephalopathy. The rise in cases continued in the rest of the State, besides Chennai. Madurai recorded a total of 246 indigenous cases and 11 imported cases. This took its tally to 2,557. The district’s toll stood at 32. Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur recorded 160 and 153 new cases, respectively, while Kancheepuraam had 90 cases and Theni 75 cases. In Vellore, 69 persons tested positive for COVID-19, while 66 persons tested positive in Kallakurichi. A total of 87 persons, who returned from abroad and other States, tested positive for the infection. A total of 30,242 samples were tested during the last 24-hour period. So far, 11,70,683 samples and 11,16,622 individuals were tested in the State.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP denies bid to bring AIADMK-AMMK together||A recent tweet by a BJP functionary about the release of former AIADMK interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala, from Bengaluru jail by mid-August, triggered speculation about the possibility of the national party attempting to bring together the ruling AIADMK and its breakaway faction Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK). However, the BJP has denied any such move. Aseervatham Achary, coordinator of the BJP’s documentation and library department, had tweeted claiming that Sasikala was likely to be released on August 14. However, he declined to add anything more, when contacted for clarification. There is one reason for the perception about the BJP’s role in bringing the AIADMK and the AMMK together. In February 2018, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, recalled how he agreed to merge his AIADMK faction with that of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in August 2017 on the advice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. However, P. Muralidhar Rao, general secretary of the BJP looking after Tamil Nadu, denies that the party is keen on the AIADMK and AMMK coming togehter. “We are not concerned with issues of the AIADMK. It [merger] is a matter related to the AIADMK. We have nothing to do with that,” he told The Hindu . It is not for the first time that the talk of Sasikala’s release earlier than the scheduled date is doing the rounds. In October last year too, it cropped up. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, perceived to be the Cabinet’s spokesperson, had asserted that neither Sasikala nor her nephew and AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran would be taken back. Sasikala, who surrendered herself before the authorities in Bengaluru on February 15, 2017 after the Supreme Court confirmed her conviction in a disproportionate case that had involved Jayalalithaa primarily, is serving a four year imprisonment. As per one calculation, she is eligible to be set free by January 25, 2021, by taking into account 22 days she spent during September-October 2014 after a trial court’s judgment. A fine of Rs. 10 crore had also been slapped on her and if this was not paid, she would have to spend one more year. Her lawyer, Raja Senthoor Pandian, said Sasikala had also spent 13 days in prison during 1997 in connection with the same case. Little impact Senior AIADMK leaders say that even if the release takes place earlier than the scheduled date, there will be little impact on the party, as her presence will not add any strength to the organisation. Office-bearers of the AMMK claim that it is the AIADMK and not the AMMK that will stand to lose heavily at the time of Assembly elections if both stand separated. However, as for the re-unification, it is up to Mr. Dhinakaran and Sasikala to decide.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State govt. issues SOP for visiting places of worship||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday issued a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to be followed in religious places and places of worship across the State, following the easing of certain restrictions on entry into such premises. However, the SOP noted, “Places of worship/religious places in Corporations, Municipalities, town panchayats and big places of worship/religious places in village panchayat limits would remain closed for public worship.” The SOP, issued by the Revenue Secretary, specified the norms to be followed in places of worship for Hindus, Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and other religious groups. Only small temples in rural areas (with an annual income of less than Rs. 10,000), and small mosques, dargahs, churches and other religious places across the State, except those in the Chennai Police Commissionerate areas and containment zones, would be allowed to reopen for public worship from July 1. Religious places in certain parts of Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Madurai districts would be allowed to function from July 6. “Persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 are advised to stay at home. Organisations managing the religious institutions to advise accordingly,” the SOP said. Individuals are to maintain a minimum distance of six feet from each other in public places at all times, even when queueing up for entry. “Use of face covers/masks to be mandatory. All persons to be allowed entry only if using face cover/masks,” the guidelines said. Only asymptomatic persons would be allowed entry into the premises. “People should wash their hands and feet with soap and water before entering the premises. Necessary facilities shall be provided for this purpose,” the SOP said. Touching of statues, idols or holy books, among others, will not be allowed. CCTVs should be installed to the extent possible, and each religious place/place of worship has been advised to form a COVID-19 Safety Committee to implement and monitor guidelines issued by the government. For more details, visit: https://bit.ly/TNSOPReligious  Religious places in parts of Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Madurai districts would be allowed from July 6
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Transgenders help spread awareness of COVID-19||At the Patel Nagar Market Junction in Tondiarpet, Kanniamma and Muniamma narrated their experience of COVID-19 loudly. A few people gathered and listened keenly, from a safe distance, to the narrative that highlights the importance of wearing masks and washing hands. It was only later that people realized that it was a COVID-19 awareness programme, using the story-narration genre, staged by members of the transgender community. The Greater Chennai Corporation has roped in many NGOs to carry out Community Intervention Programmes across the city. Among them are NGOs such as Thozhi and Sahodaran that work for the transgender community. “For the past month, 15 of our members have been going door-to-door to raise awareness in North Chennai. We also collect details about symptoms and coordinate with officials for testing,” said S. Sudha from Thozhi. On Tuesday, the volunteers used storytelling as a medium to create awareness. “However, we ensure that physical distancing norms are followed,” said A. Jaya, general manager of NGO Sahodaran. They are also planning a fashion show, a placard march and a bike rally to raise awareness in the coming days.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM lost moral responsibility to rule: Stalin||Opposition leader and DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, saying that he had lost the moral responsibility to rule after suppressing facts in the death of a father and son in Sattankulam following alleged custodial torture. “Mr. Palaniswami deliberately suppressed the barbaric murders that happened in the police station under the control of the Home Department. He said that they died of health reasons. He has lost the right to rule,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. The DMK leader said if the Chief Minister did not have the mind to resign since, according to him, the latter used his office for “commission, corruption and collection”, he should give up control of the police department. “He should arrest the police personnel responsible for the murder as per the direction of the Madras High Court. The officers who had helped them also should be included as accused in the case. Only such a measure would get justice for the family of P. Jayaraj and J. Benicks,” he added. Mr. Stalin wondered how the Chief Minister claimed that they had died of health reasons since the High Court had clearly pointed out that the report of the judicial magistrate and ante-mortem report were enough to file a case under Section 302 of IPC. “What else does it mean except the fact that the Chief Minister has a hand in glove agreement with the police to suppress the double murders?” he asked. Mr. Stalin said the Chief Minister failed to understand the seriousness of the issue even after the High Court had issued stern warnings and directions. “He has appointed Mr. Murgan as the IG of the South Zone, even though a woman SP had filed sexual harassment complaint against him. He has made Mr. Jayakumar Thoothukudi SP, who was subjected to investigation in the gutkha scam,” he said.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Clay pot sellers suffer due to debt burden||Fifty-three-year old A. Vadivel looks forward to the summer every year as this is the only time his pots sell like hot cakes and he sees a good profit. This year, over 500 pots he ordered are gathering dust. In addition, he has a debt of Rs. 5 lakh as the shop remained shut owing to the lockdown. “For generations, my family has been into this business. We invest physically and emotionally in this job. We don’t know how to do any other business. We feel burdened by debts and the uncertainty of not knowing when we can go back to business is pretty frustrating,” says Mr. Vadivel, who has been selling pots in Kodambakkam for over three decades now. On any day during the pre-COVID-19 times, a ride through many pockets of the city including Kodambakkam, Anna Nagar and Velachery would give one a striking glimpse of pots carefully stacked up in rows, jugs, terracotta wind chimes and brightly painted idols of various deities. These pockets now wear a dull and a lifeless look. Pot sellers heavily rely on summer because different kinds of pots sell over a period of three months. Many of them have borrowed money and placed a huge order for sales in summer. A. Ravishankar, who sells pots in Velachery, says he would make nearly Rs. 30,000-Rs. 40,000 a month during summer but that is all gone now. “After summer, we see some reasonable business during Ganesh Chaturthi, Diwali and Pongal. Now, we are pinning hopes on Ganesh Chaturthi so that we can at least partially repay some debts,” he adds. Uma Saravanan, who runs a shop in Shenoy Nagar says she is finding it hard to make ends meet without income and her savings are gradually getting depleted now. “We fervently hope that things begin to look better for Ganesh Chaturthi at least,” she adds.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Units can get permit cards for workers from adjacent districts||Industrial establishments with employees coming in from neighbouring districts can obtain permit cards for the movement of workers from District Collectors concerned, during the lockdown in place till July 31 across the State, the Tamil Nadu government said on Tuesday. “In the case of factories located in the remaining districts of the State, other than Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Madurai, where a complete lockdown is in force, industrial establishments may obtain ‘permit cards’ from the concerned District Collectors for the movement of workers who come to their industries from the adjoining districts,” a govrnment order (G.O.) issued by the Chief Secretary on Tuesday stated. However, permit cards will be valid only for travelling to an industry located in the adjoining district and not to other districts, the G.O. clarified.  Complete lockdown  The movement of persons within a district will be permitted without an e-pass, except in areas where a complete lockdown will be in force till July 5 and in containment zones. In areas where the complete lockdown has been extended, e-passes issued for a period up to June 30 will remain valid until July 5 and an application for a new e-pass is not necessary, the G.O. stated. “e-passes will be issued by District Collectors concerned to contractors who intend to participate in government tenders, contractors engaged in the supervision of ongoing government works and those seeking to visit government offices in this regard,” it said. When asked about banks, government offices and construction activities (which were not mentioned in the G.O.), a senior official told The Hindu : “Conditions similar to those in force before June 19 will continue after July 5”. He did not clarify whether this would be the case across the State or only in areas where the complete lockdown was in
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High-flow nasal cannulas, beds with oxygen lines being provided on priority basis||The demand for oxygen is rising in government hospitals as more and more COVID-19 patients require oxygen support. The Health Department has expedited work on providing oxygen lines to available beds and distributing high-flow nasal cannulas to hospitals in Chennai and other districts witnessing a surge in cases. An official of the Directorate of Medical Education said the “top priority” was to set up beds with oxygen lines in all government medical college hospitals. “All available beds in government medical college hospitals are being converted into beds with oxygen points. We have supplied high-flow nasal cannulas to city hospitals, including the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital and the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, through the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC). Next, we will be supplying it to hospitals in other districts like Madurai, where the patient load is increasing,” he said. “The aim is to increase the number of beds with oxygen lines and keep oxygen cylinders ready,” he said. “TNMSC has ordered 1,400 high-flow nasal cannulas from the U.S. and Germany. Of these, 100 units have been supplied, and 150 are expected to arrive this week. The remaining supplies are expected to arrive next week. The 100 supplied units were distributed to five government hospitals in Chennai,” a health official said. Hospitals are ramping up capacity. At the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, Tower-3, which, until now, comprised the COVID-19 outpatient department on the ground floor and the admission of asymptomatic patients on floors seven and eight, will soon be made into a full-fledged COVID-19 block, officials said. “Work on readying 125 oxygen points on the first floor of Tower-3 has begun. In all, the block will have 780 oxygen points/lines on the remaining floors. This is important as we need to cater to the increasing case load of patients requiring oxygen. At least 40% of COVID-19 patients require oxygen now,” an official said. In addition, 220 beds with oxygen points are being readied at the hepatology and neurosurgery wards. “In total, RGGGH will have 1,000 beds with oxygen points,” he said.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amid pandemic, a silver lining for ration cardholders||The distribution of nearly half of the PDS rice provided to beneficiaries in a year has been completed in three months in Tamil Nadu, owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. This has also been done for free for the benefit of ration cardholders. Ordinarily, three lakh tonnes of rice are distributed each month in the State, with the annual allocation being around 36 lakh tonnes. In six months, 18 lakh tonnes would reach PDS beneficiaries. In the last three months, following measures implemented by the Central and State governments to mitigate the hardship arising out of the COVID-19 lockdown, 17.04 lakh tonnes of rice were distributed to ration cardholders in Tamil Nadu, according to officials monitoring civil supplies and PDS. In comparison, during 2019-20, Tamil Nadu was allocated 36.78 lakh tonnes of rice, of which 24.24 lakh tonnes were meant for 1.15 crore rice-drawing Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Priority Household (PHH) cardholders, under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). The State eventually drew 39.3 lakh tonnes of rice during the year. In addition to rice, 60,000 tonnes of pulses, six crore pouches of edible oil and 90,000 tonnes of sugar were provided to the PDS beneficiaries, free, in the last three months. In late March, the Central government came up with the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY), which provided free additional entitlement of 5 kg rice per person, per month, and one kg pulses per month, each to AAY and PHH cardholders, considered to be poor. The State government, which had tried in vain to get free extra entitlement of rice for around 86 lakh rice-drawing non-priority household (NPHH) cardholders too, later decided to provide the same treatment to NPHH cardholders by buying rice at the rate of Rs. 22 per kg from the Union government. Consequently, between April and June 28, the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation lifted from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) 11.22 lakh tonnes of rice, including 5.36 lakh tonnes of free rice. As many as 33,000 tonnes of pulses were supplied by the Central government, free, officials pointed out. The extension of the PMGKAY up to November, as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, was viewed as a favourable development by the officials.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Control room gets 1.47 lakh calls||The round-the-clock control room for COVID-19 has handled over 1,47,000 calls so far. According to a press release, the 24x7 facility was set up as part of pandemic prevention and surveillance measures. Health Department staff fluent in languages like Telugu, Malayalam and Hindi were posted at the centre. People can contact the control room to get their doubts on COVID-19 clarified and for information on preventive measures and treatment. Two psychologists have also been posted there on a rotational basis.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Balance interests of parents, teachers in pvt. schools: HC||The Madras High Court on Tuesday granted a week’s time for the State government to come up with a solution to the issue of fee collection, balancing the interests of private educational institutions dependent on the fee for paying teachers’ salaries and that of middle class parents who cannot pay huge amounts due to lockdown. Justice R. Mahadevan told Advocate General Vijay Narayan that the government could come up with some formula like collecting 70% of the fee now, in two or three instalments, and the rest after normalcy returns. He said that a decision could be taken after ascertaining the views of different associations of private schools and colleges. He asked the A-G and Additional Government Pleader R. Vijay Kumar to get back to the court by July 8. The suggestions were given during the hearing of a batch of cases filed against a government order, issued by the Chief Secretary under the Disaster Management Act of 2005, on April 20, restraining schools and colleges from demanding fees. Senior counsel K.M. Vijayan and Fr. Xavier Arulraj, besides advocates Hema Muralikrishnan and E. Vijay Anand, representing various associations, vehemently opposed the G.O. and said that the government should be directed to pay monthly salaries to all unaided private schoolteachers, who were also equally affected by the lockdown. They also relied upon some High Courts in other States having stayed the operation of similar orders passed by the governments there. In reply, the A-G said that none of those government orders had been issued under the Disaster Management Act, as it had been done in Tamil Nadu, taking into account the difficulties faced by parents. He also said the government was open to receiving representations from associations of private schools.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGT appoints panel to inspect Sun Pharma plant near Vedanthangal||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal has appointed a joint committee to inspect Sun Pharmaceuticals’ facility near the Vedanthangal Bird Sanctuary and to find out whether it is following proper pollution control mechanisms. The bench of Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta directed a committee comprising a senior officer from the regional offices of the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change; a senior scientist each from the Central Pollution Control Board and Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board; a senior forest officer not below the rank of the Chief Conservator of Forest; Collector, Kancheepuram district and the District Forest Officer, Kancheepuram district, to investigate whether the unit was unauthorisedly discharging any untreated trade effluents into the nearby agricultural fields or other waterbodies. The order came on an application that claimed that the manufacturing plant is close to the ‘core zone’ of the Vedanthangal Bird Sanctuary, and alleged that the unit was operating without environment clearance. The applicant said there was expansion after its establishment and no environment clearance was obtained and claimed it was discharging effluents into nearby waterbodies.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Release more water from Mettur dam: PMK||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Tuesday urged the State government to release 16,000 cusecs from Mettur dam so that the tail-end agricultural lands in delta regions are irrigated. Though water was released from Mettur and Kallanai dam on time it had not reached the tail end agricultural lands, said Dr. Ramadoss in a statement. “There is no need to fear that water in Mettur dam may not last as Karnataka will start releasing water from its dam next month. This year there is enough water in the dam and the water was released on time. The farmers believe that 3.5 lakh acres can be irrigated,” he said. In delta regions, the planting of seeds must be completed on July 15 to ensure that harvest begins before onset of the monsoons, he said. As of now, 10,000 cusecs were being released from Mettur dam. If it was increased to 16,000 cusecs, tail end lands would get water in a few days, he added.  Anbumani praises PM  Meanwhile, PMK youthwing leader Anbumani Ramadoss welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement that 80 crore people would receive 5 kg of rice or wheat and 1 km of pulses for the next 5 months. In a statement, he said people were struggling to eke out a living as a result of lockdown. “In such a situation, PM Modi’s announcement will help alleviate hunger of millions, somewhat.”
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Increase in retirement age of public servants is not to save money’||The State government on Tuesday denied as “false and wholly baseless” a claim that it had increased the retirement age of public servants from 58 to 59 only to prevent disbursal of terminal benefits to the tune of Rs. 5,000 crore and instead use the money to fight COVID-19. Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy of the Madras High Court were told that the increase in retirement age was a policy decision of the government and that an order issued by it in this regard on May 7 does not cite any reason for the increase. The submissions were made in a counter affidavit filed in response to a public interest litigation petition preferred by advocate M. Karpagam, through her counsel R. Prabhakaran, against extending the benefit to government employees facing corruption charges. Opposing the petitioner’s plea, the government told the court that the May 7 GO had been made applicable to all government servants irrespective of those facing disciplinary proceedings since their guilt could be proved only after conclusion of inquiry and not before that. The government also stated that there were well laid down procedures for conducting inquiries against government servants and that they could be prevented from retiring even after attaining the age of superannuation just to complete the disciplinary proceedings. Further, a government letter issued on May 14 had clarified that the May 7 GO would not be applicable to those who had not been allowed to retire as on April 30 and whose services had been retained for the limited purpose of concluding disciplinary proceedings. The GO provides for extending the retirement age only for those who were due to retire from service on May 30 and beyond. Therefore, nothing survives in the PIL petition for adjudication as the government had taken all issues in consideration before issuing the GO, it said. After taking the counter on file, the judges reserved their orders in the case after granting liberty to the petitioner to file a rejoinder, if she preferred to do so.
01 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Alagiri wants murder case filed against policemen||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Tuesday said with the Madras High Court (Madurai Bench) saying there was sufficient material to file a case of murder against the Sattankulam police in the custodial deaths of a father and son and with CBI enquiry yet to begin, it was imperative for a murder case to be filed against the policemen. “Even after the High Court bench’s observations, if the State government and the police department fail to file a case against the Sattankulam police personnel, they will have to pay a heavy price in the future,” he said. Welcoming the High Court’s order on Tuesday, AMMK founder T.T.V. Dhinakaran called upon Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to give an assurance that the statement of Revathy, head constable at the Sattankulam police station, would not be destroyed or altered. In a statement, he said that the High Court should see to it that the guilty were brought to book. VCK founder Thol. Thirumavalavan said that the State Government should reconsider its stance of transferring the Sattankulam case to the CBI and allow CB-CID to investigate the case under the supervision of the High Court.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Venkaiah Naidu urges pvt. edutech firms to ensure digital connectivity||Private edutech companies should come up with out-of -the-box solutions making use of the current opportunity to reach out to students and ensure digital connectivity, said Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, at the virtual launch of a book on higher education, on Tuesday. Over 65% of the country’s population is aged below 35 and over 50% of the population is below 25 years of age. “There is opportunity to enhance their knowledge,” he said, adding that there was need for a mode that reflected India’s cultural ethos. Be it the gurukulam or institutions of higher learning such as Takshashila and Nalanda, he said teachers had a lot of autonomy. In gurukulam and later in Takshashila, the curriculum was customised for each student. Nalanda University was similar in structure to the present day institutions with large lecture halls and library, he said. Educational evolution Of late, education had seen unprecedented expansion and was undergoing an evolution as more children were enrolled in school. Artificial intelligence, virtual reality and augmented reality had ushered in an era of self- and collaborative learning as teachers themselves had to master the new topics. Learning would be more interesting but it was necessary to make education equitable and accessible. Technology must be accessible to each child, Mr. Naidu said. ICT Academy chairman Lakshmi Narayan said the book Future of Higher Education – 9 mega trends was complied by V. Pattabhiraman with inputs from academicians from across the country. The not-for-profit academy, which organised the event, was established with financial support of the State and Central governments and worked with over 600 colleges in the country and over 300 colleges in Tamil Nadu, he said. Mr. Pattabhiraman said the book was the story of a child born in 2010, who would be more into blended learning.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SHRC seeks report on police beating teen||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has taken suo motu cognisance of a media report over a recent video that showed Coimbatore police personnel beating up a 16-year-old boy following a quarrel over his parents keeping an eatery open during the lockdown. SHRC member A. Chittaranjan Mohandoss directed the Coimbatore Police Commissioner to file a report within two weeks. According to the media report, police personnel attached to Rathinapuri police station beat up the boy, who was helping his parents at their small eatery. The police had asked them to close the eatery functioning beyond the permissible time at night. The boy was said to have been video-recording the incident when a policeman allegedly snatched his phone and was about to leave on a bike. He then attempted to snatch the policeman’s bike key following which he was beaten up, the report said. As the entire incident was video-recorded on a mobile phone by a bystander, the police had beaten up that person as well, it said.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi SP shifted||S. Jeyakumar, SP of Villupuram, was transferred and posted as Thoothukudi SP, in the place of Arun Balagopalan, brought on compulsory wait to the office of the Director General of Police, Chennai. The State government on Tuesday issued orders posting S. Murugan, Inspector General of Police, Economic Offences Wing, Chennai, as IGP, South Zone, following the retirement of K.P. Shanmuga Rajeswaran. A day after Thoothukudi Additional Superintendent of Police D. Kumar and DSP C. Prathapan were kept on wait list following initiation of criminal contempt of court proceedings by the Madras High Court (Madurai Bench), the government gave them fresh postings. The Kovilpatti judicial magistrate had accused the two officers of adopting an intimidating posture during the inquiry. On Tuesday, when the contemnors appeared before the High Court, the judges were informed that they were kept under waiting list at the office of the IGP, South zone, Madurai. In the evening, the government issued an order posting Mr. Kumar as Additional SP, prohibition enforcement wing, Nilgiris district, in the place of G. Gopi. Besides, Mr. Prathabhan, has been posted as DSP, anti-land grabbing special cell, Pudukottai district. Mr. Gopi was posted as Additional Superintendent of Police, crime against women and children, Thoothukudi district. The order siad N. Ramanathan, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Kallakurichi district will take over as DSP, Sattankulam sub division.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amma Canteens to provide free food till July 5||In view of the extension of the complete lockdown in Chennai and parts of Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday announced that Amma Canteens would continue providing free food till July 5.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Truckers want reduction in fuel prices||The Tamil Nadu State Lorry Owners Federation has urged the Central Government to take immediate steps to reduce diesel prices. Federation secretary R. Vangili said that in one month, diesel price had gone up by Rs. 9.50 a litre and petrol by Rs. 8 a litre. “The government wanted truckers to help in movement of goods despite the pandemic and we are still doing our bit to reach essential goods to the public. But our demands are being ignored, which is unfair,” he said, adding that if prices are not rolled back, the Federation would call for an all-India strike after the lockdown. Mr. Vangili said that vehicle owners were given time till June-end to pay taxes and insurance. “The industry is at an all-time low and people are without any work for over three months now. We want a complete waiver of taxes, insurance premium and EMI interest rates for the duration,” he said.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil students in Mumbai declared pass||All 69 Tamil students in Mumbai, who registered to appear for Class X public exams to be conducted by the Tamil Nadu government, were on Tuesday declared to have passed the exam. Their scores would be calculated based on their quarterly, half yearly exam marks and attendance.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister tests positive for COVID-19||Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan has tested positive for COVID-19, according to a statement from MIOT International. The Minister had visited the hospital late on June 18. Hospital sources said that he underwent a CT scan, prior to which he had undergone a test for the infection. He chose to wait for the COVID-19 test results in the hospital. The hospital’s release on Tuesday, signed by managing director Prithvi Mohandas, said that Mr. Anbalagan had initially shown no symptoms and his CT scan was normal. But he was kept under observation. “Subsequently, his second sample tested positive for COVID-19. He developed mild cough yesterday and he is being treated for the same. He is very stable,” the statement added.
01 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore gets new Collector||The State on Tuesday named IAS officer Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri as Cuddalore Collector. He was earlier the Director of Land Reforms.
01 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation, police remove vegetable lorries from Kavundampalayam yard||Coimbatore Corporation on Tuesday seized lorries at the old Kavundampalayam dump yard after it found that the traders from the now-closed MGR Wholesale Vegetable Market illegally used the premises to unload and load vegetables. The Corporation handed over 10 lorries to the Thudiyalur Police and lodged a complaint. Sources familiar with the developments said on Tuesday that the Corporation officials in West Zone received an information that traders were directing the lorries with the vegetables meant for them to the yard as the Coimbatore City and Rural police had prevented them from loading and unloading goods on Mettupalayam Road. The Corporation had shut the Market last week after a few traders had tested positive for COVID-19. Based on the tip-off, the Corporation officials prevented the traders from unloading the goods – most of which were tomatoes and potatoes from Karnataka and Maharashtra. The sources said that it was illegal on the part of traders to gather people to conduct business as a few among them had tested positive for COVID-19 and illegally use the yard. Strictly speaking the traders had trespassed on a Corporation premises. The sources said though the Corporation was considering throwing the dump yard as an alternative location for the wholesale vegetable traders, it was wrong on their part to use the place without permission. The Corporation at present was cleaning the area and levelling the ground. The traders said in its action at the MGR Wholesale Vegetable Market the Corporation had deviated from its past practise in that whenever it had closed down a market during the COVID-19 lockdown it had first provided an alternative location. Now by closing both the MGR Wholesale Vegetable Market and the makeshift retail market on Ramalingam Chettiar Hr. Sec. School on Alagesan Road, Saibaba Colony, the Corporation was forcing the traders to take all the vegetables meant for the district to T.K. Market, off Raja Street. This would only result in the crowding of the T.K. Market, thereby increasing the chances of the spread of COVID-19. At the T.K. Market, the reopening of which the Corporation had permitted only about 10 days ago, there was overcrowding because retail vegetable traders and grocers thronged the place to buy vegetables. There was a need to regulate vehicle movement and parking near the Market but both the Corporation and Coimbatore City Police had so far failed to do so. The Corporation allowing only one market to function in the city also went against the State government’s advice asking people to travel not more than 2 km to buy essential goods. What the city needed was more, localised markets and not centralisation, the sources said and wanted the Corporation to take steps to provide an alternative venue to both the wholesale and retail vegetable market traders.
01 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable traders try to shift to alternative locations||Taking private godowns on rent, identifying farm lands, and occupying space in wedding halls are among the several efforts that some of the vegetable traders at the wholesale and retail markets here are taking to continue sale of vegetables as the MGR and Anna markets have been shut due to reports of COVID-19 positive cases. Sources among the traders in these two markets said there were, however, challenges in shifting to a new location as the public in those localities were alerting the police. The public fear that wholesale vegetable shops in their area could lead to crowding and spread of the disease. “Almost all the traders at Anna market sell to retailers. With the market and the temporary space provided to them closed, some are selling vegetables out of trucks. Some are taking on rent private space if the rents are affordable. Some are looking at agriculture lands near the city and trying to sell from there. These are all efforts to sell vegetables that we get from different areas,” said S. Suresh, secretary of the Anna market traders’ association. “A few traders feel that if they can just sell for two hours a day, they will be able to manage the regular supplies that they get. So they try to make alternative arrangements,” he said. Some of the traders at MGR market said that though many of them were trying to see how they could continue vegetable supply to the city, they were used to doing business from a particular locality and there would be challenges when they shifted to alternative locations. Some wholesalers were just redirecting the vehicles to the buyers. Closing of the two markets could lead to rush at the Thyagi Kumaran Market and put at risk the traders and customers there too. Further, there could be hike in prices of some of the vegetables. “The government should look at providing 20 acre to 50 acre in the future to set up a proper wholesale vegetable market,” said one of them. The wholesale vegetable prices in the district has remained almost the same. “Only the prices of tomatoes and brinjal were slightly up. Tomato prices were up because of rain. Brinjal was at Rs. 20 a kg which was higher than what it was last month. We do not expect prices to shoot up much,” said M. Rajendran, president of Thyagi Kumaran Market vegetable traders’ association.
01 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||No brick kiln in Thadagam valley obtained permit from Geology and Mining Dept., reveals RTI document||None of the brick kilns operating in five village panchayats that are part of Thadagam valley in Coimbatore district had obtained permission for their operations from the Department of Geology and Mining, a document accessed under the Right to Information (RTI) Act has revealed. In reply to queries raised by activist S. Ganesh of Chinnathadagam, the Geology and Mining Department stated that it had not accorded permits to any of the brick kilns that were operational at Chinna Thadagam, Nanjundapuram, Veerapandi, Pannimadai and Somaiyampalayam village panchayats. However, the RTI document said that the brick kilns were paying annual fees to the Department. As per the document, applications submitted by some of the brick kilns to the Department were forwarded to other departments for further clearances. There are close to 200 brick kilns operating in the valley, according to activists who are demanding closure of units that are operating without proper permits from various departments and local bodies. “As per an order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), soil for brick making can only be dug from a land that is more than one hectare in size (2.47 acre). However, this norm is not followed at many places in the valley. NGT also says that there should be a 500 metre gap between two mining sites. However, the Mining and Geology Department claims ignorance of this norm in the RTI reply,” said Mr. Ganesh. The RTI document also says that the Department did not issue permits for the use of excavators, trucks and tractors for mining and transportation of red earth for brick making in the five panchayats. To a query on the depth up to which red earth can be mined from a patta land, the Department replied that mining could be done without affecting agriculture activity as per the Tamil Nadu Minor Mineral Concession Rules 1959. However, the Tamil Nadu Minor Mineral Concession Rules 1959 states that “Quarrying shall be done for an optimum depth to be specified by the District Collector so that the land shall be restored to a state fit for cultivation”. At some places, red earth had been dug beyond a depth of 50 metres, Mr. Ganesh said. According to farmer turned activist T.M.S. Rajendran, the mining was happening in Nanjundapuram, Chinna Thadagam, Veerapandi and Somaiyampalayam that are listed as hill areas as per an annexure to the Government Order 49 dated March 24, 2003 on Hill Area Conservation Authority. “However, the RTI reply says that the Geology and Mining Department did not give permits for mining in the four places,” Mr. Rajendran pointed out. In a report in September last year, The Hindu had exposed that Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board had not issued permits to any of the brick kilns in Thadagam valley. Mr. Rajendran said that an online complaint was filed to the Director General of Police, Tamil Nadu, on Tuesday after the Thadagam police failed to register a case when he and his son complained that red earth was dug and transported from a land owned by the family without their permission.
01 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Institutes shut, banks fined in Coimbatore||Flying squads that the Coimbatore Corporation had formed to check COVID-19 safety guideline violations sealed two coaching institutes in Saibaba Colony, shut a few restaurants in Kalapatti, lodged a complaint with the police against traders and continued levying fine on people without masks and for not adhering to physical distancing norms. According to sources, a flying squad led by Assistant Executive Engineer K. Sathiya sealed a GRE coaching centre and another institute that coaches people to write the insurance agent examination – both on NSR Road, Saibabab Colony, after it found them operating without permission. The team also slapped fine on three private banks in the area for violation. In a branch, the air conditioner was on and employees were without masks. In East Zone, the Corporation lodged a complaint with the Peelamedu police against the owner of a textile shop in Masakalipalayam for violations. A flying squad in-charge of wards in Kalapatti shut five restaurants after it found them running past the government permitted time of 8 p.m. It also lodged a complaint with the police. Another team in East Zone closed down 10 commercial establishments.
01 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Video call facility for petitioners at SP office||Video call facility for petitioners to interact with the Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore district (rural) police, was introduced on Tuesday. The facility was introduced as precautionary measure in the wake of the spread of COVID-19. The office of the SP was closed for fumigation on June 27 after a woman working at the ministerial service section on the second floor of the building on State Bank Road tested positive for COVID-19. Now petitioners, who come to the office can interact with the SP, based on his availability, through video chatting arranged at the reception.
01 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||No power||Due to maintenance works at Madukkarai, Peelamedu, and Keeranatham sub-stations, there will be no power supply on July 2 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m . in the following areas: KG Chavady, Palathurai, Bypass Road, AG Pathy, Arivoli Nagar, Sugunapuram, BK PUdur, Madukkarai, part of Kovaipudur, Bharathi Colony, Elango Nagar, Burani Colony, Shoba Nagar, Ganapathy Industrial Estate, Police Quarters, Krishnarajapuram, Athipalayam Pirivu, Ramakrishnapuram, Avarampalayam, Ganesh Nagar, VG Rao Nagar, PSG Estate, PSG Hospital, Kamathenu Nagar, Nehru Street, Anna Nagar, Arumugam Layout, Indira Nagar, Nava India, Gopal Nagar, Peelamedu Pudhur, Ellaithotam, VOC Colony, PKD Nagar, Agilandeswari Nagar, Puliyakulam, Amman Kulam, Bharathipuram, Pankaja Mill, Damu Nagar, Balasubramaniam Nagar, Balaguru Garden, Sowripalayam, Krishna Colony, Rajaji Nagar, Meena Estate, Udayampalayam, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Parson Apartment, Sreepathy Nagar, Kallimadai, Ramanathapuram, part of Trichy Road, Nanjundapuram Road, Thiruvalluvar Nagar, Saravanampatti, Amman Koil, Chinnavedampatti, Krishnapuram, Sivanandhapuram, Vellakinar, Urumandampalayam, Gounder Mills, Subramanipalayam, KNG Pudur, part of Maniakarampalayam, Lakshmi Nagar, Nachimuthu Nagar, Jayaprakash Nagar, Ganapathy Pudur, Udayampalayam, Vellakinar Housing Unit, north part of Vinayagapuram, IT park area, and Chinnamettupalayam.  ERODE  Since high tension electric lines are to be replaced in the South Railway electric line from Erode sub-station, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on July 2 at Patel Street, SKC Road, Chidambaram Colony, Periyar Nagar, Housing Unit and 80-Feet Road areas.
01 July 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown has been hard on this assistant professor||After working as an assistant professor at a private engineering college in Coimbatore for the last five years, T. Maheshwaran has now chosen to sell murukku in his native place Neyveli, in Cuddalore district,  to take care of his family of three. Maheshwaran, 30, lost no will when the management of the college where he worked as the head of the department of Computer Science laid him and a few others off in February, when educational institutions were being closed due to the pandemic. The announcement came as a bolt from the blue for Mr. Maheshwaran, who holds a B.Tech degree from Anna University and has done M.E. in Computer Science Engineering. His wife Chithirai Selvam is a postgraduate in physics. Despite their qualifications, they have been struggling to make ends meet. The management laid off a number of staff members and Mr. Maheshwaran’s attempts to get back into teaching did not bear fruit, as the management insisted that he bring at least three new students before rejoining duty. “The faculty had completed the portions for the semester in February itself when the management asked the members to help with the admission of new students. The faculty were permitted to rejoin duty only if each of them brought three students for the next academic year. I tried joining a few other colleges with my qualification. While one college offered me Rs. 15,000 as salary, they too asked me to bring in three to four students for enrolment,” he said. Job loss, coupled with the lockdown, affected him financially. “I have a six-month-old girl child, my wife and an aged father to look after. Managements are expecting professors to bring students for admission. This is not our job. Not pleased, I bid farewell to the institution,” he said. Mr. Maheshwaran did not, however, lose hope and will power. He started making murukku (a snack) with the help of his family and selling the snack in the family’s vegetable shop. The product has been found to be of good quality by buyers in Neyveli town. Mr. Maheshwaran earns Rs. 500 a day, and hopes that his efforts to go in for alternative work will not fail him.
01 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Leopardess trapped in cage, released into forest||A five-year-old leopardess that fell into a trap set up for it near Doddagajanur village in Talavadi Forest Range at Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) was released into Germalam forest area on Tuesday. Forest officials said that many incidents of cattle kills by carnivores were reported in the villages of Soosaipuram and Doddagajanur near the Tamil Nadu – Karnataka border. Field inspection by officials revealed that leopards were using the defunct quarries near the villages as hideouts and killing the cattle. Cages were set up in the two villages and were monitored round the clock. On Tuesday morning, a leopardess was trapped in a cage set up near a quarry. A team led by K. Ashokan, wildlife veterinary surgeon at STR, found the animal to be in good health condition. Based on directions from Chief Conservator of Forest and Field Director of STR, V. Naganathan, and District Forest Officer of Hasanur Division K.V. Appala Naidu, and a team led by Talavadi Forest Ranger S. Sivakumar released the animal in to the forest area.
01 July 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Micro Labs in Hosur emerges COVID-19 cluster||A leading pharma manufacturer Micro Labs Limited has emerged as a ‘mini COVID cluster’ in Hosur with as many as 30 employees across production blocks testing positive for COVID-19. Incidentally, the company has become the single largest contributor to the COVID-19 numbers in Krishnagiri district in less than a week. A manager at the quality control block in Unit 3 of the company’s production facility had first tested positive last week. The company allegedly brought 50 of its employees from Bengaluru in the company bus with some claiming that physical distancing norms were not adhered to. “I was forced to take a COVID-19 test, before joining work after relaxations in the lockdown. Now, one month into work, I have been infected because of the negligence of the company,” alleged an employee in the quality control block that has reported over 26 cases. Employees alleged that they were not informed that the manager had tested positive for COVID-19. Instead they learnt about it only through random messages on WhatsApp groups of other companies. “I got myself self-tested upon seeing the message and I turned positive. I got reprimanded by the reporting head for self-testing instead of just staying at home quarantine for the infection to ebb down,” claimed a mid-level employee. In another case, a manager from the company was forced to go for testing by a local residents' association. According to another employee, who was in the lab with eight others of whom, four were infected, her attempt to get self-tested had failed. “I went to the COVID-19 swab collection centre at Seetharam Nagar, because I was among the primary contacts. First time, I was asked to get a letter from the company doctor. Then, when I went back with the letter, I was asked to go into home quarantine,” she told The Hindu . For a bulk of the workforce living in one or two bedroom houses, home quarantine without testing was exposing the entire family, primarily elders, to an infection. With no alarm sounded by the company with the first of infections, secondary infections have also commenced. Among the secondary infections include a cook of a staff family in the COVID ward in Hosur’s ESI hospital. While the quality control block was sealed on Friday last, inter-block movement was present, alleged employees. On Tuesday, a laundry person, a tablet compression machine and a packing machine operator were infected. It was proposed to close down the units, but there were objections by the company stating that the chemical chain, refrigeration needed maintenance, said an official. Micro Labs is also a producer of hydroxychloroquine tablets and paracetamol, the official said. When contacted, Krishnagiri Collector S. Prabhakar said, he received some messages on social media. “There is no special treatment to the company engaged in tablet production. The solution is not to seal the company, but to find a positive outcome. I have asked the Commissioner, BMO and the RDO to inspect the company once again and verify,” he said. “There are three units to Micro Labs. Unit 3 and Unit 2 shared the same compound. Since Unit 3 reported cases, Unit 2 is also closed for production. Out of 230 employees in Unit 3, only 25 are working; and out of 280 employees in Unit 2, only 42 are working,” the Collector said. In Unit 1, which is in a separate campus, out of 509 employees, 169 are working for bare minimal production and maintenance, Dr. Prabhakar said.  The Hindu contacted Prem Kumar, head of Unit 3, Micro Labs, for comments but he disconnected the phone.
01 July 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||30 staff of Hosur-based pharma company test COVID-19 positive||A leading pharma manufacturer Micro Labs Limited has emerged as a ‘mini COVID cluster’ in Hosur with as many as 30 employees across production blocks testing positive for COVID-19. Incidentally, the company has become the single largest contributor to the COVID-19 numbers in Krishnagiri district in less than a week. A manager at the quality control block in Unit 3 of the company’s production facility had first tested positive last week. The company allegedly brought 50 of its employees from Bengaluru in the company bus with some claiming that physical distancing norms were not adhered to. “I was forced to take a COVID-19 test, before joining work after relaxations in the lockdown. Now, one month into work, I have been infected because of the negligence of the company,” alleged an employee in the quality control block that has reported over 26 cases. Employees alleged that they were not informed that the manager had tested positive for COVID-19. Instead they learnt about it only through random messages on WhatsApp groups of other companies. “I got myself self-tested upon seeing the message and I turned positive. I got reprimanded by the reporting head for self-testing instead of just staying at home quarantine for the infection to ebb down,” claimed a mid-level employee. In another case, a manager from the company was forced to go for testing by a local residents' association. According to another employee, who was in the lab with eight others of whom, four were infected, her attempt to get self-tested had failed. “I went to the COVID-19 swab collection centre at Seetharam Nagar, because I was among the primary contacts. First time, I was asked to get a letter from the company doctor. Then, when I went back with the letter, I was asked to go into home quarantine,” she told The Hindu . For a bulk of the workforce living in one or two bedroom houses, home quarantine without testing was exposing the entire family, primarily elders, to an infection. With no alarm sounded by the company with the first of infections, secondary infections have also commenced. Among the secondary infections include a cook of a staff family in the COVID ward in Hosur’s ESI hospital. While the quality control block was sealed on Friday last, inter-block movement was present, alleged employees. On Tuesday, a laundry person, a tablet compression machine and a packing machine operator were infected. It was proposed to close down the units, but there were objections by the company stating that the chemical chain, refrigeration needed maintenance, said an official. Micro Labs is also a producer of hydroxychloroquine tablets and paracetamol, the official said. When contacted, Krishnagiri Collector S. Prabhakar said, he received some messages on social media. “There is no special treatment to the company engaged in tablet production. The solution is not to seal the company, but to find a positive outcome. I have asked the Commissioner, BMO and the RDO to inspect the company once again and verify,” he said. The Hindu contacted Prem Kumar, head of Unit 3, Micro Labs, for comments but he disconnected the phone.  I’ve asked the Commissioner, BMO and RDO to inspect the company again S. Prabhakar Collector
01 July 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||30 staff of Hosur-based pharma company test COVID-19 positive||A leading pharma manufacturer, Micro Labs Limited, has emerged a mini COVID-19 cluster with 30 employees across the production blocks testing positive. The number of infected persons among the staff and their contacts is expected go up. In its wake, allegations of negligence on part of the company are rife with some of the infected staff claiming that the company failed to follow physical distancing norms in its bus transporting employees from Bengaluru every day. Micro Labs has become the single largest contributor to the overall tally in the district in less than a week. The first of its cases was reported with the infection of a manager in the quality control block in Unit 3 of the company’s production facility here last week. The company transported over 50 employees from Bengaluru in its bus without following the physical distancing norms, it has been alleged. “I was forced to take a COVID-19 test before joining work after the lockdown. Now, one month into work, I’ve been infected because of the negligence of the company,” says an employee in the quality control block that has reported over 26 cases. It has been alleged that the company did not inform the employees about the manager testing positive, but instead an alert was sounded by local whatsapp groups of other companies of the infection in Micro Labs. “I got myself tested on my own upon seeing the message and I tested positive. I got reprimanded by the reporting head for testing instead of being under home quarantine.” The mid-level employee, whose mother-in-law had undergone an open-heart surgery, is relieved that the rest of the family was in their native due to the lockdown. In another case, a manager from the company was forced to go for testing by a local residents association. According to another employee, who was in the lab with eight others of whom four were infected, her attempt to get herself tested had failed. “I went to the swab collection centre in Seetharam Nagar, because I was among the primary contacts. First time, I was asked to get a letter from the company doctor. Then, when I went back with the letter, I was asked to go into home quarantine,” the staff told The Hindu . For the bulk of the workforce living in one or two BHK houses, home quarantine without testing held the risk of exposing the entire family, primarily elders, to the infection. With no alarm sounded by the company with the first of infections, secondary infections have also commenced. Among the secondary infections include a cook of a staff family in the COVID-19 ward in Hosur’s ESI hospital. While the quality control block was sealed on Friday, inter-block movement continued, said employees. Testifying to that, a laundry person, a tablet compression machine operator and a packing machine operator were infected on Tuesday.  When contacted, Collector S. Prabhakar said that he received some social media messages. “There is no special treatment to the company. The solution is not to seal the company, but to find a positive outcome. I have asked the Commissioner, Block Medical Officer and the Revenue Divisional Officer to inspect the company once again and verify.”
01 July 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Waste management firm accused of dumping biomedical waste in the open||The Ramky Group of Companies entrusted with the handling and disposal of biomedical waste has been accused of dumping waste in an open field in Hosur. The incident was brought to light by the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) that was responding to a distress call from the locality. The SPCA had received calls on the unusual sight of young goats with swollen stomach and a few dead stray dogs in the field. A field visit by the team found heaps of medical waste, dumped in the open and in sacks with the logo of Ramky company. In a video footage accessed from a CCTV camera in one of the shops in the vicinity, Ramky Group’s van turns into the open field and dumps heaps of biomedical waste. Livestock, dogs and stray monkeys are seen foraging the field. The van was seen dumping heaps of biomedical waste on a open plot near the ESI outer ring road, less than 2 km from the ESI hospital, a COVID-19 treatment facility. The heaps included swab collection kits, blood sample test tubes, urology bags, ventilator tubes, IV tubes, among other biomedical waste. The medical waste was also being sold to scrap dealers, says SPCA district secretary Sanjay Tanesh. “There are scrap dealers in the locality who have claimed that the plastic bottles are recycled by them,” he said. According to Hosur Municipal Commissioner Balasubramaniam, the biomedical waste was being incinerated and the plot cleared. District Environmental Engineer of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board S. Palanisamy said the company has been summoned for an inquiry on Wednesday. “The waste should be sent to the biomedical disposal facility at Edappadi. We do not know why it was dumped there. But they are not COVID-19 waste, which is taken directly to the facility. We will take suitable action,” Mr. Palanisamy said.
01 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||All 100 wards in Madurai record active COVID-19 cases||All 100 wards within Madurai Corporation limits have active COVID-19 positive cases as on June 29, according to the data procured from the civic body. The total number of active cases within the city was 1,165 as on June 29 contributing to around 70% of the total active cases in the district. While 40 wards of the Corporation had no cases till June 18, the number of cases had spiked and spread throughout the city over the past few days. Out of the four zones, Zone 2 with 364 cases had the highest number of cases contributing to around 31.24% of total cases. Zone 3 with 217 cases had the lowest number of cases contributing to around 18.62% of total cases. Though the cases were spread throughout the city, a total of 20 wards had less than five active cases. These wards include Arapalayam, Arasaradi, Panthalkudi, Villapuram, Keerathurai, Sappani Kovil and Tirupparankundram. “To avoid rise in cases in these wards, we undertake thorough disinfection, contact tracing, testing and containment measures,” said a Corporation health official. A total of 13 wards, which had more than 20 active cases, recorded around 30% of total cases. These wards include Ellis Nagar, Alwarpuram, Uthangudi, Kannanendhal, Reserve Line, Sundararajapuram and Jamundi Kovil. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said that fever camps and door-to-door surveillance by field workers helped to identify fever cases and those with influenza-like symptoms early on. They are then tested and based on the results treatment was provided. “This helps us to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. Collector T. G. Vinay said that so far 3.4 lakh houses have been screened by field level workers. “Through door-to-door fever surveillance, we are aiming to contain the transmission of COVID-19,” he said.
01 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Southern districts see another sharp rise in positive cases||A total of 257 patients tested positive for COVID-19, here on Tuesday, increasing the overall tally of the district to 2,557. In two days, the district has seen a rise of 562 cases. Three deaths were recorded in the district and all these deaths occurred at private hospitals. As of Tuesday, Madurai district has the fourth highest death toll among all districts in Tamil Nadu. A 58-year-old woman with hypertension and diabetes who was admitted on June 20 with complaints of fever, cough and breathing difficulties for two days died on June 24. A 70-year-old woman with hypertension and diabetes was admitted on June 19 with complaints of fever, cough and breathing difficulties. She died on June 21. A 65-year-old woman with hypertension was admitted on June 19 with complaints of fever, cough and breathing difficulties. The patient died on June 23. All three patients died of COVID-19, Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) and Severe Viral Pneumonia apart from their comorbidities. Collector T. G. Vinay said that there were 122 influenza-like cases and 59 contacts of positive patients. A total of 51 frontline workers and two pregnant women also tested positive for COVID-19. While there were 246 indigenous cases, there were 11 imported cases. The State Government in a GO also recognised that there were 57 containment zones in the district to limit the spread of the disease. Tuesday also saw the highest number of discharges in a single day as 208 people tested negative after their recovery. There are currently 1,708 active cases. Theni In Theni, 76 persons tested positive which included 50 women and six children from Cumbum, Periakulam and Theni town. According to the press release, 792 samples were taken and sent for swab tests. A 70-year-old man from Cumbum, who was admitted in a private hospital in Madurai, died on Tuesday in the hospital. In Dindigul, 34 new cases were reported taking the total positive cases to 472. As many as 21 persons were discharged after successful treatment. The health officials said that all the positive cases reported were indigenous. Ramanathapuram With 36 new cases, Ramanathapuram district’s total positive cases, stood at 839. There were 25 discharges from the hospital. While the officials attributed the rise in numbers to intensified swab tests as part of their containment plan, the cases were mostly from contact with those who had COVID-19 symptoms. In Sivaganga, there was a sudden surge as 52 persons tested positive to the virus taking the total number to 241 from 189. With a total of 87 persons discharged so far, 152 were in treatment at different stages after two deaths were reported in the hospital. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district saw another big jump in numbers of COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday with as many as 49 persons testing positive. While two were from other States and seven were from other districts, the major chunk were from contacts. Collector R. Kannan said the district administration was keeping contacts of all positive cases in quarantine centres till their results are out so that chances of contacts spreading was minimised. Death of six COVID-19 patients from the district has been reported till date. The total number of positive cases in the district was 493 with 278 active cases and 209 patients have got discharged till date. Tirunelveli Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts registered yet another sharp rise with 19 people testing positive as these districts collectively added 85 patients, all indigenous cases, on Tuesday. While Tirunelveli district’s tally rose to 796 with the addition of 45 more new cases, Thoothukudi recorded 40 fresh cases that took its tally to 943. The districts have 217 and 277 active cases respectively, all undergoing treatment in the medical college hospitals. Even as Tirunelveli saw seven deaths, Thoothukudi witnessed four deaths due to the viral infection. Kanniyakumari district saw an addition of 20 new cases, including 17 indigenous cases, on Tuesday that took the total number of infections in the district to 368 and the active cases to 221. The district has so far witnessed only one death. Tenkasi, which added 11 more cases on Tuesday had 347 infections and 168 active cases.
01 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Police behaviour during judicial inquiry intimidating, indifferent’||An intimidating ambience was sought to be created by indifferent police personnel when Kovilpatti judicial magistrate M. S. Bharathidasan, conducted an inquiry at the Sattankulam police station in connection with the custodial torture of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks and their subsequent death. Recounting multiple instances of non-cooperation, Mr. Bharathidasan in his four-page report to the Madras High Court (Madurai Bench) said while a woman head constable revealed that the father and son were tortured with lathis and there was blood on the lathi and the table at the station, the police at first refused to hand over the batons. The Sattankulam police did not cooperate with the inquiry and tried to create an intimidating ambiance. The report said that right from the time the judicial magistrate stepped into the Sattankulam police station, the police officers did not acknowledge his presence and showed an indifferent attitude. Further, the JM said that Additional Superintendent of Police D. Kumar and DSP C. Pratapan exhibited an intimidating posture. When asked for the case dairies, the senior officers addressed their subordinates to get them in a reprimanding tone. The report said that the documents were brought to the judicial magistrate in a delayed manner. When the CCTV footage was assessed, it came to light that it was calibrated in such a manner that everyday’s record would get overwritten the following day. ‘No footage’ There was no footage of the day of the incident, even though there was adequate space for storage in the CCTV. During the inquiry, police constables appeared to be agitated and did not cooperate. The woman police constable, however, revealed that the father and son were tortured the entire night. She initially refused to sign her statement but later agreed after she was assured of protection, the judicial magistrate stated in his report. While police constable Maharajan gave contradictory statements saying that the lathi was at his native place, then (later at) police quarters and even told the judicial magistrate that he cannot do anything, another policeman ran away from the inquiry. Given the animosity at the police station, the judicial magistrate said that he had to wind up the inquiry early that day. Even as the inquiry was on, the policemen were taking videos of the inquiry, he said in his report.
01 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||1,000 tonnes of milling copra to be procured||The State government would procure 1,000 tonnes of milling copra at the regulated market in Vadipatti at Rs. 99.60 a kg, said Madurai Market Committee secretary V. Mercy Jeyarani. She said that a notification was received on Thursday regarding the procurement of copra from farmers under the Price Support Scheme. The regulated market committee, in coordination with the Agricultural Marketing department, would procure the copra from farmers on behalf of the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India. The procurement price announced by the government for this year was Rs. 99.60 a kg for milling copra and Rs. 103 for ball copra - marginally higher than the previous year’s rates of Rs. 95.21 and Rs. 99.2 respectively. Coconut had been raised on 11,000 hectares of Vadipatti, Kottampatti, Alanganallur and Melur blocks of Madurai district. “By procuring at a higher rate, the government wants to ensure that the farmers earn good profits. Also, this will help increase the wholesale prices of copra in the open market, which will benefit the farmers,” said Ms. Mercy Jeyarani. The marginal increase in procurement price of copra would definitely benefit farmers, said S. Manimaran, vice-chairman of T.Vadipatti Integrated Farming System Farmers Producer Company. “Despite a high demand, farmers are unable to fetch good profits and are forced to sell a kg of milling copra for a maximum of Rs. 85,” he said. But it must be ensured that the rate remained at theis price throughout the year, he added. T. Perumal, national secretary, Bharathiya Kisan Sangh, said though the marginal price rise was welcomed, it would be better if the government procured copra at Rs. 130.
01 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Around 50 students face insufficient data pack to attend online NEET classes||Around 50 students of government and government-aided schools across the district have been identified as those who have difficulties in attending the School Education Department’s online crash course for cracking NEET examinations, citing insufficient data pack and poor network coverage. S. Vennila Devi, a government teacher and district coordinator for NEET, said that based on instructions from senior officials, her team had identified these students who couldn’t attend the classes due to insufficient data packs. “There are plans to recharge internet packs for these students, so that they can attend the online classes. There will be an online meeting with senior officials on Wednesday to discuss the issue,” she said. Initially, around 370 students from the district had registered for the online classes which commenced on June 17. Then the strength was increased to around 400 students. The students have video lectures and online tests as part of the crash course. Usually, in the run-up to the NEET examinations, the School Education Department conducts a one-month residential crash course for students. However, due to COVID-19 pandemic, online classes were started this year. Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan said that around 90% of registered students attended the online classes everyday. However, students, especially those from interior pockets, had issues in attending online classes citing insufficient data packs or poor network, he said.
01 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Caution is the buzzword in waste disposal||With the number of COVID-19 patients on the rise, government and private facilities are tasked with the job of disposing biomedical waste in a safe manner. Senior members from various hospital administrations say that they have been provided a strict set of guidelines from the Central Pollution Control Board on disposal of biomedical waste. A senior official from Madurai district’s Pollution Control Board says that Government Rajaji Hospital’s COVID-19 super speciality ward generates around 350 to 400 kg of waste each day. The waste is bagged twice, segregated and placed in a remote location on campus. Waste is then picked up and incinerated at a Common Biomedical Waste Treatment Facility (CBWTF) in Virudhunagar. A private contractor who manages biomedical waste for most hospitals in the four districts- Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga and Virudhunagar- has employees who pick up this waste from each hospital and transport it to the CBWTF. Dean, Government Rajaji Hospital, J. Sangumani says that they take extensive caution at the GRH that includes double-bagging and placing biomedical waste in large yellow bags. “Whether there is COVID-19 or not, all medical instruments used to treat patients are thoroughly sterilised. We ensure that the instruments are sanitised too. Staff in-charge of cleaning inside the COVID-19 hospital must wear personal protection equipment (PPE) as their health is important to us,” he said. General Manager, Operations, Meenakshi Mission Hospital, J. Adel, said that they have a separate donning and doffing area where all staff wearing PPEs must ensure that they dispose of their equipment in a safe manner. “All the hospital linen from the COVID-19 ward are separately washed at a particular time in the day. After they are washed, the machines are cleaned too,” he said. Head, Critical Care Unit, Velammal Medical College Hospital, S. Vijay Anand, said that they have colour-coded bags which are sprayed with 1% hypochlorite solution and sealed twice in order to ensure that waste too is sanitised. “We label the waste and have the contractor pick it up when five such bags accumulate. After our shift, our clothes too are dipped in 1% hypochlorite solution as it is a disinfectant,” he said. Caution is key during these times, he added.  All medical instruments used to treat patients are thoroughly sterilised. We ensure that the instruments are sanitised too J. Sangumani Dean, Government Rajaji Hospital
01 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Civic body begins telemedicine consultation for those under home isolation||Telemedicine consultation for COVID-19 positive patients who are in home isolation began on Tuesday. A unit with doctors, nurses and counsellors has been set up at the Madurai Corporation office to provide audio and video consultations to those under home isolation. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said that the initiative was taken based on the instructions of Monitoring Officer B. Chandra Mohan. On Tuesday, video consultations were provided for around 40 persons under home isolation, he said. A Corporation official said that as on Tuesday, around 100 persons were under home isolation in the district. Based on the new strategy, patients with COVID-19 symptoms have to be tested. If they test positive, then they would be categorised under mild/ moderate or severe cases. If they have only mild symptoms and no comorbidities and have necessary facilities at their homes, then they were being asked to be under home isolation. They were also given medical kits and detailed pamphlets. A doctor from the telemedicine team said that video consultation would be done everyday for those who have smartphones. For others, audio consultations will be made. The doctor also said that home isolation for 14 days was recommended for those who test negative for COVID-19. “Telemedicine consultations would be provided for them too,” said the doctor.
01 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MKU College guest lecturers seek salaries||A section of guest lecturers from Madurai Kamaraj University College made a representation to Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan, demanding salaries for the months of May and June. K. C. Palani Kumar, one of the representatives, said that there were a total of 63 guest lecturers who were recruited in 2019 to the MKU College for a salary of Rs. 15,000 each. Mr. Palani Kumar claimed that while some guest lecturers in MKU’s other constituent colleges have received their salaries, it was only the 63 members at MKU College who were yet to be paid. With regular classes for this academic year not likely to begin soon due to the ongoing COVID-19 restrictions, Mr. Palani Kumar said they were worried that they would be left without an income for many months. “How will we feed our families? It would be really kind if the university chooses to pay our salaries at least for the month of June,” he said. The MKU V-C said that guest lecturers in Tamil Nadu were yet to receive their salaries as universities were still waiting for proper guidance from the State government regarding the matter. “As soon as we get the nod, we will begin disbursing salaries,” he said.
01 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PRS centres to remain closed||In view of extension of lockdown in Madurai from July 1 to 5, all the PRS (Passenger Reservation System) locations will be closed on those days. Passengers can obtain refund after July 5 or as and when notified depending upon local conditions, a statement said.
01 July 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Workers seek jobs||Members of Tamil Nadu Agricultural Workers’ Association on Tuesday staged a demonstration at Seithur for proper implementation of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme to help the poor workers who have lost their jobs during the lockdown. Communist Party of India Virudhunagar district secretary P .Lingam led the protest. Mr. Lingam said that the poor workers faced the threat of hunger during the COVID-19 lockdown period. The district administration should provide employment to all people irrespective of age. The administration should also ensure that the workers were not exploited by the officials. The number of days of employment under the scheme should be increased from 100 days to 200 days, he said.
01 July 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Working of sensors tested on Pamban rail bridge||Southern Railway officials on Tuesday took up the testing of the working of newly installed sensors to assess the strength of the central span of Pamban rail bridge. A light engine was run on the bridge to assess the working of the sensors and accelerometers installed on the bridge. A railway official said that the century-old railway bridge was in one of the highly corrosive environment in the Bay of Bengal connecting the mainland in Ramanathapuram with Pamban. When the officials felt that the 65.23-metre bascule bridge could have been weakened by corrosion, they had decided to replace it with a newer one. Even as global tender was called for, the officials called it off following an afterthought that the entire bridge required replacement. As a fallout, the work for constructing the new sea bridge parallel to the existing bridge was under way. However, the officials felt that the Scherzer’s span required a closer monitoring for its strength. As a measure to have a continuous monitoring of the strength of the central span, Southern Railway roped in Indian Institute of Technology (Madras) to install sensors. The work of installation of sensors that were going on for one month was completed. The sensors have been in all critical portion of the bridge. The sensors have been synchronized with the accelerometers. “A light engine was run on the central span for calibration of the sensors,” the official added. The data could be read by officials at the cabins in the bridge and also by scientists of IIT, he added. The work at a cost of Rs. 2 crore with sensors imported from Germany is likely to be completed in another one week.
01 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Panel to seek support of village panchayats for Kumbakonam district||The Coordination Committee for Formation of Kumbakonam District has decided to request local bodies to adopt a resolution urging the State government to consider the demand for the new district. The decision was taken at a consultative meeting of the committee held in Kumbakonam recently. Elected representatives, including Mayiladuthurai MP S. Ramalingam, Kumbakonam MLA G. Anbalagan and Thiruvidaimaruthur MLA Govi.Chezhian, voiced support to the move. DMK Thanjavur North district secretary S. Kalyanasundaram, CPI Thanjavur district secretary M.A. Bharathi, Congress Thanjavur north district secretary Ayappan, Tamil Maanila Congress Thanjai North District president Jirjis, BJP district president, Thanjavur (North), Sathish participated. Representatives from other political parties, including Pattali Makkal Katchi, and associations of traders, lawyers and common-interest groups also took part. The committee should approach village panchayats in Kumbakonam, Thiruvidaimaruthur, Thirupanandal, Papanasam and Ammapettai Panchayat Unions to adopt resolutions in support of the demand and forward them to the State government, the speakers said. It was also decided to rope in the general public by asking them to draw kolams on July 10 in front of their houses in areas desired in the jurisdiction of the new district. Further, a fast would be staged on July 15 followed by total shutdown on July 17, sources said. Demonstration Meanwhile, Mayiladuthurai MP S. Ramalingam on Tuesday led a demonstration in Kumbakonam in support of the formation of the new district. The participants raised slogans in support their demand and also urged the government to announce Nachiyarkovil, Thirupanandhal and Ammapettai as new taluks. Kumbakonam MLA G. Anbalagan, Thiruvidaimaruthur MLA Govi. Chezhian and others participated in the demonstration.
01 July 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Directive to industrial units in Thanjavur||The district administration has directed industrial units to comply with environmental norms stipulated by Pollution Control Board to preserve the quality of water in rivers. The National Green Tribunal has observed that the quality improved during the lockdown, as per a report submitted by Central Pollution Control Board, Collector M. Govinda Rao said in a press release.
01 July 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||SMO satisfied with COVID-19 treatment steps in Theni||Expressing satisfaction over the arrangements made for treating COVID-19 patients and number of measures taken to prevent the virus by the district administration and multiple department officials, Special Monitoring Officer & Principal Secretary A. Karthik on Tuesday appealed to the residents to stay indoors during this period and help the government break the virus chain as early as possible. Speaking to reporters after visiting a few locations, including the COVID care centre and the Government Hospital, where additional beds were being provided, he said that initially the district had less number of people testing positive. However, as days passed, persons who tested positive had a travel history,s especially from hotspots. The district administration had tightened movement of people - both locals and others visiting the district. Only those who genuinely had reason to travel were issued e-passes. Similarly, the intensified swab tests had helped in early identification of viruses, if any, from the people. There were twin advantages in the intensified testing as the spread among the people could be contained and the history or pattern of a particular locality could be studied and action taken at a faster rate. Door-to-door checks and enumeration in some of the thickly populated areas had made the field staff familiar with the residents. This had helped in follow-up activities and commended the role of the frontline staff. By screening the passengers at check-posts and providing quarantine facilities to those who had symptoms of the virus and other measures had paved way for restricting the rise in number of positive persons, Mr. Karthik said and responded to a query that 94 patients were under treatment at Samadarmapuram GH. Four among them were referred to Theni Government Medical College Hospital as they required oxygen. After shifting them, they were recovering and stable, he noted. To another question, he said that the district administration had identified close to 1,600 bed strength and in the event of a rise in the number of COVID19 patients, they can be handled without difficulty. Similarly, on Kappanchetti Street in Allinagaram, a containment zone, some residents wanted mobile ATM to be provided in the locality and the officials were told to examine the modalities, Mr. Karthik said and added that the COVID-19 virus had, no doubt, brought the normal life to a standstill. However, the challenge posed had to be overcome and he underlined the importance of public support. Earlier, Collector M. Pallavi Baldev presided over a meeting with officials where DROs K Ramesh and Thiagarajan, PO DRDA P. Thilakavathi, Sub-Collector D. Sneha, Dean Illango, JD Health Services Lakshmanan and DD Health Sendil and others participated.
01 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||80 Tiruchi police personnel ‘in need of behavioural corrections’ taken off duty||Eighty police personnel, serving in the Tiruchi Range, comprising five revenue districts, who were found requiring ‘behavioural corrections’ while dealing with the general public, have been taken off their regular duties. They will soon undergo a specially designed course to improve their interpersonal skills. All the 80 police personnel were attached to the law and order wing and they have been taken off duty on Tuesday, to enable them undergo the customised course to be devised soon, V. Balakrishnan, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range told The Hindu on Tuesday. The move comes in the backdrop of public outrage over the allegedcustodial deaths of a father and sonin Sattankulam. The identified police personnel are in the ranks from Grade-II Constable to Inspector, serving in Tiruchi Rural, Pudukottai, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts. A couple of Inspectors and 29 Sub Inspectors/Special Sub Inspectors are among them. Of the 80 personnel, 17 are from Tiruchi Rural; 21 from Pudukottai; 15 from Karur; nine from Perambalur and 18 from Ariyalur district. The list of the chosen police personnel was compiled a few days ago based on their past incidents, reports ascertained from the respective District Special Branches and from the Deputy Superintendent of Police concerned, Mr. Balakrishnan said. The course will be conducted by expert resource persons and would include behavioural therapy. A team of resource persons will speak individually to the 80 police personnel, to identify the reasons for their behaviour, and their requirements. The individual sessions will would commence in two to three days after which the course would be devised, Mr. Balakrishnan said. “We want to have focussed attention on every chosen police officer and policeman, and eventually, bring about a change in their behaviour while dealing with the general public,” Mr. Balakrishnan added. The resource persons will be interacting with the police personnel at the respective districts before conducting the courses for them at those districts. The course is expected to take off next month, and run for nearly a month. The course will also cover issues such as anger and stress management and ways to deal with the public during challenging situations. The Sattankulam incident was the immediate trigger for the law-enforcing authorities to identify police personnel in Tiruchi Range requiring behavioural corrections while dealing with the public, said police sources. Sources said the authorities had identified 160 police personnel whose track record in interpersonal skills were found wanting. But the course is to be initially conducted only for 80 police personnel and the remaining would be counselled by their superiors in their respective districts. The police personnel would be gradually reintegrated into their regular duties after completing the course.
01 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||78 fresh cases in central region||Seventy-eight more positive cases were reported in central districts on Tuesday. The maximum number of cases were reported in Tiruchi district followed by Thanjavur and Thiruvarur. Of the 78 fresh cases, Tiruchi district accounted for 40. While Thanjavur recorded 23 new cases, there were 12 in Tiruvarur. One patient was diagnosed with COVID-19 in Karur. Nagapattinam district, which witnessed sharp increase in fresh cases over the past two weeks, recorded two cases on Tuesday, bringing relief to health officials and workers. Similarly, there was no fresh cases in Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai districts. Most of the 40 patients in Tiruchi district were said to be contacts of positive patients. Mannachanalur, Tiruverumbur, No 1 Tollgate, Vasan Nagar, Cooni Bazaar, Somarasampettai, Thuraiyur and Woraiyur were among locations that reported fresh cases. Three cases were reported in Mannachanallur alone. Two children, a 10-year and a 12- year old, were among those who tested positive. According to a senior health official, five traders of Gandhi Market were among those who tested positive. All were found to be asymptomatic. They were being treated at K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital. With 40 cases on Tuesday, the total number ofi patients in the district rose to 682. Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu said 16 were discharged on Tuesday after treatment at K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital. Of them, 14 were from Tiruchi district and one each from Pudukottai and Perambalur. Similarly, 14 more patients, who received treatment at the care centre on Khajamalai campus of Bharadidasan University, were also discharged. Of them, seven were from Tiruchi district. Twenty-three persons tested positive in Thanjavur district on Tuesday, taking the total tally to 448. In Tiruvarur district, three persons tested positive on Tuesday, taking the total number to 455. Of the two fresh cases in Nagapattinam, one was from Madurai. The total number of cases in the district now stood at 254.
01 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Residents’ associations slam Tangedco’s billing procedure||The Federation of Tiruchi City Residents Welfare Associations has described the billing procedure of Tangedco during lockdown period as “unacceptable”. Tangedco has pushed consumers into extreme difficulty by raising bill at one go for four months, leading to manifold increase in payable amounts due to the slab system, federation coordinator K. Sakthivel said. After permitting consumers to pay the amount levied in the previous billing cycle (February-March) for April-May, Tangedco has stated that the total number of units consumed over the four months will be divided by two, and that the slab rates will be applied for the number of units consumed during each cycle. The amount already paid during the lockdown will then be adjusted in the final amount due. The association has criticised the method, saying there is basic flaw in correlating power consumption between February-March and April-May cycles since consumption will be naturally high during summer months.  Slab system By applying the slab system, the charges have been increased for each of the two cycles, Mr. Sakthivel pointed out. There is no reason why the method that Tangedco follows while reporting ‘door-lock’ cannot be applied in the present situation, the federation’s petitions to the Chief Minister and the Tiruchi district administration says. Consumers cannot be faulted for the failure of Tangedco to take accurate readings, he contended. While Tangedco has made the right observation that power consumption has increased in households during the lockdown period, the onus is on the State government to prevail upon the power utility to tweak its mode of billing pattern in the interests of the consumers who have suffered substantial income loss during the lockdown, Winston, a trader of Kattur, said. A Tangedco official, on condition of anonymity, says power supply has not been stopped for any consumer so far on account of default in bill payment.
01 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Overhead electrification of Karaikal Port siding completed||Freight trains operating to and from Karaikal Port are set to be hauled by electric locomotives as overhead electrification works taken up on the port siding have been completed. The Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE), which executed the electrification project, has energised the five-km siding. Trial run of an electric loco on the stretch from Nagore to Karaikal Port was successfully conducted on Monday, a senior railway official told The Hindu . The siding is a separate broad gauge line that branches out near Nagore railway station. It belongs to Karaikal Port and the electrification cost around Rs. 4 crore. CORE, which has been entrusted with the task of electrifying Tiruchi-Thanjavur-Tiruvarur-Nagore-Nagapattinam-Karaikal broad gauge section, took up overhead electrification work on the siding only a month ago. The project has been completed swiftly since it it a small stretch. Over 100 electric masts have been installed along the route. Power will be drawn from the newly commissioned substation at Thanjavur railway junction as part of the overhead electrification works on Tiruchi-Karaikal BG section. Ahead of operation of electric loco-hauled freight trains, port officials have to be sensitised to the working of the energised section, the official said. At present, all freight trains are being hauled by diesel locomotives on the port siding, which falls under Tiruchi Railway Division. Coal is a major commodity that makes its way from the port to different destinations. CORE is simultaneously carrying out electrification of 10-km separate broad gauge railway line from Nagapattinam to Velankanni. Foundation works will be completed within a month and overhead electrification is expected to be completed by August. Sanction has been accorded by the Railway Board, New Delhi, for electrification of the 10-km Nidamangalam-Mannargudi broad gauge section, which falls in the fertile delta region, to facilitate transport of rice.
01 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Viral video: constable transferred||A day after a video clip showing a policeman slapping an aged man with a cycle went viral on a social media platform, the head constable involved in the incident was transferred to City Armed Reserve unit on Tuesday. Police sources said Ilangovan, a head constable attached to law and order wing of Woraiyur police station, was shifted under the orders of the City Police Commissioner. Based on the aged man’s statement, an inquiry into the incident that occurred near MGR statue roundabout on Monday evening would be conducted, teh sources added. The short clip lasting a few seconds shows the purported incident at the roundabout where the aged man with the bicycle and the police constable appear to be engaged in an altercation and the latter slaps him.
01 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Constable ends life||A 34-year-old woman constable attached to Vaiyampatti police station in Tiruchi district ended her life on Tuesday. The constable, who was taken to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in the city, died early on Tuesday, police sources said. She had a minor daughter. Investigation was under way to ascertain the cause of suicide by reportedly consuming poison. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
01 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||PWD forum’s appeal||The Tamil Nadu PWD Senior Engineers Association, a forum of retired engineers from the Public Works Department, on Tuesday urged the State government not to commence any new projects during the pandemic and extend the completion date of on going works at least until December.
01 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Police firing victim’s mother consoles Jayaraj’s wife||Vanitha of Thoothukudi, who has lost her 17-year-old daughter Snowlin to the bullets of police snipers during the anti-Sterlite protest two years ago, called on and consoled J. Selvarani of Sattankulam on Tuesday, who has lost her husband P. Jayaraj and son J. Benicks to suspected custodial torture last week. Ms. Vanitha’s agony continues even now even though the case was handed over to the CBI. “When the case was transferred to the CBI, we thought that the investigation would be completed speedily and appropriate punishment to the erring policemen and other officials ensured. However, the CBI inquiry on anti-Sterlite protests and firing, which is moving at snail’s pace, has shattered all our hopes as nothing positive has happened in the past 18 months. So I explained to Mrs. Selvarani that she, instead of pinning hopes on the CBI, should believe in God for justice,” Ms. Vanitha said. Earlier, RC Bishop of Thoothukudi Diocese Most Rev. Stephen Antony, Vicar General Rev. Fr. Panneer Selvam and a group of priests and nuns visited and consoled the family.
01 July 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Man, daughter killed in accident||A man and his 10-year-old daughter were killed in a road accident near Vickramasingapuram on Tuesday. The police said S. Ravi, 39, of Mudhaliyarpatti near Vickramasingapuram, was taking his daughter Subhitha, 10, on his two-wheeler. Even as he was crossing Agasthiyarpatti Main Road, Ravi stopped the bike as a stray dog suddenly crossed the road. A speeding tractor, which was following Ravi, knocked down from behind the bike killing Ravi and Subitha on the spot. The unidentified driver could not stop the tractor and escaped. The police are investigating.
01 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Speeding truck kills police constable in Kangeyam||A speeding container truck fatally ran over a police constable while he attempted to stop it near Thittuparai check-post in Kangeyam here in the late hours of Monday. The police said T. Prabu (25), a constable from the Armed Reserve, and Loganathan, head constable from Kangeyam police station, were posted at the check-post on Monday. They received information that a container truck from Erode district did not stop at any check-posts and was heading towards Tiruppur district. At around 11 p.m., the speeding truck damaged the check-post at Thittuparai in Kangeyam, and sped away. “The public asked for help to stop the truck because it was going berserk,” said District Superintendent of Police, Disha Mittal. Prabu chased the truck on his two-wheeler and attempted to stop the driver. However, the truck hit the two-wheeler without stopping, killing the constable on the spot. Following this incident, a police team managed to chase the speeding truck down. “The truck was empty and no contraband was found inside,” Ms. Mittal told The Hindu . Truck driver Baskaran (40) was secured on Monday night. The truck narrowly avoided a crash at a fuel station in Erode district, which could have resulted in a major blast, the SP noted. The Kangeyam police registered a case against the driver. Further investigations, including efforts to ascertain whether he was inebriated while driving recklessly, are under way. Prabu’s body was buried in his native village of Kallapalayam in Gudimangalam Block at around 1 p.m. on Tuesday. Ms. Mittal and other senior officers from the Tiruppur District Police paid tributes and the police gave a guard of honour at the funeral.
01 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur Collector inspects shops in Palladam||To ensure the public adhere to the COVID-19 precautionary measures in Tiruppur district, Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan conducted a surprise inspection in Palladam on Tuesday. He inspected the shops on M.G.R. Road and instructed the public to wear mask and maintain physical distancing at all time to prevent the spread of COVID-19, a release said. He warned that 22 flying squads comprising the police, local body officials and Revenue Department officials had been formed to monitor violations in the nine Revenue taluks in the district and the violators would be fined on the spot. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan also inspected the online jamabandhi for Palladam taluk. He inspected the petitions for 14 revenue villages under the Karadivavi and Samalapuram revenue firkas. The jamabandhi petitions are received online through e-seva centres this year and no issues have been reported so far. The total number of petitions applied will be calculated after July 15, which is the last date for filing the jamabandhi petitions, the release said.
01 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery stolen||Jewellery weighing around 25 sovereigns were reportedly stolen from a house at Velliangadu. Three special teams have been formed to nab the culprits.
01 July 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Restoration of waterbodies planned||The State government in partnership with citizens, self-help groups and farmers associations will clean up waterbodies under the kudimaramathu scheme, which includes strengthening of bunds and weeding out plants. District Collector A. Shanmuga Sundaram launched the desiliting of Keezh Alathur lake in KV Kuppam block under the kudimaramathu scheme. He said there were 101 lakes in the district, maintained by the Public Works Department. So far, 42 lakes have been rejuvenated with an allocated fund of Rs. 8.14 crore in three phases. Agricultural land of 3,486.56 hectares have benefited due to these rejuvenation works, he said. This year (2020-21), 14 lakes have been chosen to be rejuvenated at a cost of Rs. 4.69 crore with the help from farmers teams, he said. According to water resources department officials, under this scheme, bunds would be strengthened and inlet/outlet channels would be desilt and repaired. Repairs would be undertaken in sluices and additional sluices would be reconstructed to streamline the water disposal from the lakes.
01 July 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Arrest police on murder charge: DMK||The DMK has demanded arrest of the police officers of Sattankulam police station on murder charge in connection with the “brutal” attack on father and son last week. Its north district secretary and Tiruchuli MLA, Thangam Thennarasu, sought immediate transfer of Thoothukudi Superintendent of Police, Arun Balagopalan, for negligence of duty. (Later, the government replaced Mr. Arun with S. Jayakumar, who is SP at Cuddalore. Mr. Arun has been placed under compulsory wait.) In a virtual press conference held here on Tuesday, Mr .Thennarasu said closed-circuit TV footage revealed that every word in the FIR was fabricated. While the police claimed that they had to intervene following heavy crowding at the mobile phone shop run by Benicks, the CCTV footage showed that there was no crowd. The police said that both the father and son had rolled on the floor that led to bleeding injuries. But, nothing of that sort had happened. The police claimed that they were arrested and taken to station but only the father was taken in the police vehicle while Benicks followed the vehicle on a motorbike. The timing of the incident as per the video footage and the FIR too had a huge gap. He said a constable had threatened the Judicial Magistrate who was enquiring the case based on the High Court direction. Stating that the incident happened in the presence of an Additional Superintendent of Police and a Deputy Superintendent of Police, he wondered why these senior officers had gone to the police station when the enquiry was on. Stating that the SP had mishandled the case, Mr. Thennarasu said the fact that the High Court had allowed the Revenue Department to take over the Sattankulam police station showed that the judiciary had lost faith in the district police. Meanwhile, Minister for Dairy Development, K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, told reporters in Sivakasi that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami would never try to safeguard any wrong-doers in the Sattankulam custodial death case. “So the CM has ordered a probe by CBI,” he said.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Low-value transactions hit revenue from registration||Economic recession and the raging pandemic have cast a long shadow on the registration process in Tiruchi. Tiruchi zone comprising Tiruchi, Karur, Perambalur, Ariyalur and Pudukottai districts accounts for 10% to 15 % of the total revenue derived through registration fee and stamp collection in the State. The first three months of 2020 saw the percentage of registration moving towards the target fixed by the Department of Registration. Post-lockdown, however, registration of lands, plots and other properties are seeing a huge decline, sources say. After relaxation of lockdown norms, registration of properties have resumed. And people who want to register documents have been given special permission to travel. This has led to gradual increase in number of registrations from June 1. People are flocking to the 12 sub-registrar offices in Tiruchi district. The same trend can also be seen in sub-registrar offices in Karur, Perambalur, Ariyalur and Pudukottai districts. The number of documents registered in the zone has almost reached the pre-pandemic figure. However, the value of properties is just about 70% now. According to sources, the zone receives almost 1,000 documents on weekdays. About 500 are registered on Saturdays. But most of the transactions appear to involve sale of small properties. In a sign of the times, there are more registrations on mortgage of properties. There have been hardly any high-value transactions during the last month, the sources say. “We do not come across high-value transactions beyond Rs. 1 crore these days. There have been more low-value transactions for the past few weeks,” said a senior official of the Department of Registration in Tiruchi. Going by the pattern of transactions, people facing severe cash crunch are disposing of their low-value property. The trend is likely to continue for a few more months, another official said.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman dies of COVID-19 in Salem district||With one death and 83 cases, Salem district continued to remain at the top in the Western region in the number of COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday. Coimbatore reported 25 cases, followed by 20 in Tiruppur and 19 in Erode. Of the 83 cases in Salem district, 58 were reported from Mettur alone. Officials suspect that the 58 persons from Panavadi and nearby villages in Mettur could have contracted the disease at a funeral held on June 21 near Kolathur. All are under treatment at a COVID-19 care centre near Mettur. Of the remaining 25 cases, 23 were indigenous and two persons had a travel history to Maharashtra. A 65-year-old woman died without responding to treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital during the late hours of Monday. “The patient from Thalaivasal was admitted to the COVID-19 ward on June 27 after she tested positive for coronavirus. She was undergoing treatment for hypertension. On Monday night, she had difficulty in breathing and died without responding to treatment,” said Dean R. Balajinathan. Health officials said swab samples were collected from 17 persons, including the family members of the woman, and the results were awaited. Their neighbourhood has been declared a containment zone. In Namakkal, three persons including a 39-year-old driver of a Primary Health Centre, who had returned from Chennai after COVID-19 duty, have tested positive. Coimbatore  district on Tuesday saw 25 new COVID-19 cases, with 24 of them categorised as locally transmitted ones. A 64-year-old man from Telugu Street was the only ‘imported’ case with a travel history to Madurai. Three persons from an apartment at Telungupalayam tested positive and the area was identified as a COVID-19 cluster. A day after a woman from Ammankulam Road was found to have contracted COVID-19, a 75-year-old man from the same locality tested positive on Tuesday. Two cases were reported from Alagu Nagar near Podanur and P.N. Palayam near Thudiyalur. Three cases including that of a 10-year-old boy were reported from Chetti Street on Tuesday. Other patients hailed from places namely VVC Layout at R.S. Puram, Balan Nagar near Masakalipalayam, Vadavalli, Vilankurichi, Madukkarai, Thiruvalluvar Street at Vellakinar pirivu, Sundakamuthur, Devanga Nagar at Edayarpalayam and Anna Nagar at Peelamedu. Thirteen persons were discharged from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore on Tuesday. The hospital had 273 patients remaining under its care. Five members of a family from Srinivasan Nagar in Tiruppur Corporation limits were among the 20 new cases in Tiruppur district. The Corporation limits alone reported 13 cases, and the district’s tally so far rose to 180. The five cases from Srinivasan Nagar were a 62-year-old man, a three-year-old boy, a 56-year-old woman, a seven-year-old girl and a 52-year-old woman. They recently attended a function and came into contact with a COVID-19 positive person, Health Department sources said. The other cases in the Corporation limits included a 26-year-old man from M.S. Nagar, a 54-year-old woman from Anupparpalayampudur, a 31-year-old woman from Gandhi Nagar, a 21-year-old woman and a 28-year old man from Velampalayam, a 33-year-old man from Veerapandi and a 14-year-old boy and a 44-year-old man from Ganapathipalayam. The cases elsewhere in the district included three from Udumalpet Block, three from Kangeyam Block and one from Mudalipalayam. 7 cases in the Nilgiris Seven persons tested positive in the Nilgiris, taking the total number of cases in the district so far to 89. While two were primary contacts of a person who contracted the infection when he went to Mettupalayam, five were secondary contacts of a Public Relations Officer working at a private firm in Yellanalli. Of the 89 patients, 32 have recovered, the district administration said.  In Erode district, 13 workers of a dyeing unit at B.P. Agraharam were among the 19 new cases that pushed the district’s tally up to 157. Sixteen cases were reported in the Corporation limits and one case each was reported at Modakurichi, Gobichettipalayam and Chithode. The dyeing unit workers were contacts of a positive case from Vairapalayam. The unit was closed. Krishnagiri district reported six cases and Dharmapuri had eight cases on Tuesday.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC finds prima facie material to book policemen for murder||The court said she may be granted leave from duty, “as we fear that there will be an attempt to intimidate her and make her resile from her version [of events] given to the learned judicial magistrate no.1, Kovilpatti”. The court discerned from the judicial magistrate's report that the Sattankulam police were taking advantage of the fact that the investigation of the case was in limbo, and were attempting to cause the disappearance of evidence. “In fact, they were emboldened enough to even intimidate the judicial officer to put a spoke in the wheel of his inquiry,” the judges noted. They felt that the CBI was an agency equipped to deal with corruption and white-collar offences, with an office only in Madurai and no Special Public Prosecutor to appear before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court for bail and anticipatory bail petitions that would follow in the case. Besides, the investigating officer should get acclimatised with the “local terrain”. The court was of the view that all this will enure to the advantage of the actual perpetrators of the offence. Therefore, to preserve the evidence in the case, the court appointed Tirunelveli CB-CID Deputy Superintendent of Police Anil Kumar as the investigating officer in the case, till such time as the CBI takes charge. The Superintendent of Police, CB-CID, shall monitor the investigation. The vacuum had to be filled to ensure that precious evidence does not get dissipated, the court said. On the question of why it took time for the court to come up with these observations, the judges said, “Public indignation cannot be the barometer for judicial orders...Hitherto, in the absence of credible material, we were handicapped, and now that we have at hand some prima facie incriminatory material, we have decided to fill the gap via our above observations.” The court added, “We fervently hope that DSP Anil Kumar will have before his mind's eye the river of tears flowing from the eyes of the family of the two deceased, and will take up the investigation of the case in all earnestness for wiping their tears. He should also bear in mind that we are closely monitoring the case.” The court said it was open to the State government revisiting the idea of entrusting the matter to the CBI, if it was satisfied that the CB-CID was progressing on the right lines. During the course of the hearing into the suo motu criminal contempt proceedings initiated against Additional SP D. Kumar, DSP C. Prathapan and constable Maharajan, the court was informed that the two senior police officers had been placed under a waiting list, while the constable had been suspended. Additional Advocate General K. Chellapandian informed the court that all 24 police personnel attached to the Sattankulam station had been transferred. The AAG contended that stress was the reason for their behaviour, and they had tendered an apology. Their behaviour was unacceptable, he said. The court directed that a copy of the magistrate’s report be provided to the trio so that they could respond in four weeks’ time. The hearing on the case was adjourned by the court till July 2.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Injured deer rescued by police in Ariyalur||Timely action by the Ariyalur police has saved a four-month-old spotted deer, apparently injured by being hit by a vehicle, in Palampadi near here. Two youth had spotted a stray deer battling for life in Palampadi in the early hours on Monday. Moved by its plight, they immediately contacted the control room of the Ariyalur police, who in turn passed on the message to the Ariyalur town police. On receipt of the information, though the nature of call was beyond their functional duty, a police team led by A.M. Senthilmaran, Inspector, swung into action and rushed to the spot. On finding the deer struggling to move, the policemen took it to a private hospital, where an X-ray was taken. It revealed that the animal had an injury on its head. The policemen subsequently took it to a veterinarian, who treated the wild animal. The deer is currently under the custody of the Forest Ranger of Ariyalur, and is doing well. Terming the rescue effort a ‘good Samaritan’ initiative, V. Balakrishnan, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi range, told The Hindu that the policemen concerned and the youths deserved appreciation. The policemen could have passed on the information to the forest officials as it was beyond the purview of the police. However, they did not brush aside the call.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fireworks in the sky||
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Demanding justice||
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Newborn abandoned at anganwadi||A one-day old female infant was found abandoned at an Anganwadi centre in Puliankuzhi near here on Monday. According to sources, upon hearing the cries of a child for more than three hours in the early hours of the day, neighbours rushed to the centre, where they found a newborn. They subsequently took possession of the infant and informed the Village Administrative Officer of Suthamalli and the police. Later, the baby was taken to the Primary Health Centre at Suthamalli and subsequently to the Government Medical College Hospital in Ariyalur for a health check-up. D. Vasanthakumar, District Child Protection Officer, said the infant was a day old when she was rescued. She has been kept at the GH for observation and is doing well. The infant will be produced before the Child Welfare Committee soon for further action.
01 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools ignoring guidelines on online classes, allege parents||Many schools are exceeding the time limit set by the government while conducting online classes, which until last week, had been banned for students up to class V. Some parents claimed that schools were not only conducting classes for a longer duration, but also holding online sessions more frequently in violation of what the government has specified. “They are trying to replicate the timetable chalked out for regular classes and apply them to online classes as well,” said one parent. Others expressed concern over the health impact of prolonged periods in front of the computer and whether it will have an adverse impact on their eyesight and mental health. A parent whose child studies in class I in an ICSE school on Bannerghatta Road said that classes resumed on Tuesday. But to the father’s dismay, online sessions are being conducted for four hours every day even though the department norms state that schools can conduct two sessions only on alternate days, of a 30 to 45-minute duration. “As a parent, I do not want my child to have a screen time of four hours each day. It is shocking that school managements are not adhering to the department’s order,” the parent added. Another parent whose child studies in a school in south Bengaluru said that the school had not stopped online classes even after the ban. “For five days a week, my daughter, who is in class III, sits through four periods. Each period lasts 35 minutes with a 10-minute gap between classes,” said Vimala R. The government, which had banned online classes, last week issued an order permitting 30-minute online classes for LKG and UKG students under parental supervision. For students in classes I to V, teachers can conduct two sessions on alternate days, each spanning between 30 and 45 minutes. The duration increases with each grade. In its order, the department had specified that the order was applicable only until the expert committee formed to look into modalities of online classes submits its recommendations. School managements feel that the time duration stipulated by the department is not enough and serves little purpose. Mansoor Ali Khan, general secretary, Managements of Independent CBSE Schools Association, said that the department’s order was a ‘knee jerk’ one, as parents and school managements had approached the court. “There is a need to conduct classes for a longer duration than what is specified,” he said. Incidentally, the High Court on Tuesday permitted parents and educational institutions to challenge the legality of the State government’s new order permitting online classes. K.G. Jagadeesha, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said that there was a need for schools to conduct classes for the duration specified. “If schools conduct classes for a longer duration, the parents can call on the helpline or complain to the jurisdictional Deputy Director of Public Instruction,” he said.  They are trying to replicate the timetable chalked out for regular classes and apply them to online classes as well A parent
01 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Symptomatic patients have a greater propensity for transmission: Experts||An analysis of 3,404 positive patients between March 9 and June 1 in the State has shown that while both symptomatic and asymptomatic people transmit the infection, the former have greater propensity for transmission. The spread of the infection is high in clusters where symptomatic patients are the source patients, revealed the analysis taken up by a group of experts led by V. Ravi, Head of Neuro-Virology at NIMHANS and part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee. “Symptomatic patients can spread the infection to a large number of people because when they cough and sneeze they throw out higher viral particles. In comparison, the infection spread through asymptomatic patients is limited to smaller numbers as they do not cough and sneeze,” Dr. Ravi told The Hindu.  From the 3,404 patients, the expert group has completed contact tracing and source analysis for 966 patients. “In these, we found that 144 were source cases who had spread the infection to an additional 822 people. Of the 144, 90 were symptomatic patients and 54 asymptomatic. On further analysis, it was found that the 90 symptomatic patients gave the infection to 645 people and 54 asymptomatic patients to 177 persons,” explained Dr. Ravi. “On an average, each symptomatic patient has spread the infection to 7.1 individuals as against every asymptomatic patient who spread the infection to 3.2 individuals,” he said.   Spread in large clusters was also primarily through symptomatic people. “For instance, the source patients in the Jubiliant pharma company cluster in Nanjangud and the Chandini Chowk cluster in Shivajinagar of Bengaluru were symptomatic. Hence, it is very important to track symptomatic patients,” Dr. Ravi said. The Jubiliant pharma cluster was the largest cluster in the State, wherein 74 persons had contracted the infection through the source case patient no. 52. However, it still remains a mystery on how P-52 got infected. In Shivajinagar, where 47 persons have been infected, the source was patient no. 653, a housekeeper at a quarantine hotel in the area, who transmitted the virus to a nurse from Shifa Hospital from whom the cluster developed. “Whenever a symptomatic patient spreads the infection, the percentage of symptomatic cases among the total infected is high. However, when asymptomatic patients spread the infection, it is more likely that the infected person will also be asymptomatic,” Dr. Ravi said, quoting the analysis.  Early detection With the analysis revealing that the pandemic seems to be primarily driven by symptomatic cases in Karnataka till June, Dr. Ravi is of the opinion that people with mild symptoms, if detected early and admitted to hospitals and treated, can avert death. It can be recalled that a position statement by the National Centre for Infectious Diseases and the Chapter of Infectious Disease Physicians, Academy of Medicine, Singapore, had also stated that transmissibility through asymptomatic cases is low.  On an average, each symptomatic patient has spread the infection to 7.1 individuals as against every asymptomatic patient, who spread the infection to 3.2 individuals. V. Ravi Head of Neuro-Virology, NIMHANS
01 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Locals resist influx of tourists as number of infections increases||The influx of tourists, at a time when a sharp increase in the number of COVID-19 cases is being reported, is not going down well with residents of tourist destinations. They are especially angry with tourists who do not follow social distancing and other norms. After Kodagu voluntarily suspended tourism temporarily in view of the increasing cases, other popular tourist destinations are seeking similar action to keep the virus from spreading. Residents of Chikkamagaluru protested this weekend after a huge number of tourists swarmed popular destinations. G. Veeresh, honorary wildlife warden, Chikkamagaluru, said Mullayanagiri, Kemmangundi and Mudigere were flooded with tourists who were not following any precautionary protocols, such as wearing masks or maintaining social distancing. “There was a huge number of vehicles, mostly with Bengaluru, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh registration numbers. After the lockdown was eased, this weekend was full of tourists. Locals who fear the spread of the virus opposed this. We have also requested for forest areas not to open as we have the Bhadra tiger reserve, Kudremukh, etc. After Kodagu shut down tourism, locals want similar action as they will be affected,” he said. He also said the massive crowds in Chikkamagaluru was a result of Kodagu shutting down tourism, making people change their plans. “Monsoon has set in and it gets cold here. We don’t want to take chances if the virus can thrive in this weather. We want temporary suspension of tourism,” he added. Eventually, Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautam put out an appeal to people to avoid visiting the tourist places in Chikkamagaluru till the pandemic is brought under control. Some villages near Dandeli in Uttaraka Kannada too are putting up resistance to tourism. Ravi Kumar Nayak, a resident of Dandeli who is a rafting operator, said several homestays and resorts were located in a 20-km radius of Dandeli’s forests at isolated destinations. “There are guidelines and restrictions in place. People from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and other States with high number of cases are not allowed. A majorfity of the people used to be from Maharashtra, but that’s not there now. The overall crowd must be 30% of the usual, as rafting and other activities are not operational. But the locals are scared that those coming from cities, such as Bengaluru, where cases are increasing rapidly, will spread the virus here,” he said. Like the Chikkamagaluru DC, sources in the Tourism Department too said it would be wise for people to put travel plans on hold for now. But there are no plans of suspension. Tourism Minister C.T. Ravi told The Hindu that the opposition was mainly due to the locals’ fear of the virus spreading in their districts. “District administrations are taking a call based on the situation. In Kodagu, tourism has been temporarily suspended, while in Chikkamagaluru, the DC has appealed to people not to travel to the district,” he said. Asked if the elaborate norms are being followed, he said he had received complaints of violations from the weekend mess in Chikkamagaluru. “We heard that people followed protocols such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing at the check-post, but not after they entered the destinations. Some people have been penalised too,” he added.  (With additional inputs by Sathish G.T. in Hassan)
01 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court complex in Bengaluru closed for a day for sanitisation||After suspending functioning for a day to sanitise the High Court complex in the city on Tuesday due to “unavoidable circumstances”, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday decided to hear urgent cases only through videoconferencing while discontinuing the option of hearing limited number of cases physically in view of increase in COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru. The judicial/non-judicial/administrative functions of the High Court’s Principal Bench in Bengaluru is suspended for one day, namely on June 30, for sanitisation of the entire High Court complex, due to unavoidable circumstances, said a first notification issued Monday late night. The notification issued on Tuesday morning stated: “During the last few days, the number of cases in Bengaluru has been multiplying. Considering the safety of members of the Bar and the court staff, till further orders, physical hearing of cases at the Principal Bench of High Court at Bengaluru shall stand cancelled and only those Benches which are already notified for hearing of urgent matters through videoconferencing will function.”  The notification also stated that the High Court’s Principal Bench at Bengaluru and all other courts in Bengaluru urban and rural districts will remain closed on July 4. Urgent cases, listed for hearing on June 30 before the Principal Bench, will be taken up for hearing on July 1 through videoconferencing, and the cases listed for July 1 will be taken up on July 2 and 3. Meanwhile, though provision for physical filling of cases with prior appointment will continue, the number of slots for physical filing would be reduced from next week, the notification added. However, the High Court’s Benches at Dharwad and Kalaburagi will function normally as per notified schedule. Meanwhile, a special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna has been reconstituted with Justice Aravind Kumar replacing Justice Nagarathna.
01 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 20 deaths, 947 new cases in highest single-day spike||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 20 deaths and 947 new COVID-19 cases. Tuesday’s deaths are the highest ever reported on a single day. While 96 deaths have been reported in the last one week alone, 195 patients succumbed to the infection during June. With Tuesday’s deaths, the toll touched 246 apart from four non-COVID-19 deaths. The State’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) now stands at 1.61%. The total number of cases touched 15,242 and of these, 12,021 have been reported in June. While Ballari reported six deaths and Bengaluru urban four, two each have been reported from Haveri, Vijayapura and Dharwad, one each from Kolar, Davangere, Belagavi, and Mysuru. The number of critical patients is also on the rise with a total of 271 patients being monitored in the ICU as on Tuesday.  In Bengaluru Bengaluru continued to report a surge, with 503 more cases on Tuesday. With this, the total number of cases in Bengaluru touched 4,555. With a total of 543 patients discharged, as many as 3,916 patients are under treatment in various designated hospitals in the city. Testing increased Testing has also increased in the State with an average of 14,000 samples tested every day. On Tuesday, the health bulletin stated that 15,588 samples had been tested in the last 24 hours. The State government has extended the services of medical/paramedical and non-medical staff, who are retiring between June 30 and November 30, to December 31. An order to this effect has been issued by the government.
01 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Only interact online, Minister tells varsities||The State government has directed all universities to interact only online, and it has made it mandatory for all files to be moved through e-office from July 15. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday after inaugurating the online college affiliation portal, Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said that e-office has been a success and it is easier to track the files. “This will prevent files from getting stuck at a particular level. Any application for affiliation of colleges or courses should be made on e-office and this will prevent delays,” he said. Further, he said that it is the responsibility of the universities to ascertain that all rules are adhered to and the e-files sent to the government should be error free. “I will make Vice-Chancellors and Registrars responsible for this,” he said.
01 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Defer travel by a fortnight’||Tourism Minister C.T. Ravi on Tuesday requested travellers to postpone their travel plans by at least about 15 to 20 days. His appeal to travellers came in the light of increasing COVID-19 cases in the State, especially Bengaluru. He said, “People have fears about the spread of the pandemic. A sense of insecurity has set in among people.” On the issue of lockdown, he said that the State government will take a decision based on the report by an expert committee.
01 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ASHAs seek fixed honorarium||Demanding a fixed monthly honorarium of Rs. 12,000 and the required high quality PPE kits, including face shields, N95 masks, sanitisers, and gloves, for all Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) in the State, member of the Karnataka Rajya Samyuktha ASHA Karyakarteyara Sangha, (AIUTUC) organised a protest in Bengaluru on Tuesday. In the districts, symbolic demonstrations were staged after which ASHAs submitted memorandum copies to healthcare officials, Ministers, and MLAs. ASHAs have been demanding a hike in the honorarium for years.
01 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two police stations sanitised||Halasuru Traffic Police Station and Upparpet Police Station were sanitised after two personnel contracted COVID-19. A head constable at Halasuru Traffic Police Station tested positive on Monday and has been admitted to a designated Covid hospital in the city. A sub-inspector of Upparpet Police Station, which shares its premises with the office of the DCP, West division, has also tested positive. This comes after a police personnel working in the office of the DCP (West) contracted the virus two days ago. Meanwhile, an argument broke out between police personnel and staff of Yelahanka Government Hospital after hospital staff allegedly refused to take their throat swabs.
01 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||507 contract doctors threaten to resign today||As many as 507 contract doctors working for years in various primary health centres run by the Health Department have again threatened to submit resignations en masse on Wednesday. Demanding regularisation of their services, these doctors deferred their initial plans to resign on June 18 following an assurance from Health Minister B. Sriramulu that their demand will be taken up in the next Cabinet meeting. The doctors had given the government time till June 30.
01 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Four policemen test positive for COVID-19||Four policemen escorting a former Minister tested positive in Hassan on Tuesday. One among them has been admitted to the designated hospital, while three are under treatment in Bengaluru. District Health Officer K.H. Sathish Kumar said here on Tuesday that the four policemen were working in Holenarasipur. “Three of them who went to Bengaluru after giving their samples for test have been admitted there,” he said.
01 July 2020||HUBBALLI/ BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Transferred IAS officers take charge with alacrity||Officers of the Indian Administrative Services (IAS) who were transferred on Monday night as Deputy Commissioners of various districts took charge on Tuesday with alacrity. In Dharwad, outgoing Deputy Commissioner Deepa M. who has been transferred as Project Director of Sarva Shikshana Abhiyan, handed over charge to 2012 batch IAS officer Nitesh Kallanagouda Patil on Tuesday. A native of Kerutagi village in Sindgi taluk of Vijayapura district, Mr. Nitesh Patil has served as Chief Executive Officer of Chitradurga Zilla Panchayat. In Gadag, outgoing Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath handed over charge to 2012 batch IAS officer Sundaresh Babu. Mr. Sundresh Babu was waiting for posting. In the evening Mr. Hiremath took charge as Deputy Commissioner of Belagavi. He replaced S.B. Bommanahalli who retired on Tuesday. Prior to serving as Deputy Commissioner of Gadag, Mr. Hiremath had served as Managing Director of Hubballi Dharwad BRTS Company.
01 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||QR code-based biometric ID cards for coastal fishermen||Minister for Ports and Fisheries Kota Srinivas Poojari on Tuesday said that the department has decided to issue QR code-based biometric identity cards to fishermen, and a circular will soon be issued on this. Speaking after inaugurating a workshop on coastal fishing here, Mr. Poojari said that the new cards would have enhanced safety features and be beneficial to fishermen. The card would enable the authorities concerned to ensure fishermen safety as all their information would be available in it. The card would be made available through the Seva Sindhu portal via the respective district administration or through the Fisheries Department itself, he said. Those who participated in the workshop urged the government to extend all benefits available to Kisan card-holder farmers to fishermen too as fishing is also a part of agricultural activities. Mr. Poojari said that the issue would be discussed at a high-level government meeting. The department is keen on recommending to the government to reserve 20 % jobs in the Coastal Police Department to fishermen that would be beneficial both to the department as well as fishermen. Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel said that the programme should come out with adequate plans for the benefit of the fishing sector which plays a vital role in improving the national economy. He regretted commercialisation of coastal fishing. Joint Director of the department Brahmachari told the workshop that the State’s coast has 4,585 mechanised fishing vessels, 9,362 motorised boats, 9,097 traditional boats, eight fishing harbours, 26 fish landing points, 128 fishing cooperative societies, two fish sales boards and one fishing development corporation. Zilla Panchayat president Meenakshi Shanthigod, Karwar MLA Rupali Naik, Kaup MLA Lalaji Mendon, Mangaluru South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath, Fisheries Director Ramakrishna, Coastal Security Police Superintendent of Police Chethan and others were present.
01 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MRPL donates five ventilators to Wenlock||Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) on Monday donated five ventilators to the District Government Wenlock Hospital, the designated COVID-10 hospital of the district. MRPL’s Chief General Managers B.H.V. Prasad and U.V. Aithal handed over a cheque for Rs. 70 lakh towards the procurement cost to Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel and MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath, said a release. Mangaluru Mayor Diwakar Pandeshwar was present. The company said that the district administration had requested MRPL to facilitate a few ventilators to Wenlock Hospital since the pandemic was on the rise. MRPL responded positively and sponsored five, each priced at Rs. 14 lakh, as its corporate social responsibility activity.
01 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NIT-K to be closed for two days for sanitisation||The National Institute of Technology-Karnataka (NIT-K) in Surathkal will remain closed for two days from Wednesday for sanitisation after a site engineer of a building project work of the institute tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. In an internal “important notification” issued to employees on Tuesday, the Registrar of the institute said that a site engineer of the library project work of the institute has reportedly tested positive. The engineer belongs to the contractor of the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) which has taken up the project for the institute. The Registrar also asked NIT-K employees who rated themselves as “high risk contact” to consult the medical authority and undergo testing.
01 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||44 new positive cases||As many as 44 persons tested positive for COVID-19, while 17 were discharged in Dakshina Kannada on Tuesday. With this, the number of active cases rose to 292. As many as 21 primary contacts of COVID-19 positive patients tested positive on Tuesday. Nine persons with influenza like illness, three with severe acute respiratory illness and two who returned from other districts tested positive. Two persons who returned from Saudi Arabia and one who returned from another State have also tested positive. Contact tracing in five cases is on, according to a health bulletin. Among the 17 discharged included a 64-year-old man and a 65-year-old woman.
01 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Helping students pick up the reading habit at home||Rituparna S., a Class 5 student from Kendriya Vidyalaya 1, Panambur, has neatly arranged dictionaries, encyclopaediae, story books and magazines in a cupboard and posted her selfie on the WhatsApp group of the class as part of “My Home Library” activity. Similarly, Ansh D. Naik, a Class 6 student, has posted his selfie with a shelf in which he has arranged dictionaries, magazines and other books in the background. “My Home Library” is among the reading activities that the 1,600 students of the school are involved in since the start of the new academic year on June 22. “With students being at home, they have plenty of time. We are getting them involved in the activity to cultivate the reading habit among them,” said school principal Ganesh Indrale. Apart from “My Home Library”, students are involved in reading newspapers, writing poems, reviewing biographies of thinkers and also story writing. Select activities are being featured on the school's blog. School librarian S.N. Bhat said that the activity has been received well by students, more so by those in the primary section. “While arranging books, they are going through them. The incentive of being featured on the school’s blog is also driving students to take up the activity,” he said.
01 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Passes valid till Sunday||Assistant Commissioner of Mangaluru sub-division Madan Mohan extended the validity till July 4 of e-passes issued to students, professionals and others from Kasaragod of Kerala visiting Mangaluru for day-to-day work through the Talapady check-post and also those from other parts of Dakshina Kannada. In a notification issued on Tuesday, Mr. Mohan said that e-passes were valid till June 30. “However, to prevent inconvenience to pass holders, all such passes shall be valid till 10 p.m. on July 4,” he added.
01 July 2020||MANIPAL,KARNATAKA||Appointed Pro V-C||Dean of the Manipal College of Dental Sciences, Mangaluru, Dilip G. Naik has been appointed Pro Vice-Chancellor, MAHE, Mangaluru Campus, according to a press release issued by the university here on Tuesday.
01 July 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Jagadish Shettar visiting Shivamogga today||Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar will visit Shivamogga district on Wednesday. He will visit the industrial estate in Devakathikoppa near Shivamogga city at 11 a.m. and will later hold a meeting with representatives of Shivamogga District Chamber of Commerce and Industries. At 3.15 p.m., Mr. Shettar will chair a meeting in Bhadravathi with officials of Mysore Paper Mills.
01 July 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||NMAMIT team comes up with touchless temperature detector||Members of the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, NMAM Institute of Technology (NMAMIT) at Nitte in Udupi district, have designed and developed a simple and cost-effective touchless temperature detector called Celcius for the purpose of thermal screening of employees, which has become essential due to the COVID-19 situation. A press release issued by NMAMIT here on Tuesday said that it has been made compulsory to check body temperature of each employee while he enters his work area, in every organisation. This product developed by NMAMIT helps in reading the body temperature when an employee presents himself before it. The product has features such as automatic detection, individual indication for normal temperature and fever. Professors in the Department of Electronics and Communication Sukesh Rao M., Dileep Kumar M.J. and Prajwal Hegde designed and developed this cost-effective equipment. The product was launched by Principal, NMAMIT, Niranjan Chiplunkar, at Nitte on Monday, the release said.
01 July 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Mass in Udupi churches to begin on July 6||Churches belonging to the Udupi diocese will be thrown open to the people to participate in the mass/worship on July 6. A press release issued by Bishop of Udupi Catholic Diocese and president of United Christian Forum for Human Rights Gerald Isaac Lobo here on Tuesday said that the parish priests shall discuss with the Parish Pastoral Council as regards the mandatory guidelines before resuming mass. Due to lockdown, Sunday mass/worship and those on Saturday evenings cannot be celebrated for people till August 2. Once the lockdown is lifted, mass on Sundays can be resumed. Churches falling inside the containment zones shall wait till the situation improved and only after discussing the issue with the Parish Pastoral Council members may resume weekday mass/worship, the release said.
01 July 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 toll up to three in Udupi district as man dies||A 48-year-old man died of COVID-19 in Udupi district on Tuesday. This is the third death due to COVID-19 in the district. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said here on Tuesday that the man had arrived from Mumbai recently. He was alcoholic and suffered from liver disease and he had taken treatment at a private hospital in Mumbai. But after he arrived in the district, he had not given any information about his health condition to either the Health Department or the local administration. It was only after his death that his swab sample was taken and it tested positive for COVID-19. His last rites were conducted as per government guidelines, Mr. Jagadeesha said. Meanwhile, nine persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Tuesday. Of the nine persons, six were men and three women. Mr. Jagadeesha said that of the nine persons, three had history of travelling from Mumbai and one from Hyderabad. Two others were primary contacts of COVID-19 patients. He said that two cases which were serious were that of two bus drivers who had taken their buses from Kundapur to Bengaluru and had tested positive for COVID-19. Another was a local case wherein a cloth shop owner had tested positive for COVID-19. The shop owner’s son had recently travelled from Bengaluru and his swab sample had been collected and sent for testing, Mr. Jagadeesha said.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Spike in COVID-19 cases in city dominates BBMP council meet||The spike in COVID-19 positive cases was the focus of the council meeting of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Tuesday. Cutting across party lines, councillors sought to know measures in place to check the spread of the pandemic and reasons for the spike. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar reiterated that despite the rise in cases, Bengaluru continues to fare better than other cities. The BBMP has ramped up the number of tests to 5,000 a day. Later, he told reporters that experts predicted that the increase in cases would be in three cycles of 14 days each. “Since the lifting of restrictions, we have already gone through two cycles of 14 days. The next 15 days will be crucial. We have to exercise caution and care,” he said and urged citizens to wear masks, use sanitisers and maintain social distancing. According to Mr. Anil Kumar, 80% of the COVID-19 patients were either asymptomatic or had mild symptoms. “Twenty-two Covid Care Centres have been identified with a capacity of over 17,000 beds,” he said. In association with the Department of AYUSH, Sidda and ayurvedic medicines will be given to patients. Primary and secondary contacts may be asked to go under home quarantine, rather than institutional quarantine, he said. Earlier, Mayor M. Goutham Kumar directed the Commissioner to appoint a nodal officer for hospitals and set up helpdesks in all eight zones. Contact details of helpdesks should be publicised, he said. Questions were raised about the Suvidha cabins for pourakarmikas. Shankar Math councillor M. Shivaraju sought to know how these cabins were set up without any approval from the council. Mr. Anil Kumar said that the facility was set up to provide some space for pourakarmikas, who are Corona Warriors, to change and freshen up. “We have received good response to the facility, and 50 mustering centres have been identified for setting up more cabins,” he said.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Digital divide may see students drop out, warn experts||The State government’s decision to restart online learning has once again brought the socio-economic divide to the fore. While one section of parents have been conducting social media campaigns demanding e-learning, another set of parents want the ban to remain. Many of the students who come from lower socio economic backgrounds are unable to access online classes. Experts fear that the digital divide would lead to a large number of students dropping out of school. The challenges Explaining the hardship that her classmates face, Suraksha (name changed) who studies in class VIII in a school affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education in Nagadevanahalli, says that her school has been conducting online classes for the last three weeks. “There are 45 students in my class, but only around 30 students attend the sessions, as many do not have access to smartphones or the internet,” she said. Although, she uses her mother’s phone to log in for classes, she says that she is unable to grasp many of the lessons, making learning difficult for her. Many are not as lucky as Suraksha and have been missing their online classes as their parents take their phones with them to work. “We called our teacher and asked her what we should do. The teacher said that we will have to study the lessons on our own and ask doubts when the school re-opens,” said a class IX student, whose mother works as a domestic help. Education experts pointed out that while private schools have started online classes, the department is yet to chalk out a model to impart learning for students in government and aided schools. Kids of migrant workers A government school headmaster in Bengaluru feared that many students, particularly those of migrant workers, would drop out. “Many of the workers have returned to their hometowns. Our students are not accessible. Unless the government works out a plan, thousands of students will drop out during the pandemic,” he said. The Federation of Bengaluru District Street Vendors' Unions has written to the Department of Primary and Secondary Education as well as to experts on the committee that is looking into the modalities of online education. It argued that online classes have become a crisis for families, and suggested airing lessons on television, which is accessible to most people. The department has collected data from 1.04 crore students in classes I to X on the gadgets they have access to. The data revealed that 94% of them had access to radio and television while 60% have access to a smartphone and internet connection.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Centenarian gets relief from HC over Swatantra Sainik Samman pension||A city-based centenarian had to knock on the doors of the Karnataka High Court during the COVID-19 pandemic as the State government sat over for three months on the Central government’s request for a life certificate to release his Swatantra Sainik Samman pension. The Central government stopped payment of pension to petitioner H. Nagabhushana Rao, 100, a resident of Malleswaram, for non-submission of life certificate as per the law. The Ministry of Home Affairs on March 4, 2020, wrote to the State government pointing out that the petitioner’s pension was ‘deemed cancelled’ for non-submission of life certificate, and requested to conduct an enquiry and furnish a verification report whether petitioner is alive. As the State did not act on the Centre’s request till June, Mr. Rao moved the High Court on June 4 seeking a direction to the State.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||New address||
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Monsoon mood...||
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Set up all-party committee’||In the wake of allegations of corruption and nepotism in the management of COVID-19 treatment in the State, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah demanded that the government immediately constitute an all-party COVID-19 Management Committee to monitor treatment-related issues in hospitals. He said this in a series of tweets.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Sudhakar denies ‘politics’ over pandemic||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who was in quarantine after three of his family members tested positive, returned to work on Wednesday, attending a meeting with private medical college management representatives that was chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and Revenue Minister R. Ashok, who is in charge of COVID-19 in Bengaluru, also attended the meeting. While there was speculation that Mr. Ashok being made in charge while he was in quarantine had irked him and Health Minister B. Sriramulu, Mr. Sudhakar insisted there was no misunderstanding between ministerial colleagues. “He [Mr. Ashok] is a senior Minister and has taken care of things well in my absence. There is no politics in this. The CM is captain and we are working under him,” he said.
01 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Crime Branch sleuths quiz Vellappally||The Crime Branch team probing the Kollam SN College golden jubilee fund mismanagement case interrogated Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan at his residence at Kanichukulangara on Tuesday. On June 22, the Kerala High Court had directed the Crime Branch to complete the investigation and submit the final report in two weeks. Sources said the investigators had recorded Mr. Natesan’s statements. Court orders probe Earlier, a local court in Kollam had ordered a probe based on a complaint filed by a Kollam native alleging that Mr. Natesan had misappropriated funds collected for the construction of an auditorium and library as part of the golden jubilee celebrations of the SN College in 1997-98. The Crime Branch had initially rejected the complaint citing lack of evidence. However, their report was rejected by the court. Mr. Natesan later moved the High Court against the probe, but the court directed the Crime Branch to go ahead with the investigation.
01 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||KIIFB nod for Rs. 61.92-crore projects in Dharmadam||The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) has approved three projects costing Rs. 61.92 crore to be implemented in Dharmadam constituency represented in the Assembly by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The projects are the construction of the Rs. 46.37-crore Parapuram regulator, Rs. 13.86-crore Cherukkal Kottam bridge, and the Rs. 1.69-crore Andalurkavu Heritage Tourism project. Regulator The Parapuram regulator will be constructed across the Anjarakandy river by connecting the Parappram section of Pinarayi panchayat and the Mavillai area of Peralassery panchayat. The project is aimed at preventing the loss of crops by the ingress of salt water, increasing agricultural production by storing fresh water, and preventing contamination of drinking water by salt water. The areas under Pinarayi panchayat, Mavilai in Peralassery panchayat, Makreri village, Pathriyadu of Vengadu panchayat, Paduvillai village and parts of Keezhalloor panchayat will be covered under the project. The need for a regulator has been a long-pending demand of the people in the area. The Chief Minister took interest in the project and included it in the State budget.
01 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam market closed as three employees test positive||An area of the Ernakulam market falling within Broadway in the west, TD Road in the east, St Francis Cathedral in the north and Convent Junction-Public Library Junction in the south will remain closed after three employees at an electrical shop in the area tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, forcing the district administration to classify it as a containment zone. While an employee of the shop, a Thrissur native, had tested positive on June 27, two colleagues of his, a 31-year-old Kasaragod native and a 42-year-old Palakkad native, are under treatment after turning positive for the infection. Their primary contacts have been isolated and the shops in the vicinity closed. Swab samples of 26 persons who were in contact have been sent for testing. A meeting presided by the District Collector decided to collect samples of everyone in the market with symptoms besides conducting random testing across shops in the area. Instructions to this effect have already been issued to health officials. Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar said shops outside the containment zone should strictly observe physical distancing, failing which they would have to be closed too. 10 cases A total of 10 COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the district on Tuesday and they included, apart from the two cases at the Ernakulam market, a 27-year-old Kunnukara resident who returned from Kuwait on June 13, a 41-year-old Eloor resident who returned from Dubai on June 18, a 32-year-old Ayavana resident who came from Kuwait on June 18, a 60-year-old Vadavukode-Puthencruz resident who came from Muscat on June 19, a 23-year-old Kothamangalam resident who came from Tamil Nadu by road on June 13, a 38-year-old Andhra Pradesh native, a shipping company employee, who arrived from Chennai on June 28, a 24-year-old Malayattoor-Neeleswaram resident who returned from Kuwait on June 13, a 31-year-old Alangad resident who came from Kuwait on June 14, a 35-year-old shipping company employee from Maharashtra who arrived on June 27 and a 45-year-old Chendamangalam resident who came from Sharjah on June 14. Also under treatment in the district is a 47-year-old Alappuzha resident who arrived from Dubai on June 29. While seven people recovered on Tuesday, 780 people were added to the list of people under disease surveillance.
01 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Mystery over Hindi-speaking 12-year-old boy arriving in city||More than three months after they suspended operations due to the COVID-19 outbreak, the Railway Childline came to the rescue of a 12-year-old boy who landed up at the South railway station on Monday afternoon. The whereabouts of the boy who knew only Hindi and claimed to have come from Mumbai by Mangala Express remains unclear as he kept mumbling different stories. “At one point, he said that he had left home to see Mumbai and then mistakenly boarded the train to Kerala. However, he could not confirm his home State nor share contact numbers of his parents,” said Shano Jose, coordinator, Railway Helpline, who had to go into 14-day quarantine immediately after the boy was quarantined in a facility in the city. PPE kits sought The incident draws attention to the need for a protocol to be followed in rescuing such children and a dedicated quarantine facility for them as their numbers are likely to only go up as train services resume normal operations. Railway Childline had rescued 493 children, including 62 girls, in two years. Unless provided with Personal Protection Equipment kit, Railway Childline may run out of manpower if every time a staff who rescues a child needs to be sent into quarantine. “We are expecting Childline to provide us PPE kits,” said Mr. Jose. The Child Welfare Committee (CWC) has now arranged three rooms at Government Girls Home for quarantining rescued girls notwithstanding the risk it poses to regular inmates. Since there is no Government Boys Home in the district, making quarantine arrangements for boys remains an even greater challenge. “We have brought the need for separate quarantine facilities for rescued children and a permanent shelter home for boys in the district to the notice of the Collector and the authorities concerned,” said Bitty K. Joseph, Chairperson, CWC.
01 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||99.3% pass rate in SSLC exams||Schools in Ernakulam district won the distinction of having the fourth highest pass percentage in the State in the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examinations. The district slipped from the third position in terms of pass percentage achieved last year. However, the overall pass percentage went up from 99.06 in 2019 to 99.3 this year. Of the 31,440 students who wrote the exam, 31, 226 became eligible for higher studies. As many as 223 schools won 100% pass in the district. This included 72 government schools. According to official data, 3, 406 students bagged A+ in all subjects. Girls topped the list of students with A+ in all subjects. Of the total 3,406 A+ winners, 2,454 were girls. As many as 950 boys won A+ in all subjects in Ernakulam. Roshni project Two students, children of migrant workers, who were part of the district administration’s Roshni project for migrant children were among those who won A+ for all subjects. They were students of Govt. HS, Irumpanam, and SNHSS, Ayyappankavu, respectively. In the government schools category, 320 students won A+ in all subjects. Students of aided schools have topped those with A+ in all subjects, with 2,548 students earning distinction. Among unaided schools, 538 students won A+ in all subjects.
01 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||AMR challenge in COVID treatment||The world is fighting two pandemics at the same time – COVID19 and the silent pandemic of antimicrobial resistance (AMR), say experts. Even though the infection caused by SARS-CoV-2 does not require antibiotics per se, it will be a major challenge to treat severe pneumonia, sepsis, and septic shock in COVID-19 patients, as bacterial super-infections may require its use, they say.  Strain on system Use of a broad spectrum antibiotics might become necessary if infection control practices get compromised due to undue strain on the health-care system resulting from a sudden surge in patient load that may lead to scarcity of ICU beds, as is being witnessed in many parts of the world, says R. Aravind, Head of the Department, Infectious Diseases, Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. “The problem at hand is that the AMR pandemic is not exploding in your face, hence it is relegated to the background,’’ he says. Unscrupulous use of antibiotics will result in AMR that will make it difficult to treat health-care-associated infections due to drug resistant microbes, with the consequence of excess mortality and morbidity, he says. Restricted use “Our designated COVID treatment centres are following an antibiotic stewardship programme and the use of antibiotics is optimised as per institutional antibiograms and susceptibility patterns to ensure use of narrow spectrum antibiotics whenever possible. Such restricted use can save COVID-19 patients who are severely sick with co-infections,” he says. “It is a bad time to talk about AMR, but every one in the Union and State governments is aware of what is happening,” says Abdul Gafur, technical advisor member, National AMR Action Plan. The State launched the Break the Chain campaign to contain COVID-19 involving the public. And that, perhaps, has been a main success story for the State as far as infection control is concerned. AMR is a different aspect altogether, but it is important that public involvement is required here too to make it a success. Nipah was also controlled with public participation, so is COVID-19. Similarly an AMR action plan must involve the public as the primary stakeholders, says Dr. Gafur.
01 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||e-governance: Kochi Corpn. council approves switch to IKM||In what might be the first step in years towards resuscitating its e-governance system, the Kochi Corporation has decided to hand over the implementation of the project to Information Kerala Mission (IKM). Approval from the State government would be sought before IKM is approached to handle the matter, said Mayor Soumini Jain. IKM’s services will be available at no additional cost to the corporation. But she pointed out that a technical expert might have to be appointed to deal with the change in format that the existing data might have to undergo, since the services of Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), which had prepared the three presently functioning modules, are no longer available. “Data is stored differently on TCS and IKM softwares, but the challenges of migration of existing data can be overcome. Since most people come to the corporation for fresh services, an immediate move to IKM will benefit them,” said Rahul R., Corporation Secretary. Corruption alleged LDF councillors accused the ruling front of corruption and staged a walkout from the council meeting demanding a vigilance inquiry into the matter. The corporation had provided a user acceptance certificate and paid Rs. 4.9 crore to TCS without much to show for it, said LDF parliamentary party secretary V.P. Chandran. “In a massive failure, the corporation was not able to monitor the delivery of the modules that TCS had promised,” said Poornima Narayan, chairperson, standing committee for education. Countering the claims, Ms. Jain said that the payments were made after requisite approvals were obtained from the council. When placed before the council for its approval earlier, no objection was raised over these payments, she said. The process of setting up a new e-governance system was initiated back in 2008 under the central government’s Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) scheme, replacing a basic IKM system that had been functioning then, Ms. Jain added.
01 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Mobility hub development faces setback||The implementation of the much-delayed second phase development works of Vyttila Mobility Hub (VMH) has suffered yet another setback, with stakeholders of VMH Society on different pages about handing over 50 cents on the premises to establish a CNG-refilling station. The opposition came since a 50-metre frontage has to be earmarked for the CNG station. Those against the proposal cited how this would necessitate earmarking a substantial quantum of land, which would in turn affect the Rs. 572-crore second phase development works at the hub. A final decision on allotting the space could be taken after a joint inspection of the said land by stakeholders, followed by a decision on this being ratified at the VMH Society’s governing body chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, sources said. Interestingly, the Society’s MD, R. Girija was shifted from the post amidst the imbroglio and the charge given to Fort Kochi RDO Snehil Kumar Singh. The prime land at Vyttila belonged to the Agriculture Department. It was handed over to VMH Society on the condition that it would only be used for transportation activity. Handing over land for other purposes would dilute the cause of developing the 26-acre premises as a hub for different modes of public transport, sources said. Back in 2019, the State government had accorded administrative sanction for second-phase works at the hub on a PPP basis. Kochi Metro Rail Limited had readied a detailed project report (DPR) for this in 2018. Apart from augmenting facilities for bus, ferry and metro commuters, commercial space would be earmarked for supermarkets, hotels, and dormitories, in the second phase.
01 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||25, including cop, quarantined||Nearly 25 persons spread over four police station limits have been sent into quarantine after they were found to have come into contact with a youngster who had allegedly violated home quarantine protocol and had tested positive for COVID-19. Among those quarantined include a Sub Inspector of Fort Kochi police station who overpowered the youngster who was found in an inebriated state on the night of June 22. “We tracked down his primary contacts from Fort Kochi, Mattancherry, Thoppumpady and South stations and sent them into quarantine,” said a senior police officer. Swab samples of those quarantined are likely to be sent for tests on Wednesday. The youngster from Thane in Maharashtra had moved about across three police station limits, it was alleged. He had withdrawn money from a bank in Fort Kochi, bought alcohol from a liquor outlet in Thoppumpady, had a haircut and bathed in a public toilet in Mattancherry.
01 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Arrival of Chinese goods blocked, allege traders||Traders in Kochi say that containers with Chinese goods have been blocked from being released with the call to boycott Chinese goods across the country having its reverberations here. Trade sources said that about 400 containers with Chinese goods had been blocked since early last week. However, sources in the container terminal operations in Kochi said it was business as usual at the terminal with containers being received and processed as usual. But the containers appear to be being held over at the clearing point. Goods being imported from China include building materials, sanitary wares, iron hardware, utensils, home appliances and parts of mobile phones. Traders were waiting for delivery after paying duties including GST, said a trader in Kochi on Tuesday.
01 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||App to enable cashless travel in autos launched||An app has been launched on a trial basis to ensure safe and cashless travel in autorickshaws, jointly under the banner of the Motor Vehicles Department and Ernakulam Jilla Autorickshaw Thozhilali Sahakarana Sangam. This is as part of COVID-19 precautions. Using this, commuters can plan their trips and pre-book rides in autos at a specified fare, without paying in cash. There is an option for QR code payment too. The aim is to ensure first and last-mile connectivity, thus encouraging people to use public transport. A meeting held in this regard on Tuesday was chaired by Ernakulam RTO K. Manoj Kumar while Enforcement RTO G. Anandakrishnan explained the app’s features, says a press release.
01 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC declines to stay Kerala varsity exams||The Kerala High court refused to stay the Kerala University exams that are to begin from July 1 considering the submission of the university authorities that students could appear for exams in various sub centres of their choice. The court’s decision was on a writ plea filed by 23 students, who were pursuing their fourth semester PG under the university, and another Law student. The petitioners contended that the university notified the exams regardless of the UGC (Minimum Standards of instructions for the Grant of the Master’s Degree through Formal Education) Regulations, 2003.  The university submitted that students were given the option to select their examination centres according to their convenience. The university would hold additional examinations for those who could not appear for the examinations.
01 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Gang planned to abduct Shamna Kasim: police||The gang that was busted by the Kochi City police for targeting young aspiring actors had planned to kidnap actor Shamna Kasim for ransom, District Police Chief (Kochi City) Vijay Sakhare said on Tuesday. Talking to reporters here , Mr. Sakhare said that the plot was foiled after Ms. Kasim petitioned the police. The plot to kidnap was hatched after the attempt to blackmail her failed. Mr. Sakhare said that preliminary investigation had been completed and all accused identified with four more remaining to be arrested. One of the accused had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2.  Celebrities targeted The gang had tried to trap many celebrities from the film fraternity. They had approached production controller Shaji Pattikkara in the guise of film producers and secured the numbers of actors. Statement recorded Meanwhile, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the racket on Tuesday collected the online statement of actor Ms. Kasim. The police have arrested eight persons and registered multiple first information reports after more victims came forward with complaints against the gang. It is learnt that Harris, a make-up artist associated with the film industry who was arrested on Monday, and another arrested accused Rafeeque were the prime movers in identifying victims and pulling off cons in association with another accused Shereef. Meanwhile, Ms. Kasim in an Instagram post said that she had no clue about the gang, which tried to cheat and later blackmail her. She also expressed satisfaction with the police inquiry.
01 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||NEET: HC rejects plea||A petition seeking either overseas test centres for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) or postponement of the test till the COVID-19 situation improved was dismissed by the Kerala High Court on Tuesday. The petition, filed by Abdul Azees, general secretary, Kerala Muslim Culture Centre, Qatar, was rejected by a Division Bench consisting of Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali. The Medical Council of India (MCI) and other authorities submitted that overseas test centres were not feasible. The Centre also informed the court that students could be brought back to the State by following the guidelines prescribed for overseas Indians.
01 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||PWD not against probe||The Public Works Department (PWD) was not averse to any investigation into the construction of the footbridge at Aluva Manappuram, the department submitted in the Kerala High Court.
01 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kerala’s landings down by 15%||Kerala suffered a drop of 15.4% in marine fish landings with the total landings of 5.44 lakh tonnes compared 6.42 lakh tonnes in 2018-19. There was a sharp decline in oil sardine and Indian mackerel catch. While oil sardine catch dropped to a meagre 44,320 tonnes, the lowest catch in two decades, Indian mackerel (40,554 tonnes) experienced a decline of 50% compared to the previous year. In 2012, the catch of oil sardine in Kerala was 3.9 lakh tonnes. Since then, there was a substantial decrease in the catch every year, but it moved up in 2017. Oil sardine landings again continued to decline for the past two years due tochanges in ocean environment.
01 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Faction keeps all options open||Amidst speculation of it keeping all options open till the coming local body elections, the steering committee of the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani here on Tuesday entrusted the party leadership with the task of deciding on the future course of action. Addressing mediapersons after the meeting, Mr. Mani said the meeting decided to convene meetings of party workers at different levels by July 10 and kick-start preparations for the local body elections. Panel to decide “The KC(M) has decided to go ahead by holding together the working class and farmers. At the same time, the party steering committee has asked the leadership to deliberate on the future course of action and come out with an appropriate decision at an opportune moment,” he said. Mr. Mani used the occasion to launch a scathing attack on rival KC(M) faction leader P.J. Joseph, accusing him of attempting to hijack the party following the death of K.M. Mani. “The only mistake that we did was to give Mr. Joseph political asylum during a crisis. What he did instead was to launch an all-out attempt to hijack the party, its offices and even the house where K.M. Mani had lived,” he said. Mr. Mani accused the United Democratic Front (UDF) of failing to remember the contributions of K.M. Mani, who served as a source of strength to the coalition for 38 years since its formation.
01 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode slips to 13th position||Kozhikode district slipped to 13th position in terms of pass percentage in the State when the results of the SSLC examinations were announced on Tuesday. Though 98.3% of students who wrote the exams qualified for higher studies this time, the district was way behind other districts when it had a fall from the seventh slot last year. Of the 44,435 students who appeared for the exams, 43,768 cleared it. Seventy-three schools registered cent per cent results in the district. As many as 5,047 students got A+ in all subjects. 95.04% in Wayanad The district secured a pass percentage of 95.04 in the SSLC examinations. Education Department sources said 35 of the 90 schools in the Wayanad education district secured 100% pass. It includes 24 government schools, six aided schools and five unaided schools. Five Model Residential Schools (MRS) for tribal children in the district also achieved the same honour. As many as 11,655 students appeared for the examination and 11,077 qualified for higher studies, sources said, adding that 907 students secured A+ in all subjects. 98.93% in Thrissur The district recorded 98.93% pass in the examination, with 155 schools registering cent per cent results. Of the 35,147 students who took the exam, 34,771 have become eligible for higher studies. As many as 3,416 students won A+ in all subjects.
01 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||In KVs, online computer science classes yet to begin||Parents of Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) students in the State have flagged the delay in starting online classes in computer science though fees have already been paid for the purpose. According to sources, computer science is part of the syllabus for students in Classes 3 to 12. However, though online classes began in other subjects since May 29, those for computer science are yet to start. The sources pointed out that the teachers in the subject were appointed on contract basis and the Ernakulam regional office of the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) was yet to renew their licence. N. Prasad, president of the parents’ teachers forum titled WAKE at KV-1 at East Hill, Kozhikode, said the authorities had already collected the fee for the first quarter of the academic year. It has been learnt that yoga teachers and sports coaches too have been left jobless. Deepthi Nair, Assistant Commissioner, KVS Ernakulam region, said only two subjects were being taught through the online medium in a day. The focus is on subjects other than computer science now. Classes in that subject would start soon, she added.
01 July 2020||Malappuram/Palakkad,KERALA||Malappuram records 32 cases||The strict containment of Ponnani taluk following fears of a potential community spread of COVID-19 has prompted the police to close roads connecting it to Palakkad district. Two private hospitals at Edappal where two doctors and three nurses have contracted the disease were shut down. People were forced to stay at home as the police imposed triple lockdown in Ponnani taluk on Tuesday. As many as 32 fresh cases were reported in Malappuram and 17 in Palakkad on Tuesday. According to District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan, four of the 32 cases in Malappuram were of local transmission. Nine persons had returned from other States, while 19 had arrived from abroad. Malappuram has 244 infected persons currently under treatment at the Medical College Hospital. The positive cases in Palakkad include a seven-year-old boy from Piriyari who had returned from Delhi. While six persons were returnees from Kuwait, five came from Tamil Nadu, two from Delhi, and one each from Saudi Arabia and the UAE. Two contracted the virus from local contacts. As many as 278 persons are currently being treated in the district. In Kannur Twenty-six people were tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. They include 23 Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel and three persons who returned from abroad. The CISF personnel who contracted the disease include seven from Kerala, five from Uttar Pradesh, two each from Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Haryana, and Rajasthan, and one each from Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab, who were in quarantine. In Kasaragod Eight more people from the district tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. According to District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas, three persons came from abroad, three from other States and one contracted the disease through a COVID-19 patient. One person from Kasaragod is undergoing treatment in Ernakulam district. Four persons undergoing treatment in hospitals were discharged. A total of 6,929 people are under observation in the district. In Kozhikode There was a let-up in the number of COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode on Tuesday when only four new patients were diagnosed with the infection even as two others recovered from it. The number of active COVID-19 cases has come down to 88. In Thrissur Four new cases were reported and 12 people recovered from the disease in Thrissur on Tuesday. The police have registered a case against a Non-Resident Indian who threatened to violate quarantine guidelines if he was not given institutional quarantine facility at the dropping point itself.  In Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla has declared five wards in Thirunelly grama panchayat as containment zones as a preventive measure. The step was taken as there is a suspected COVID-19 case in the panchayat. Meanwhile, the Police, Forest, and Excise departments have intensified joint patrolling in the area to prevent unauthorised entry of workers from Karnataka through forest paths.  (With inputs from Kannur, Kasaragod, Kozhikode, Thrissur, and Wayanad bureaus)
01 July 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Haroon scripts history, twice over||“This is a small beginning of a massive change. The visually impaired community should be brought to the mainstream, rather than being given a special status,” said Haroon Kareem on Tuesday, when he became the first visually impaired student to score full A+ in the SSLC examination after taking the exams on computer. “It’s our society’s achievement,” he said. Congratulatory calls inundated Haroon’s home at Melattur in Malappuram district soon after Education Minister C. Raveendranath announced the SSLC results. Apart from Mr. Raveendranath, Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel, Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan and a host of others called to greet him. The State on Tuesday celebrated Haroon’s achievement as a path-breaking one. He was featured in these columns in March for creating history of sorts when he wrote the SSLC exams on computer without a scribe’s support. A student of Government Higher Secondary School, Mankada, Haroon bid adieu to Braille in Class VIII. He started taking class notes on his laptop, and pledged that he would attempt the SSLC exam on a computer without a scribe’s support. He did it by circumventing a lot of technical hurdles. He is grateful for the love and support he got from his friends and teachers. His friend Athira used to help him by drawing diagrams and pictures on his hand whenever the teacher drew one on the blackboard. His father Abdul Kareem, a farmer, had taught him how to work on a computer keyboard during primary school. “He should inspire those who are being sidelined because of their visual impairment. Their parents should take initiative to bring them to the mainstream,” said Mr. Kareem. Haroon has begun offering online classes for the visually impaired.
01 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||99.7% pass SSLC in Pathanamthitta||Pathanamthitta has retained the first position in the State by registering 99.71 % pass in the SSLC examination this year too. A total of 10,387 of the 10,417 students who appeared for the SSLC examinations were declared eligible for higher education. Kuttanad has emerged as the best performing educational district in the State with a pass percentage of 100 in the SSLC examination. All the 2,106 students who appeared for the examination from Kuttanad qualified for higher studies.
01 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID-19 cause of 76-year-old’s death||The State recorded its 24th death owing to to COVID-19 after the swab samples of a 76-year-old Mumbai returnee, who died in Thiruvananthapuram a few days ago, returned positive on Tuesday. Four more COVID-19 cases were reported in the capital district on a day when Poundkadavu ward was declared containment zone. The deceased, who hailed from Nettayam, near Vattiyurkavu, was diabetic and hypertensive. He used to run a tyre shop in Navi Mumbai. Having come from Mumbai on a flight on June 27, he was rushed to the General Hospital upon arrival after exhibiting rhinitis, breathlessness, and cough. As his condition worsened, he was administered emergency medication and referred to the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital. However, he died on the way to the hospital. His swab was tested positive at the Alappuzha unit of the National Institute of Virology.  Primary contacts The body was cremated at the Shanthi Kavadom in Thycaud in accordance with the COVID-19 protocol. The primary contacts of the deceased include his wife and son whom he had met at the airport. Four others who came from outside the State tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. The patients include an 18-year-old medical student from Ambalamukku, who arrived in New Delhi from Kazakhstan on June 19, and spent seven days in quarantine there. He travelled to the district on June 28 and has been in institutional quarantine. The others include a 27-year-old Kizhuvilam native who came from Kuwait via Kochi on June 18; a 58-year-old woman hailing from Chirayinkeezhu, who came from Mumbai on a train on June 22; a 31-year-old Pipinmoodu native who came from New Delhi on June 23. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said tight restrictions had come into effect in Poundkadavu where the COVID-19-infected retired LPSC employee and his wife had attended a function recently.
01 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Record 98.82% pass in SSLC exam||The severe challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic notwithstanding, a record 98.82% of the students who wrote the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examinations this year became eligible for higher studies, breaking the record of 98.57% in 2015. The result this year was 0.71 percentage point up from 98.11% last year. Of the 4,22,092 regular candidates who appeared for the exam, 4,17,101 became eligible for higher education. Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath, who announced the results on Tuesday, said the number of candidates who had A+ in all subjects had increased by 4,572 this year, to touch 41,906, up from 37,334 last year. The number of candidates who took the exam in the private category was 1,770. Of them, 1,356 became eligible for higher studies – a pass percentage of 76.61. The number of government schools where all students became eligible for higher studies was 637, an increase of 38 from 599 last year. The number was 796 for aided schools, 83 more than that last year. There were 404 unaided schools where all students became eligible for higher studies this year. The total number of schools where all students became eligible for higher studies was 1,837. It was 1,703 last year. SAY exams Students can submit applications for revaluation, scrutiny, and photocopy of answer scripts online from July 2 to 7. The dates for SAY (Save a Year) exams for regular candidates will be announced later. Candidates can register for a maximum of three subjects. Those who were unable to appear for the Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics examinations in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic can appear for these papers as regular candidates along with the SAY examinations. Digital certificates for this year will be available after the results of the SAY examinations are declared. The certificates will have QR code so that employers, educational institutions, and passport officials can verify the authenticity of the certificates.
01 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||City schools display stellar results in SSLC examination||City schools continued to display stellar results in the SSLC examinations. A number of government schools in the city registered 100% success. These included Government HSS for Boys and Government Girls HSS, both at Karamana; Government HS, Chala; Government Model HSS for Girls, Pattom; Government HS, Vanchiyoor; GV Raja Sports School; PSNM Government Boys HSS, Peroorkada; Government HSS, and Government Girls VHSS, both at Pettah; Government Tamil HSS, Chala; Government HS, Kalady and Pappanamcode; Government Sanskrit HS Fort; and Government Regional Fisheries Technical HS and VHSS. In the aided sector, students of St. John’s Model HSS, Nalanchira; St. Goretti’s Girls HS, Nalanchira; NSS HSS, Kesavadasapuram and Palkulangara; St. Philomena’s Girls HS, Poonthura; St. Joseph’s HSS; Fort Boys HS and Fort Girls Mission HS; St. Antony’s HSS, Valiathura; and Haji CHMKM Vocational Higher Secondary School registered 100% success. In the unaided sector, St. Thomas HSS, Mukkolakkal; Christ Nagar English Higher Secondary School; Nirmala Bhavan Girls HSS, Kowdiar; Carmel Girls HSS; Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Vazhuthacaud; and Shree Vidyadhiraja Vidyamandir HSS secured 100% results. Students of Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Nalanchira, secured 100% results. Three of the 32 students got full A+. Holy Angels’ Convent HSS too had 100% pass, with 58 students securing A+ in all subjects. St. Mary’s HSS, Pattom, where 1,785 students appeared for the examination, the second most in the State, had a pass percentage of 99.94. All but one student passed. As many as 129 students secured full A+. All seven students from Government VHSS for the Deaf, Jagathy, who appeared for the SSLC and THSLC examinations passed. Ganga S. Kumar secured A+ in all subjects. Pass percentage  The pass percentage in the Thiruvananthapuram revenue district was 98.94%, up from 97.96% last year. Of the 34,689 students who appeared for the examinations, 34,322 became eligible for higher studies. Of them, 17,378 were boys and 16,944 were girls. The pass percentage in Attingal educational district was 98.47%, in Thiruvananthapuram 99.09%, and Neyyattinkara 99.35%. Of the 3,729 students who obtained A+ in all subjects, 1,104 were boys and 2,625 were girls. As many as 1,564 students secured A+ in the Attingal educational district; 1,026 in the Thiruvananthapuram; and 1,139 in Neyyattinkara.  Sree Chitra Home Residents of the Sree Chitra Home here secured 100% results in the SSLC examinations this year. Minister for Social Justice K.K. Shylaja spoke to the residents over phone and congratulated them. Seventeen students — 14 girls and three boys — sat for the exams. The students who put up a good show in the examinations despite adverse circumstances were a model to others, the Minister said.
01 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One seats for all students: Minister||Plus One admission for 2020-21 would be online as in previous years. The admission schedule would be drawn up factoring in students from other streams who wanted to pursue Plus One in State schools, Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath has said. On increasing Plus One seats, the Minister said the number of students who had become eligible for higher studies this year (4,17,101) was 9,142 fewer than that last year’s. The State had 4,23,975 Plus One seats. The number of students from the CBSE and other streams would also have to be taken into account. As per preliminary analysis, all students who had qualified would get Plus One admission. Online classes With conventional classroom learning unlikely in the current circumstances, Plus One online classes too would be held online once the admission process was over, provided schools did not reopen. The focus was on engaging students academically till then. Students going to pursue Plus One should view the online classes being telecast on the Victers channel so that their foundations become stronger, Mr. Ravindranath said. Asked about the increase in number of students in State schools this year, the Minister said admissions were being made online, and the number appeared to be more than that last year. Textbook distribution Textbook distribution, he said, had been completed in Malappuram, Wayanad, and Thiruvananthapuram, and was under way in other districts. Closure of the Kerala Books and Publications Society during the lockdown and transportation issues had delayed the process, but textbooks would be available in schools soon.
01 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||EDC members share profits with visually challenged students||Setting a model in giving back to society, the tribal community of Kottoor that benefited through a market intervention project by the Forest Department during the lockdown has contributed a share of profits obtained by selling forest produce to alleviate the hardships of another marginalised set of people. The Mankode tribal eco-development committee (EDC) in the Agasthyavanam Biological Park (ABP) forest range handed over Rs. 10,000 and 250 masks to the students of Government School for the Visually Impaired, Jagathy, on Tuesday. Chief Wildlife Warden Surendrakumar and Conservator of Forests (ABP) J. Devaprasad handed them over to students Nikhil and Farzana. Thiruvananthapuram Wildlife Warden J.R. Ani, school Principal Abdul Hakeem, Kottoor Deputy Wildlife Warden N.V. Satheesan, and EDC president Radhakrishnan were present.
01 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Make public data on COVID-19, says IMA||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has urged the government to make public the data on symptomatology, pathophysiology, and treatment schedule adopted for COVID-19 in-patients in the State. This is to ensure that the clinicians in the private sector who will have to step in soon to provide COVID-19 care are not left in the lurch, the forum says. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, IMA State secretary P. Gopikumar and State president Abraham Varghese said though the IMA had been demanding this for months, no action had been taken by the government to remedy the situation. COVID-19 being a new disease caused by a new virus, lack of crucial State-specific data on the patients here and disease epidemiology in the public domain could prove to be a stumbling block when private sector clinicians would be called in to manage COVID-19. The IMA said it was an injustice that the private sector, which catered to nearly 70% of the State population’s health-care needs, was kept in the dark as far as COVID-19 data was concerned. To learn more about the disease, clinicians were left to depend on studies from the rest of the world where the scenario was quite different from that of Kerala. The IMA felt that while the lockdown period had succeeded in arresting the spread of the disease, the State had not utilised this time effectively to prepare itself to deal with the next stages of the disease. The public were not made sensitive to the importance of infection prevention, and the increasing local spread in the post-lockdown period definitely looked like community spread was happening already. It urged the government to move the focus of COVID-19 testing from the quarantined pool of people.
01 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||10 p.m.-5 a.m. night curfew from today||Citizens could expect a one-hour relaxation in night curfew from July 1 as part of the Unlock Phase II guidelines issued by the Central government. The police have advanced the ban on the movement of people and vehicles from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. to 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. giving a breather to latenight shoppers, retail trade and takeaway businesses. However, not more than five people would be allowed inside a shop at a time. Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta told The Hindu that the State government would follow the Centre’s guidelines to prevent COVID-19 spread. The government would continue the current system of notifying containment zones based on the local pandemic situation and pattern of spread if any. Mr. Mehta also accorded District Collectors considerable latitude in imposing additional restrictions in containment zones to prevent the spread of the disease. Educational institutions, metro rail service, gymnasiums, swimming pools, bars and auditoriums in the State would remain closed at least until July 31. Officials said the Centre had accorded States the freedom to tighten restrictions further. However, it could not close borders or impede the movement of freight. Curbs relaxed The Centre has lifted the restrictions on the inter-State and intra-State movement of people and goods. It has also stressed that citizens would not require to seek prior permission, approval or an e-permit to travel between States. Ideally, the State government wanted people aspiring to travel to Kerala to register themselves on the COVID-19 Jagrata portal maintained by the Department on Non-Resident Keralite Affairs to inform its containment strategy. It was likely to consult the Centre on the issue. The government would push ahead with its targeted containment strategy to prevent the spread of the infection. It would enforce strict perimeter control in containment zones.
01 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lumpy skin disease reported||More cases of lumpy skin disease affecting cattle have been reported in the State, this time in the southern districts. Cases have been reported from Alappuzha, Kollam and Pathanamthitta. While the disease itself is neither lethal or zoonotic, it can cause reduction in milk yield, abortion, and infertility in the cattle. Farmers have been advised to quarantine cattle exhibiting the symptoms and keep cattle sheds clean. Special teams have been formed for containing the spread. The State Institute for Animal Diseases, Palode, is equipped for disease diagnosis. Farmers can also contact the 24-hour helpline 0471 2732151.
01 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF not a ventilator: CPI||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) is not a ventilator for supporting any United Democratic Front (UDF) ally that is facing a crisis, CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran has said. Referring to the developments in the Kerala Congress(M), Mr. Rajendran told reporters here on Tuesday that the LDF was not bound to help any party in the UDF once it weakened. The party has already clarified its stance and fully subscribed to the views of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on the issue.  Collective discussions Any addition to the LDF is based on collective discussions. The front has not given any thought on the KC(M) issue and once it figures for discussions, the party will clarify its stance, the CPI leader said. The difference between the LDF and the UDF is that the former is founded on policies and programmes. If the KC(M) was willing to accept the LDF policies, the front would consider it then, Mr. Rajendran said.
01 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Power supply disruption||Electricity supply to areas served by the Brigadier Lane transformer in the Cantonment electrical section limits will be disrupted from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Wednesday owing to maintenance.
01 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Page 8||The Overseas Development and Employment Promotion Consultants (ODEPC) has invited applications from qualified and experienced emergency medical technicians for recruitment to a government institution in the UAE. Applications with biodata and certificates are to be sent to the email address recruit@odepc.in before July 10. For details and registration, visitwww.odepc.kerala.gov.inor dial 0471 2329441.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||12 positive cases in Kollam, nine in Alappuzha||Twelve persons, including three members of a family, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kollam district on Tuesday. While nine were from abroad, three came from Mumbai. Among the patients, three persons were from Kuwait, two from Oman, two from Ivory Coast and one each from Saudi Arabia and Qatar.Those from Mumbai include a 47-year-old Punalur resident, his 43-year-old wife, and 17-year-old daughter who arrived in Kollam on June 14 by Lokmanya Tilak Express. Another 23-year-old family member who travelled with them tested positive on June 27. The other cases were from Chathannur, Pallimon, Odanavattam, Thrikkaruva, Elamadu, Umayanallur, Mangad, Chavara and Karukone. Alappuzha Nine more persons tested positive in the district on Tuesday. Five of them came from abroad, three from other States and one a resident of Kurathikad. Among the persons from other States, a young man from Muhamma, reached the district from Mumbai by flight on June 24. Another young man hailing from Alappuzha came from Guwahati on June 14. The eighth patient, a young man from Edathua, came by train from Mumbai on June 26. The 52-year-old Kurathikad native was found to have contracted the disease during a check-up prior to surgery at District Hospital, Mavelikkara. Meanwhile, the government has declared Ward 16 in Bharanikavu grama panchayat, Ward 14 and 15 in Chengannur municipality, Ward 14 in Palamel grama panchayat, Ward 4 and 9 in Kayamkulam municipality as containment zones. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 176. Kottayam The district on Tuesday reported three fresh cases even as six persons who recovered from the infection were discharged from hospitals. As many as 109 people from the district are currently undergoing treatment for the virus infection in different hospitals and 110 people have recovered from the infection so far. Health officials are yet to identify any fresh local transmission cases from the Pallikkathodu panchayat where a six member family was tested positive last week. Pathanamthitta The number of patients in the district went up to 185 with one more Non-Resident Keralite (NoRK) testing positive to the virus infection on Tuesday. A 27-year-old youth who came to his home village of Thannithode from Kuwait on June 12 was the new patient and he was placed in quarantine at Pathanamthitta General Hospital.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Taking a bow||
01 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two electrocuted, one struck dead by lightning||Heavy rains that had been lashing the district for the last two days claimed three lives in separate incidents on Tuesday. At Uravakonda, P. Ramesh (54) and his brother Mallesh (50) were electrocuted as they came in contact with a live fencing. It was alleged that power was being tapped illegally from an electric pole using a wire tied to the fencing. To answer the call of nature, the brothers went out of their house. Mallesh, in a bid to cross over to the other side, tried to lift the fencing and got electrocuted. When Ramesh went to his rescue, he too met the same fate, Circle Inspector K. Dharani Babu said. In another incident, Jaffer Vali, a banana trader, and Shaik Fareed (34) of Gorantla went to a guava plantation at Erraballi with their families. On their way back, as it started raining heavily, they took shelter under a tree when lighting struck and killed Fareed on the spot. Jaffer Vali’s wife Meher Taj fainted. She was admitted to the Hindupur government hospital.
01 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cybercrime gang busted||The Madanapalle urban police on Tuesday busted a 9-member local gang allegedly involved in cyber crime, targeting traders in Chittoor district and other States.
01 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virtual launch of cancer centre by CM today||A dedicated cancer block established with support from Natco Trust will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday in a virtual launch from his camp office. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar and Superintendent of GGH K. Sudhakar inspected the arrangements for the event. The Natco Cancer Centre is the first of its kind facility that has come up at a GGH in the State.
01 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Excess sale of FCV tobacco allowed||The Centre released a notification for sale of excess Flue-Cured Virgina (FCV) tobacco produced by registered growers and tobacco produced by unregistered growers during the 2019-20 crop season. The Tobacco Board has been permitted to sell excess produce upto 10% above the quota produced by registered growers by levying a penalty of Rs. 2 per kg and additional charges of 5% on the value, said executive director R. Muthuraj.
01 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||KMC moves to tackle stray cattle menace||The Kakinada Municipal Corporation (KMC) is preparing an action plan to tackle the issue of cattle roaming on roads and at public places in the smart city. KMC Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar said a meeting with all stakeholders, including cattle owners, would be held in the first week of July to decide the course of action. “A site has been identified to accommodate the seized cattle. The owner will be given a week to take his cattle back by paying a fine failing which they will be given to poor families for rearing,” Mr. Swapnil said. The Department of Police will also be roped in as many road mishaps have been reported due to the presence of cattle on the roads. In June, the authorities seized nearly one hundred such animals and sent them to the cattle protection centre in the Rampa Agency.
01 July 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rajnath may lay stone for missile test facility: MP||Union Minister for Defence Rajnath Singh may lay the foundation stone for a missile test launch facility proposed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) at Nagayalanka mandal of Krishna district, Machilipatnam Member of Parliament V. Balashourie said on Tuesday. Mr. Balashourie met Mr. Rajnath Singh in New Delhi on Monday, appealing to him to speed up the project that has been in the works for some time now. “Mr. Rajnath Singh has assured us that he would lay the foundation stone for the project in Nagayalanka once the COVID-19 crisis subsides. The Defence Minister also said that road connectivity to Nagayalanka would be improved,” a statement quoted Mr. Balashourie as saying on Tuesday.
01 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam sees spike in new cases||Coronavirus cases kept climbing sharply in south-coastal Andhra Pradesh as 61 persons — 47 in Prakasam and 14 in Nellore district — tested positive for the pandemic in the last 24 hours. Ongole registered 13 fresh cases as the virus spread to more colonies in the city. Police enforced the lockdown strictly in Bandlamitta, Gandhi Nagar, Kammapalem, Sujathanagar, Sivaprasad Colony and Ganugapalem in the wake of a surge in new cases. Markapur and Pamur recorded seven new cases, followed by Podili, Singarayakonda and Darsi with three cases each and Singarayakonda with two cases. The virus spread to more areas in the district as remote places like Yeragondupalli, Alavalapadu, Kalluru, Chimidipadu and Lingamgunta reported a case each. As many as 1,023 persons tested negative for the virus, a health bulletin compiled by the district administration said. As many as 73,939 persons had undergone testing so far. The total number of confirmed cases went up to 580 in the district. In Nellore district, the total number of positive cases shot up to 750 following 14 fresh cases. Except for one new case registered in Sullurpeta, close to the Tamil Nadu border, all other cases were in Nellore city. Meanwhile, 19 persons were discharged from the COVID-19 hospital.
01 July 2020||RAMPACHODAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre grants 47 VDKS to aid forest dwellers||The Central government has granted 47 Van Dhan Vikas Kendras (VDVK) for the East Godavari agency, providing a local market for the minor forest produce (MFP) being collected by forest dwellers and ensuring value-addition for the products. The Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA-Rampachodavaram) in-charge Project Officer, Praveen Adithya, on Tuesday called for coordinated efforts among all the stakeholders – Forest, Girijan Co-operative Corporation (GCC) Industries and Tribal Welfare Departments and AP Agro Industries Development Corporation – to make available a better marketing source for tribals to trade the MFP at the local level. In a review meeting, Mr. Praveen Adithya said the VDVKs would be set up in the seven tribal mandals of Rampa agency. Each would be equipped with facilities for processing and value-addition for minor forest produce like tamarind, honey and mahua seed.
01 July 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Increase in fuel prices will lead to inflation, says CITU||CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao on Tuesday alleged that the Union Government was fleecing the public with a steep hike in prices of petroleum products although crude oil prices in the international markets had fallen drastically in the last three months. The trade union organised a massive protest in Etcherla of Srikakulam district demanding that the government roll back the prices immediately. Mr. Govinda Rao said that the additional burden of Rs. 10 on each litre of petrol and diesel would take a severe toll on people’s finances and lead to inflation. CITU leaders P. Tejeswara Rao, Ch. Ammannaidu and others participated in the agitation.
01 July 2020||TADEPALLIGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Janakiram is new V-C of horticulture university||T. Janakiram assumed charge as Vice-Chancellor of Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural University, located at Venkataramannagudem in West Godavari district on Tuesday. Dr. Janakiram, who did his M.Sc. and Ph.D in horticulture and advanced courses in IARI, Indian National Science Academy and Molecular Biology, served as Assistant Director General of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). He also did many researches and discovered new varieties in floriculture, and was a recipient of a PNASF gold medal, HSI gold medal, Lotus Puraskar, B.H. Jain Award and AKGA gold medal. The new Vice-Chancellor thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on his appointment. “My priority will be to extend the services of the university to village-level and take up more research for the benefit of farmers,” Dr. Janakiram said.
01 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven deaths push toll to 187; tally crosses the 14,000-mark||The State has crossed the 14,000-mark in the tally of positive COVID-19 cases reported so far with the detection of 704 cases during the past 24 hours as 18, 114 samples were tested, as of Tuesday morning. Seven persons succumbed to COVID-19, taking the toll to 187 and the tally climbed to 14, 595. Of the total, there are 7,897 active cases and 6,511 cases of recoveries. Three of the new death cases were reported in Kurnool and two in Krishna. One death each was reported in Guntur and Anantapur districts, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. The total deaths in Kurnool and Krishna are 65 and 63 respectively and the two districts account for 68% of the deaths reported in the State. Of the 704 new cases, 648 are of locals and the remaining are imported cases. Chittoor reported 107 new local cases, the highest, followed by Anantapur which reported 104 new local cases. Krishna reported 84 fresh new cases, Kurnool reported 82, Kadapa 75, Guntur 58, East Godavari 55, Prakasam 31, Visakhapatnam 26, Vizianagaram 13, West Godavari seven, Nellore five and Srikakulam one. Meanwhile, Chittoor crossed the 1,000-mark in the overall tally. Steady increase The district tallies of local cases are as follows: Kurnool (1,955), Anantapur (1,571), Krishna (1467), Guntur (1,349), East Godavari (1,129), Chittoor (1,054), West Godavari (995), Kadapa (940), Nellore (608), Visakhapatnam (542), Prakasam (370), Vizianagaram (159), and Srikakulam (63). While the local cases increased to 12, 202, the cases of people from other States went up to 1,997 and those of persons from other countries went up to 396.
01 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tight security in place for Jagan’s programme in Vijayawada today||The police have thrown a security blanket at the busy Benz Circle, from where Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will flag off ‘108’ and ‘104’ ambulances on Wednesday. Mr. Jagan will launch 1,068 ambulances, equipped with all emergency and life support systems to provide immediate medical aid to patients. The new ambulances will have ventilators and all the road accident cases will be treated free of cost up to Rs. 50,000. Officials made elaborate arrangements for the Chief Minister’s programme, scheduled at 9 a.m. The Vijayawada Commissionerate police took charge of the area and diverted traffic as a precautionary measure. Police deployed forces on all the roads leading to the venue, at Benz Circle, and arranged police pickets to prevent any untoward incident. The intelligence and bomb detection squad teams were checking bridges, culverts, bushes and on the roadsides in wake of the Chief Minister’s programme. Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu told The Hindu that OCTOPUS, APSP, Task Force, Intelligence Security Wing (ISW), Traffic and other wings had been pressed into service. “More than 1,000 force were deployed for bandobust in and around the Benz Circle. Police also conducted trial run for the Chief Minister’s programme,” the Police Commissioner said. Traffic diversions All heavy vehicles coming from Chennai to Vijayawada and Eluru would be diverted from Tuesday night. On Wednesday (July 1), lorries and other heavy vehicles have been prohibited into the city from 4 a.m. onwards. Vehicles proceeding to Visakhapatnam from Vijayawada will be diverted via. Hanuman Junction, Gudivada, Pamarru, Challapalli and Avanigadda. From Tuesday midnight, no vehicles will be allowed from Police Control Room to Benz Circle. Traffic coming from Guntur and Eluru, will be diverted via. Old Krishnalanka police station and Police Control Room. All vehicles coming from Eluru towards Guntur, should travel via. Ramesh Hospital, Gurunanak Nagar Road, Fun Time Club Road, Pantakaluva road, NTR Circle, Guljar Bridge, Ramalingeswar Nagar Skew Bridge and Kanakadurga Varadhi. Public representatives intended to reach Benz Circle for the programme, are requested to take Pinnamaneni Polyclinic Road, Five No. Route, Eluru and Machilipatnam Road and reach the venue, Mr. Srinivasulu said.
01 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to launch ambulances, MMUs today||The government is all set to launch a fleet of 1,068 ambulances and mobile medical units (MMUs) that are aimed at improving the access to healthcare services at the mandal level across the State. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will flag off the vehicles at Benz Circle in Vijayawada on Wednesday, Minister for Health, Medical and Family Welfare A. Kali Krishna Srinivas told the media here on Tuesday. Calling it a ‘golden chapter’ in the history of the healthcare system in the State, Mr. Srinivas said that the government was rolling out 412 units of 108 service ambulances and 656 units of 104 service mobile medical units. “For the first time, 26 neo-natal ambulances are being made available as part of the 108 service. These ambulances are equipped with Sick Newborn Care Units (SNCU),” he said. Screening facility Of the 412 ambulances, 104 are equipped with advanced life support system, while 282 are equipped with basic life support system. “A mobile medical unit will be allocated to every mandal. These units will provide 20 types of medical services including screening facility for communicable and non-communicable diseases. The units also have stocks of 72 types of medicines,” said the Health Minister. As many as 744 doctors will be made available for the 104 services. A doctor will visit a village once in a month and conduct a medical camp. “The government has spent Rs. 201 crore on the initiative,” he said. Quick response Giving details about the delivery of emergency healthcare, Mr. Srinivas said that the ideal response time of the 108 ambulance would be 15 minutes in urban areas, while the same for rural and agency areas would 20 minutes and 25 minutes respectively. ‘YSR Rahadari Bhadratha’ The Health Minister further said that a new programme titled ‘Dr. YSR Rahadari Bhadratha’ would also be linked with the 108 services. “Road accident victims can be treated in any hospital across the State free of cost for the first 48 hours after admission and up to Rs. 50,000 cost. The amount will be reimbursed by Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Health Care Trust. The programme will be launched at 9 a.m. on Wednesday,” he added.
01 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to resume unused land from Amara Raja company||In a major decision, the State government has decided to resume the unutilised land from M/s. Amara Raja Infratech (P) Ltd. in Chittoor district. In the G.O. 33 issued on Tuesday, the government said that the APIIC Limited was permitted to take back the unutilised land of 253.61 acres out of the 483.27 acres allocated to the M/s. Amara Raja Infratech (P) Ltd. The company was found to have not utilised the land for the purpose for which it was allotted. Moreover, the company did not fulfil its promise to invest Rs. 2,100 crore with a potential employment generation of 20,000 people. The actual employment achieved so far was only 4,310.  Sale deed The government noticed that the company had sought the sale deed from the APIIC before implementation of the project on the premise that the same was needed for setting up the SEZ, but no such facility was developed on the allotted land till date. It was also noticed that the company had utilised only 229.66 acres out of the total extent, and even after 10 years of agreement of sale, 253.61 acres was lying unused. The land was allotted in Survey Number 65/1 of Nunegundlapally (V), Bangarupalem (M) and Survey No.1/1B of Kothapally (V) and Yadamarri (M).
01 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will resort to Statewide bandh’||Staging a protest against the State and Central governments over the fuel price hike, here on Tuesday, the Communist Party of India (CPI), the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) and other Left parties cautioned that they would organise a State bandh if the hike is not rolled back. CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu said that the Central government had been increasing the prices of petroleum products at a time when people were facing hardships due to COVID-19. The petrol and diesel prices went up by Rs. 14 and Rs. 10 per litre respectively when the international crude oil price dropped from $80 in 2018 October to $35 now, he said. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said the benefits of the fall in crude oil prices were not being passed on to people. The excise duty on petrol and diesel which was Rs. 9.48 per litre and Rs. 3.56 per litre respectively in 2014, now stood at Rs. 32.98 and Rs. 31.83, he said.
01 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. discusses areas of ties with Japanese firms||Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy and Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana discussed the areas of collaboration with the Japan Bank of International Co-operation (JBIC) - Japan International Co-operation Agency (JICA) and Kuni Umi Asset Management Company Limited through a video-conference with their top managerial personnel on Tuesday. An official release said that JBIC Senior Managing Director Toshio Oya and Kuni Umi Asset Management Company Ltd. President and CEO Yasuyo Yamazakiled participated in the deliberations. The areas of interest for Japan are equity and debt investments in the construction of ports, industrial clusters, solar energy projects, smart city infrastructure and other urban infrastructure development, including equity participation in the A.P. Urban Infrastructure Asset Management Ltd., urban renaissance planning and development, Human Future Pavilion project in Amaravati to be located in Visakhapatnam, development of a one million sq. ft. mixed use facility in Visakhapatnam (Japanese Enclave), aqua and agri processing industries for export to Japanese markets, fund raising for A.P. development in international markets with JBIC credit rating, and investments in health and education infrastructure and skill development centres in Visakhapatnam. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, additional Chief Secretary to the Chief Minister P.V. Ramesh, Special Chief Secretary (Industries & Commerce) R. Karikal Valaven, and others participated in the discussions.
01 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DCIL eyeing overseas business||A year after the takeover of Dredging Corporation of India Limited (DCIL) by four major ports, the fortunes of the Visakhapatnam-headquartered company appears to be improving significantly. The company, which started earning profits ever since its inception in 1976 to offer dredging services to the port sector, was listed for strategic sale following a stiff competition after the opening of dredging sector to private players and working capital crunch for augmentation of its fleet. With the support from the Ministry of Shipping, it has started getting orders on nomination basis from the major ports. A consortium of four major ports at Visakhapatnam, Paradip, Deen Dayal (Kandla) and JNPT invested over Rs. 1,000 crore to acquire 73.47% government equity in the company. The DCIL bagged maintenance contract from the JNPT at a cost of Rs. 180 crore and completed project at Bombay Naval Yard on time at Rs. 60 crore. It also successfully finished projects assigned by Chennai, Tuticorin and Paradip ports. The DCIL also took up beach nourishment project of Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) . Now, dredging work at Haldia port and fishing harbour in Kerala is going on. Sources told The Hindu that the DCIL had emerged as a strong bidder in six upcoming tenders. The Category-I Mini Ratna company is now eyeing overseas business by participating in a bid for a major dredging project at Mongla in Bangladesh, they said. The DCIL, which clocked a turnover of Rs. 698 crore in 2018-19 fiscal, is also set to register a marginal rise in its business in 2019-20, when the AGM would approve the annual report. When contacted, DCIL Managing Director Rajesh Tripathi attributed the performance of the company to the high morale of the workforce. “Even during the pandemic, the employees worked with dedication and commitment to ensure completion of various projects on time,” he said. Mr. Tripathi said they were planning to improve the existing fleet by acquiring new trailer cutter suction dredgers, barges and other support vessels. He said they had relocated their headquarters to the new building built by the DCIL at HB Colony of Seethammadhra by occupying two floors and the remaining two floors would be given on lease shortly.
01 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 76 new cases, tally touches 900-mark||The number of COVID-19 cases touched 900-mark with 76 new cases reported from the district, here on Tuesday. This is said to be the biggest single-day spike till date. Meanwhile, 37 persons undergoing treatment were discharged after testing negative. The total number of active cases stands at 528 and discharges were 367. It may be noted that the district had reported five deaths. Among the five death cases, two persons belong to Srikakulam district. Among the cases reported, most of them were from Peda Jalaripeta and Appughar. Other cases were reported from Chinnammavari Veedhi, Visalakshi Nagar, Ram Nagar, Marthanda, Dungalavanipalem, MVP Colony, Netaji Street, New Resapuvanipalem, New Venkojipalem, Mangapuram, P&T Colony, Medicharla, Gullepalli, Sri Ram Nagar, Old ITI Junction, Gowtham Nagar, Rajaka Veedhi, Akkayyapalem, Tummadipalem, Appalanarasayya Colony, Lakshmidevi Peta, Arilova and a few other areas in the last 24 hours. According to COVID-19 Special Officer P.V. Sudhakar, as on Tuesday, the number of very active clusters and active clusters are 84 and 70 respectively. Forty-six are dormant clusters and 28 clusters have already been denotified, he said. Temple closed Authorities from Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple, Burujupeta, in a release on Tuesday announced that as Burujupeta was declared as a containment zone, the temple will be closed for devotees till further orders. The temple will be opened only after the District Collector denotifies the area, they added.
01 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU to conduct 3-month skill development courses||The Centre for Defence Studies, Andhra University, will conduct three-month skill development courses on Fire and Safety Engineering, Foreign Languages, Logistics and Supply Chain Management, Certificate Course in Cyber Security and Certificate course in Disaster Management with an intake of 60 seats in each course (total 300 seats). The programme is being sponsored by the Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) which is scheduled to commence from the first week of August. Officials said that unemployed youth of the State, including ex-servicemen and dependents of defence personnel are eligible for the courses. The candidates, who are interested, are informed to submit their applications in the office of the Director, Centre for Defence Studies, Andhra University, Visakhapatnam, located at AU Women’s Engineering College on or before July 31, 2020. According to the officials, the minimum eligibility for the courses are 10+2 or Diploma in Engineering. Priority for the admission will be given to Ex-servicemen/Dependents nominated through Zilla Sainik Welfare Officer and students qualified in 10+2 with MPC.
01 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||4-member probe panel formed||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has announced the formation of a four-member committee to probe the leakage of hydrogen sulphide at Sainor Life Sciences Private Limited at the JN Pharma City here late on Monday night. Two workers died and four others were hospitalised following the leak, which had occurred around 11.30 p.m. The committee consists of Visakhapatnam RDO K. Penchala Kishore, Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories K.B.S. Prasad, Environment Engineer of Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) P. Prasada Rao and A. Ramalingeswara Raju of the District Industries Centre (DIC). Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao visited the plant on Tuesday afternoon. He later told the media that the district administration had responded promptly and arranged for the shifting of the affected workers to the hospital. “The government has constituted a committee to inquire into the mishap, and based on its report, action will be initiated against those responsible for the accident,” he said. Later in the day, the Minister met P. Anand Babu, D. Janaki Rao and M. Suryanarayana, who are undergoing treatment at a private hospital at Gajuwaka.
01 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) blames government for frequent industrial accidents||The CPI(M) on Tuesday demanded a comprehensive probe into the leakage of hydrogen sulphide, which resulted in the death of two persons and hospitalisation of four others, at the Sainor Life Sciences Private Limited’s plant at Parawada late on Monday night. In a release, party State Secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao and district committee secretary K. Lokanadham also demanded payment of Rs. 1 crore each to the next of kin of the deceased and provision of a permanent job to one person from each of the two families. Condemning the arrest of CITU leader G. Satyanarayana who went to the accident site, the CPI(M) leaders attributed the frequent industrial accidents to the callous attitude of the successive governments, which, they alleged, were issuing licences to private companies to set up factories but were not bothered about the safety norms. Two persons had lost their lives in the same plant in the past, but no remedial measures were initiated, they alleged. ‘Hospital needed’ The Factories Department, the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) and the Labour Department had become toothless, they said, and sought a hospital in the Pharma City as the 30,000 workers employed in various companies had to be shifted to hospitals located far away should there be an accident. The government could mobile CSR funds and set up the hospital, they suggested.
01 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||INTUC seeks judicial probe into gas leak||INTUC General Secretary N. Ramachandra Rao demanded a judicial probe into the gas leak incident at Sainor Life Sciences Pvt Ltd, Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City, Parawada, Visakhapatnam, which has claimed two lives and injured four people. He said that the government should provide complete support to the family members of the victims and also take strict action against the management of the company.  ‘Strengthen vigil’ He said industrial accidents have increased in the district and the industries department should strengthen vigil.
01 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP: work on medical colleges will start soon||YSR Congress Party senior leader Koyya Prasad Reddy on Tuesday said the work on two world-class medical colleges at Paderu and Anakapalle would start soon. He told the media that a budgetary allocation of Rs. 1,000 crore had been made to set up 16 medical colleges to make the State a health hub and a centre for medical tourism. Mr. Prasad Reddy said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had emerged as a visionary by unveiling an ambitious plan to develop the State by promoting medical and engineering colleges and the skill development university. He said liberal allocation was being made to encourage many to study professional courses. The YSRCP leader said that huge amounts were being spent to provide drinking water connections to households and complete various pending irrigation projects to make the State ‘Harita Andhra Pradesh.’ He said work on ports at Bhavanapadu, Kakinada and Ramayapatnam as well as international airport by GMR Group at Bhogapuram near here would be grounded during the current year. He said that the Chief Minister is making all out efforts to place the State on the top in all spheres of development in the next four years. Mr. Prasad Reddy said that the YSRCP government has done more in one year than what the Chandrababu Naidu government had done in five years for the Polavaram project. He said that the Uttarandhra Sujala Sravanthi works were going on at a brisk pace and water would be provided to meet the needs of both agriculture and industry. He expressed happiness at the announcement of the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy as ‘Rythu Dinotsavam’. The YSRCP government had introduced several more benefits for the welfare of farmers, he added.
01 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor girl allegedly raped||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 24-year-old youth at K. Kodapalle panchayat under G Madugula police station limits in Visakhapatnam district. Though the incident occurred on June 27, it came to light after the family members lodged a complaint with the local police on Tuesday. According to reports, the accused had reportedly committed the crime during the absence of inmates in the house of the victim. According to the police, the girl also complained that the accused had threatened her with dire consequences if she revealed about the incident. The girl informed about it to her parents. G Madugula police registered a case. The accused is absconding and a manhunt has been launched to nab him. Investigation is on.
01 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties demand rollback of fuel price hike||A protest was organised by the Left parties seeking withdrawal of the steep hike in petrol and diesel prices, at the Gandhi statue on Tuesday. CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy said that at a time when the crude oil price was falling globally, the prices of petrol and diesel were being increased by the Centre on a daily basis for the past 20 days. The common man was already overburdened due to loss of income as a result of COVID-19. Leaders condemned the Centre for burdening common people in the form of hike in prices of diesel and petrol. They said the Centre had collected Rs. 3.5 lakh crore from people by increasing taxes on oil but gave concessions to the tune of Rs. 45,000 crore to corporates.
01 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prosecute factory management, says HRF||The Human Rights Forum (HRF) called for criminal prosecution of the management for the death of two persons and injuries to several others in a gas leak at Sainor Life Sciences Pvt Ltd on Tuesday. This accident once again underlines the extremely disquieting situation in respect of industrial safety in Visakhapatnam. The Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City has become a virtual death zone with employees dying at regular intervals in industrial mishaps, said V.S. Krishna of HRF. He recalled that two persons were killed and several others injured in a reactor blast at the same plant on September 28, 2015. Officials of the Inspectorate of Factories had made it cleat at the time that Sainor was operating without the mandatory no-objection certificate. State general secretary K. Sudha attributed the situation to the overall lack of safety culture. The HRF members found fault with the functioning of regulatory authorities and alleged that proper safety audits are not being done.
01 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delicate knee surgery performed||A team of doctors, headed by P. Satish Kumar, MD and Chief Joint Replacement Surgeon of KIMS ICON Hospital performed a delicate knee replacement on Ch. Ramana, who was diagnosed with a giant cell tumour on left knee.
01 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||UBI regional office opened in city||Union Bank of India(UBI) regional office was inaugurated by Ajay Kumar, Regional Head, Visakhapatnam, here. He unveiled a statue of the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi.
01 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Motorcyclist dies in road accident||A motorcyclist died in a road accident at Isukathota Junction here on Tuesday. The incident reportedly occurred when an RTC bus hit the motorcycle. The rider, who was severely injured in the accident, was rushed to a private hospital where he died while undergoing treatment. Identity of the victim is yet to ascertained. A case was registered.
01 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fake currency racket busted, six held in Vizianagaram||The Vizianagaram police busted a counterfeit currency racket and arrested six persons, Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari said on Tuesday. A person named Kandi Ramu and his friends allegedly learnt how to manufacture counterfeit currency notes by watching videos on the internet, and set up a photocopying shop at Bhogapuram of Vizianagaram district. They then began printing counterfeit currency notes and circulated them in villages. While the accused managed to dupe a few villagers, some traders eventually realised that the notes were counterfeit and alerted the local police. After a thorough inquiry, the department arrested six persons and seized counterfeit currency notes with a face value of Rs. 31 lakh and Rs. 65,000 in genuine cash. Ms. Rajakumari urged the public to inform the nearest police stations immediately if they come across counterfeit currency notes.
01 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leaders hail one ration card system||Bharatiya Janata Party leaders hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement over distribution of essential goods to poor people under one nation-one ration concept. At a media conference in Ranasthalam of Srikakulam district, BJP senior leader and Etcherla in-charge Nadukuditi Eswara Rao said the Prime Minister’s speech on Tuesday instilled confidence among poor people. “Thousands of migrated labourers returned to their native places in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. A majority of them have ration cards in other parts of the country. The new system will help them get ration supplies in a hassle-free manner,” he said. The direct financial assistance to poor people and the Rs. 20 lakh crore financial package under Atma Nirbhar Bharat scheme would revive the economy very soon, he added.  Pamphlets distributed Earlier, party workers distributed pamphlets in various villages of Ranasthalam mandal, highlighting the achievements of the BJP government in the last one year. Party leaders Kusumanchi Subba Rao, Bhavireddy Shivaprasad Reddy, Teegala Harinath and others also hailed the Prime Minister’s initiatives.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak in Vizag pharma plant kills two||Police were deployed in strength and access to the plant was restricted after the incident created panic in the area. Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories K.B.S. Prasad said from preliminary investigation it appears that the leak originated in a hose that connects the reactor to the centrifuge. The vapour leaked in small quantity and accumulated near the reactor area over a period of time and as the shift in-charge and the chemist reached the spot, they inhaled it. The four co-workers, who tried to go to their rescue, also inhaled some quantity, Mr. Prasad said. This was the second incident in the Sainor Life Sciences plant ever since it began its operations at JNPC. In September 2015, two workers were charred to death and five others injured in a reactor blast. Cases were booked against the company and it was allowed to resume operations only after the management paid a hefty fine. There have been about 40 industrial accidents in Visakhapatnam district with over 20 alone in pharma and chemical units, since 1997. About 130 lives were lost and hundreds injured.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Balancing act||
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Correction||The quote “large-scale corruption took place in Amaravati (capital city), Polavaram, Swachch Bharat and irrigation projects during the TDP regime while illegal sand mining and supply has become a hallmark of the present dispensation,” which was made by MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao during the party's virtual rally on June 26 was inadvertently attributed to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who was the chief guest.
01 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Expedite recruitment of medical personnel: Eatala||The State Government has directed the Health and other departments to expedite the process for recruitment of medical personnel in the State. Recruitment of personnel for Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Gandhi Hospital was already in the advanced stages and the people selected for TIMS are expected to join duty from Wednesday. Health Minister Eatala Rajender who reviewed the preparedness with senior officials on Tuesday wanted them to ensure that there was no shortage of personnel, medicines or equipment in the State-run hospitals. The department should be geared up to tackle the likelihood of seasonal illnesses following the onset of monsoon and steps should be taken to possess medicines in all healthcare centres across the State. There should not be any scope for complaints in this direction. Referring to the COVID-19 tests, he said there was heavy rush of people intending to get tested and the government had set up 11 hospitals including Fever Hospital, Chest Hospital, Kingkothi Hospital, Nature Cure Hospital and Nizamia Tibbi Hospital for collecting samples and testing them. People with symptoms should approach these hospitals duly following the guidelines like wearing masks and following physical distancing. Those with mild symptoms should opt for home quarantine and the medical personnel should enquire about their condition through the call centre on a daily basis. Doctors should be sent to people whenever needed. Doctors and nurses should visit patients admitted to hospitals at least thrice a day to enquire about their health condition and the Director of Medical Education should take necessary steps in this direction. Mr. Rajender directed the officials concerned to ensure that medical colleges in districts were prepared to admit COVID patients as it would reduce pressure on the designated hospitals in the capital city. Since more cases were being registered in the GHMC limits, steps should be taken to increase surveillance and the frequency of the door-to-door fever survey should be enhanced.
01 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No let-up in COVID surge as 945 test positive in TS||The spike in the number of COVID cases in the State continued on Tuesday with 945 more testing positive for the virus. The number of affected persons in Telangana touched 16,339 and seven people succumbed to the virus taking the total number of fatalities to 260. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits continued to contribute the lion’s share of COVID cases with 869 people testing positive on Tuesday. Neighbouring Rangareddy district accounted for 29 cases and Sangareddy district reported 21 cases during the day while in Medchal-Malkajgiri district it was 13. There are 8,785 active cases in the State as on date and 1,712 persons were discharged taking the total number of discharged to 7,294. According to the bulletin released by the Public Health department, a total of 3,457 samples were tested during the day taking the total samples tested to 88,563. Of these, 2,512 persons tested negative. The government in the meantime decided to strengthen the surveillance systems by intensifying collection of samples in areas with high incidence of COVID-19 and directions were issued accordingly to the Health department staff to enhance the scope of door-to-door survey of fever and related symptoms to identify suspects.
01 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Postponed entrance exams only in August||The postponement of entrance exams has opened up a new challenge for the government, as it has to work on multiple factors to streamline the various entrance exams given the issue of logistics. Since all the entrance tests are conducted online, the government officials have to look at the availability of slots with the agency entrusted with the job. As of now, slots are available only after the first week of August and that too not at a stretch. “Even if the court allows the government to go ahead with the tests in August or September, we will find it difficult to book slots at a stretch,” said a senior official. “As of now, other State governments are going ahead with ests but if they too postpone, finding dates and slots will be difficult,” he explained. “However, we will be ready to conduct the exams whenever the government asks us,” Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) chairman T. Papi Reddy said. Will the postponement of State entrance tests cast their shadow on national entrance tests like JEE and NEET? “It is unlikely as the Central government seems to be in the mood to conduct the exams as per schedule going by its affidavit filed in the Kerala High Court where it said that arrangements would be made for Kerala students in Gulf to return to India to write JEE or NEET tests.” An official said even the UPSC had announced fresh dates for Civil Services exams.
01 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP questions TRS ‘duplicity’ on treatment||Telangana BJP has accused the TRS government of expanding COVID-19 treatment to private hospitals recently, only after ruling party MLAs and Ministers started contracting the virus. “It is a plain opportunistic policy decision as Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao did not pay heed to our party’s consistent demand to expand COVID testing and treatment across district government hospitals and private hospitals,” said chief spokesperson K. Krishna Saagar Rao on Tuesday. He questioned Health Minister Eatala Rajender why his party leaders, MLAs and recently Home Minister Mohammad Mahmood Ali got admitted to private hospitals, instead of Gandhi Hospital. “Mr. Rajender claims Gandhi Hospital provides unparalleled COVID treatment, and no one should complain about deficiencies. If that’s true, why this duplicity,” he asked.
01 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR Central Hospital to admit patients||Serving and retired employees of South Central Railway (SCR) heaved a big sigh of relief with the Telangana government acquiescing in permitting Central Hospital at Lallaguda to admit COVID-19 patients on Tuesday. Upto 100 isolation beds have been earmarked for taking care of coronavirus-positive patients having ‘mild’ symptoms, said senior Railway officials, wishing to remain anonymous. There are 15 COVID-19 positive Railway personnel, of whom eight are said to be taking treatment in different hospitals including the government-notified Gandhi Hospital and other private hospitals. Seven other persons have been admitted into the Railway Hospital in the last few days, they informed. The Central Hospital has 300 beds and the hospital administration is said to have made elaborate plans in identifying the doctors and paramedical staff to be deployed for this section.
01 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Virtual GST Day fete today||Chief Commissioner of GST, Hyderabad Zone, Mallika Arya, would felicitate 10 deserving officers of the zone with a certificate of appreciation on Wednesday to acknowledge and recognise the commendable work done by them during the past year. According to an official press release, they would be felicitated as part of the GST Day celebrations on July 1. GST was launched on July 1, 2017, and the GST day is celebrated to commemorate commencement of “One Nation-One Market-One Tax”. Top GST payers of the zone and senior officers from sister formations would participate. The celebrations would be held through video conference to ensure physical distancing.
01 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Drive against illegal structures continues||Demolition of illegal structures on the Gurukul Trust land near Ayyappa Society of Madhapur continued for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. GHMC’s Town Planning wing has gone ahead with razing ongoing structures, which have been built without permission. Three teams with 11 compressors, three gas cutters, and two earth movers have pulled down three ground level structures, and six others that were under construction on Monday. On Tuesday, three ground level structures and three other buildings were completely razed to the ground. A survey undertaken as part of the action plan to protect government land has revealed 29 illegal structures so far. Officials said several of these were started during lockdown when GHMC was busy in COVID-19 related activities. Advanced machinery is being brought in to demolish these structures completely to the ground so that it will act as a deterrent to errant builders, officials said.
01 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘BJP should seek CBI probe’||Congress MP and TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy has demanded that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ask for a CBI inquiry into the Kaleshwaram project if it was sincere about corruption issues. Mr. Reddy said two breaches to the canals of Kondapochamma Sagar project within a month of its inauguration exposed the poor quality of construction and the corruption involved in it. “If this is the quality of work in the projects personally monitored by Chief Minister KCR one can imagine how horrible the situation would be otherwise,” he said. If breached canals of Kondapochamma project inundated some villages, the very thought of such breaches to Mallannasagar was devastating, he said.
01 July 2020||R. AvadhaniSIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Kondapochamma canal breaches, floods village||The villagers of Shivaru Venkatapur in Murkook mandal were caught by surprise in the wee hours of Tuesday, when a canal that carries water from Kondapochammasagar reservoir to Gandhamalla in Yadadri-Bhongir district breached inundating the village. The videos of Godavari water flooding the streets and houses posted by villagers went viral. “Water entered our house at about 6.30 a.m. All our household articles and stocks were damaged. Luckily we were all awake by that time and so nothing happened to us. What could have been the situation had it taken place at midnight?” a woman from the village told media persons. Some farmers claimed that their fields were submerged in the water. “There was no damage to houses except two houses where water entered. The officials immediately responded and stopped water release. Everything was cleared within few hours,” said T. Kanakaiah, MPTC. As a precautionary measure the police and revenue officials rushed to the village. The reason for the breach was not known. The water was reportedly released to the canal on June 24. Due to heavy rain late on Monday night more water reached the canal resulting in the breach, said Mr. Kanakaiah. A team of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders led by former Lok Sabha member Vivek, former Minister Vijaya Rama Rao and M Raghuandana Rao visited the village and interacted with farmers. They alleged that the quality of works were not up to the mark. The BJP delegation demanded a probe.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Feeling ANXIOUS? Don’t PANIC.||It’s quite normal for all of us to feel anxious now and then, more so when 1) confronted with a problem at work, 2) before taking a test, 3) before making an important decision, etc. People with Anxiety Disorders frequently have intense, excessive and persistent worry and fear about everyday situations. Anxiety Disorders usually involve sudden episodes of intense anxiety, fear or terror that last several minutes.  Panic Attacks , on the other hand, are different. Although anxiety is often accompanied by physical symptoms, such as a racing heart or churning of your stomach, a Panic Attack differs from anxiety symptoms in the intensity and duration of the symptoms. It typically reaches peak intensity in 10 minutes or less, and then begins to subside. Due to their intensity and tendency to mimic symptoms of heart disease, thyroid problems, breathing disorders, and other illnesses, people with panic disorder often rush to doctors thinking they have a life-threatening issue. A Panic Attack can occur unexpectedly while one is in an anxious state, or even while in a calm state. Although it is a defining characteristic of panic disorder, a Panic Attack is not uncommon for people to experience one in the context of other psychological disorders. For example, a person with Social Anxiety Disorder might have a Panic Attack before giving a talk at a conference; someone with Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder might have a Panic Attack when prevented from engaging in a ritual or compulsion.  Anxiety Disorders , on the other hand, are a group of mental illnesses, and the distress they cause can keep you from carrying on with your life normally. For people with Anxiety Disorders, worry and fear are constant and overwhelming, and can be disabling. But with treatment, many people can manage those feelings and get back to a fulfilling life.  Anxiety Disorder is a broad term that includes different conditions:  Panic Disorder: You feel terror that strikes at random; you may also sweat, have chest pain, and feel palpitations. Sometimes you may feel like you’re choking or having a heart attack.  Social Anxiety Disorder: You may feel overwhelming worry and self-consciousness about everyday social situations. You fixate about others judging you or on being embarrassed or ridiculed.  Specific Phobias: You have intense fear of a specific object or situation, such as heights or flying. The fear goes beyond what’s appropriate and may cause you to avoid ordinary situations.  Generalized Anxiety Disorder: You feel excessive, unrealistic worry and tension with little or no reason.  It isn’t entirely clear what causes Anxiety Disorders. Traumatic events seem to trigger them in some who are already prone to anxiety. Inherited traits also can be a contributory factor. It helps a lot to do some mild exercise daily. Exercise is a natural and effective anti-anxiety treatment. It relieves tension, reduces stress hormones, boosts feel-good chemicals such as serotonin and endorphins, and physically changes the brain in ways that make it less anxiety-prone and more resilient. To derive greater benefits, try being mindful during your workouts. Rather than spacing out or focusing on your thoughts during a workout, focus on how your body feels as you move. Mindfulness is the practice of purposely focusing your attention on the present moment – and accepting it without judgment. Another very important ingredient in mental health is a Healthy, Balanced Lifestyle . Eat in moderation and rest adequately. Cultivate a hobby or pastime that keeps your mind away from the factors that cause stress to it. Be optimistic and keep yourself from imagining the worst possible outcome from any situation. It has generally been observed that most fears imagined in the mind finally turn out to be unfounded when the situation actually works itself out in the end.
01 July 2020||Bhopal,||Chouhan govt. spying on our leaders: M.P. Congress||Madhya Pradesh Congress leaders on Tuesday accused the State government of tapping the phones of former Chief Minister Kamal Nath, his associates and several journalists, a charge denied by the BJP. While observing “Black Day” to mark 100 days of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government, Congress media in-charge Jitu Patwari said, “This government is spying on us. Former Chief Minister Kamal Nath, leaders and members of the State party committee, their phones are being tapped.” ‘Black day’ In view of such acts being committed by government officials, the former Minister asked “if it wasn’t a murder of democracy and a black day”. Appealing to Mr. Chouhan to work in the “right direction” and not “without direction,” he said, “The way you murdered democracy and bought legislators with the cooperation of the Prime Minister, you became the Chief Minister. But now you should work on how the State should be run. The Congress is ready to support you in this.” Mr. Patwari said the State government was scared and therefore targeting the Opposition. “Their phones are being kept on search. Phones of several journalists are also being kept on search.” Party MLA and former Minister Sajjan Singh Verma said it was being done in an unauthorised way. “There is no government order. There is no notice of the Centre. We want to warn the officials involved. We have your names...we will expose them.” He said the BJP had ‘toppled’ the Congress government as it “waived farm loans, created employment opportunities and tackled the land mafia”. Rejecting the allegation, BJP State media in-charge Lokendra Parashar said, “Those who’ve indulged in corruption and injustices can’t think beyond it. That’s why they are making such baseless remarks.”
01 July 2020||Dehradun,||Just shared trial results, says Patanjali||Replying to a notice sent by the Uttarakhand government, yoga guru Ramdev’s firm claimed that it has not promoted any kit to treat COVID-19 but only shared with the media the successful trial of a medicine. Patanjali Ayurved last week launched a drug called Coronil, claiming that it had cured within a week all COVID-19 patients who took part in a trial conducted at the privately-run National Institute of Medical Sciences in Jaipur. The claim triggered a row with the Union AYUSH Ministry telling the herbal products firm not to sell the drug till it has examined the issue. Uttarakhand’s Ayurveda department said the firm had only applied for a licence to manufacture an immunity booster, and not a cure for COVID-19. In its reply to the department’s notice, the Haridwar-based company appeared to backtrack from its claim of finding a cure against COVID-19.
01 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||U.P. plans door-to-door survey in Meerut division from July 2||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to conduct a door-to-door survey in six districts of the Meerut division from July 2 in the wake of increasing cases of COVID-19 in the area. During the drive, health department personnel would intensively trace people with Influenza-Like Illness and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) in containment zones and would map SARI patients in non-containment zones. Special focus would be on mapping vulnerable sections such as people with comorbid conditions, pregnant women and children below the age of 10. Extra ambulances Instructions have been given to district officials to make extra ambulances and hospital facilities available as the survey could result in a spurt of cases. The decision to undertake the 10-day survey that will be conducted in as well as outside containment zones was taken during a meeting in Lucknow conducted by U.P. Chief Secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari. Mr. Tiwari said the door-to-door identification of COVID-infected persons would be conducted in Meerut, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts as a pilot project. Later, the drive would be carried out in other districts as well.  ‘Like polio survey’ “It will be done on the lines of polio survey to contain COVID-19 by increasing the number of samples. The teams will conduct a door-to-door survey and samples of those found symptomatic would be sent for testing,” said Raj Kumar, Chief Medical Officer, Meerut. According to the Chief Secretary’s order, the district administrations of Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddh Nagar will have to conduct 1,000 tests through RT-PCR method and 3,000 tests through rapid antigen kits daily. For Meerut, a target of 1,000 tests through RT-PCR method and 2,000 tests through rapid antigen kits has been fixed. The region has seen a spurt in cases in the last few days. Ghaziabad reported 151 new cases on Tuesday. A day before, two senior PCS officers — Shailendra Kumar Singh, ADM (City) Ghaziabad and his wife Gunja Singh, SDM Jewar (in Gautam Buddh Nagar) — were tested positive. Both the officials were actively involved in the fight against COVID-19. According to a government release, Ghaziabad has 822 active cases while Gautam Buddh Nagar has 776 cases. The district reported 97 new cases on Tuesday. Meerut has 265 active cases, followed by Hapur (237), Bulandshahr (179), and Baghpat (69).
01 July 2020||Mumbai,||MERC directs power discoms to make billing transparent||Following reports of domestic power consumers receiving inflated bills this month, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has directed power companies to display transparency in its billing and resolve complaints. Shock and dismay Many consumers in Maharashtra including Bollywood actors had taken to Twitter to express shock over unexpectedly high electricity bills. “Taking stock of the rising number of consumer complaints related to exorbitant electricity bills, MERC has directed power companies to show transparency in its billing procedures and redress the consumer complaints immediately,” Mr. Thackeray said. State Power Minister Nitin Raut said consumers can opt to pay their bills in three instalments and those paying the entire bill amount will be given a 2% discount. Mr. Raut also directed Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (Mahadiscom) to start a public awareness campaign. He said, “Mahadiscom could not take meter readings on the spot due to the lockdown. As a result, bills for April and May were given based on the average bill in the previous months.” ‘Spike in consumption’ Mr. Raut said the inflated bills could be because of an increase in power consumption during the summer and more people working from home. “All family members are indoors for 24 hours. Naturally, it will lead to an increased use of electricity in homes,” he said. Mr. Raut also admitted that several people have complained of exorbitant bills despite being away in their home towns. “The government will take real time meter readings in such cases and if the complaint is found to be true, the extra amount paid will be deducted from future bills,” he said. On Monday, the MERC directed power distribution companies to look into the complaints. BEST, Tata Power, Adani Electricity supply power in Mumbai, while Mahadiscom provides electricity to the rest of the State.
01 July 2020||Mumbai,||Security stepped up at Taj hotels||The police on Tuesday tightened the security around Taj Mahal Palace hotel and Taj Lands End hotel after threat calls from a person claiming to be a member of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba terror outfit, an official said. The iconic Taj Mahal Palace hotel in Colaba was among the targets of Pakistani terrorists during the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks. The caller, who threatened to attack the hotels, claimed he was calling from Karachi in Pakistan, the police official said. “We are trying to ascertain from where were these calls made,” he said. Immediately after receiving the calls, the hotel management informed the police, and the security of the hotels was stepped up, the official said. Adequate police deployment has been made in the area around the hotels and entry and exit restricted on the roads leading to the hotel, he said.
01 July 2020||Mumbai,||Sudha Bharadwaj not entitled to bail: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has told the Bombay High Court that activist Sudha Bharadwaj, arrested in the Elgaar Parishad case, is trying to “take undue benefit” of the COVID-19 pandemic by seeking bail. In an affidavit submitted last week, the NIA urged the court to dismiss Ms. Bharadwaj’s interim bail plea. The agency said in its reply that Ms. Bharadwaj was not “entitled to any relief” even on the ground of COVID-19 as it had found “cogent evidence” that she was a “member of the banned organisation CPI (Maoist)”. Ms. Bharadwaj along with the other accused in the case was involved in “providing strategic inputs” for “furtherance of an armed rebellion”, the NIA said. She played an active role in planning violence that aimed at “destabilising” the current Union government, the probe agency claimed. Ms. Bharadwaj was being “duly attended” in prison and “provided all necessary medical assistance as and when required”, the investigative agency said.
01 July 2020||Mumbai,||New SPP in Palghar lynching case||Noted lawyer Satish Maneshinde has been appointed the special public prosecutor (SPP) in the Palghar lynching case. The advocate is known for defending actor Sanjay Dutt in the 1993 blasts case. Mr. Maneshinde told The Hindu: “I have just received the notification from the Law and Judiciary Department of the Maharashtra government.” The notification issued on June 26 by the joint secretary and legal advisor of the department states, “In exercise of the powers conferred under the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Government of Maharashtra appoints Satish L. Maneshinde as special public prosecutor for conducting cases in sessions court, Palghar, which arises out of cases registered at Kasa police station. His appointment is subject to the conditions of service laid down in the Maharashtra Law Officers (Appointment, Conditions of Service and Remuneration) Rules.”
01 July 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra tally nears 1.75 lakh mark||Maharashtra inched towards the 1.75 lakh mark on Tuesday, with the State recording 4,878 new COVID-19 cases and its tally rising to 1,74,761. The State reported 245 more fatalities, pushing its death toll to 7,855. Of these, 95 were reported in the last 48 hours and the remaining 150 from an earlier period, State health officials said. With a relatively low surge of 893 cases, Mumbai’s case tally touched 77,658 on Tuesday. With 36 more deaths, the city’s toll has risen to 4,556. Of the total cases in the city, 28,924 are active. A total of 13 fatalities were reported from Aurangabad, taking the district’s death toll to 256. Twelve deaths in Thane saw the district’s total death count rise to 410. Nine fatalities were reported from Pune district, as its death toll climbed to 752. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the State’s recovery rate stands at 52.02%, while its case fatality is 4.49%. A total of 1,951 patients were discharged on Tuesday, taking the State’s total number of recoveries to 90,911. Of the case load in the State, 75,979 (42%) are active cases. Pune district reported a surge of 637 cases as its tally soared 22,327, as per State health department figures. Of these, the number of active cases has breached the 10,000-mark to reach 10,305. As many as 11,270 persons have been discharged in the district. Surge continues Along with Mumbai and Pune, the surge in cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) continued unabated. Kalyan-Dombivli reported another massive spike of 435 cases, taking its total case tally to 7,503. The uptick in cases continued in Thane, with the district reporting over 550 new cases, pushing its tally to 14,645. Navi Mumbai reported 195 fresh cases, taking its total case tally to 7,872. Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar saw another bout of sharp spikes of 196 and 236 cases respectively to take their tallies to 3,592 and 4,729. Aurangabad reported a massive surge of 221 cases, with the district’s case load climbing to 5,328, with 2,723 among these being active cases. Dr. Awate said, “Till date, of 9,66,723 laboratory samples, 1,74,761 (18.07%) have tested positive. Nearly 23,000 samples were tested across the State on Tuesday.” He said 5,78,033 people across the State are in home quarantine and 38,866 are in institutional quarantine.
01 July 2020||Raina Assainar Navi Mumbai,||NMMC teacher in trouble for making TikTok videos||A teacher at a school run by the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) landed in trouble after her TikTok videos went viral and a social activist sent a legal notice to the civic body. Deepali Mutta, in her notice addressed to the NMMC Commissioner, said the English teacher of Classes IX and X at a school in Koparkhairane had made several objectionable videos. She also said that the school can be clearly seen in the background of the videos. In one video, she is seen correcting answer sheets of the board exams. In another video, a student asks the teacher where she had been and tells her they have been missing her. She then posts a text saying she was busy checking Class X answer sheets. There is also a video of the teacher imitating the facial expressions of actor Helen in one of her songs. The legal notice said the videos showed a blatant misuse of the school premises and urged the NMMC Commissioner to dismiss the teacher, failing which Ms. Mutta would approach the court. “We have initiated an inquiry and asked for an explanation on the teacher’s conduct. Depending on her reply, we will decide the course of action,” Deputy Municipal Commissioner (Education) Nitin Kale said. Teachers penalised The Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) has fined 76 Raigad zilla parishad school teachers for being absent during survey work. “Since March, the PMC staff have been working continuously and as the cases increased, we started facing staff crunch and hence ZP school teachers were asked to do the survey work,” Deputy Commissioner Jamir Lengarekar, PMC, said. Of the 323 teachers asked to do the work, 221 cited medical reasons and being above the age of 55 and their leave application was forwarded to the Education Department. Of the remaining 102, 76 remained absent and were fined Rs. 500 each.
01 July 2020||Shoumojit Banerjee Pune,||COVID-19 shadow on Ashadhi Ekadashi||With eight COVID-19 cases being reported from Pandharpur, the temple town will see a muted Ashadhi Ekadashi celebration on Wednesday. With cases continuing to rise in Pune, Satara and Solapur districts, the State government and district authorities had scrapped the annual palki procession this year in which lakhs of warkaris (devotees) undertake the wari (pilgrimage) on foot from Dehu and Alandi (in Pune district) to the Vitthal-Rukmini temple in Pandharpur. To ensure the continuation of this long-standing tradition, the padukas (footprints) of Saints Tukaram and Dnyaneshwar from Dehu and Alandi (in Pune) respectively were transported by special State transport buses on Tuesday. The garlanded buses, with a few warkaris, including descendants of the saints, set off from Pune to Pandharpur in the afternoon and reached Solapur in the evening. Route not revealed To dissuade warkari participation, the Pune district administration had earlier decided not to reveal the route of the convoy. In keeping with tradition, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will be reaching Pandharpur on Tuesday night to perform the puja early on Wednesday at Vitthal-Rukmini temple. Solapur is the worst-hit district in the Pune division, with more than 260 COVID-19 deaths and over 2,550 cases, of which over 730 are active ones. Stringent regulations As a number of areas near Vitthal-Rukmini temple premises have been designated as ‘containment zones’, police authorities and district administration officials will be stringently regulating Wednesday’s festivities. “Other than the Chief Minister, no elected representative from the district will be allowed near the temple premises. We are actively dissuading everybody from attempting to gather near the temple in the wake of the rising novel coronavirus cases,” said a police official. The then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis performed the puja in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2019. Following the Maratha quota agitation, he could not do so in 2018.  Other than the Chief Minister, no elected representative from the district will be allowed near the temple premises Police official
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘India should oppose annexation’||Calling on India to oppose Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s plans to go ahead with the annexation of about a third of West Bank territories with a possible vote on July 1, the Palestinian government said the move would end the effectiveness of any future negotiations in the conflict. “We need India to maintain its support to the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination and statehood,” Majdi El Khaldi, the Senior Diplomatic Advisor to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, told The Hindu . “We urge India to strongly oppose any unilateral actions and violations of international law in the Palestinian Territories, including the Israeli annexation of Palestinian lands by force,” he added. It is unclear whether the Israeli government will indeed go ahead with the vote on Wednesday, given deep differences between Mr. Netanyahu and his “alternate” PM and Defence Minister Benny Gantz, who has publicly said that battling the COVID-19 pandemic was a bigger priority for Israel at present. However Mr. Netanyahu said that the final decision would be made by him, not Mr. Gantz. The Ministry of External Affairs declined to comment on the issue, and the government has thus far issued no statement on Mr. Netanyahu’s stated plans, that were part of his election promises, to pass a Cabinet vote enacting sovereignty rights over the Jordan Valley, 132 Israeli settlements and other areas totalling about 30% the West Bank. The annexation is a part of US President Donald Trump’s “peace plan” authored by his advisor and son-in-law Jared Kushner. Under an agreement amongst partners in Israel’s ruling coalition, the enactment can proceed from July 1. PM Narendra Modi has spoken to Israeli PM Netanyahu three times in the past four months, mainly to discuss cooperation during the pandemic, but officials would not comment on whether the annexation issue had been raised between them. The officials suggested that India would wait and watch developments before reacting. In January, India had disapproved of the U.S.-Israel peace plan, reiterating India’s “consistent support for the Palestinian cause”. Palestinian Ambassador Adnan Abu Al-Haija said India, which has just won a two-year non-permanent seat at the UNSC beginning January 2021, would have an international role to play on the issue. “Israel’s termination of the possibility for a negotiated settlement will require States, including India, to rise to their legal and political responsibilities, especially members of the Security Council with due regard for their duty to ensure international peace and security,” Mr. Al-Haija said.
01 July 2020||COLOMBO,||India, Sri Lanka hold talks over debt||India is holding “close and constructive” discussions with Sri Lanka, on Colombo’s pending requests for rescheduling its debt repayment and for currency swap facilities under bilateral and SAARC arrangements, the Indian mission here said on Tuesday. Indian High Commissioner Gopal Baglay held discussions “at senior levels” in Colombo on Monday and Tuesday, the statement issued by the High Commission said, on taking forward ongoing discussions. Virtual talks The press release comes two days after The Hindu reported that ‘with India yet to respond on debt freeze request, Sri Lanka turns to China’ for further assistance. Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa had sought a moratorium on the debt owed by Colombo — totalling $960 million — during his New Delhi visit in February this year. The request “was under consideration”, officials in the Ministry of External Affairs had told The Hindu , adding that they were waiting to hear from Colombo on possible dates for the virtual talks New Delhi had suggested. “The matter [Sri Lanka’s requests] had been taken up at the leadership level and has been followed up by senior functionaries bilaterally,” the High Commission’s statement said on Tuesday, adding that India “remains committed to partner Sri Lanka closely” for the latter’s sustained economic recovery and shared prosperity in the post-COVID world. Economy under strain Sri Lanka’s mounting external debt was a concern even before the coronavirus pandemic, but its impact has aggravated the strain on the island’s nation’s economy that is saddled with loans — bilateral, multilateral and in the international money market — amounting to billions of dollars. This year alone, Sri Lanka is scheduled to repay $2.9 billion of its debt, which Colombo is reportedly trying to reschedule with bilateral partners. It is unclear how Sri Lanka will repay the apparently non-negotiable $1 billion international sovereign bond maturing this October. While economists and experts have been arguing that Sri Lanka must avoid resorting to further debt in this situation, Colombo appears to have few other options in hand. Sri Lanka is in talks with the IMF, from whom it sought a rapid financing instrument in April. Following the global pandemic, Beijing has pledged a loan of $500 million to help Colombo deal with its immediate impact. Sri Lanka already owes China about $5 billion. Further, upon Sri Lanka’s request, the China Development Bank (CDB) on Tuesday entered into a $140 million-facility agreement with the Bank of Ceylon, drawn under two tranches of $70 million each to help the State-owned bank cope amid the pandemic.
01 July 2020||Geneva,||UN rights chief slams virus response in China, Russia, U.S.||The UN rights chief on Tuesday said COVID-19 was being instrumentalised to silence free speech, citing China and Russia, while voicing alarm at statements in the U.S. that “deny the reality” of the virus. UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet pointed to Russia, China, Kosovo, Nicaragua among others, where “threats and intimidation against journalists, bloggers and civic activists, particularly at the local level, (were being used) with the apparent aim of discouraging criticism of the authorities' responses to COVID-19”. Ms. Bachelet also voiced concern about “severe restrictions on freedoms of expression” in Egypt and “excessive and arbitrary enforcement” of pandemic response measures in El Salvador. “Censorship and criminalisation of speech are likely to suppress crucial information needed to address the pandemic,” she told the 44th session of the UNHRC. The former Chilean president said it was vital for leaders to maintain “consistent, credible and fact-based communication” with citizens, praising South Korea's “open” approach to its pandemic response. “In contrast, in Belarus, Brazil, Burundi, Nicaragua, Tanzania and the U.S. — among others — I am concerned that statements that deny the reality of viral contagion, and increasing polarisation on key issues, may intensify the severity of the pandemic by undermining efforts to curb its spread,” she said.
01 July 2020||Washington,||No consensus on Russia bounties: White House||President Donald Trump was not briefed on reports that Russia offered bounties to Taliban-linked militias to kill U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan due to concern over the accuracy of the intelligence, a White House spokeswoman said Monday. “There is no consensus within the intelligence community on these allegations,” Kayleigh McEnany said. “In fact, there are dissenting opinions,” she added, denying the President had been briefed on the explosive claims. The New York Times report, citing anonymous officials, said Mr. Trump had been told about findings, which he has also denied. Both Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House of Representatives, and Chuck Schumer, the Senate minority leader, called for an urgent briefing on the media reports. Ms. McEnany said the briefing “will clear up a lot of the false reporting from The New York Times .” “The intelligence is verified before it reaches the President of the U.S. In this case it wasn’t verified,” she said. In a letter released earlier and addressed to John Ratcliffe, the director of National Intelligence, and CIA director Gina Haspel, Ms. Pelosi said, “The questions that arise are: was the President briefed, and if not, why not, and why was Congress not briefed.”
01 July 2020||Brussels,||EU opens borders to ‘safe’ countries||The European Union agreed on Tuesday to reopen its borders to 15 countries excluding the virus-stricken U.S., as the pandemic accelerated globally with more than 5,05,000 deaths worldwide. Europe’s reopening comes as countries struggle to revive economic activity while fending off new spikes of COVID-19, with hotspots still surging in Latin America and in the U.S. After days of negotiations, EU members finalised the list of countries whose health situation was deemed safe enough to allow residents to enter the bloc from July 1 — but the U.S. was notably excluded, along with Russia and Turkey.
01 July 2020||Yangon,||Myanmar finds soldiers guilty of atrocities||Three Myanmar military officers were found guilty by a court martial investigating atrocities against Rohingya Muslims in conflict-ridden Rakhine state, the army announced on Tuesday. The rare action comes as Myanmar faces charges of genocide at the United Nations’ top court over a brutal 2017 crackdown against the Rohingya. Some 7,50,000 Rohingya had fled to Bangladesh. Activists accused security forces of committing atrocities in various villages, including Gu Dar Pyin, where they say five shallow mass graves had been found.
01 July 2020||Caracas,||Caracas, June 30, 2020 (AFP) -||Venezuela President Nicolas Maduro on Monday gave the head of the EU mission in Caracas, Isabel Brilhante Pedrosa, 72 hours to leave the country after the bloc announced sanctions against 11 Venezuelan officials. “Who are they to try to impose themselves with threats?” he said. “We will sort it out in 72 hours. She will get a plane to leave, but we will arrange our things with the EU.”AFP
01 July 2020||Dudley,||Johnson vows ‘infrastructure revolution’ to reboot economy||Prime Minister Boris Johnson pledged on Tuesday to deliver an “infrastructure revolution” to help Britain build its way out of the economic devastation of the COVID-19 outbreak. He promised £1 billion for school repairs and a further £4 billion for “shovel-ready” projects from road maintenance to public transport in what he said was a new “infrastructure revolution” that will also build new homes.AFP
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||In ending stand-off, magnanimity must prevail||India’s oft-quoted mantra when it comes to international relations has been vasudhaiva kutumbakam (the earth is our only family). It is not in India’s DNA, so to speak, to demonise any country in its neighbourhood, including China, South Asia and South East Asia, all the way to Indonesia; that is because of long-standing civilisational ties. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke in Shanghai just five years ago, in 2015, he recounted to the Indian community living there how China’s President Xi Jinping took him to his native village in Xian province and showed him the book written by the seventh century Buddhist monk, Xuanzang, whose travels connected the birthplaces of both leaders. This was symbolic, he said of the bond between India and China in terms of aatmiata (soulful intimacy), nikatata (closeness) and bhaichaara (solidarity). There could not be more genuine and sincere affirmation of the spirit of friendship. Keep a cool head Presently, India is on the brink of regarding China as Enemy Number One. This has happened because of a bloody, hand-to-hand combat, without firearms, between Indian and Chinese soldiers in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh, which left 20 Indian soldiers dead and many more wounded. It may never be known how many Chinese soldiers died or were injured. These deaths on the frontier are a tragic break in an admirable record of avoiding casualties on both sides, despite face-offs on numerous occasions, along a long frontier between India and China. Both sides have accepted that the border between the two countries must be settled by agreement for the sake of peace. China has refused to recognise the McMahon line and the demarcation of boundaries done by the British colonial power. Pending a final settlement of the boundary, India and China signed the Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas, in 1993. Another similar agreement (Agreement on Confidence Building Measures in the Military Field along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas), signed in 1996 contains a specific clause related to the use of firearms by both sides: “Neither side shall open fire, cause bio-degradation, use hazardous chemicals, conduct blast operations or hunt with guns or explosives within two kilometres from the Line of Actual Control. This prohibition shall not apply to routine firing activities in small arms firing ranges.” Apparently, this provision was respected by both sides during the clash on June 15. Tragically, they fought much more barbarically, with nail-studded sticks, knives and stones, causing inhuman suffering. This incident threatens unofficial partition of territories that has stood the good test of time: Aksai Chin is claimed by India, but China, de facto, rules; China claims Arunachal Pradesh, but India, constitutionally, rules. Will it ever be possible to resolve the boundary dispute, which is at the root of the conflict? And if so, how? The dispute cannot be resolved by going to war. No war has permanent winners. No losers can willingly accept defeat. The only way to resolve disputes, in post-nuclear times, is through negotiations, as equal powers, with mutual respect. China’s record During his visit to India in April 1960, China’s Foreign Minister Zhou Enlai made a proposal to settle the boundary dispute. It was rejected by Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. In hindsight, history must record that as a lost opportunity which has had tragic consequences. Today, China regards itself as a superpower in the making, which implies that negotiation will be condescending, tantamount to “my way or the highway”. The more China feels beleaguered, the more intransigent it is likely to be in negotiations to resolve the border dispute with India. China has flexed its muscle. It refused to recognise the authority of the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA), established under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). The PCA rejected China’s legal claims. It ruled that China had breached its obligations under the Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea and Article 94 of UNCLOS concerning maritime safety, and that China violated international obligations. China has not paid any heed to international opinion that supports unimpeded commerce, freedom of navigation, overflights, and peaceful resolution of disputes in the South China Sea. The same hubris has made China more intolerant of infrastructure built by India, while it continues to build its own along that frontier. Weighing in on the options Should India counter China, tit for tat, by adopting a posture of aggression? Or should India redouble its diplomatic efforts to counter China’s intransigence with the support from Japan, Australia, the United States, Russia, and other countries, including those disputing China’s claims in the South China Sea? What must matter to India is whatever is good for its people. Focusing on strengthening military might, when the economy is suffering and COVID-19 is taking its toll, will not be wise. Nor is it wise to call for a boycott of Chinese imports. Sanctions and boycotts are justifiable only when there is strong moral justification. Boycott of South Africa during the Apartheid period was justified and it served its purpose in hastening South Africa’s turn to equality and democratic governance. Arguably, there is moral justification for sanctions against Israel if it expands its illegal settlements in the West Bank and Palestine territories. Moral outrage has been triggered by actions of regimes in South Africa and Israel. But India’s border dispute with China calls for peaceful resolution, not moral outrage. It is understandable, in the immediate aftermath of the sacrifice made by India’s soldiers, that nationalist ferment will come to fore. As has happened with other incidents when sovereignty seemed to have been transgressed, this one also will run its course. If India boycotts goods from China, it will hurt itself more and barely make a dent in China’s economic prospects. India is lauded as the pharmacy of the world because it is able to import essential raw materials from China. India’s sports goods exports are likewise dependent on imports from China. The world buys Chinese goods because their quality and price are compelling. It has been reported that Steve Jobs wanted to change the iPhone screen barely three days before its formal launch. China’s factory that assembled the phone for Apple mobilised its workforce to get the screens replaced in quick time. India should emulate China in its manufacturing practices and agility to adapt to international demand. There is little parity between India and China in trade terms; there is much more parity in military might, at present, compared to the 1960s. The home watch It is unfortunate that in many cities in India, people from the North-east, who have features resembling Chinese, have been ostracised. India must be on guard, in the aftermath of current tensions with China, not to unleash any kind of hostility against anyone, especially resident Chinese nationals. India must learn the hard lesson, which it did not in 1962, that warm and gushing expressions of friendship towards China will not stop hostilities; only pragmatic and shrewd diplomacy can do that. Oscillating to the opposite end and attacking China as the enemy is not wise. R. Sudarshan is Dean of the School of Government and Public Policy, O.P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat, Haryana. Previously, he was a policy adviser for Governance and Justice in the United Nations Development Programme
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Utilise MGNREGA to the fullest capacity||The role of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) as a lifeline for the working poor in rural India has been proved once again with the experience of the lockdown. In April and part of May, it was the absence of MGNREGA which accentuated rural distress. The Central government revised lockdown guidelines to allow MGNREGA work only from April 20, nearly a month after the nationwide lockdown was imposed, and released funds for it belatedly. But once the money reached the States, the results are evident. Whereas the number of households who got work in April 2020 was the lowest in several years at 95 lakh, in May the number went up to 3.05 crore. Till the third week of June, 2.84 crore households had got work, much higher when compared to the same months last year. With an average 23 days of work and a daily wage of Rs. 200, households who got work earned an average of Rs. 1,500 a month. Even though this is meagre, it shows the potential of MGNREGA to bring work and relief, provided it is further expanded. The Central government released Rs. 38,000 crore for MGNREGA work, of which 70% has already been utilised. With the return of migrant workers to their home States and with substantial numbers having completed the quarantine period, the demand for work is bound to increase. The remaining Rs. 8,000 crore fund available to the States is clearly insufficient. It is therefore essential for the Central government to release the second tranche without delay. Work provided to few Even in these months where there has been a welcome increase in workers who got work, it is extremely disturbing that as many as 1.82 crore workers who demanded work were turned back. According to figures available on the Ministry’s website, in this fiscal year, 8.07 crore workers demanded work, but work was provided only to 6.25 crore workers. Recently we heard the Prime Minister and the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister hardsell the record of employment provision in the State claiming that one crore jobs had been provided in a single day. This is certainly a novel interpretation of statistics. What is the nature of the work? Are they permanent jobs? Are they one-day jobs such as work on MGNREGA sites can be? In U.P., over one crore workers had applied for work under MGNREGA, but more than one third of them were turned back. Similarly in Bihar, which also has a large number of returning migrant workers, 12 lakh workers of the 41 lakh workers who applied were turned back. In spite of a legal provision of unemployment allowance not a single rupee in compensation has been paid. Now that the monsoons have set in, this issue becomes all the more relevant. During the rainy season even though demand is high, work provision is low. It is therefore essential for the Central government to ensure that States are provided with the funds to pay unemployment allowance to all workers demanding work.  In this context of the need to strengthen MGNREGA, the announcement of the Central government’s “new” scheme, the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan, to provide work to migrant workers in 116 selected districts, raises several questions. First, what is the criteria for selection? Why, for example, should the States of West Bengal and Chhattisgarh be omitted when reverse migration is particularly high in these States? Of the Rs. 4,794 crore spent between June 20 and June 28, Bihar received more than 50% of the fund. As noted earlier, Bihar has had a poor record of implementation of MGNREGA. The Bihar elections are scheduled for later this year. It will be a terrible travesty of justice if this scheme is designed to serve a narrow political purpose. Second, according to the list of 25 kinds of work available under this “scheme” it is clear that almost every single one of them is already covered under the convergence programmes of MGNREGA. What is the new “skill mapping” required for this since this work is already covered under MGNREGA? The nature of the work is manual work, mainly construction and earth work, including work to lay cables, ostensibly to take Internet connections to rural areas. It is unstated but clear that this will benefit private telecom companies. Most importantly, how will this new scheme impact the MGNREGA work in these selected districts? There is no clarity on this critical issue in the set of guidelines issued by the Ministry of Rural Development, the nodal Ministry for this scheme. Last year, under MGNREGA, in these 116 districts taken together, an average of just 43.7 workdays were created, which was lower than the national average of 50 days. This poor record of provision of work may have been one of the reasons for the higher rates of migration from these districts. Instead of new schemes why should MGNREGA not be expanded to give work to all workers? This is a legal right, whereas the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan has no such legal binding on the administration. The scheme is primarily meant for migrant workers in those districts where their numbers are 25,000 or more. That means in these selected districts women who comprise a smaller percentage of migrant workers will be largely excluded. However, women in these districts had a high demand for work reflected in the fact that the average of women working in MGNREGA in these districts last year was 53.5%, which was higher than the average for the rest of India. So unless this work in 116 districts is in addition to MGNREGA, women will suffer. Potential for MGNREGA MGNREGA should not be diluted in the name of the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan. The potential for MGNREGA to provide relief to the suffering of rural India should be utilised to its fullest capacity. This will also require a removal of the restriction of only one person per household to make every individual eligible. The cap of 100 days should be removed to expand it to at least 200 days. Unemployment allowance should be guaranteed for all those turned away from work. And importantly, the government must ensure the release of funds on an emergency basis. Brinda Karat is a member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) Polit Bureau and a former Rajya Sabha MP
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||PCR testing is a double-edged sword||The government has allowed SARS-CoV-2 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing in many government and private laboratories. In January there was one laboratory (National Institute of Virology, Pune) but today there are 1,000. Test validity depends on laboratory quality. Mechanisms to ensure internal quality control and external quality assessment are urgently required. The boon and bane of PCR testing are in its capacity to amplify even one viral gene segment in the sample to generate a detectable signal — a positive test; it is a boon because it accurately detects the presence of virus but a bane because it is prone to false negative and false positive results. Follow protocol When a laboratory handles several samples, cross-contamination must be avoided. During sample preparation for testing, if even one gene segment falls into the tube from the laboratory environment, it will be amplified and the test will be positive — but, false positive. It points to the lack of meticulous attention to protocol while processing samples, some with and others without the viral genes. A laboratory technician’s proficiency is integral to quality assurance. In reliable laboratories, a positive result means that the person whose sample was tested was indeed infected. For reliability, only laboratories under quality assurance should do testing. Ensure quality Here is an example. A conscientious professional in Vellore, Tamil Nadu, scrupulously practising personal protective procedures, had to get the mandatory PCR test to get an e-pass for an important meeting in a neighbouring city. The authorised laboratory for voluntary testing, a private laboratory in another town, sent a technician to his house to collect a nasopharyngeal swab. Two days later he gets a “positive for COVID-19” test report. The laboratory informed the health authorities who wanted him admitted in a COVID-19 quarantine centre, despite pleas for home isolation. With great difficulty he bought time for two days to get admitted in a reputed hospital for two tests on consecutive days, in the hospital’s nationally accredited lab. You can imagine his personal anxiety and his family’s anguish, apart from the expenses incurred. Both tests were negative; he returned home, missed his meeting, and lost faith in the epidemic management system. Had he been admitted in a COVID-19 quarantine centre, he might have been exposed to infected persons, the story turning tragic for no fault of his. The first test result was false positive, which should not occur in any quality-assured laboratory. The selection of private laboratories has not been careful. There have been newspaper reports recently of a private laboratory in Amritsar turning out four false positive PCR results in as many days. After selection, quality checks of laboratories have been found to be woefully inadequate. We wonder how many laboratories produce similar false positive results. How many of reported positive tests in asymptomatic subjects nationwide are false positives? And how many lead to a misfortune similar to that experienced by the gentleman in Vellore? There is urgent need to ensure quality assurance from all laboratories testing for the coronavirus infection. Erring laboratories must be disqualified at least until quality assurance is certified. A false negative PCR means that a person with infection was missed by the test, but that is in the very nature of PCR. The viral load is lower in the throat than in the nasopharynx. Hence throat swabs are falsely negative in 60% of tests and nasopharyngeal swabs in 30%, according to published studies. An incorrectly taken nasal swab may miss the virus altogether and lead to a false negative test. The relatively high frequency of false negative results leads to gross underestimation of the epidemic’s magnitude. Moreover, traced contacts with false negative tests will not be quarantined but allowed to spread the virus, augmenting the epidemic. Doctors should not be misled by false negative tests when COVID-19 is clinically diagnosed with specific criteria. The patient must be treated as COVID-19, and the PCR repeated. Globally, many patients with COVID-19 pneumonia who are PCR negative on the first swab have typical appearances of COVID-19 in a chest x-ray or CT scan. They turn PCR positive on repeat testing. Missing a diagnosis of COVID pneumonia just because of a negative PCR test is medical negligence. Terms and differences Contrary to the pervasive misconception that PCR alone diagnoses COVID-19, it detects only virus infection, not the disease. Most of the media report PCR positive persons incorrectly as cases. In medical parlance, case is “patient with disease”. PCR positive but asymptomatic subjects during contact tracing are infections, not cases. False PCR results highlight that blind faith in the laboratory test misleads the government, underestimates the real extent of spread and, at the individual level, it is a recipe for personal tragedy. When a false positive result is suspected, the doctor should alert the authorities, who in turn should get the subject re-tested in an accredited laboratory. In case of discrepancy, the laboratory concerned must be closed and checked for compliance with protocols and record-keeping. In order to avoid blind reliance on the PCR test result, clinical diagnosis by specific criteria, which is the only way to diagnose COVID, (D for disease), should be popularised among doctors. Whether or not a confirmatory PCR test is done depends on circumstances. During the rural wave of the epidemic, doctors should be confident to diagnose COVID-19 even without a PCR. If we fail to implement these correctly, we are rendering disservice to unsuspecting society and its members. M.S. Seshadri is retired Professor of Medical Endocrinology, Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore and now Medical Director, Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet, Tamil Nadu. T. Jacob John is retired Professor of Clinical Virology, CMC, Vellore and past President of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Making trade more digitised||India’s exports in April 2020 contracted by 60% year-on-year. There was a 37% fall in the twenty-foot equivalent units handled by the Jawaharlal Nehru Port in April 2020 as compared to April 2019. The steep decline in world trade lays bare the significance of a more digitised trading environment, with minimal manual touch points. With the pandemic, the slump in international trade is unpredictable. As countries slowly emerge out of this, new demand and supply chains will form, that will be located in countries that re-orient their existing trade structures. Upgradation, digitisation, automation Globally, digitisation of procedures and lower human intervention are the two major pillars that drive trade across borders. Post India’s ratification of the Trade Facilitation Agreement of the World Trade Organization in April 2016, reforms focused on infrastructural upgradation, digitisation and automation. Schemes such as Direct Port Entry and Direct Port Delivery, and the Radio Frequency Identification system and Single Window Interface for Facilitating Trade, were all aimed at reducing the time and cost of clearance of goods. The Port Community System was aimed at seamlessly integrating all maritime trade-related stakeholders on a single platform. And e-SANCHIT (e-Storage and computerised handling of indirect tax documents) was aimed at reducing human intervention. These and other interventions speak of the government’s focus on effective logistics and smooth export-import (EXIM) procedures at Indian borders. This resulted in continuous improvement in India’s Ease of Doing Business ranking, particularly in the ‘trading across borders’ parameter on which it ranked 68 in 2020. With the current crisis, ports across India demand a greater leap in trade facilitation measures to expedite the movement, release and clearance of goods. While different interventions of the government have positively developed the port ecosystem, there are still some gaps that need to be bridged. These are particularly with respect to the standardisation and coordination of processes across ports, and awareness and acceptability of new initiatives among the users which depends on the adaptability and ease of linkage between multiple systems. Gaps to be filled Some of the delay in moving to a paperless trade ecosystem can be attributed to gaps in the effective implementation of digital platforms. First, shortcomings in the functionality of the system and technical glitches result in limited use of the system or parallel use of hard copy. For example, the absence of a shipping line delivery order in customs and terminal systems results in usage of hard copy for cargo movement. Second, lack of connectivity/message exchanges between different stakeholders’ systems results in delayed cargo clearance. Third, there are many issues with respect to training and capacity building amongst the users, restricting the optimal utilisation of digital platforms. Like in the rest of the world, in India too the operations of multiple stakeholders in the logistics and trade ecosystem including customs brokers, shipping lines, freight forwarders, transport operators, port custodians, container freight stations and border management authorities have been restricted. This indicates the need to further augment the digital infrastructure in the trade ecosystem. With trade volumes contracting and economic indicators shrinking, the present crisis presents an opportunity to develop new systems and enhance existing platforms while at the same time changing the attitude of stakeholders on the ground. In the last two months, different guidelines have been issued by the government, focusing on measures to facilitate and expedite the clearance process so that it is more automated, online and paperless. While some immediate steps are needed to survive the crisis, it is imperative to work on a permanent road map which addresses some of the gaps highlighted. Enhanced integration of systems and coordination between them should ideally result in exchange of messages and sharing of input data between them on a real-time basis. Promoting use of a multi-stakeholder single platform like the Port Community System can streamline EXIM procedures, moving towards a digitally engaged and enhanced trading environment. These efforts will be instrumental towards improving India’s trading ecosystem and achieving the desired target of Ease of Doing Business (ranking under 50) set by the Prime Minister’s Office. The more digitised our trade facilitation infrastructure, the more immune we will be to future disruptions. Afaq Hussain is Director and Nikita Singla is Associate Director at Bureau of Research on Industry and Economic Fundamentals, Delhi. Views are personal
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Control, not delete||Citing concerns to both data security and national sovereignty, the Indian government on June 29 announced it would block 59 widely used apps, most linked to Chinese companies. These include the popular video-sharing social networking app TikTok, a mobile browser called UC Browser, and a file-sharing app called SHAREit. What is common to all three is their wide user base in India, with each claiming more than 100 million monthly active users, and their origins in China. Explaining the ban, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology cited “the emergent nature of threats” posed by the apps and “information available” that they are engaged in activities “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. The apps, according to the Ministry, had been reported for “stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorized manner to servers which have locations outside India”, which “impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India”. From the perspective of data security and privacy, there is indeed a strong case to be made to more strictly regulate apps that handle vast amounts of user data. Such a move was surely long overdue. But the government might have done the right thing for the wrong reasons. The timing of the move, coupled with the fact that it has chosen to block the apps outright, rather than ensure they were complying with the law, suggests the ban is less motivated by privacy concerns than about sending a message to China amid the tensions along the border. After all, privacy and data security concerns are not limited only to Chinese apps. Concerns about many of these apps are hardly new, and the move to block them comes after these apps had already amassed hundreds of millions of users in India. If sending a message about China is the motivation, the ban is more signalling than substance. It may help the government show the public it is taking China on, even if it will have no impact on deterring Chinese behaviour on the border, which will require a tough diplomatic and military response. The tensions on the border, as well as the COVID-19 pandemic, have ignited a much-needed debate on India’s economic dependencies on China. India remains reliant on Chinese products in several critical and strategically sensitive sectors, from semiconductors and active pharmaceutical ingredients to the telecom sector, where Chinese vendors are involved not only in India’s 4G network but in on-going 5G trials as well. India faces tough choices going forward in dealing with its deep economic embrace of China. Hitting the delete button on social media and gaming apps barely scratches the surface of the problem.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||States hold the key||The Home Ministry’s orders relaxing the lockdown in the Unlock 2 phase until July 31 provides for a wider resumption of activity in areas other than containment zones, while retaining, appropriately, the prohibition on mass gatherings. After the first phase of the national lockdown, the handling of the pandemic, crucially testing, tracing, quarantining and treating sicker patients to reduce infection spread and mortality, has come to depend on the capacity of individual States. India’s current case total, including 3,47,326 people who recovered and 17,403 who died, is in excess of half-a-million. With no prediction for when COVID-19 could peak, the latest announcement casts a heavy responsibility on the States. They are, of course, empowered to impose additional restrictions outside containment zones without impeding inter- and intra-State movement of people and goods. Some of them have learnt that community-level monitoring of influenza-like fever and respiratory illness and testing in a focused manner shows higher positivity rates; good serological testing in containment zones would add insight on the overall state of infections. Such fine-tuning of strategies, together with access to testing where indicated, will be crucial in the unlock phases. States must also realise that more activity could bring more patients to hospitals, which are already stretched in terms of fatigued health staff and available beds. Targeted lockdowns for smaller areas, and measures to encourage healthy behaviour hold the key to lower the incidence of cases. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal with a large caseload have extended their lockdown until July 31, a period that should be used to distribute masks to all residents, and ensure that the message of face-covering and distancing leads to full compliance. Getting infection spread under control early should make it possible for the Centre to put in place a good system to handle domestic emergency travel, and facilitate more inward and outbound movement of stranded individuals. Several senior citizens have been caught abroad with inadequate access to health care and drugs due to the pandemic, especially in the U.S. Workers too are trapped in many countries. Within India, regulations that do not aid working from home need to be modified: they treat electronic equipment as non-essential and unavailable from e-commerce channels because of delivery restrictions in some cities. Self-certification for bank accounts has become due in the new financial year and should be postponed or handled online. Though the Centre has extended the provision of free foodgrain to 80 crore people for five more months, the quantum of rations at five kilos of grain and one kilo of pulses falls short of what families need in a month. In coming weeks, these social imperatives need to be addressed, while undertaking the formidable task of halting the upward trajectory of infections and deaths.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Reviving SAARC to deal with China||As India-China border tensions continue to fester, a hegemonic China, as part of its global expansionism, is chipping away at India’s interests in South Asia. This should be a major cause for concern for New Delhi. China’s proximity to Pakistan is well known. Nepal is moving closer to China for ideational and material reasons. China is wooing Bangladesh by offering tariff exemption for 97% of Bangladeshi products, and has intensified its ties with Sri Lanka through massive investments. According to a Brookings India study, most South Asian nations are now largely dependent on China for imports despite geographical proximity to India. Reinvigorating SAARC Several foreign policy experts argue that India’s strategic dealing with China has to begin with South Asia. In this regard, it is important to reinvigorate SAARC, which has been in the doldrums since 2014. In the last few years, due to increasing animosity with Pakistan, India’s political interest in SAARC dipped significantly. India has been trying hard to isolate Pakistan internationally for its role in promoting terrorism in India. However, as Professor S.D. Muni argues, Pakistan is not facing any isolation internationally. India started investing in other regional instruments, such as BIMSTEC, as an alternative to SAARC. However, BIMSTEC cannot replace SAARC for reasons such as lack of a common identity and history among all BIMSTEC members. Moreover, BIMSTEC’s focus is on the Bay of Bengal region, thus making it an inappropriate forum to engage all South Asian nations. One way to infuse life in SAARC is to revive the process of South Asian economic integration. South Asia is one of the least integrated regions in the world with intra-regional trade teetering at barely 5% of total South Asian trade, compared to 25% of intra-regional trade in the ASEAN region. While South Asian countries have signed trade treaties, the lack of political will and trust deficit has prevented any meaningful movement. According to the World Bank, trade in South Asia stands at $23 billion of an estimated value of $67 billion. India should take the lead and work with its neighbours to slash the tariff and non-tariff barriers. There’s a need to resuscitate the negotiations on a SAARC investment treaty, pending since 2007. According to the UN Conference on Trade and Development, intra-ASEAN investments constitute around 19% of the total investments in the region. The SAARC region can likewise benefit from higher intra-SAARC investment flows. Deeper regional economic integration will create greater interdependence with India acquiring the central role, which, in turn, would serve India’s strategic interests too. Domestic challenges There are two major domestic challenges that India faces in revitalising SAARC. First, to reap political dividends at home, and for ideological reasons, there has been an unrelenting top-dressing of anti-Pakistan rhetoric and Islamophobia on the Indian soil. There’s also a recurrent use of the ‘Bangladeshi migrant’ rhetoric. Such majoritarian politics influences foreign policy in undesirable ways. It dents India’s soft power of being a liberal and secular democracy, which gives moral legitimacy to India’s leadership in the region. This divisive domestic politics fuels an anti-India sentiment in India’s neighbourhood. Second, the economic vision of the Modi government remains convoluted. It’s unclear what the slogans of atma nirbharta (self-reliance) and ‘vocal for local’ mean. The government’s economic advisers contend that this does not mean autarky. On the other hand, the Prime Minister and his Ministers are stating that India needs to cut down its dependence on imports, thus signalling a return to the obsolete economic philosophy of import substitution. If this marks sliding back to protectionism, one is unsure if India will be interested in deepening South Asian economic integration. Prime Minister Narendra Modi did well by reaching out to SAARC leaders earlier this year, but such flash-in-the-pan moments won’t help without sustained engagement. Prabhash Ranjan is Senior Assistant Professor of Law, South Asian University, New Delhi. Views are personal
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||100 mini-supermarkets in Fourth Plan||Mr. Ujjal Singh, Governor of Tamil Nadu, said here to-day [Coimbatore, June 30] that there was a plan to start 100 mini-supermarkets at smaller centres in the State during the Fourth Plan period and that sanction had already been accorded for starting 17 such mini-supermarkets at taluk centres and towns. The Governor who was inaugurating the third anniversary of “Chinthamani”, the co-operative supermarket in Coimbatore, said that if the co-operative movement was to prosper along right lines and benefit the people at large, inefficiency and corruption should be stamped out. Special training must be imparted to employees of cooperative institutions in managerial skill, salesmanship and business techniques so that they could have a viable co-operative sector as an integral organisational part of the strategy for planned and rapid economic development of the country. Mr. Ujjal Singh said that the co-operative movement was based on the principle of a classless society where there would be no room for exploitation by those who were occupying positions of advantage.
01 July 2020||Mumbai,||Current account sees a small surplus as trade deficit shrinks||India recorded a current account surplus of $0.6 billion, or 0.1% of GDP, for the January-March quarter, against a deficit of $4.6 billion, or 0.7% of GDP in the year-ago period, the Reserve Bank said on Tuesday. For the fiscal year 2019-20, the current account deficit narrowed to 0.9% of the GDP, compared with 2.1% in FY2018-19, the central bank said. Lower trade deficit was one of the prime reasons for the improvement in the current account balances both for the March quarter as well as for the whole fiscal year. The current account balances, which represent the net of the country’s export and imports of goods and services and also payments made to foreign investors or inflows from them, are considered as an important indicator of a country’s external sector. The Reserve Bank said the surplus in the current account in the March quarter was primarily on account of a lower trade deficit at $35 billion and a sharp rise in net invisible receipts at $35.6 billion as compared with the corresponding period of last year. The net services receipts increased to $22 billion in March quarter as against the year earlier’s $21.3 billion on the back of a rise in net earnings from computer and travel services on a year-on-year basis, the RBI said. Private transfer receipts, mainly representing remittances by Indians employed overseas, increased 14.8% to $20.6 billion for the reporting quarter, the RBI said. The net outgo from the primary income account, which primarily reflects the net overseas investment income payments, decreased to $4.8 billion from $6.9 billion a year ago, the RBI said.  Net services receipts rose to $22 billion on the back of a rise in net earnings from computer and travel services
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. State Dept. says its 5G list not for promoting any firms||Days after U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo issued a statement listing telecom companies that were only allowing ‘trusted vendors’ on their 5G networks (specifically, not allowing China’s Huawei), the State Department clarified that it does not promote companies. Mr. Pompeo’s statement had included Reliance’s Jio and the release coincided with Indian regulators approving a Rs. 43,574 crore investment deal between Facebook and Jio Platforms. Monday’s clarification came in response to a question from The Hindu on whether the listing of more than 10 companies (‘Clean Telcos’) by Mr. Pompeo was consistent with policy, and if there was a link with the Facebook-Jio deal being approved. “The State Department does not promote companies,” a State department spokesperson said. “‘Clean Telcos’ simply reflects publicly available information regarding those telecommunications companies’ selection of trusted 5G vendors. “Countries, companies, and citizens need to be able to trust that 5G equipment, software, and service companies will not threaten national security, privacy, economic sovereignty, intellectual property, or human rights. We urge our allies and partners to adopt strong, risk-based 5G security measures that exclude untrusted, high-risk suppliers” from their 5G networks, the spokesperson added. The U.S. has placed restrictions on its companies selling technology to Huawei and it has been urging other countries — including India — to ban Huawei from its 5G network. India banned 59 Chinese mobile phone apps including TikTok and Wechat on Monday, a move seen as retaliation for the death of 20 soldiers in a border clash with China on June 15.
01 July 2020||Mumbai,||Loan recasts to only defer problem, not solve it: S&P||Amid reports of the RBI mulling restructuring of loans, global rating agency S&P on Tuesday said that a loan recast would only defer recognition of NPAs and not solve the problem. The agency also said operational outages and the recession because of the pandemic will have a deeper and longer impact on lenders than previously assumed, and estimated the gross non-performing assets ratio to rise up to 14% in FY21 from the 8.5% in FY20. Recovery to take longer “The COVID-19 pandemic may set back the recovery of India’s banking sector by years, which could hit credit flows and, ultimately, the economy,” the agency said. The pandemic has led to prolonged lockdowns and a chilling of economic activity, forcing the RBI to declare a six-month voluntary moratorium on loan repayments till September. “... restructuring may not resolve the problem. It may just defer NPL (non performing loans) recognition, as it did a few years ago,” the agency said. It pointed out that in the past, rampant restructuring had led the RBI to come up with an asset quality review and withdrew forbearance on the majority of restructured loans, leading to exceptionally high credit costs on banks. In its base case, the agency expects slippages or the addition to the NPAs to come at 6% during the fiscal. If the RBI allows for restructuring of loans, it may reduce the loan slippages this fiscal, it noted. Loan recoveries will be set back by years because of the COVID-19 pandemic, which will lead to a spike in the industry’s non-performing assets (NPAs) ratio, it said. The NPAs of Indian banks will shoot-up to 13-14% at the end of FY21, up from the 8.5% in FY20, Standard & Poor’s credit analyst Deepali Seth-Chhabria said. ‘Resolution will be slow’ Resolution of stressed or bad-debt situations will likely unfold slowly, which will leave banks saddled with a huge stock of bad loans next year as well, the agency said, estimating an improvement of only 1 percentage point in the NPA ratio in FY22. According to its credit analyst Geeta Chugh, non-bank financial companies will be worse hit than banks because of lending to weaker sections, reliance on wholesale funding, and liquidity difficulties because of a higher proportion of borrowers opting for default. The agency said NPAs had been reducing over the past 18 months, after hitting a peak of 11.6% in March 2018, when the RBI had undertaken an exhaustive asset quality review leading to emergence of high amounts of hidden stress coming out. “Businesses’ operational outages and the recession will have a deeper and longer effect on lenders than we previously assumed,” it said. From a sectoral perspective, it said airlines, hotels, malls, multiplexes, restaurants, and retail may see a significant loss of revenue and profits due to the outbreak, while highly leveraged sectors like real estate developers, telecom companies and power firms may remain a source of increased bad debt, it said.
01 July 2020||MUMBAI,||L&T despatches cryostat lid for $20 billion global fusion project||Engineering and construction giant Larsen & Toubro (L&T) said it has achieved a major milestone under ‘Make in India’ initiative by building a cryostat for the $20-billion global fusion project being built in France. The final assembly, or top lid sectors of the cryostat, a key part of the world’s largest nuclear fusion reactor being built in France, were despatched on Tuesday from the company’s Hazira manufacturing complex in Surat district of Gujarat. In 2012, Larsen & Toubro (L&T) was chosen by ITER-India to manufacture and install cryostat — a vacuum pressure vessel made of 3,850 tonnes of stainless steel. L&T Group chairman A.M. Naik termed it a “moment of pride for India and L&T.” The firm had already delivered the base section, the lower cylinder and the upper cylinder for the cryostat. The cryostat’s function is to provide cooling to the fusion reactor and keep very high temperatures at its core under control. Innovative techniques L&T CEO and MD S.N. Subrahmanyan said the company had used innovative and digital manufacturing techniques to ensure uninterrupted supply of high-precision assemblies to ITER. “This will further pave way for the installation of cryostat at the project site in France and eventually lead to the demonstration of large-scale feasibility of fusion power,” he said.  (With PTI inputs)
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Banks sanction Rs. 1 lakh-cr. loans to 30 lakh MSMEs||The Finance Ministry on Tuesday said banks have sanctioned more than Rs. 1 lakh-crore loans under the Rs. 3-lakh crore Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) for the MSME sector reeling under COVID-19-induced economic slowdown. As much as Rs. 45,860 crore was disbursed under the 100% ECLGS for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) till June 26, it said. The scheme is the biggest fiscal component of the Rs. 20-lakh crore ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month. The latest number on ECLGS, as released by the Finance Ministry, comprises all the 12 public sector banks (PSBs), 20 private sector banks and eight NBFCs. “Under the 100 per cent ECLGS backed by a government guarantee, banks from public and private sectors have sanctioned loans worth over Rs 1 lakh crore as of June 26, 2020, of which more than Rs 45,000 crore has already been disbursed,” the finance ministry said in a statement. This would help more than 30 lakh MSME units and other businesses as they restart operations post the lockdown, it said. PSBs have sanctioned loans worth Rs. 57,525.47 crore whereas the private sector lenders have sanctioned Rs. 44,335.52 crore under the ECLGS, which started on June 1, it said. As on June 26, the PSBs have disbursed Rs. 29,232 crore and private sector peers Rs. 16,628 crore. The top lenders under the scheme are State Bank of India, Bank of Baroda, Punjab National Bank, Canara Bank and HDFC Bank, it added. Market leader SBI had sanctioned Rs. 19,593 crore and disbursed Rs. 12,026 crore as on June 26. It is followed by Bank of Baroda with sanctions at Rs. 7,273 crore and disbursement at Rs. 2,695 crore. State-wise, business units of Maharashtra have got the highest cumulative sanction of Rs. 6,179 crore from banks, while disbursement was to the tune of Rs. 2,774 crore at the end of June 26.
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||Govt.’s liabilities rise to Rs. 94.6 lakh cr. in Jan.-Mar.||The government’s total liabilities increased 0.8% to Rs. 94.62 lakh crore at March-end 2020 compared with the preceding quarter, a Finance Ministry report said on Tuesday. Public debt accounted for 90.9% of total outstanding liabilities as on March 31, 2020, the quarterly report on Public Debt Management said. “Total liabilities [including liabilities under ‘Public Account’] of the government, as per provisional data, increased to Rs. 94,62,265 crore at end-March 2020 from Rs. 93,89,267 crore at end-December 2019,” it said. As per the report, the weighted average yield of primary issuances moderated further to 6.7% during the March quarter from 6.86% in October-December. The proportion of debt (dated securities) maturing in less than one year was lower at 3.9% at end-March 2020.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||ONGC reports first-ever quarterly loss||State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC) on Tuesday reported its first-ever quarterly loss after it took an impairment on the slump in oil and gas prices. India’s top oil and gas producer reported a Rs. 3,098-crore loss in the January-March quarter compared with a profit of Rs. 4,240 crore in the same period a year back. Chairman and managing director Shashi Shanker said ONGC booked an impairment loss of Rs. 4,899 crore in the fourth quarter of 2019-20, reflecting valuation of the firm’s assets after a fall in crude oil prices. But for the impairment, the company would have booked a profit. An impairment loss is a recognised reduction in the carrying amount of an asset that is triggered by a decline in its fair value. The same reason also led to the company seeing FY20 net profit halving to Rs. 13,445 crore from Rs. 26,765 crore. Revenue in the fourth quarter fell to Rs. 21,456 crore from the Rs. 26,759 crore.  Mr. Shanker said overseas arm ONGC Videsh Ltd., too, saw its net profit for FY20 fall to Rs. 454 crore from Rs. 1,682 crore after it also took an impairment loss of about Rs. 3,000 crore.
01 July 2020||Chennai,||‘COVID claims 3 times higher than average’||Charges for treatment for COVID-19 vary widely, resulting in higher insurance claims and efforts are on to standardise the treatment rates, according to an insurance company official. The General Insurance Council is trying to bring in standardisation of COVID-19-related treatment rates, said S.S. Gopalarathnam, who laid down office as MD of Chola MS General Insurance Co. on Tuesday. Responding to a query while talking to reporters, he said, “Covid-related claims under normal health insurance come to about Rs. 1.8 lakh on average while other claims are in the region of Rs. 45,000.” He also said the pandemic would lead to a contraction of up to 2.5% in the general insurance business for FY21. “In the first quarter, the industry witnessed a contraction of 12-13% in sales whereas Chola MS General Insurance saw a 15% contraction following the lockdown, he said. Mr. Gopalarathnam will be succeeded by V. Suryanarayanan — currently president and COO — on July 1. Mr. Gopalarathnam said the second quarter would be better than the first, with the company expecting flat growth in the second quarter.
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||Uniform stamp duty for deals in securities||The Finance Ministry on Tuesday said States will collect stamp duty at a uniform rate on transactions of shares, debentures and other securities from July 1. The provisions of the amended Indian Stamp Act, 1899, will come into effect from Wednesday. With this, the stamp duty will have to be paid by either the buyer or the seller of a financial security, as against the current practice of levying the duty on both. The present system of collection of stamp duty on securities market transactions led to multiple rates for the same instrument, resulting in multiple incidences of duty.
01 July 2020||Mumbai,||Mondelez forays into cakes||Mondelez India with snacking brands such as Cadbury Dairy Milk, Cadbury Bournvita and Oreo has forayed into the cakes category with the introduction of Cadbury Chocobakes Choc Layered Cakes in India. The category is estimated to be worth Rs. 2,000 crore and growing at 18% CAGR. Without disclosing the targeted revenue, company officials said their objective was to grow faster than the market growth.
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||BoB plans to raise Rs 2,000 cr via bonds||State-owned Bank of Baroda (BoB) said it will mop up Rs. 2,000 crore by issuing bonds to fund its growth plans. ”... Capital Raising Committee of our bank has approved the issuance of Basel III- compliant additional tier I bonds for an aggregate total issue size not exceeding Rs. 2,000 crore in single or multiple tranches,” BoB said. BoB had reported a standalone net profit of Rs. 506.59 crore for the fourth quarter ended March (Rs. 991.37 crore).PTI
01 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Swiggy, ICICI Bank in pact for digital wallet||Swiggy, an on-demand delivery platform, has launched its own digital wallet ‘Swiggy Money’ to enable a ‘single-click checkout experience’ on its platform. The full-fledged digital wallet, in partnership with ICICI Bank, will enable Swiggy’s customers to store money and be used for all food orders on the platform. If the Swiggy customer is an existing ICICI Bank customer, he/she can instantly start using the wallet, according to a release.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Coaches facing a lot of hardship||With the coronavirus holding sway, the sports industry in the country is struggling to breathe. Raj Hazarika, who runs many sports academies in the National Capital Region, and has submitted a petition to the Union Sports Minister to support such institutes in this moment of crisis, brings to the fore the plight of many sports professionals. Broken our backs “The situation has broken our backs,” says Hazarika. “We have zero income. Several families depend on us. We have opened our centres with government permission, and follow all hygiene norms. Yet, there is no inflow. Due to the rising number of cases, people are afraid to step out. Therefore income is almost nil.” Hazarika feels schemes like collateral-free loans can help sports professionals tide over the tough phase and stick to their chosen sports careers. “Some of the coaches who went back home have refused to return to work in the field of sports. E. Satyaraj, a reputed tennis coach from Chennai, is now running a South Indian food cart in Kanpur,” says Hazarika. Aman Dev, a tennis coach from Kolkata, works in a grocery shop while Nazim Ul Islam, a tennis coach from Delhi, has fallen back on his polytechnic qualification to become a refrigerator and air-conditioning mechanic. The list gets longer. “K. Ramandeep, a former junior India player and a full-time coach with FC Barcelona Football School in India, has gone back to farming in Jalandhar. Siddharth Dalal, who was head coach of the Junior NBA India team two years ago, is supplying biscuits to grocery shops,” says Hazarika. Another qualified basketball coach from Rajasthan, Vikram Singh, drives a ‘tuk-tuk’ in his hometown. The pulse of Indian sports is feeble; give it the required life support, pleads Hazarika.
01 July 2020||Hyderabad,||I never dreamt of playing in the Olympic Games, says Hamid||At 80, he has every reason to look back with a sense of contentment. S.H. Hamid, who represented India in the 1960 Olympics, takes pride in being different from other football Olympians from the city — on and off the field. Outspoken and prone to outbursts, Hamid didn’t care about what others thought of him. And he was one of the very few who didn’t fancy the then famous Kolkata leagues. “Yes, somehow I didn’t like playing on the slushy outfields of the maidans there. That was the reason why I moved over to Mumbai after just a couple of seasons in Kolkata,” Hamid said in a chat with The Hindu , even as he suggested it was suffocating to stay at home for so long because of the lockdown. A privilege Recalling his playing days, he said: “It was a privilege to play under the great P.K. Banerjee and alongside other greats like Chuni Goswami and Jarnail Singh. I am grateful to the great Rahim saab [legendary national coach S.A. Rahim]. “Honestly, I never dreamt of playing in the Olympics. I remember watching the 1957 senior Nationals from the stands and then playing for the State in the next edition. “This was possible thanks to Hyderabad Sporting and Hyderabad City Police for which I was a guest player for some time. I could showcase my skills and made rapid progress in the domestic circuit to make an impact and merit attention,” he said. “We learnt the game the hard way and I was coached to be good in all three positions — left-in, striker and right-in. Tell me, how many modern-day footballers can do that,” said Hamid, a great admirer of the legendary Pele. True to his character and reputation, this great footballer has no regrets. “I lead a happy life with no complaints, except feeling sad at the state of Hyderabad football.”
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The July dream team, with Sunil Gavaskar and M.S. Dhoni||In one of the closing chapters of his classic The Art of Cricket , Don Bradman writes about ‘The Ideal Eleven’. For those who believe that the great Australian was merely a run machine, a creature not of this world and somehow lacking in the weaknesses that make us human, here’s proof that he was one of us after all. Like fans everywhere, he too understood the “fun trying to pick the best XI”, as he says, and suggests XIs made of players with a specific number of letters in their names or those whose names begin with a particular letter of the alphabet. It is a game most fans, from seven to 70 play. It leads to arguments, exposes biases, and proves the game of cricket is not limited to the field of play. As the former Australian Prime Minister and cricket fanatic Robert Menzies said, in summer we play cricket and in winter we read about it. For ‘in winter’, read ‘during pandemics’ and you wouldn’t be too far off the mark. So, as a new month begins here’s a question: Of the 12 teams possible, is the July XI — made up of cricketers born in July — the strongest? It might well be. We speak here only of Indian cricket, but the concept can be widened to include other teams, and perhaps even a ‘World XI’ (W.G. Grace and Allan Border, for instance, were born in July). Here’s July XI, with an additional 12th man. If you think any of the other teams can come close, please feel free to send in your choices. Successful opening pair Opening the batting is one of India’s most successful pairs, Sunil Gavaskar and Chetan Chauhan, who, when the latter retired, were statistically the third best behind Simpson-Lawry and Hobbs-Sutcliffe. Till Virender Sehwag changed the grammar of opening batsmanship, this was the textbook pair. Sound, risk-averse, knowing that their job was to keep the bowlers from getting at the rest of the batsmen for as long as possible. Till Shane Warne overtook the mark, Chauhan had scored the most runs in Tests without a century. Gavaskar’s record is too well known to bear repetition here, but suffice to say he is an automatic choice at the top in any all-time India XI, and a contender for an all-time Earth XI too. At three would be Sanjay Manjrekar, to be followed by Sourav Ganguly and Chandu Borde. That’s a lot of runs, a lot of experience and a lot of range. Both Ganguly and Borde have led India, and Borde, before his shoulder gave out was a top leg-spinner too. V. Subramanya comes in at No. 6. The former Karnataka captain, hard-hitting batsman and brilliant fielder turns 84 this month. Borde and Subramanya toured both England and Australia under Tiger Pataudi, Borde leading the team in Adelaide when Tiger was injured. The all-rounders’ slots are taken by G.S. Ramchand and Mahendra Singh Dhoni, two more men who led India, Ramchand to the first-ever win against Australia at Kanpur in 1959. He was a handsome striker of the ball and opened the bowling, besides, once claiming six for 49 in a Test in Pakistan. Dhoni is, well, Dhoni. Among the spinners in the fray is off-spinner Ghulam Ahmed, who, with Vinoo Mankad and Subhash Gupte, became the harbinger of many great Indian spin trios. With Harbhajan Singh, India’s most successful off-spinner (400-plus Test wickets), also born in July, one slot is his by right. Venkatapathy Raju, left-arm spinner, comes into the reckoning as does Chandu Sarwate, the fingerprint expert, who mixed off breaks and leg breaks. But Sarwate is best known for a century at number 10 which, in partnership with Shute Banerjee’s century at 11, led to a last-wicket stand of 249 runs in a match against Surrey. Soon he was opening the batting for India against Lindwall and Miller in Australia! Raju gets in on the strength of his 93 wickets from 28 Tests. Medium-pacers in the long list include Roger Binny, Munaf Patel, Debashish Mohanty and Vasant Ranjane (who began his First Class career with nine for 35 and a hat-trick). Munaf was the quickest of the lot, but Binny was the steadiest, and his batting credentials were far superior. Funnily enough, though he was seen as a batsman who could bowl in domestic cricket, he was a bowler who could bat in international cricket. He even opened the batting with Gavaskar. So there you have the July team: Gavaskar, Chauhan, Sanjay Manjrekar, Ganguly, Borde, Subramanya, Dhoni, Ramchand, Binny, Harbhajan, Raju, Munaf. Five of the team captained India, but I would hand the honour to Subramanya, possibly the finest captain never to have led the country. Selectors are allowed the occasional surprise!
01 July 2020||Mumbai,||Finch in awe of Kohli’s consistency||The weight of expectations in a cricket-mad country like India is huge, but Virat Kohli has done an exceptional job leading the side, says Australia’s limited-overs skipper Aaron Finch. “Every player, regardless of who it is, has a bad series. But very very rarely do you see Kohli, (Steve) Smith, even going back (Ricky) Ponting, Sachin (Tendulkar), these guys they don’t have two bad series in a row,” Finch said on the Sony Ten Pit Stop show. “The pressure of playing for India is one but also leading India is another and the way he (Kohli) has done it, so consistently for a long time. And taking over from (MS) Dhoni, the leadership, that is huge. The expectations were high and he kept delivering,” he added. Finch was impressed with Kohli’s consistency as a batsman too. “What has been so impressive for so long is just his consistency across three formats,” said Finch.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||NADA launches mobile application||The National Anti-Doping Agency (NADA) on Tuesday launched a mobile application to provide athletes easy access to information on various aspects of sport, prohibited substances and dope-testing. The app was launched by Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju through video-conferencing in the presence of Sports Secretary Ravi Mittal and NADA director-general Navin Agarwal. “I congratulate NADA on this initiative. It is very important because we are working towards clean sports and the first step in that direction is to create awareness and provide relevant, accessible information so that athletes know which medication or substances are not to be used. With this, athletes can check for themselves the list of prohibited substances and don’t have to depend on anyone else for assistance,” Rijiju said. One-stop guide NADA sees the app as a one-stop guide for all anti-doping and medication-related information. Besides providing detailed information on commonly-prescribed medicines, it allows athletes in the Registered Testing Pool to update their whereabouts and record availability for testing and learn about disciplinary and appeal panel decisions. The app has been available online since the beginning of this year but was formally launched only now.
01 July 2020||VADODARA,||Krunal resumes outdoor training||India all-rounder Krunal Pandya resumed outdoor training on Tuesday after more than three months. The Baroda cricketer, elder brother of Hardik Pandya, has represented India in 18 T20Is till date. “Began my day with a run out on the field... feels good to be back out there again,” tweeted Krunal as he also posted a picture of his workout. Like all cricketers, Krunal had been confined to his house in Vadodara since March 25, when the centre enforced a nationwide lockdown to curb the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. India pacer Shardul Thakur was the first BCCI-accredited player to resume training last month when he bowled in the nets at Boisar in Palghar district. Recently, Cheteshwar Pujara too started to bat in the nets in his native Rajkot.
01 July 2020||TIRUCHI,||Vidula Anbuselvan — making the right moves||Vidula Anbuselvan, the National under-9 girls’ chess champion, has not missed out on the opportunity to learn and teach during the COVID-19 lockdown period. Alongside sharpening her skills by playing online tournaments, she has also been guiding her younger sister Jinisha Anbuselvan to make deft moves on the chequered board. “The online tournaments have given me a chance to play with GMs and IMs, which is a good learning experience,” said Vidula. “She likes competing with tough opponents and after every tournament we analyse the games,” her father-cum-coach D. Anbuselvan said, adding that she is fond of solving chess puzzles, which he believed, bolster her skills on the chessboard. A class VI student of Kingsley Matriculation School here, she was initiated into chess by her parents at the age of six. “Vidula’s sharp memory prompted us to think of this game as the right fit for her,” said Anbuselvan, a chess player during his college days. “Coaching my daughter, in fact, provided me deeper insights into the game.” Vidula’s triumph in the State under-7 championship in 2017 was what inspired Anbuselvan into motivating her to achieve bigger feats. “The national title she won last year strengthened her resolve further to scale higher,” he said, pointing to Vidula’s focused attention on making a mark at the Asian level.
01 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Vaishali is making rapid strides||These past few days R. Vaishali has been making news. For someone who has been overshadowed by her prodigious younger brother for most of her career, that must have been a different experience. The Chennai girl is putting up a fine show at the FIDE Chess.com Women’s Speed Chess. Vaishali said she had prepared well for the tournament. She, of course, has an excellent sparring partner at home, R. Praggnanandhaa. “He has been of great help,” she said. In the first of the four Grand Prix legs, she finished fourth on Sunday. Commendable effort It was a commendable effort from Vaishali, who made the final draw of the online event after going through the gruelling qualifiers. The 19-year-old stunned former World champion Antoaneta Stefanova of Bulgaria in the first round and made short work of Munkhzul Turmunkh of Mongolia to reach the semifinals. The India No. 3 fought spiritedly in the last four before narrowly losing to Ukraine’s Anna Ushenina, the eventual champion. Vaishali had, in fact, beaten runner-up Valentina Gunina in the qualifiers to book her berth for the main event. “The qualifying section was pretty tough,” she told The Hindu over the phone. “A player gets six chances; while I made it on my fifth attempt, Gunina qualified from her last.” Vaishali, a former World under-14 and under-12 champion, finds the concept of Speed Chess thrilling. Matches are played in three segments, with games of five, three and one minute durations. Exciting She said playing online chess was exciting. “But it can also be challenging,” she said. “Sometimes your internet connection may go off or you could end up making a blunder because your mouse lets you down; I lost my queen in one of my games thus.” Vaishali said she was getting bored during the lockdown in Chennai. “So I have been studying for my B. Com course,” said the first-year student of MOP Vaishnav College, who will resume her Speed Chess campaign on Wednesday when the second leg kicks off.  A player gets six chances; while I made it on my fifth attempt, Gunina qualified from her last
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Women’s Indian Open golf cancelled||Owing to COVID-19 pandemic, the Hero Women’s Indian Open golf, scheduled from October 1 to 4, 2020 has been cancelled. The event will return for the 14th edition at the DLF Golf and Country Club at Gurugram in October next year.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Akbar, Srinivas in title round||World No. 2 Riyaz Akbar Ali knocked out reigning World Champion Prashant More 12-17 in the penultimate round of the World Online Carrom Challenge. Riyaz meets the No. 1 in the league, Komervelli Srinivas. In the second knock-out, Riyaz cleared the eight boards with 20 misses, and had a white slam and a black slam that reduced his net score to 12. Prashant was equally impressive, clearing the boards with 23 misses, but had only two black slams. Riyaz had beaten Mohd. Ghufran 26-31 in the first stage of knock-out. In the women’s section, Naga Jothi pipped the reigning World Champion S. Appoorwa 41-46. She will clash with No. 1 Rashmi Kumari. Naga Jothi had earlier stunned Aisha Sajid 35-47.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen’s sporting gesture||Upholding the sportsmanship spirit, Magnus Carlsen resigned in the second game in just four moves against Ding Liren after the latter was declared ‘lost’ in the first due to internet disconnection in the $150,000 Chessable Masters on Tuesday. In the other semifinal, Anish Giri led Ian Nepomniachtchi 1.5-0.5. Ding, who battled from an inferior opening phase in the first game to force an equal rook-and-pawn end game, tragically lost his connection. Since he could not reconnect in the time available on his clock, he was declared ‘lost on time’.  Semifinals: Set One: Game One: Carlsen bt Ding , Nepomniachtchi drew with Giri; Game Two: Ding bt Carlsen, Giri bt Nepomniachtchi. Quarterfinals: Set three: Ding bt Hikaru Nakamura 2.5-0.5 .
01 July 2020||ROME,||Rome, June 29, 2020 (AFP) -||Benevento, coached by former AC Milan and Juventus striker Filippo Inzaghi, secured promotion to Serie A on Monday for just the second time in its history with seven games to spare. Inzaghi’s men, who have only lost once in Serie B all season, edged out Juve Stabia 1-0 to move 24 points clear of third place, with the top two guaranteed promotion.AFP
01 July 2020||Pune,||Plant thought to be extinct for more than 135 years found in Sikkim Himalayas||A team of researchers from Pune and Kerala have “rediscovered” a rare and critically endangered plant species called Globba andersonii from the Sikkim Himalayas near the Teesta river valley region after a gap of nearly 136 years. The plant, known commonly as ‘dancing ladies’ or ‘swan flowers’ was thought to have been extinct until its “re-collection”, for the first time since 1875, by noted city-based botanist Sachin Punekar, founder of the city-based environmental NGO Biospheres, during a field trip to Sevoke in the Darjeeling district of West Bengal. Along with Dr. Punekar, the findings of Jayakrishnan Thachat of the Department of Botany at the University of Calicut; Vadakkoot Sankaran Hareesh of the plant taxonomy division of the Malabar Botanical Garden; and Mamiyil Sabu of the Institute for Plant Sciences in Kozhikode, was published earlier this month in the prestigious international journal, Botany Letters . The paper titled ‘Rediscovery of Globba andersonii and three new synonymies in Indian Zingiberaceae’ (belonging to the ginger or turmeric family) details the retrieval from the wilds of this endangered taxon, which was thought to be extinct after 1875. “The earliest records of the collection of this plant were dated between the period 1862-70 when it was collected by Scottish botanist Thomas Anderson from Sikkim and Darjeeling. Then, in 1875, the British botanist Sir George King, had collected this taxon from the Sikkim Himalayas,” said Dr. Punekar. Since then, the plant had not been collected for over 135 years, until chanced upon by Dr. Punekar during a field trip to the Sevoke hill forest region in July 2011. “Since the past nine years, myself, along with three other botanists from Kozhikode have been perfecting this discovery and confirming that this taxon is indeed the Globba andersonii ,” he said.  Globba andersonii are characterised by white ﬂowers, non-appendaged anthers (the part of a stamen that contains the pollen) and a “yellowish lip”. Classified as “critically endangered” and “narrowly endemic”, the species is restricted mainly to Teesta River Valley region which includes the Sikkim Himalays and Darjeeling hill ranges. “As no live collections were made for the last 136 years, it was considered as presumably extinct in the wild. Eﬀorts made by us for the rediscovery of the taxon for the past several years were in vain. However, Dr. Punekar could locate some specimens during his visit to Sevoke in July 2011, which was used to make a detailed description,” said Mr. Thachat. Dr. Punekar said that the plant usually grows in a dense colony as a lithophyte (plant growing on a bare rock or stone) on rocky slopes in the outskirts of evergreen forests. “It is especially prevalent near small waterfalls along the roadside leading to these hill forests, which are 400-800 m. above sea level,” he said. Given the endangered nature of this species, the four researchers recommend total protection be given to the natural habitat of this taxon. “Micro-propagation, tissue culture of this taxon and multiplication of this species and its re-introduction in the natural habitat could be the key for it to survive and thrive in the future,” said Mr. Hareesh.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The peepal tree||The 15th chapter of the Gita opens with a reference to samsara as a peepal tree. But this tree is different from other trees, for its roots are at the top! Because the peepal is a sacred tree, Bhagavan chooses it as an example to explain samsara, said Valayapet Ramachariar in a discourse. And we must go through samsara in order to attain moksha. So, to that extent, samsara is essential. The peepal tree is called asvatta in Sanskrit. The word also means impermanent. So, it is an apt word to use for samsara. But Bhagavan also uses the word avyayam, which means imperishable. How can samsara be both impermanent and imperishable? Samsara’s indestructibility is not like that of a jivatma. It is like a river. A river keeps flowing, but the water you see now is not the same that you see a few seconds from now, because of the flow. So, samsara continues, for we are reborn until we attain moksha. But samsara is destroyed through the axe of bhakti and prapatti. The atma, however, is never destroyed. Why does the tree of samsara have its roots at the top? That is because creation begins in Brahma loka. The leaves of this tree are the Vedas. So now we are tempted to ask the question, what is the connection between the Vedas and samsara? The karmas that a person must perform are given in the Vedas. There are three types of karmas — kaamya karma, nitya karma and naimittika karma. Kaamya karma is that which is done with a view to obtaining some fruit. Nitya karmas are those that have to be done every day. One must do these karmas without questioning. Naimittika karmas are those that are done for special reasons. An example would be the observances on upakarma. The Vedas that tell us about the karmas, also tell us about the way to quit the samsaric cycle.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 07:59 IST,||Sudoku - July 1, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Experience,||Sound was an unexpected collateral in the TV evolution as big Cathode-ray tube sets made way for smarter and sleeker panels. As most smart TVs generate noise of not more than 20W output, this also created the need for innovation in surround sound technology. Massive home theatre equipment was going out of style, and in came soundbar technology with a search for an immersive audio-visual experience slowly growing desperate. Maximalism was out, and minimalism — with high performance — was in. That said, we are spoilt for choice as soundbars that tick desired boxes occupy the market. Inside the box The latest product out of German gadget company Blaupunkt’s stables, model SBWL-03 with subwoofer delivering 2.1ch audio output with Dolby Digital amplification adds to the category. At nearly 38 inches, the SBWL-03 is pretty long for a soundbar at any price range. That presents an issue. Irrespective of where your television is set — mounted on a wall or on a table — you will need to rethink the space in your home to accommodate the soundbar and its cousin. The build quality is average. The product feels entirely plastic, except out at front where the grille panel adds a touch of class. Unlike previous models, the SBWL-03 is not a perfect rectangle. The curved finish on the front lends it a cupcake-look from the side. However, we are not a fan of the Blaupunkt badge, it looks and feels cheap. An LED output screen on the front that displays two letters lights up once the device is turned on. There is a power button, USB input and volume control keys provided to one side of the soundbar. However, should the remote lose its functionality, you will be left with no option to change the input modes, adjust the bass, treble and sound equaliser levels — a drawback. Here is the deal: whether you are able to leverage maximum performance out of the device relies solely on the TV you use. The TV we connected the SBWL-03 to was a Sony 4K UHD, which despite its 20W output offers deeper surround, clean audio and quality sound even at higher volumes. The verdict So the test was to mainly observe if the Blaupunkt SBWL-03 could add an extra layer of depth to the sound field, amplify the richness of high pitch noises and generate enough bass to earn a nod. The device claims to deliver an audio output of 100W + 150W. When turned on, it starts at 50% volume (16 units). SBWL-03’s best performance was observed between 18 and 24 units. Any lower, and the sound amplification is negligible; any higher and the noise is over-amplified and turns uncomfortable to continue listening, making for a limited operative space. So, you will have to manually adjust your TV volume at regular intervals to keep the sound quality and levels at an optimum. The subwoofer offers decent bass, but for 150W output, it is nearly not enough. Connecting the device to a Bluetooth input was seamless but the connection is sketchy; any minor interruption — sometimes as simple as someone standing between the device and its Bluetooth source — resulted in disrupted play. Circling back to the point of importance of the quality of TV, the market is flooded with entry-level Smart TVs selling for around the same price point as SBWL-03, sometimes even cheaper in the good old days before COVID-19 when offering a ‘lightning deal’ was routine for an e-tailer. Expecting decent sound output from these entry range TVs is a bit of a stretch. For such TVs, the Blaupunkt SBWL-03 offers great value for money. You get a product that looks refined from a distance and delivers average performance consistently; believe us, consistency is key. The Aux-in output does the job though if you would like to try the HDMI input, be reminded that Blaupunkt devices are not known to deliver enhanced sound via HDMI. Still, the sound output is reliable when delivered from a wired source. Users may also be tempted to try out Blaupunkt’s earlier models that are priced much cheaper and deliver nearly identical performance. However, if you own a quality television set, spending a few extra thousands on a soundbar that offers 5.1ch audio output, more manoeuvrability and a deeper surround sound seems like the better bet.  The Blaupunkt SBWL-03 is available on Amazon India for Rs. 12,990 and on Flipkart for Rs. 12,591   Specifications   Hardware:2.1ch soundbar and sub-woofer   Dimensions:L/H/D — 96x8x8cm   Input:USB/Bluetooth/AUX LineIn/Optical/HDMI(ARC)   Display:LED   Power output:50W*2 + 150W = 250W   Voltage:AC120-240V   Speaker Driver:2.27*2 + 8S
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||Over 2,000 new cases in city; more than 50% beds vacant||A total of 2,199 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 87,360, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. The death toll has risen to 2,742 with 62 more deaths reported in a single day. Of the total cases, 58,348 people have recovered and there are 26,270 active cases. There are 440 containment zones in the city as on Tuesday, as per the bulletin. People are not allowed to enter or leave a containment zone. Residents of the zones are not allowed to leave their houses and officials supply essentials to them. Of the 13,661 beds for COVID-19 treatment in hospitals, 7,749 beds are vacant. In a single day, 9,585 RT-PCR tests and 7,594 Antigen tests were conducted. “An order has been issued to all hospitals in Delhi to rework their capacity to increase number of beds with ventilator facility, over and above the existing beds,” the bulletin read. Arrangements have to be made as Delhi will be shortly getting 150 more ventilators from the Centre, besides the 425 already received, the order stated. The Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to calls and messages on whether the government was conducting RT-PCR tests for people who test negative in rapid antigen test. The Delhi government on Tuesday also extended till September 30 its waiver scheme on water bill arrears and late payment surcharge, in the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak.
01 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. Congress chief, workers detained in Lucknow, released||The Congress cried foul after the police late on Monday arrested its Uttar Pradesh minority cell chairperson Shahnawaz Alam in connection with the violence during the protest on December 19, 2019, against the Citizenship Amendment Act in Lucknow. U.P. Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu and other party leaders and workers were detained near the party headquarters, and later released, as they tried to stage a protest on Tuesday against the arrest. Mr. Alam, 37, along with other party members, was picked up from an apartment near Kalidas Marg, where Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath resides, a little after 8 p.m., as per CCTV footage shared by the party. The others were later released. After Mr. Alam was driven away by policemen in plain clothes, Mr. Lallu and other leaders entered into a heated debated with the police at the Hazratganj police station demanding to know his whereabouts and the charges against him. The police allegedly used batons and forced the Congress workers to disperse. DCP Central Lucknow police Dinesh Singh said Mr. Alam was arrested in connection with the FIR lodged at Hazratganj on December 19. “His name had come to light earlier... after gathering sufficient evidence, we have arrested him,” he said. According to the FIR, the accused faces several serious charges including rioting, attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy. The police had recently filed the chargesheet in the case. However, Mr. Alam was not named in the FIR or the chargesheet.  Police criticised Mr. Lallu lashed out at the police for the manner in which Mr. Alam was arrested and the use of force on party workers afterwards. “They have forgotten their oath under the pressure of their political masters,” he said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the police action was oppressive and undemocratic. “BJP government can make U.P. police a tool of oppression to stop other parties from raising their voice, but not our party,” she tweeted.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping it in the family||As we celebrate National Doctors' Day, we find out from families about their family doctors and the advantages of having one... Family doctors have been a part of the Indian joint family pattern for ages now. The presence of a doctor, who is thorough with the family’s entire medical history, makes for a great source to detect genetic disorders and hereditary diseases. Not only do they help detect diseases early but also give a new meaning to the doctor-patient relationship. Knowing the family Aparna, a marketing consultant, says that her family doctor has been taking care of five generations of the family. “The doctor is fairly aware of all the issues that our family members have faced medically; so genetic medical issues like diabetes and cholesterol are detected by him at early stages. He is familiar with the medical history of not just the patient but also of his/her parents and other family members; this becomes easier to diagnose and medicate.” Honest opinions Hema Gidia, a Chartered Account in a reputed firm, says that accessibility is an overriding factor. “He is a reliable reference. I would trust him to give medicines and advice treatments. Sometimes, unnecessary treatments and surgeries are suggested, but I believe a family doctor would be more transparent about such issues and tell us what needs to be considered and/or avoided.” Learning from the best  Dr. Varshini Reddy, a post-graduate final year in Dermatology, says her family doctor has greatly influenced her. "Dr. Praveen Kumar Agarwal has been our family doctor for as long as I can remember. Right from my childhood up until now, I have seen how calm and patient he can be and how eager he is to help us at any given time of the day. Being a doctor myself, I understand how important this is. He is someone my entire family trusts."
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Hear me now||As we continue to ride out isolation periods — with more lockdowns imminent — we turn to earphones and earbuds to steal some more alone time. When the Mi True Wireless Earphones 2 arrived, I had high hopes; the sound tech of Xiaomi’s televisions has been impressive, after all. For these earphones, do not expect fancy packaging; these are projected to have a user-friendly experience with no extra fuss. The earphones with the charging case are quite light at just 50 grams. The build quality is decent with a somewhat frosted finish — with a somewhat obvious Airpods-like design. I was surprised that these earphones do not have an IP (Ingress Protection) rating; there are less expensive earphones out there which have decent ratings. Though they are not marketed as sports-friendly accessories, even the most ‘lazy’ gadgets have some kind of spill protection. Performance power? The charging case has a capacity of 250mAh, while each fully-charged earphone has 30mAh; and charging is done via a USB-C cable which is provided in the package. This is surprising, given there are earphones with 75mAh per earphone with a 500mAh charging case for a lower cost. I found there was not enough juice to watch a full-length Hindi movie while connected to these, but I could have a lazy session of idle listening for about 40 minutes, but with only a 10-metre wireless range. The first time I tried these earphones was during an hour’s session of dynamic yoga, but they could not hold steady. I liked the sound quality for its crispness and clarity, but I would have liked some more bass. I am usually sceptical of in-ear earphones without silicone wing-tips due to the lack of noise isolation; when the volume is pushed up past 60%, people in your proximity are privy to what you are streaming. For those who are wary of Chinese brands at the moment, keep in mind the company’s India head Manu Kumar Jain announced that, for a while now, 99% of their smartphones have been made in India in support of the government’s Vocal For Local programme. It is worth noting that Xiaomi offers better performing earphones — the wired ones, in particular — so do check those out, if you are brand-particular.  The Mi True Wireless Earphones 2 are available for Rs. 4,499 (original MRP Rs. 5,499).   Specifications  Impedance:32 ohms  Input:5.2V–1.1A Battery type:Li-ion Battery  Wireless connectivity and profiles:Bluetooth 5.0; BLE/HFP/HSP/A2DP/AVRCP
01 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||3 more drown in Assam deluge||Three more people drowned on Tuesday as the flood situation in Assam continued to remain grim, affecting more than 14.93 lakh people in 2,235 villages and localities across 23 districts. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said the deaths were reported from Barpeta and Dibrugarh districts. The death toll since May 22 has increased to 27 while 23 others were killed in landslides earlier. The deluge triggered by heavy rain has affected crop on more than 75,700 hectares of land and about 20 lakh domesticated animals and poultry. Almost all the major rivers including Brahmaputra, Burhi Dihing, Dhansiri, Jia Bharali, Kopili and Puthimari were flowing above the danger level. The overflowing rivers breached embankments at several places to accentuate the disaster, damage vital roads and bridges, officials said. “The districts have set up 265 relief camps in 21 districts where 25,461 people are taking shelter,” an ASDMA spokesperson said. Barpeta continued to be the worst hit district with 4.87 lakh people affected followed by South Salmara (1.95 lakh), Nalbari (1.04 lakh), Morigaon (98,804) and Goalpara (93,996).  More deer killed More hog deer were killed as the water level in the partially-flooded Kaziranga National Park kept rising to inundate 143 of the 223 anti-poaching camps. “A total of 14 animals — one rhino and 13 hog deer — have died so far due to flooding, vehicle hits and other reasons,” Kaziranga’s director P. Sivakumar said.
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||DU gets contempt notice over deferment of open book exam||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday issued contempt notice to Delhi University for withholding material information from the court and trying to mislead the court over deferment of the open book exam, scheduled on July 1 by another 10 days. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said that on the last date of hearing on June 26, the university had submitted that it was “thoroughly geared” up to conduct the examination. Based on the submission, the Bench had expressed its intent to dispose of a petition seeking to cancel or defer the exams for students in the PWD (persons with disabilities) category. COVID-19 pandemic However, the very next day after the order had been dictated and could be uploaded on the website, one of the judges came across a press report by Delhi University where it decided to defer the exams “in view of the prevailing situation of COVID-19 pandemic”. “This came as a surprise to us, when just a day before, the respondent No4/Delhi University had shown its complete preparedness for conducting the exam,” the Bench said. The court has questioned the university for failing to inform the Bench about “the developments that took place in less than 24 hours of the hearing in the petition, on June 26”. The university stated that a family member of the Deputy Registrar (Secrecy) had tested COVID-19 positive and it came to know only after the case was over on June 26.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police file 3 chargesheets in murder of three Muslim youth during riots||The Special Investigation Team of Delhi Police on Tuesday filed three chargesheets related to the murder case of three Muslim youth during the north-east Delhi riots in February. The chargesheets were filed before a magistrate in Karkardooma court. The victims were killed and thrown into a canal. The disfigured bodies were recovered on March 3 from a drain at various locations. The accused are in judicial custody. The police said that on February 26 night, Hamza was killed by the rioters when he was coming from Mustafabad to Bhagirathi Vihar. A case was registered at Gokalpuri police station. He was killed and thrown into the drain near E Block Bhagirathi Vihar. The body was recovered on March 3. During investigation, it has been established that a group of Hindus comprising accused persons — Jatin Sharma, Rishabh Chaudhary, Vivek Panchal, Lokesh Solanki, Pankaj Sharma, Prince, Sumit Chaudhary, Ankit Chaudhary and Himanshu Thakur — along with other identified and unidentified persons were involved in rioting in Ganga Vihar and Bhagirathi Vihar from February 25-26. They killed nine Muslims and injured several people who were passing by the area. In a similar way, Aamin and Bhure Ali alias Salman were killed and thrown in the Bhagirathi Vihar drain. They were stopped by the Hindu group who had gathered at the spot after creating a WhatsApp group. There were around 125 members in the group but not all were involved in active rioting. “The victims were unaware of the tense situation and were passing by the area when they were attacked by the group,” said a police officer.
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||BJP presses refresh button in the Capital||Delayed due to the series of lockdowns since March, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has finally hit the refresh button in Delhi. A month after the appointment of its new State president, Adesh Gupta, the Delhi BJP will overhaul its State unit over the coming days in a month-long exercise. Out of power at the State-level for over two decades, BJP’s core group met here on Monday and reportedly told leaders in attendance that the national leadership had given them the task of ensuring that the party’s Delhi unit had “the best organisational structure in the country” compared to any other State unit. “This refresh has been long overdue. It would have happened right after the Delhi Assembly elections but could not because of restrictions related to the lockdown, which also delayed the appointment of a new State president. A lot of changes are likely with the national leadership keeping a close watch,” said a senior party leader. According to sources, the party’s national leadership has asked the core group to ensure that only office-bearers with “actual” public connect and “in touch with the ground” both in terms of their contact with the people as well as party cadre should make the cut.
01 July 2020||BERHAMPUR,||HIV-positive children pick care home as best bet||Showing extreme patience and guts, 52 vulnerable HIV positive children have stayed back at the Shraddha Sanjivani Child Care Home (SSCCH) in Odisha’s Gopalpur since March 12 to save themselves from added danger of COVID-19 infection. “During this COVID-19 pandemic, reports of violation of institutional as well as home quarantine norms are coming up from everywhere. These quarantine violators should learn from these children,” said Lokanath Mishra, founding member of SSCCH. The 52 HIV positive inmates of SSCCH are in the age group of 5 to 15 years. Twenty-six of them are girls. Low immunity As lowered immunity due to HIV infection makes these positive children extremely vulnerable to COVID-19 infection, they were completely cloistered at SSCCH, when their schools closed down from March 12 due to COVID-19 pandemic. Seven other inmates, who had visited their relatives or parents at that time, were asked to stay back where they were. Along with these children, staff members of this special care home also decided to reduce their outside contact to the extreme so that they do not become carriers of COVID-19 to these vulnerable children. Superintendent of the institute, Akash Guru said, since March eight staff members, including him, have also tried to make these vulnerable children their family. Any person including the doctor and part time educator, adhere to strict measures of sanitation during every entry from outside. When asked, do the children feel any boredom or tension because of staying away from home and families for long period, Mr. Mishra said, “We try to keep them engaged throughout the day in different activities to make them forget about their woes.”
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||2 killed as speeding car loses control near temple||Two persons were killed and two minors were injured after the driver of a speeding car lost control and rammed people outside a temple in Rohini, the police said on Tuesday. DCP (Rohini) P.K. Mishra said that the deceased have been identified as Harish (40), resident of Rohini Sector 26; and Vimla (35), resident of Rohini Sector 25. The injured have been identified as Anshu (5) and Suraj (11), both residents of Rohini Sector 25, and are undergoing treatment.  The police said that the accused fled the spot leaving behind his car. It was seized by the police. The vehicle was found registered under the name of Rahul Sharma, a resident of Budh Vihar, Mr. Mishra said. A case has been registered and two persons have been apprehended, the police added.
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Trying to provide two legal interviews a week’||The Tihar Jail authorities on Tuesday assured the Delhi High Court that effort will be made to provide Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal two weekly legal interviews of 30 minutes with her lawyer through videoconferencing. Delhi government’s standing counsel Rahul Mehra, appearing for the jail authorities, said there was no objection to Ms. Narwal, who is pursuing her M.Phil, sourcing books from outside as long as the materials are not against the Prison Rules. Taking note of the submission, Justice C. Hari Shankar disposed the petition filed by Ms. Narwal, who had in her plea alleged that inmates were not allowed to get in touch with persons outside jail through videoconferencing following an incident of violence inside the jail earlier this month. Ms. Natasha was arrested on May 23, along with fellow JNU student Devangana Kalitha in relation with an FIR registered on February 24 over a sit-in protest at Jafrabad metro station against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. In her plea, Ms. Narwal has sought direction to the jail authorities to allow her daily access to advocates through videoconferencing. She also sought direction to the authorities to follow the Delhi Prison Rules, 2018 and allow access to books to complete her M.Phil.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Murder inside Tihar jail: accused killed inmate to avenge sister’s rape||A day after a 21-year-old prisoner allegedly killed another, it was revealed that the deceased had allegedly raped the accused’s minor sister six years ago, the police said. The crime was an outcome of revenge, they said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit said on Monday, the 21 -year-old resident of Dakshinpuri stabbed another inmate — Mohammed Mehtab (27) from Nizamuddin. During investigation, it was revealed that Mehtab was lodged in jail since 2014 for allegedly raping the 21-year-old’s minor sister, who later ended her life. Ever since, the accused wanted to avenge his sister’s rape, said an officer. The accused was lodged in jail in 2018 in a murder case and was shifted from jail number 5 to 8 upon request after a fight in jail number 5. On Monday morning, when everyone went for morning payers, the accused stabbed Mehtab multiple times with a sharp metal object.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivni, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.
01 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Decomposed body of elderly woman found||A decomposed body of an 80-year-old woman was found on the second floor of her house while the family — her elder son on the fourth floor — remained clueless about her death in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar, the police said on Tuesday. They were alerted after some people complained about a foul smell coming from the house on Sunday. Room bolted from inside “The woman, Rajrani Gulati, who lived alone on the second floor, was found lying dead on a sofa,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said. The room was bolted from the inside, he added. The post-mortem was conducted at AIIMS and the report is yet to come. The body has been handed over to family members, the police said. The victim’s son, Rajesh Gulati (55), along with his family, resides on the top floor of the building. The family told the doctor that the victim had diabetes, the DCP said. Last week, Rajesh visited his sister’s house in Madangir. He started feeling unwell and got himself admitted to Mehta Hospital in Madangir for 2-3days, the police said. The woman’s other son, who has been bedridden for the last two to three months, lives in Chirag Delhi with his family, they added.
01 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Two policemen on patrol murdered in Haryana||Two policemen on night patrolling in Sonipat’s Baroda police station area were stabbed to death in the early hours of Tuesday. Eight teams have been constituted to investigate the case. Constable Ravinder and SPO Kaptan were posted at Butana police post. Passers-by spotted the bodies in a pool of blood around 5 a.m. and informed the police. The two were found murdered around 500 metres from the post. While one of the bodies was lying on the road, the other was found in the bushes at some distance. Director General of Police, Haryana, Manoj Yadava and Additional Director General of Police, Rohtak Range, Sandeep Khirwar visited the crime scene. Mr. Yadava said the incident took place between midnight and 2.30 a.m. He said there were signs of scuffle as well. The DGP said that eight teams were constituted to investigate the case and expressed the hope that the culprits would be arrested soon. Mr. Khirwar said the police’s priority was to bring the culprits to book and ensure justice for the deceased.  Multiple stab wounds Sonipat Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh said that autopsy reports revealed multiple stab wounds. He said the police had got certain clues and were working on them. Mr. Singh confirmed that the two were not carrying weapons during patrolling duty. Haryana Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda, in a tweet, demanded that the deceased be granted the status of martyrs. Mr. Hooda said the National Crime Records Bureau figures for the past two years suggested that there was “jungle raj” in Haryana.
01 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Copycat robberies on KMP expressway||Three families travelling with women and children have been robbed of cash and jewellery at gunpoint on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway over the last 10 days in copycat incidents. The police suspect the same gang is behind the three robberies, but there has been no breakthrough. In all the three cases, the families, travelling in cars, were forced to pull over after the iron nails strewn on the road caused the tyres to burst. Speaking to The Hindu over phone, the victims recalled how five-six armed young men, their faces covered, walked up to them from different directions, held them at gunpoint and fled the spot after robbing them in a few minutes time. All the victims were travelling towards Manesar and the robbery took place some distance from the toll on the expressway at Palwal. Om Prakash, 61, was travelling from Lucknow to Kotputli with his wife, daughter-in-law and children on June 23 around 3 a.m. when the tyres of their vehicle burst near Palwal. The robbers took away the women’s jewellery and Rs. 85,000 cash. Rajender, a transporter from Gurugram, was returning home with his family on June 26 around 10 p.m. when they were robbed. On June 20, cab driver Anuj was going to Rajasthan with his family when the robbers struck. They were robbed of cash and jewellery.
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Extend PDS benefits till December’||The Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan (DRRAA) on Tuesday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejirwal urging the government to extend universal coverage under the Public Distribution System till December, in view of the ongoing pandemic. “Only 37% of the city’s population have ration cards... 55 lakh applications received under the Mukhya Mantri Corona Sahayta Yojna reflects the intense distress of people”. It also asked the government to ensure mid-day meals are served to all eligible children.
01 July 2020||July 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Back on the road||
01 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab rules for ‘Unlock 2’||The Punjab government on Tuesday issued fresh guidelines for phased reopening for ‘Unlock 2’ from July 1, and decided to reopen more activities in a calibrated manner in areas outside the containment zones. However, school, colleges and coaching institutions would remain closed till July 31, a statement said.
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||30-DE-Rocky-Delhi HC free COVID testing||The High Court on Tuesday rejected a plea that sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government to bear the cost of testing and treatment for COVID-19 at private labs and hospitals. The Bench remarked that the petition had been filed for the benefit of the rich.
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||Jaideep - IIT||Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, on Tuesday said that its placement season has concluded with students receiving over 1,100 job offers. S. Dharmaraja, head of Office of Career Services at IIT-Delhi said: “IIT-Delhi has broken all previous year records of job placements... Number of placement offers increased by 4%.” The second phase of the placement was held online due to the COVID-19 outbreak.
01 July 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- Ram Madhav||India is still under the ambit of a democratic system because the BJP and the RSS fought for it, the party’s national general secretary Ram Madhav said while addressing a virtual ‘Yuva Jan Samvad’ rally here on Tuesday. It is necessary to keep discussing the memories of the Emergency so that lessons could be taken to strengthen the democratic structure and values of the country, he also said.
