01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Recovery rate rises to 25%, says govt.||India reported 1,823 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 33,610 on Thursday with 8,373 recoveries. An additional 71 deaths have now taken the total number of fatalities to 1,074. The deaths since Wednesday include 32 from Maharashtra, 16 from Gujarat, 11 from Madhya Pradesh and three from Uttar Pradesh, the Union Health Ministry said. According to Ministry data, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 9,915, followed by Gujarat at 4,082, Delhi at 3,439, Madhya Pradesh at 2,660, Rajasthan at 2,438, Uttar Pradesh at 2,203 and Tamil Nadu at 2,162. The number has gone up to 1,403 in Andhra Pradesh and 1,012 in Telangana. The country is currently recording a total recovery rate of 25.19% up from 13% about two weeks ago, the Ministry said. Co-morbidities in 78% Giving details on the percentage of deaths in various age groups, the Ministry said India has a case fatality rate of 3.2% currently which is 65% male and 35% female. The death rate is less than 14% in persons under 45, 34.8% in the 45-60 age group. Co-morbidities were found in 78% of COVID-19 fatalities, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Luv Agarwal said at the daily press briefing. He added that case fatality for those over 60 years is 51.2% which includes 42% for those between 60-75 years. For those above 75 years the rate is 9.2%. The Ministry added that analysis of doubling rate across the country has revealed that the national average is 11 days presently as compared to 3.4 days before lockdown. States/UTs having doubling rate between 11 and 20 days include Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, J&K, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Punjab. Those having doubling rate between 20 days to 40 days are Karnataka, Ladakh, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Kerala. Assam, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, and Himachal Pradesh have a doubling rate of more than 40 days, as per data released by the Health Ministry. Data from State Health Departments reported a nationwide death toll of 1,150 with 34,789 overall and 24,647 active cases. The Ministry said no health facility should prescribe additional COVID-19 testing for non-COVID patients, causing unwanted delay in treatment for critical patients, and that testing should be as per the protocol issued by the Health Ministry. “States are advised to ensure that all health facilities, especially in the private sector, remain functional and provide critical services so that such patients who need these critical services do not face any difficulty. States are also informed that it is noticed that many hospitals in the private sector are hesitant to provide critical services like dialysis, blood transfusion, chemotherapy and institutional deliveries to their regular patients, which is not acceptable,” said Mr. Agarwal. Post-lockdown steps Replying to a question on the Ministry’s recommendation to end the lockdown, Mr. Agarwal said: “We have to ensure that physical distancing becomes a norm so that the chain of transmission is broken; equally important are containment measures for the disease.” The Ministry reiterated that as of now there is no confirmed treatment protocol for COVID-19 and that Remdesivir is one protocol which is being examined. “There is no conclusive study to prove its effectiveness and we are waiting for larger evidence to take meaningful action. We have, however, issued a detailed advisory on the use of hydroxychloroquine as prophylaxis 19 and availability of HCQ is being ensured,” Mr. Agarwal said.
01 May 2020||Mumbai,||Icon of romance takes a final bow||One of Indian cinema’s leading stars, much loved for his youthful musical romances, Rishi Kapoor, passed away on Thursday after being on ICU support for a week at the Sir H.N. Reliance Foundation Hospital and Research Centre in Mumbai. He died at 8.45 a.m. after a two-year battle with leukaemia. Kapoor is survived by wife Neetu Kapoor, and children Ranbir Kapoor and Riddhima Kapoor Sahni. His last rites took place on Thursday afternoon at the Chandanwadi crematorium in Mumbai in the presence of his family, close relatives and friends. Kapoor, 67, was diagnosed with leukaemia in 2018, following which he had gone to New York for treatment. He was last seen in Jeethu Joseph’s The Body . The second son of legendary actor-director Raj Kapoor, and Krishna Raj Kapoor, Rishi Kapoor showed his acting genes in his debut film Mera Naam Joker (1970) for which he won the National Award for the Best Child Artiste. His first film as a leading man, Bobby (1973), was a superhit and established him as a youthful, romantic icon. All through the 1970s and 80s he kept setting the hearts flutter with his musical romances and the trademark dance moves in many a catchy film song. Manmohan Desai’s paean to secularism, Amar Akbar Anthony (1977), and Subhash Ghai’s musical reincarnation thriller Karz (1980) were the two landmark films of that phase. President Ram Nath Kovind mourned his loss in a tweet: “Rishi Kapoor’s untimely demise is shocking. A huge loss for the entertainment industry.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Multifaceted, endearing and lively...this was Rishi Kapoor Ji. He was a powerhouse of talent. I will always recall our interactions, even on social media. He was passionate about films and India’s progress.” “He was the torch-bearer of an illustrious legacy of his family whose contribution to the film industry is unparalleled,” said Maharashta Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The veteran’s demise is the second blow to the film industry in succession after actor Irrfan Khan’s death on Wednesday.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||March core sector output slumps 6.5%||Output at India’s core sector contracted by 6.5% in March, Commerce Ministry data show, reflecting the early impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent nationwide lockdown. The index of eight core sector industries, which form 40% of the weight of items included in the broader Index of Industrial Production (IIP), reflected a contraction in key parts of the economy in March, according to the data released on Thursday. Analysts warned that the core sector data signalled a much sharper contraction in the wider IIP, especially in April, as several core sector industries were actually exempted from the lockdown. Steel declines 13% Leading the contraction at the core industries were a 13% decline in steel output, and a 7% fall in electricity generation. The two sectors account for almost 40% of the index. Cement production crashed 25%, while natural gas production slid 15%, the data showed. Fertiliser production also fell 12%, while crude oil production slipped 5.5%. Coal was the only core sector which saw some growth, with output up 4%. The largest component of the index — refinery production — also dipped by only 0.5%.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Ease lockdown in phases, public health experts tell T.N.||The lockdown to check the spread of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu should not be lifted in one go, but be eased in a phased manner, medical and public health experts suggested to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday. The advice came on a day when the State saw its sharpest spike in the number of COVID-19 cases. Tamil Nadu added 161 cases to its tally, with Chennai alone accounting for 138 of them. “A single decision on the lockdown is not possible,” Prabhdeep Kaur of the National Institute of Epidemiology (ICMR) said. “Our overall lifestyle has to change. The virus will be with us not for a few days but for a long time. When that is so, doing it [precautionary measures] for a day or two is not enough,” she explained. Addressing reporters after the experts’ meeting with the Chief Minister, Dr. Kaur said they provided certain indicators to the government from the epidemiological point of view and based on the health system’s preparedness. “With those indicators, lockdown can be relaxed in some areas or it can be continued in some areas. The government will take a decision,” she said. Indicators finalised The indicators were finalised based on data and surveillance, and analysing them could help the government in taking a decision, Dr. Kaur said. “But, even if the lockdown is eased, it has to be eased in a phased manner,” she cautioned. During the past two weeks, there had been an increase in testing and hence more COVID-19 cases were being reported, she pointed out. Even after the lockdown is lifted in some areas, measures such as physical distancing, hand hygiene and wearing masks in public places would have to be continued. Dr. Kaur said vulnerable groups have to be protected. “Young people should not interact much with elderly people. It [interaction] should be in control to some extent,” she said. Other vulnerable people such as those with cancer, kidney ailments and diabetes would have to take their treatment so that the risk was reduced. Under the prevailing situation, certain relaxations could not be granted. “For example, mass gatherings and crowded places should not be permitted for now,” she said. The preparedness of health systems had to be enhanced and efforts towards surveillance, contact tracing, isolation of detected cases and quarantine facilities should continue. “All of us should come together to control this virus situation,” she added.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parliament project gets panel nod||The government’s plan to construct a new Parliament building was approved by the Central Vista Committee at a meeting on April 23 with the suggestion that the design be “in sync” with the existing Parliament House, according to the minutes of the meeting sent to its members on Thursday. The committee, which is chaired by Central Public Works Department (CPWD) Additional Director-General (Works) Anant Kumar, met through videoconferencing. None of the non-government members from the Indian Institute of Architects (IIA) and the Institute of Town Planners was in attendance. “It is placed for record here with that some members, through email, expressed their inability to join the meeting on grounds of travel restrictions in view of COVID-19 and owing to lack of technical capacity at their end to join online web-based conference facility,” the minutes stated. These members had requested for the meeting to be postponed, “however, keeping in view the importance of the project in nation’s interest and time scale for its implementation the meeting was held as per issued meeting notice”, the minutes said. The “proposed new Parliament building at Plot No.118, New Delhi” was the only item on the agenda. The item was submitted by Ashwani Mittal, CPWD Executive Engineer for the project, for the committee’s consideration. Mr. Mittal then invited the architect of the project, Bimal Patel of the Ahmedabad-based HCP Design, Planning and Management, to present the proposal through videoconferencing. After Mr. Patel presented the proposal, the panel gave its observation of “no objection, with suggestions that the features of the proposed Parliament building should be in sync with the existing Parliament building.” Balbir Verma, a representative of the IIA on the committee, said the meeting took place despite “all non-government experts from the IIA and the Institute of Town Planners asking for a postponement and having the meeting after the conditions of movement are eased.”
01 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID cases surge in Telangana||There was a surge in COVID-19 cases in Telangana as 22 cases were detected on Thursday. Three people suffering from the disease died taking the toll to 28 and 33 were discharged. A cluster of cases was observed as the virus spread from two people who work in Malakpet Gunj, Pahadishareef to three shop owners and their family members. However, the State Health department did not mention the exact number of cases from the cluster. Of the 1,038 cases reported till April 30, 568 are active cases, 442 were discharged and 28 have died. From April 27 to 29, single digit cases were reported. However, 22 positive cases were confirmed on Thursday, all from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has alerted the State Health department over the spike in COVID cases. At a high level meeting held on Thursday, KCR issued directions to contain the spread of the virus in GHMC areas. Malakpet Gunj and Pahadishareef were declared containment zones. One of the three casualties on Thursday was a 76-year-old man from Vanasthalipuram. Apart from COVID-19, he also suffered from ailments related to heart and kidneys. Another was a 48-year-old man from Ramanthapur who died 12 hours after getting admitted to Gandhi Hospital. He suffered from hypertension, diabetes and pneumonia. The third was a 44-year-old woman from Durganagar, Jiyanguda. The woman was on ventilator support when she was brought to Gandhi Hospital and died six hours after admission. She too suffered from hypertension, diabetes and pneumonia. Of the 33 people who were discharged was a 50-year-old doctor. He was admitted 20 days ago. The patient was given Hydroxychloroquine, Azithromycin, and other medicines. Meanwhile, crucial details about number of samples tested in the State was not displayed on the Telangana Health and Family Welfare department website on Thursday. Until Wednesday night, details about the total samples tested, number of positives, and other details were displayed.
01 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||‘About 75% of cases in State are asymptomatic’||About 75% of the COVID-19 positive cases detected in the State were showing no symptoms associated with the disease, according to the State’s Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare. The department revealed the details of symptomatic and asymptomatic patients detected till April 29 on its official Twitter handle. According to it, among the asymptomatic patients, 44% belong to the 20-39 age group while 29% belong to 40-59 age group. In other words, 73% of patients belong to the 20-59 age group and the rest, including below 20 years of age and above 60 who are considered vulnerable, showed no symptoms. Among the symptomatic patients too, 81% belong to the 20-59 age group while 19% belong to the 0-19 age group and those more than 60 years. The State has reported 71 new cases during the past 24 hours and more than half of them were detected in Kurnool, the worst-hit district. The tally has crossed the 1,400-mark and reached 1,403. In a positive development, 34 patients have recovered during the same period. So far, 321 patients have recovered leaving 1,051 active patients. No new deaths have been reported during the past five days. Of the 71 new cases, 43 were detected in Kurnool, 10 in Krishna, four each in Guntur and Kadapa, three each in Anantapur and Chittoor and two each in East Godavari and Nellore districts.
01 May 2020||Mangaluru,||DK woman is State’s 22nd casualty||Dakshina Kannada district reported its third COVID-19 death with a 67-year-old woman from Bantwal succumbing to the disease at Government Wenlock Hospital on Thursday. This is Karnataka’s 22nd death owing to the infection. The woman from Kasba village in Bantwal was also suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and diabetes, according to a release from the office of the District Surgeon and Superintendent of the hospital. She was being treated in the ICU and was on ventilator. The deceased was a neighbour of the first victim in Dakshina Kannada, a 50-year-old woman who died on April 19.
01 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagan seeks PM’s help on COVID-hit sectors||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help the State overcome the distress in the manufacturing sector. In an 11-page letter to the Prime Minister, Mr. Jagan detailed the impact of COVID-19 on the industries and manufacturing sector. The Chief Minister said the State’s manufacturing sector contributed Rs. 72, 523 crore (11% of the State GVA) in the fiscal year 2018-19 and additionally, the State had registered exports to the tune of Rs. 98, 983 crore during the same time. “AP significantly contributes to the nation’s manufacturing output as well as its exports. However, given the current pandemic, the manufacturing sector in the State is in great peril and needs support to sustain itself and proposer in the long run,” Mr. Jagan said. He further explained the support needed in seven sectors — MSMEs, textile, auto and auto components, pharmaceutical, metals and mining, food processing and export-oriented businesses. Creation of a fund for supporting MSMEs, deferment of EMIs and interest on working capital of MSMEs, the inclusion of cotton yarn and fabrics under rebate of State and Central taxes and levels, GST rate cuts for new vehicles, deferment of GST payments, the extension of BS-VI deadline by six months are among the requests. Similar requests for deferment of GST, electricity charges, exemption of delayed payments of duties in the food processing, metals and mining and pharmaceutical sectors and other overseas export-oriented businesses were made.
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||NIA arrests ex-Shopian sarpanch||A former sarpanch, aligned to the BJP, from Shopian in south Kashmir has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in a case registered in January, after a J&K police officer Davinder Singh was caught travelling in a car with a Hizbul Mujahideen militant. The suspect, Tariq Ahmad Mir, 36, was arrested on Wednesday. An official said his name cropped up during the interrogation of Naveed Mushtaq Shah, the Hizb militant. Shah reportedly told interrogators that Mir was involved in providing weapons to other terrorist groups. An official said the NIA had raided multiple locations in February and Mir’s house was one of them.
01 May 2020||PATNA,||Bihar seeks non-stop trains for migrants||Bihar on Thursday urged the Centre to run special non-stop trains to bring back 27 lakh people of the State stuck in distant places because of the lockdown. The appeal came a day after the Centre issued an order allowing the States to bring back students, migrants and tourists.
01 May 2020||Kharar,||Confusion in Punjab over curfew relaxation||After Punjab permitted the opening of shops on rotation for four hours every morning from Thursday, a state of confusion prevailed among shop owners in many parts of the State. They said the government should issue clear instructions.
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||R.V. Smith: Delhi loses its favourite chronicler||Noted author and columnist Ronald Vivian Smith, who is best known for his writings on Delhi, breathed his last at a hospital here on Thursday. He was 81. Smith was suffering from age-related ailments for the past four months, his family said. He was admitted to hospital after he complained of breathing problems on Monday.
01 May 2020||UDUPI,||15 with symptoms admitted to hospitals||As many as 15 persons with symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to hospitals in Udupi district on Thursday. According to a press release here, of the 15 persons, nine were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), while three were suffering from Influenza Like Illness (ILI). Of the 15, six were men and nine women, the release said.
01 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Police allowed to release 35,000 seized vehicles||In a temporary relief to owners of around 35,000 motor vehicles that were seized for violation of lockdown norms in Bengaluru, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday permitted the city police to release the vehicles after collecting a tentative fine.
01 May 2020||Chennai,||Pregnant women to be screened for COVID-19||Pregnant women from containment zones will be screened for COVID-19 at hospitals. This comes after samples of a 27-year-old pregnant woman, who died at the Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women and Children on Monday, tested positive.
01 May 2020||Chennai,||T.N. eyes investment from other countries||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has set up a Special Investment Promotion Task Force (SIPTF) to attract countries likely to shift their supply chains to India, in the wake of the pandemic. It will submit its first report in a month.
01 May 2020||Chennai,||Non-resident Tamils told to register on portal||The Tamil Nadu government has requested non-resident Tamils living abroad, who are intending to return (whenever air traffic is restored) to the State in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, to register on the portal nonresidenttamil.org.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Spend Rs. 65,000 crore for the poor: Rajan||Former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan, in an online conversation with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, the video of which was released by the party on Thursday, said India needed to open its economy in a “measured and clever way and cannot wait until it has zero COVID-19 cases”. The renowned economist, who teaches at the University of Chicago, said India could shape the global dialogue in a post-COVID world but also cautioned not to have “a divided house” in challenging times. Mr. Rajan, who took part in the first of a series of dialogues planned by the Congress on the challenge posed by the pandemic, estimated that India needed to spend about Rs. 65,000 crore to take care of the vulnerable sections such as migrant workers. “Our GDP is Rs. 200 lakh crore, and out of that Rs. 65,000 crore is not a huge amount. So, we can do it. If this is for the poor and to save their lives and livelihood, we must do it,” Mr. Rajan said. Mr. Rajan said the economy needs to be opened up in a sequential way in working out a balance in fighting the virus and facing the consequences of the economy. “Our capacities and resources are limited. Our fiscal resources are more limited than the West. What we need to do is to decide, how do we keep this economy together. When we reopen, is it sort of able to walk off the sick bed and not be dead at that point? Most immediately, keep people well and alive. Food is extremely important,” he said, adding that he and other economists like Amartya Sen and Abhijeet Bannerjee have talked about temporary ration cards. “It is all too easy to have a lockdown forever, but obviously that is unsustainable for the economy.” ‘Levarage DBT’ The economist said India should now leverage its direct benefit transfer (DBT) network to protect livelihoods, keep people alive and “keep them from going onto the street protesting or going out looking for work during lockdown”. The former RBI Governor said India could mould the international dialogue for a more multi-polar global order. “What I think we can say is there will have to be a rethinking of everything in the global economy once we are out of this. If there is opportunity for India, it is in shaping that dialogue...In this situation, India can find opportunities for its industries, for its supply chains….” Reversing roles, Mr. Rajan asked the Congress leader to share his views on how India is handling the pandemic challenge compared to the U.S. Mr. Gandhi said the two countries are different both in terms of scale and resources. “The idea of governance in India is always about trying to control and I think that is one of the challenges that we are facing now. The disease cannot be controlled, it has got to be managed, as you said,” Mr. Gandhi said. ‘No divided house’ The Congress leader also said there is an infrastructure, but if there is division and hatred, that disconnects people. Agreeing with him, Mr. Rajan said, “Having everyone believe that they are a part of this system, an equal part of the system, is essential. We cannot afford to be a house divided especially in these times when our challenges are so big.”
01 May 2020||Kolkata,||Virus claimed 105 lives in West Bengal||As many as 105 persons who tested positive for COVID-19 in West Bengal had died, and of these, 72 were due to co-morbidities, Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said on Thursday, referring to a report by a government audit committee. Meanwhile, the number of testing went up hugely — 13% — in a span of 24 hours from 14,620 to 16,525. The committee was set up on April 3 for “conducting an audit of suspected deaths due to COVID-19”. It is only after its nod that a death gets reflected in the tally of fatalities in the official bulletin. If, after investigation, it feels that a death was due to “severe co-morbidity” — or due to other ailment — then the death is excluded from the list. Till Wednesday, the number of deaths due to COVID-19 was 22. When asked whether the 11 deaths added to the official tally occurred within the past 24 hours, Mr. Sinha denied it. He said that only two deaths occurred in the past 24 hours and the additions were because the audit committee’s recent report had approved 11 more deaths due to COVID-19. Another role of the audit committee, he said, was to look into the “treatment protocol” of COVID-19 patients. Questions about setting up such a panel were raised in several quarters, including Opposition political parties. Parties took to the streets during the day raising questions about Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s remarks on Wednesday that she had no role in setting up the committee. In Kolkata The government said there were 444 containment zones, of which 264 were in Kolkata. Howrah had 72 and North 24 Parganas had 70. Mr. Sinha said no relaxation would be allowed in these zones. There had been no case of COVID-19 in eight districts. Meanwhile, 37 fresh cases were reported in 24 hours. The total number of active cases had increased to 572. Over 1,900 samples were tested during the period, taking the number to 16,525. In another development, the Health Department transferred the Superintendent of the Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital after certain notifications were made public where it was stated that COVID-19 positive should not be mentioned in the circular. The Chief Secretary said he was not the one who issued orders of such transfers. They were done by the respective departments, he added.
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Half-hearted bid to transport migrants’||Opposition parties have called the order of the Union Home Ministry allowing the State governments to ferry back those stranded outside their boundaries a hogwash and a measure to buy time. Jairam Ramesh, Rajya Sabha member of the Congress, said that at best it was a half-hearted measure. “The fact that it took 36 days for the government to respond to the plight of the migrant workers shows both apathy and a lack of planning before the lockdown. Even now, it’s a half-hearted attempt. Why aren’t special trains being deployed? Many State governments have asked for it,” he told The Hindu . ‘No coherence’ Congress spokesperson and Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari said the order showed utter lack of coherence or strategy. “How many inter-State meetings has the Ministry held so far? Does the government have data on migrant workers, about who from which district is stranded where? And is it safe to cover long distances in buses,” Mr. Tewari asked. All these problems should have been anticipated when the lockdown was first announced on March 24. Trinamool MP and former Railway Minister Dinesh Trivedi said that if the government was indeed serious, it would have considered trains and not specified that only buses could be used. Whether the order would actually be implemented or not was anyone’s guess. “Buses are not the answer. This will only create confusion and not a solution. They are merely buying time. There was too much pressure on the Union government to come up with a policy on migrant workers, so they brought out this order,” he said. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury called the order condescending, coming after days of suffering for the migrant workers and others stranded miles away from their homes. He questioned the fact that the Centre had delegated it to the States instead of taking the initiative. CPI general secretary D. Raja said the Centre had virtually abdicated its responsibility of helping the migrant workers or assisting the States in this time of crisis. “In both the interactions the Chief Ministers had with the Prime Minister, the main issue of contention was lack of financial aid to the States. They can’t deceive people who are in unimaginable misery. The hunger deaths are rising.”
01 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Experts call for proper disposal of PPE||With India needing an estimated 25 lakh units of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) every day, experts and scientists have highlighted the need for their proper disposal, treatment and recycling to safeguard the environment. These PPEs have given a new lease of life to plastic, which was facing severe scrutiny across the world on environmental grounds. Even India had banned single-use plastic to protect the environment, and today except a few, no one seems to be complaining. Since the COVID-19 outbreak, plastic items such as PPE suits, masks, gloves, sanitiser, handwash and water bottles, and shoes and head cover have been the only protective shield for the front-line workers. Participating in a discussion, K.K Aggarwal, former president, Indian Medical Association, and president, Confederation of Medical Associations of Asia and Oceania, said currently medical workers needed protective gear which were made from an impermeable and non-porous material such as plastic to avoid COVID-19 infection. Hence masks, gloves, protective shield for eyes and face, head and shoe cover, and apron made from plastics were used since impermeable material stopped virus-containing droplets from touching the skin. “Also the virus stays on the outer surface of the protective gear. It is also essential that healthcare workers change their personal protective equipment every 8 hours, and regularly decontaminate the hospital,” Dr. Aggarwal said. “Currently, 40 lakh health workers are fighting against COVID-19 . We need 20 to 25 lakh protective equipment every day to protect the workers from the infection,” he said. Ashok K Agarwal, President, Indian Association for Hospital Waste Management and former Dean, IIHMR, New Delhi, said the improper handling and disposal of medical waste could put healthcare workers at a higher risk of infection. “All biomedical waste needs to be disposed of in colour coded categories — yellow, red, white and blue — as per the guidelines stipulated in the Biomedical Waste Management Rules 2016 and by the Central Pollution Control Board,” he said. “These guidelines must be followed studiously to contain coronavirus infection. The government should ensure the availability of plastic garbage/disposal bags in hospitals, quarantined places and general households, so the waste can be collected and treated (medical waste) or recycled (general waste),” he added. According to Vijay Habbu, Adjunct Professor, Institute of Chemical Technology, the protective equipment such as masks, gloves, PPEs and plastic bags/bottles used while delivering essentials such as grains, oil, water must not be carelessly thrown away. “They must be properly disposed of so they can be treated/recycled. The earth is healing itself; it is an ideal time to cut down on non-ecofriendly human practices such as littering and utilise this time to strengthen the plastic waste management ecosystem in India,” he said. Dr. Habbu said that scientifically all types of plastic products/equipment were recyclable and every Indian citizen must know this fact. “The responsibility to ensure proper disposal of waste and source segregation is on every Indian citizen, it will prevent the highly hazardous practice of waste dumping in landfills/waste bodies and help in keeping our earth clean and green,” he said.
01 May 2020||PUNE,||Maharashtra’s case tally crosses 10,000 mark||The COVID-19 pandemic surged relentlessly in Maharashtra, as the State breached the 10,000-case mark on Thursday. It reported 583 new cases and 27 deaths, as the cumulative tally and the death toll surged to 10,498 and 459 respectively. According to figures given by the State Health Department, 20 of the deaths were reported from Mumbai city, while three were reported from Pune city. Pune district authorities, though, reported five deaths today, including of a person hailing from Kolhapur. On the other hand, 180 persons left hospitals on Thursday, taking the total discharged in the State till date to 1,773, said State Surveillance Officer Pradeep Awate. Mumbai’s death toll now stands at 290, while that of Pune district (the State Health Department’s figure) is 88. According to the Pune district administration, however, the district’s death toll has now touched 90. Nagpur reported its second death on Thursday and Raigad district its first. “Eighty-one per cent of the deaths reported had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease. One of them was an HIV patient and one was suffering from cancer,” said Dr. Awate. Information regarding co-morbidities of four of the patients was not available as yet.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Approach ICMR, SC tells NGO||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked an NGO to approach the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) with its reservations about seriously ill COVID-19 patients in intensive care units being subjected to “controversial, unproven, non-specific and potentially toxic off-label” use of anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine and broad-spectrum antibiotic Azithromycin. A Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana stopped short of intervening on a writ petition filed by NGO People for Better Treatment, saying the court is not an expert. It asked Dr. Kunal Saha, president of the NGO, to submit his research to the ICMR. People for Better Treatment had drawn the court’s attention to an extraordinary bulletin issued jointly on April 8 by the American Heart Association (AHA), the American College of Cardiology (ACC) and the Heart Rhythm Society (HRS) with warnings on the use of the two drugs on COVID-19 patients with existing cardiac conditions. The bulletin said the use of these drugs on patients with cardiac conditions would possibly trigger abnormal heartbeat, heart failure and death. It advised specific therapeutic measures in such cases. “Most of the drugs presently being used to treat COVID-19 patients are based primarily on anecdotal evidence and not on direct scientific data because very little actual research has been published on this new strain of coronaviruse, which was isolated for the first time only a few months ago. COVID-19 patients receive primarily symptomatic therapy because no specific drug against the new SARS-CoV-2 virus has been invented till now... Needless to say that when treating the vulnerable patients with an unproven drug for its off-label use, doctors should be extra vigilant about its potential harmful adverse effects on COVID-19 patients,” the petition said.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers group demands Rs. 1.5-lakh crore package||Major farmers group Bharatiya Kisan Union has demanded a Rs. 1.5-lakh crore relief package for farmers affected by COVID-19 and lockdown, along with a four-fold increase in the PM-KISAN income support scheme. This comes even as Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar sidestepped questions about a farm sector relief package, saying existing government measures were sufficient. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, BKU national spokesperson Chaudhary Rakesh Tikait said farmers with perishable produce have been hit especially hard by the lack of transport and labour due to the lockdown. “The countrywide lockdown caused lack of transportation that led farmers growing fruits and vegetable crops to let their crops rot in the field. At the same time, fair prices of produce were not available in the markets due to lack of demand. As a result, farmers had no choice but to throw away or destroy their crops,” he wrote, noting that there are reports of farmers across India throwing away tomatoes, gourds, cucumber, grapes, oranges and litchis. He estimated that fruit and vegetable farmers faced 80% crop loss, while many flower farmers lost their entire crop. Such extensive losses mean that farmers do not have the funds needed to plant the next kharif or monsoon season crop, said the farmer leader.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,||GI tag to Manipur black rice, Gorakhpur terracotta||Chak-Hao, which is a black rice variety of Manipur, and Gorakhpur terracotta have bagged the Geogrphical Indication (GI) tag. Chinnaraja G. Naidu, Deputy Registrar, Geographical Indications, confirmed that the GI tag had been given for the two products on Thursday. The application for Chak-Hao was filed by the Consortium of Producers of Chak-Hao (Black Rice), Manipur and was facilitated by the Department of Agriculture, Government of Manipur and the North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation Limited (NERAMAC). In the case of Gorakhpur terracotta, the application was filed by Laxmi Terracotta Murtikala Kendra in Uttar Pradesh. Chak-Hao, a scented glutinous rice which has been in cultivation in Manipur over centuries, is characterised by its special aroma. It is normally eaten during community feasts and is served as Chak-Hao kheer. Chak-Hao has also been used by traditional medical practitioners as part of traditional medicine. According to the GI application filed, this rice takes the longest cooking time of 40-45 minutes due to the presence of a fibrous bran layer and higher crude fibre content. At present, the traditional system of Chak-Hao cultivation is practised in some pockets of Manipur. Direct sowing of pre-soaked seeds and also transplantation of rice seedlings raised in nurseries in puddled fields are widely practised in the State’s wetlands. The terracotta work of Gorakhpur is a centuries-old traditional art form, where the potters make various animal figures like, horses, elephants, camel, goat and ox with hand-applied ornamentation. Some of the major products of craftsmanship include the Hauda elephants, Mahawatdar horse, deer, camel, five-faced Ganesha, singled-faced Ganesha, elephant table, chandeliers and hanging bells.
01 May 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. reports 65 fresh cases, death toll increases to 137||Madhya Pradesh recorded 65 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 2,625, the State Directorate of Health Services said. However, these figures do not include the latest data from Indore. With four more deaths, the State-wide toll rose to 137. Bhopal, Ujjain, Khandwa and Hoshangabad reported one death each, the Directorate said. The day saw 21 persons being discharged after treatment across the State. So far, 482 persons have recovered. Most recoveries at 177 have been reported from Indore, where 1,486 cases and 68 deaths have been reported as on Wednesday. But Bhopal, which has a third of the cases of Indore, has notched a better figure proportionally at 162. The case fatality rate in Ujjain stood at 17%, the highest in the State. Indore, the most populous and the largest city in the State, recorded a rate of 4.6%, whereas it was 3% for Bhopal. Meanwhile, Health Minister Narottam Mishra said no patient as on April 30 was on ventilator support in Bhopal, whereas six were being given oxygen support in Indore. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said 65 samples out of 2,617 had tested positive, marking a test positivity rate of 2.5%. In Bhopal, 25 of 1,275 samples, in Jabalpur seven of 157 and in Ujjain 11 of 96 samples tested positive. During a review meeting, Additional Chief Secretary for Health Mohammed Suleman said three districts — Ujjain, Indore and Bhopal — remained in the red zone. So far, 35,000 migrant workers who were stuck in different States have returned to the State. Of these, 25,000 had returned from Rajasthan and 6,000 from Gujarat.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Oman job cuts not Indian-specific: Centre||Expat Indian citizens have played a significant role in creating prosperous economies in the Gulf region, the External Affairs Ministry said on Thursday. The statement came amid reports of continued job cuts in several Gulf countries, including Oman, which has instructed government-owned companies to replace expat workers “as quickly as possible” with Omanis. “The Gulf countries greatly value their relation with India. They also value the role of the Indian diaspora in the development of the region. The policy of Oman is not specific to India and it does not target Indians,” Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told presspersons. Oman’s Finance Ministry on Wednesday issued a new set of guidelines ordering state-owned companies to “expedite replacement of expatriates with Omanis”. According to some estimates, around a third of Oman’s 4.6 million residents are expatriates who work in state-owned and private sectors. There are at least 8,00,000 Indian workers in the kingdom and a part of them are likely to be impacted by the order. Though the order is limited to the state-owned companies, it is understood that the private sector will be under pressure to follow the state sector’s example. The Omani order, when carried out, is expected to force significant part of the expat Indians to return home. In view of the COVID-19 outbreak in the Gulf states and the accompanying regional economic downturn, India is already preparing to evacuate a large number of citizens from the Gulf. Mr. Srivastava said, “The issue of evacuation is receiving attention of the government,” though he refused to spell out the plans saying, it is “remature” to discuss the details of the evacuation. Sultan of Oman Haitham bin Tarik had assured Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the salaries and well-being of the Indian community would be protected.  Gulf countries greatly value their relation with India  Anurag Srivastava  Spokesperson, External Affairs Ministry
01 May 2020||Bhopal,||74-year-old patient beats the odds after 32 days in hospital||The odds were stacked against Makhmuddin. The 74-year-old blacksmith had previously suffered bouts of jaundice that had weakened his immunity. And he came in late to the hospital with a feverish breath and a frantic cough that jolted his heaving chest. Doctors immediately put him on non-invasive ventilation support. For 12 days, his life hung precipitously on the edge — on oxygen support. Yet, he knew he would recover, Mr. Makhmuddin said. And survive he did, trumping COVID-19. On Wednesday, the septuagenarian, Indore’s longest-treated patient for the illness after having been in bed for 32 days, walked out of the city’s MRTB Hospital. Unfazed by the fact that the novel coronavirus has been sickening older people more gravely, he also became the city’s oldest to bounce back from the infection. Weakened system Previously, a year-long battle with jaundice had weakened his body. But the experience of having overcome that condition, Mr. Makhmuddin said, had steeled his resolve for facing future challenges. “Twice, I thought I was gone. But surviving jaundice had given me the strength to overcome other illnesses, including corona. This experience was nothing before that one,” he said. He still does not know how he became infected. As the lockdown kicked in, he barely stepped out; no one in his family or locality contracted the illness. “Sometimes I lent my sons a hand in repairing vehicles,” he recalled. Eight days before visiting a hospital on March 29, he suffered the first bouts of fever, temporarily controlled with self-medication. “He came to us at the peak of his illness,” said Salil Bhargava, a doctor at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College who was involved in the treatment. “He carried bilateral pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome.” Most of the 68 patients who have died in Indore presented so late at hospitals that the COVID-19 condition had taken complete hold by then, opined health experts. Despite pulling out all the stops, it was difficult to save them. “Most who have come to us in Makhmuddin’s condition have died,” Dr. Bhargava said. “Although the illness doesn’t have a defined remedy at present, his recovery shows supportive treatment works. Therefore we should not lose hope,” the doctor said. Cheerful company As he showed improvement, Mr. Makhmuddin was moved out of the ICU to another isolation ward. There, he drew support from the company of those recuperating alongside him. Six patients of varying ages occupied beds set wide apart. They chatted away their time, on the road to recovery. “ Accha time pass hua udhar . Dil behelta raha (We passed our time pleasantly. We kept ourselves entertained),” he chuckled. Two recently admitted youth, with uncertainty gripping them, had asked him about recovery. “I told them to have patience and the willpower to fight it out,” he recalled.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Activists seek testing of Ganga water for COVID-19 treatment||The National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG), an arm of the Jal Shakti Ministry that deals with the Ganga clean-up plan, has forwarded to the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) a proposal to undertake clinical trials and examine if Ganga water can be used to treat COVID-19 patients. The proposal was made by a collective of activists involved in the clean-up of the river as well as in the litany of litigation surrounding it. The thrust of the proposal is that research for over a century — and most recently an investigation by the CSIR-National Environmental Engineering and Research Institute, Nagpur — had found that the upper stretches of the Ganga had several species of bacteriophages. Phages, as they are also called, are viruses that specifically target bacteria and are also extremely strain-specific. While there is research to suggest that these phages may have anti-microbial properties and could potentially destroy bacteria such as Mycobacterium streptococcus and Pseudomonas Yersinia , it is unclear how phages — being viruses themselves — could have anti-viral properties. COVID-19 is caused by SARS-CoV-2 virus infection. “There’s no evidence that viruses can, even in principle, be used to destroy other viruses. Phage therapy has its uses in experimental medicine and has been used to treat infections from antibiotic-resistant bacteria,” Sunit Singh, virologist, Benares Hindu University, told The Hindu . ‘Experimental medicine’ The proponents of the proposal — Anil Gautam, A.K. Gupta, Bharat Jhunjunwala and Narendra Mehrotra — said the Ganga “could have” anti-viral properties, but the scale of the pandemic and the need for new drugs and treatment mean that there could be “immense benefit” from undertaking such studies on the lines of “experimental medicine.” Before being forwarded to the ICMR, the letter reveals, the NMCG discussed the feasibility of the proposal with NEERI, on April 24. NEERI, which is a Council of Scientific and Industrial Research organisation, has an ongoing study examining whether the phages in the Ganga water are responsible for destroying pathogens and delaying putrefaction. “The considered opinion of CSIR-NEERI is that overall, clinical trial on water alone may not yield very useful results, though this would need the considered opinion of agencies such as ICMR,” notes the NMCG letter, signed by D.P. Mathuria, Executive Director, NMCG, and addressed to the Director General, ICMR. “...It is true Ganga water has special properties which is prominent in upper stretches. Since no virus related studies have been yet carried out, one could attempt a pilot in the Upper Regions of Ganga.” Most studies have been done in the context of years-long movement that sees Ganga water as “unique,” particularly the water in the upper stretches of Rudraprayag and before Tehri.
01 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Uphill task for Odisha to scale up rural jobs||Given Odisha’s track record in job creation under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), the State government is likely to face an uphill task in implementing Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik’s directive to scale up employment generation for migrant workers returning home from other parts of the country. Earlier this week, reviewing the State’s preparedness to receive an influx of workers, Mr. Patnaik instructed officials to double employment generation under MGNREGS to 10 lakh persondays per day in a week’s time. According to social sector researchers, given the slow pace at which marginal workers were given jobs under the rural employment programme in the last few years, the Odisha government’s plan to use MGNREGS to sharply increase wage employment appears to be an onerous task. Although there is a mandate to provide at least 100 days of guaranteed wage employment to every eligible rural household under the scheme,in 2019-20, only 1,61,249 out of 68,45,899 registered rural households in Odisha — a meagre 2.35% of the total households — had completed 100 days of work. “Total 1.7 crore workers had registered under MGNREGS last fiscal,” observed Basant Kumar Nayak, senior researcher at the Centre for Youth and Social Development. “An estimated 43.7 lakh workers had demanded employment, but only 37.43 lakh individuals were provided jobs,” he said. In 2019-20, the average number of persondays of work provided per day under MGNREGS in Odisha was 3.06 lakh, an almost 35% jump from the previous year’s average of 2.27 lakh persondays. The average per day persondays in 2017-18 and 2016-17 were 2.52 lakh and 2.12 lakh respectively. Umi Daniel, a social activist working in the areas of poverty and distress migration, opined that it would not be easy to increase job creation to 10 lakh persondays per day. “We are already in the middle of summer. In a little over a month’s time, the monsoon would arrive. The MGNREGA jobs generally dry up in the rainy season. Moreover, while the whole panchayat administration will be busy in ensuring quarantine for returnees, intensifying MGNREGA implementation may not happen,” he said. His suggestion was that the State government ought to consider postponing the migrants’ return. “It is not too late. The government can still make efforts to convince migrant workers to stick to their present jobs and stay where they are,” said Mr. Daniel.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC allows withdrawal of plea against Central Vista||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed a petitioner to withdraw his plea challenging the Centre’s redevelopment project of the Central Vista. However, a Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) S.A. Bobde gave petitioner Rajeev Suri, through advocate Shikhil Suri, liberty to amend an earlier writ petition on the same issue to include the grounds agitated in the withdrawn one. Chief among these grounds is the quashing of a notification issued by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on March 20 authorising the change of land use. This demand will now be included in the amended petition. Mr. Suri argued that the proposed change in land usage of Central Vista, the historical boulevard of about 3.5 kmis a symbol of India’s history, its nationhood, its vibrant democracy. “The ‘re-development’ of the Central Vista, the entire matter has been clothed in secrecy and opacity. More sinister, is the murky, dubious and suspicious events, leading up to the present-day events. Foremost is the malevolent and malicious manner in which Central Government decided in May 2015 to withdraw India’s nomination to attain a world heritage city tag for Delhi’s Imperial Capital Cities from UNESCO; a quest it had been pursuing over the last decade or so,” the petition said.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI to probe complaint of false Arms Act case||The Central Bureau of Investigation has taken over the probe into an Arms Act case following a Rajasthan High Court directive to look into the allegation that one of the accused was framed by policemen in Bharatpur. The matter pertains to an FIR registered on October 28, 2015, at the Nadbai police station in Bharatpur against Suraj and Himanshu, who were arrested. An illegal country-made pistol with two live rounds was allegedly found in their possession. The police filed the first charge sheet in December 2015 against the duo and five others — Rinku, Manoj, Raju, Ajay and Virendra Singh. Further investigation was kept open against Rinku, Manoj and Virendra. In September 2019, a supplementary charge sheet was filed against them. Subsequently, Virendra filed a petition in the High Court seeking a fair probe. He alleged that he was framed. The court, in its judgment on February 7, 2020, ordered a CBI probe, stating that from bare perusal of the record and the proceedings conducted by the police, it appeared the personnel were involved in implicating the accused.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||EC vague on RTI asking if J&K is in Electoral College||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has replied ambiguously to a Right to Information (RTI) query if the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir will be part of the Electoral College for the election of the President of India. The RTI request by Shubham Khatri, a student, sought a list of the State and Union Territory Legislative Assemblies which were part of the Electoral College for election of the President. He also asked the EC to clarify if the newly-formed Union Territory of J&K was part of the Electoral College. The EC sent a single-line response, merely saying “for the information, applicant may be informed to refer Article 54 of the Constitution of India.” Under Article 54, the President is elected by an Electoral College, which consists of the elected members of both Houses of Parliament and the elected members of the Legislative Assemblies of all the States and also of Delhi NCT and Puducherry U.T. Article 54, thus, only specifically mentions NCT of Delhi and Puducherry as eligible to be part of the Electoral College. The J&K Reorganisation Act does not specify anything about whether the legislature would be able to vote in the election for a President. A passing mention is made in Section 13 of the 2019 Act, which claims that J&K Legislature would have the same powers as its Puducherry counterpart.
01 May 2020||Srinagar,||Extension of jurisdiction of CAT to J&K opposed||Several lawyers, the J&K Apni Party (JKAP) and the National Conference (NC) on Thursday opposed the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Chandigarh, to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir to hear the cases of employees for redress. “Shifting of all pending service-related matters from both wings of the High Court in Jammu and in Kashmir to the CAT will hit the advocates of the Union Territory in particular and the public in general... Ironically, the worst sufferers are those who had welcomed the abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile State,” Naseem Liaqat, a Jammu-based advocate, wrote on Twitter. JKAP president Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari said the decision would impact over 30,000 service matters. “Instead of establishing two tribunals, one in Jammu and the other in Srinagar, for the aggrieved employees of J&K, shifting these service matters to the CAT, Chandigarh, for adjudication is simply a travesty of justice,” he said. He said the decision deprived the employees of speedier and cost-effective justice delivery and denied these rights to the job aspirants who would approach the judicial system to ensure fairness and remove anomalies in recruitment processes.
01 May 2020||Srinagar,||33 new cases in J&K, masks made mandatory||As many as 33 new cases of COVID-19 infections were reported in J&K on Thursday, taking the total tally to 614. The rising numbers forced authorities in Srinagar to make wearing a mask mandatory for all from May 1. “All 33 cases were reported from Kashmir. The total number of positive cases is 614, with Jammu having 58 and Kashmir 556 cases,” said Rohit Kansal, Principal Secretary (Planning). South Kashmir’s Anantnag recorded the highest number of cases with 12 and north Kashmir’s Baramulla reported 11 cases. Mr. Kansal said the UT’s testing rates continue to be among the highest while the percentage rise continues to be low resulting in a high doubling rate, which is over 12 days. “Our mortality is just above 1%, which is quite low given the number of cases. The most notable part is that over 92% of the cases can be traced. All these are positive factors,” he added. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner, Jammu, Sushma Chauhan said all reported 26 positive cases from the district have recovered. “It’s indicative of being on the right course, nevertheless declaring the district COVID free, will be premature,” she said.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||March core sector output slumps 6.5%||“Several of the core sector industries were given exemptions under the lockdown. Electricity and steel are continuous processes and have not been stopped. But movement of goods faced major restrictions, so it could be that they reduced production as much as possible to deal with reduced demand,” said eminent economist Pronab Sen, a former chief statistician of India. Going forward to April, he expected these trends to worsen slightly but within the same magnitude, noting that demand has fallen drastically in the power sector due to the full lockdown this month, and gas powered plants were likely to have been shut down. Coal may also dip for April, while cement production will fall sharply as all construction activity came to a halt, he said. “The wider IIP will see a much bigger hit, as non-essential industries were completely closed in April. The core sectors account for about 40% of the IIP, but I’d say about 45% of all industries will show zero production,” said Dr. Sen. “I would project a 30-40% drop in the IIP in April.” Fellow economist D.K. Srivastava, policy advisor with Ernst and Young, added that the March core sector data also reflected the cut in capital expenditure by both state and central governments in order to make up for falling tax revenues. “This trend is bound to continue because both government and private demand for infrastructure investment has collapsed,” Mr. Srivastava said, adding that a revival in the core sector is unlikely until the government starts spending on infrastructure.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||NIA arrests former Shopian sarpanch||Gram panchayat elections are not fought on party symbols but candidates do get support from political parties. Mir was elected in 2011. Panchayat elections could not be held in the district in 2018 due to prevailing law and order situation. Around 20,000 panchayat seats are vacant mostly in South Kashmir. “Mir is an arms conduit, he was arrested and produced in court which granted six-day custody. Further interrogation is on,” a senior NIA official said. Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Singh was arrested with Naveed, Rafi Ahmed Rather, another Hizbul militant and Irfan Shafi, a lawyer, on January 11 in South Kashmir’s Kulgam. The accused were enroute to the residence of Naveed’s younger brother Syed Irfan Ahmad in Jammu. A PhD scholar, Irfan was arrested on January 24 by the J&K police. The case was subsequently transferred to the NIA. Another official said though Mir was not directly involved in Davinder Singh’s case, he played an important role in providing weapons to several terrorist groups active in Kashmir Valley including the Hizbul. Singh’s arrest created a sensation as he was found in the company of Naveed Shah, a former police constable and one of the ‘most wanted terrorists’ in J&K. Police say that Shah was behind the killing of 11 truck drivers, non-local labourers and apple traders in south Kashmir after the August 5 clampdown in the former State after Parliament abrogated Article 370.
01 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Ahmedabad records over 3,000 cases, 149 deaths||With over 3,000 COVID-19 cases and 149 deaths, Ahmedabad is the second city after Mumbai in number of cases and deaths. On Thursday, the city added 249 new infections and 12 deaths. The city alone accounts for nearly 65% of total cases and 70% of deaths in Gujarat. Despite stringent stay-at-home measures and even curfew in hotspots, the number of cases has been rising and so are deaths, with one of the highest death rates, around 5%, in the country. Gujarat recorded 313 cases and 17 deaths on Thursday, taking the total to 4,395 cases and 214 deaths. So far, 613 persons have been discharged, including 86 on Thursday. “It is a community transmission in Ahmedabad with remnant contagion in congested areas and slums,” a top expert of infectious diseases told The Hindu , adding “with or without lockdown, Ahmedabad will only see higher infections and higher deaths.” Data of cases suggest that the city has began community transmission weeks ago and now cases are increasingly surfacing because of the aggressive testing strategy adopted by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation.
01 May 2020||Mumbai,||25 new cases in Dharavi||Dharavi reported 25 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, bringing the total in Asia’s largest slum to 369. Of the 25 new cases reported in Dharavi on Thursday, some were from areas like Kalyanwadi, Kumbharwada, Kunchikurve Nagar and Muslim Nagar that had seen cases in the past. Besides, cases were reported from newer parts, including Chaughule chawl and Labour camp. Total cases in Dharavi now stands at 369. With no death reported today, the tolls remains at 18.
01 May 2020||PATNA,||Bihar seeks non-stop trains for migrants||Bihar on Thursday urged the Union government to run special non-stop trains to bring back 27 lakh people of the State stuck in distant places because of the lockdown. The appeal came a day after the Centre issued an order allowing the States to bring back students, migrants and tourists. “Since the Central government has passed the order, I will appeal to it to run special non-stop trains to bring back those people from far-off places like Surat and Porbandar in Gujarat, Chennai, Bangalore, Maharashtra and Delhi,” Deputy Chief Minister and BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi said. In a two-minute video released to journalists, Mr. Modi said it would not be “possible to bring back such a large number of stranded people by bus as it will take months”. “Over five lakh people stranded in Delhi, 2.68 lakh in Maharashtra, over two lakh in Gujarat ... over one lakh in Karnataka have applied for the relief to the office of the Chief Minister,” he said. The Bihar government appointed the Principal Secretary of the Disaster Management Department, Pratyaya Amrit, as the nodal officer to supervise the process of bringing back the stranded people, he said.
01 May 2020||Guwahati,||Songs of peace from Manipur’s conflict zone||The COVID-19 lockdown has inspired a musical initiative for peace and bonhomie in Manipur, a State troubled by decades of conflict. A group of musicians in the State has produced a multilingual music album titled ‘Yes We Care’ with the objective of bridging the ethnic divide believed to have been widened by the lockdown that has minimised human interactions. The album, released on YouTube on April 28, has the same song in English and seven other languages, including Hindi. Extremist groups in the northeast have ideologically been against Hindi, which they say is the language of “imperialist Delhi”. The local languages in which the song has been sung are Nagamese, Tangkhul, Khoibu, Vaiphei, Paite and Manipuri. While Nagamese is the pidgin lingua franca of Nagaland, Tangkhul and Khoibu are Naga dialects of Manipur. Manipuri is the tongue of the non-tribal Meiteis of Imphal Valley and Vaiphei and Paite are languages of the tribal group classified as Kuki-Zomi. The Meitei, Naga and Kuki-Zomi groups have had a strained relationship with each other. There have been several instances of ethnic violence. “The idea behind the album was to spread the message of peace and brotherhood and enliven the people in this time of the pandemic,” said Norbert Khayi, the president of the Tangkhul Music Forum based in Manipur’s Ukhrul. “Apart from appealing to the people to stand up and fight the pandemic together, our aim was to celebrate Manipur’s ethnic diversity,” he said, adding that the project cost the forum about Rs. 40,000. The main person behind the concept, Mr. Khayi said he felt the need to remove the misunderstandings between the people living in Manipur’s hills and the valley as also different tribal groups within the hills. “The song is about overcoming the situation brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic by sticking together,” said Mandira Das, who sang the Hindi version.
01 May 2020||Guwahati,||Ambulance driver from Chennai tests positive||One of the two drivers of an ambulance that travelled more than 3,100 km from Chennai to drop five people in Tripura has tested positive for COVID-19. Tripura’s Education Minister Ratan Lal Nath said the five residents – two woman patients from Gomati and Baikhora and their attendants – returned in the ambulance on April 27. “Thermal screening was done at the Churaibari (Assam-Tripura border) entry point but the two drivers and the passengers were found asymptomatic. Their samples were collected and tested on Tuesday,” the Minister said, adding that one of the drivers from Tamil Nadu tested positive on Wednesday. The test result came after the ambulance had already left Tripura on its return trip since the e-pass was valid till April 28. The vehicle was stopped at Siliguri on northern West Bengal late on Wednesday. Officials in Tripura said the five people from the State were put in institutional quarantine as per guidelines. Two families shared the ambulance charges of Rs. 1.40 lakh. The process of tracing the contacts of the drivers in the State had started, they said. At least six other ambulances from Chennai have so far dropped patients and their attendants in various districts of Tripura. A 60-year-old male patient could not survive one of the trips.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Basis of upasana||Adyatma sadana is demanding as it takes root only when one is able to distance oneself from the immediate world and the impact of the physical awareness that is a constant presence in each one. In the Gita, it is clearly shown that Adyatma sadana is something that cannot be practised by one whose mind is caught in desire and anger, pointed out Swami Sashishikananda in a discourse. Arjuna asks who and what is prompting him to act in a particular way, especially in doing wrong when he wants to avoid such acts. Krishna points out to Kama, desire, and also Krodha, anger that are present in all beings in the form of rajas. When prompted by desire one seeks to fulfil them; in case the effort is thwarted, it gives rise to anger and the ego in one regards this as a personal failure. This leads to being caught in a vicious cycle. Moreover, since there is no end to desires, chasing them in life is like entering a fathomless ocean. The answer is first of all to accept the presence of desires in us. They are a part of the human personality comprising the senses, mind and intellect. But one should be wary of desires and not allow them to occupy the mind as they can easily cause harm to one’s spiritual sadana when they lead to wrong actions, even as a strong virus can attack the physical health of a person. Instead, one can try to focus on one’s ordained duties, that is, what has devolved on one owing to birth, circumstances, etc and not encourage selfish tendencies. The Kenopanishad teaches the foundations of upasana, the practice of austerities, such as self control and contentment and so on, and encourages one to cultivate and sustain these at all times. This is the only way to attain chitta suddhi which is conducive for Adyatma sadana.
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Show loans to fugitives as outstanding’||Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Thursday said banks should show loans taken by fugitives Vijay Mallya, Mehul Choksi and Nirav Modi as ‘outstanding loans’ in their account books instead of writing them off. “The only way to undo the monumental error is for RBI to direct the banks concerned to reverse the entries and continue to show the unrecovered loans from the fugitives as ‘outstanding loans’ on their books and take steps to recover them,” said Mr. Chidambaram in a series of tweets. “The debate on waiver or write-off is academic. People who are mighty pleased are Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya! Rules are made by human beings. If a rule can be made, it can be unmade too,” he added.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC directs RBI to implement moratorium||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to ensure that the central bank’s March 27 circular directing banks and financial institutions to provide borrowers a three-month moratorium on loan repayments is implemented in “letter and spirit” amid the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana said the central banker should ensure that its freeze on loan repayments between March 1 and May 31 was not diluted and benefited the borrowers. The court told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that it appeared that the borrowers had not actually benefited from the RBI’s gesture. However, the Bench, also comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B.R. Gavai, which took up four PIL petitions on the implementation of the circular, said it was not intervening any further as none of the petitioners was actually an aggrieved party. On March 27, RBI gave liberty to banks and financial institutions to allow moratorium in respect of loans outstanding as on March 1. It said the repayment schedule for these loans as well as the residual tenor would be shifted across the board by three months after the moratorium period. Sources in RBI said the court order was a rap on the knuckles of the banks that were not extending the benefit to many customers. ( With inputs from   Manojit Saha )
01 May 2020||KHARAR,||Confusion in Punjab over relaxation||After Punjab permitted the opening of shops in a staggered way on rotation for four hours every morning from Thursday, a state of confusion prevailed among shopkeepers in many parts of the State. Several shops in the markets at Kharar in Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar district were open between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. Though the owners said the curfew was “relaxed”, the district authorities issued guidelines only later. The order issued by Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said that in rural areas all shops registered under the Shops and Establishments Act will be allowed to operate with 50% of employees. In urban areas, all stand-alone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes will be allowed to operate.  The State reported one more COVID-19 death, taking the number to 20, and 105 fresh cases, an official statement said. The number of the cases has reached 480. Most of the fresh cases were pilgrims who had recently returned from Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Nanded.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||EPFO gives payment relief to employers||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Thursday said it had separated the filing of monthly electronic challan-cum-return (ECR) from the payment of PF contributions, giving employers more time to pay the amount in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. “The ECR can now onwards be filed by an employer without the need of simultaneous payment of contributions and contributions may be paid later by the employer after filing the ECR. Filing of ECR by the employer in time is indicative of employer’s intent to comply and will not therefore attract penal consequences if the dues are paid within the extended time as announced by the government,” it said.
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||Trucks don’t need passes, says Ministry||The Union Home Ministry reiterated on Thursday that separate passes were not required for trucks and goods carriers to move across States. In a letter to the States and Union Territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla asked them to ensure free movement of trucks, including empty ones. The Ministry wrote to them on April 3 and 12 stating the same. “It is now reiterated that no separate passes are required for through traffic of trucks and goods carriers, including empty trucks, etc. This is essential for maintaining the supply chain of goods and services,” it said. The Ministry asked the States to convey it to district authorities and field staff to avoid ambiguity.
01 May 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Investigate ‘denial of dialysis’: HC||The Orissa High Court has directed the State government to expedite investigation into the death of a patient suffering from chronic kidney disease, and who was denied dialysis at a private hospital at Cuttack, allegedly for his Muslim identity, during the COVID-19 lockdown. Azra Jamal, a lawyer activist, had moved the HC seeking legal action against a Cuttack-based private hospital that denied dialysis treatment to a patient identified as Sayed Abdul Hasan, leading to his death on April 10. “Shanti Hospital in Cuttack had refused to treat the chronic kidney disease patient because he belonged to Muslim community. As a result of which he died the same day,” Ms. Jamal said in her petition. She said the private hospital had turned the patient away, demanding the production of “COVID-19 test certificate” before allowing him to access the dialysis facility.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Special leave for disabled bank staff||The Union Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry on Thursday said persons with disabilities (PwD) employed by public sector banks and insurance companies would be given special leave without loss of pay for the duration of the lockdown imposed in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Department of Empowerment of PwD under the Ministry took up the issue with the Finance Ministry’s Department of Financial Services on Tuesday after receiving information that State Bank of India was treating the absence of PwD as “sick leave”. The National Federation of the Blind had raised the issue with the department, it said on Thursday.
01 May 2020||Muzaffarnagar,||Bride, groom pose as patients||Nine members of a family were quarantined after a newly wed couple returned from Ghaziabad to Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar district in an ambulance in the guise of patients, police said on Thursday. The groom, bride and their seven family members were quarantined at their home in Khatauli. A case has registered against the ambulance driver who brought the couple home, police added.
01 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha records highest spike with 20 cases in one day||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Odisha climbed to 142 on Thursday. The State saw the largest spike with 20 cases – 17 from Jajpur and three from Balasore district – reported during the past 24 hours, according to officials. All the new cases reported from Jajpur were of those who returned from West Bengal and their close contacts, the State Health & Family Welfare Department said. The districts of Balasore, Bhadrak and Balasore that are close to West Bengal have reported 74 cases so far, and most of them are of those who had managed to return during the ongoing lockdown and their close contacts. The previous 24-hour spike with 18 cases was reported in Bhubaneswar on April 5. The city had reported 46 cases till a fortnight ago, and its total increased to 47 when family member of a COVID-19 case was found positive on Wednesday. Of the total 142 cases in the State so far, 102 are under treatment at different COVID hospitals, while 39 had recovered and one had died, according to the health department.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parliament project gets panel nod||The government’s plan to construct a new Parliament building was approved by the Central Vista Committee at a meeting on April 23 with the suggestion that the design be “in sync” with the existing Parliament House, according to the minutes of the meeting sent to its members on Thursday. The committee, which is chaired by Central Public Works Department (CPWD) Additional Director-General (Works) Anant Kumar, met through video conferencing. None of the non-government members from the Indian Institute of Architects (IIA) and the Institute of Town Planners was in attendance. “It is placed for record here with that some members, through email, expressed their inability to join the meeting on grounds of travel restrictions in view of COVID-19 and owing to lack of technical capacity at their end to join online web cased conference facility,” the minutes stated. These members had requested for the meeting to be postponed, “however, keeping in view the importance of the project in nation’s interest and time scale for its implementation the meeting was held as per issued meeting notice”, the minutes said. The “proposed new Parliament building at Plot No.118, New Delhi” was the only item on the agenda. The item was submitted by Ashwani Mittal, CPWD Executive Engineer for the project, for the committee’s consideration. Mr. Mittal then invited the architect of the project, Bimal Patel of the Ahmedabad-based HCP Design, Planning and Management, to present the proposal through video conferencing. After Mr. Patel presented the proposal, the panel gave its observation of “no objection, with suggestions that the features of the proposed Parliament building should be in sync with the existing Parliament building.”  Balbir Verma, a representative of the IIA on the committee, said the meeting took place despite “all non-government experts from the IIA and the Institute of Town Planners asking for a postponement and having the meeting after the conditions of movement are eased.”
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shoppers ignore government’s advisory, throng markets||Thousands thronged shops, supermarkets and vegetable markets in the city on Thursday despite the government’s appeal to avoid crowding. Since morning, Villivakkam market saw a steady stream of shoppers. The police had to intervene and regulate the crowd by giving instructions on the public address system, reminding everyone to maintain physical distance while waiting in the queue. A police officer said: “From 6 a.m. onwards, we have been advising people to wear masks and maintain personal distance in the market.” Despite prohibitory orders being in force, many four-wheelers and two-wheelers were found on the roads in Anna Nagar and Thirumangalam areas. Huge crowds gathered to buy vegetables at Nammalwarpet market. In Thiruvanmiyur market, vegetable market has been partly shifted to a place near the temple tank. A senior police officer said: “Over 25 police personnel have been on duty since 6 a.m. Three inspectors, five sub-inspectors, 15 constables and home guards were regulating the crowd and advising people to maintain personal distance.” Commissioner of Police A.K. Viswanathan has appealed to the public not to do panic buying on Thursday and not rush to buy essential commodities from neighbourhood shops. In a video message, Mr. Viswanathan said to help people purchase goods, shops will be open from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Thursday alone. “It is not necessary for everyone to purchase whatever they need tomorrow itself. Shops will be open till 1 p.m. from Friday,” he added.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ICF asks staff to report for work||The Integral Coach Factory (ICF) here opened its office for administrative work, asking dozens of employees to report for duty following the safety protocol on Thursday. With the Southern Railway Zonal/Divisional offices also planning to open offices with 33% staff, the Southern Railway Mazdoor Union has recorded its protest by writing to the General Manager that the move was against the interests of employees and their family members. ICF, the largest coach manufacturing unit in the world, with over 10,000 employees stopped factory work ever since the COVID-19 lockdown was imposed. On April 29, the Principal Chief Personnel Officer issued an order asking Heads of Departments in the factory to call 33% of the staff to attend office. However, employees residing in containment areas were asked to work from home. “Besides the Ministry of Home Affairs letter allowing functioning of offices with 33% staff, we obtained the sanction of the Regional Joint Director, Department of Industries, Tamil Nadu, according permission for 500 employees to work in the lockdown period. All the staff who came to work wore masks and maintained physical distancing as per norms” a senior ICF official told The Hindu .  Safety issues All India Railwaymen Federation working president N. Kanniah wrote to the Southern Railway General Manager expressing serious concern over employees being allowed to work in containment areas. He said Chennai topped the list of COVID-19 positive cases in the State and the zonal office of Southern Railway and Chennai divisional headquarters were located in close proximity to the Rajiv Gandhi Government Hospital, which was a containment area. The fact that doctors, para-medical staff and other frontline workers were themselves getting infected only showed the tenacity of coronavirus and the susceptibility of normal human beings. “It is not advisable to open the headquarters, division offices and workshops in Chennai area as it will be against the interest of hundreds of employees and their family members.” Mr. Kanniah, who is also the general secretary of the Southern Railway Mazdoor Union, said the suspension of public transport was an obstacle since employees, despite having duty passes, had to go through the ordeal of severe restrictions on travel and frequent checks by law-enforcing agencies. “If normal transport facilities are restored, opening of offices can definitely be done since it would mean that the area is safe and the government has officially declared it as such,” he said.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM sets up special task force to woo investors||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has constituted a Special Investment Promotion Task Force (SIPTF) to attract countries likely to shift their supply chains to India, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The 14-member SIPTF, to be headed by the Chief Secretary, will submit its first report to the Chief Minister in a month. “The economic upheavals and supply constraints caused by COVID-19 has prompted many countries to rethink their existing supply chains, excessively dependent on some countries. Reports indicate that countries like the U.S., South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and Singapore are likely to diversify by establishing supply chains originating in India. Tamil Nadu, which is already a favoured investment destination, is well placed to attract these investments and needs to take proactive steps to attract them,” an Industries Department government order said. The G.O. said that the terms of reference (ToR) of the committee were to identify sectors in which Tamil Nadu could attract investments due to relocation from other countries after COVID-19, and to formulate a special incentive package to attract and facilitate these investments. Identifying key infrastructure projects, including dedicated industrial townships, that need to be undertaken or expedited to attract investments; finding measures to fast-track clearances to promote these investments and recommending outreach activities and brand building to position Tamil Nadu as an attractive investment destination were the other ToRs of the committee.  Secretaries of Finance, Industries and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Departments; managing director and chief executive officer, Guidance Tamil Nadu; and the Commissioner of Commercial Taxes are among the government authorities on the panel. Two nominees from the Japan External Trade Organisation (JETRO), Korea Trade Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA), Korean Chamber of Commerce and Taiwan External Trade Development Council and two nominees from the Indo-American Chamber of Commerce, US-India Strategic Partnership Forum and U.S.-India Business Council are also part of the panel. One nominee each from Enterprise Singapore, Japanese industrial parks, Japanese companies in Tamil Nadu, U.S. companies in Tamil Nadu and Taiwanese companies in Tamil Nadu too are on the panel.  Reports indicate that countries like the U.S., South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and Singapore are likely to diversify by establishing supply chains originating in India Government order Industries department
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records highest single-day spike in cases||The State on Thursday saw the highest number of cases since the first case was reported on March 7. A total of 161 fresh cases were recorded and the city of Chennai itself had 138 cases, reflecting a clear rising trend. With this, the State’s total count of COVID-19 cases increased to 2,323*. A total of 97 men and 64 women tested positive on Thursday. A majority of them — 141 persons — were in the 13-60 age group. There were 13 children in the 0-12 age group and seven persons were aged above 60. There were no deaths. As on date, a total of 1,035 persons (active cases) are under treatment in hospitals. The number of districts that reported fresh cases increased to 11. Apart from Chennai, there were five cases each in Chengalpattu and Madurai, three cases each in Kancheepuram and Ramanathapuram, two in Perambalur, and one each in Ariyalur, Cuddalore, Ranipet, Salem and Tiruvannamalai. While Chennai’s total COVID-19 count soared, crossing the 900-mark, it should be noted that Chengalpattu too has been reporting fresh cases in the last few days. Chennai presently has a total of 906 cases. Two districts — Ranipet and Ramanathapuram — that moved to the orange zone (districts with less than 15 cases or no new case in the last 14 days) on Wednesday, moved back to the red zone (more than 15 cases or doubling time less than four days) after reporting fresh cases. However, Erode, that saw a significant number of cases in the beginning, moved from the red to the orange zone, with its present case count being 70. This means that there was no new case in the district in the last 14 days. According to a bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, detailed investigation is in progress for 34 primary persons. Another 48 persons were discharged after treatment from hospitals in the State. This took the total number of persons discharged in the State to 1,258. In Chennai, 214 persons have been discharged so far. The number of persons discharged from Coimbatore and Tiruppur was 125 and 103, respectively. More samples were tested with the day’s count being 9,787 — an increase of 1,700 from Wednesday. From 7,886 individuals on Wednesday, the number of persons tested increased to 9,643. Till now, 1,19,748 samples have been sent for COVID-testing. A total of 1,10,718 individuals have been tested so far. As on date, a total of 1,978 persons, suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19, have been admitted to isolation wards. (* This is inclusive of two deaths cross notified to other states and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to turn city schools into quarantine facilities||With over 100 persons testing positive for COVID-19 on a daily basis, the Greater Chennai Corporation, on Thursday, decided to take over government and private schools in the city to create more quarantine facilities. As more than 98% of 906 residents who have tested positive for COVID-19 in the city have been asymptomatic, the Corporation is not taking any chances. It directed that schools be handed over by May 2. Already, the Corporation has created quarantine spaces to isolate and treat about 10,000 persons in places like Anna University, IIT-Madras and Chennai Trade Centre and the addition of schools would enhance quarantine capacity in the city. Earlier in the day, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said front line staff who tested positive for COVID-19 will be replaced. “We have devised a mechanism to replace front line staff once they test positive for COVID-19. City survey is an important exercise relating to COVID-19 containment. Many such staff members are getting exposed to COVID-19,” he said. The Corporation has requested residents and conservancy workers to dispose of masks in a safe manner. “Waste management of materials remains a challenge in the city, increasing the risk of COVID-19,” he said. Front line staff have been directed to stop disposal of masks and gloves in common bins across the city as the Corporation made arrangements for safe disposal of waste generated by civic workers, Mr. Prakash added. Ripon Buildings cases Two employees at Ripon Buildings, the Corporation headquarters, tested positive for COVID-19 this week. Civic officials said all employees working at the headquarters will be tested this week. The workers in Ezhilagam, another government building, would also be tested. Mr. Prakash said the recent price rise would be discussed with the Labour Department to take action against traders demanding higher prices. He urged people to report commercial establishments charging exorbitant prices. The Corporation has permitted 4,900 push carts for selling vegetables and 1,182 mini trucks for essential commodities, he added.
01 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Is this the peak for Chennai or can another be expected?||Is this the peak of the infection for Chennai? It may well be the peak during the ongoing lockdown, say experts. Some public health experts feel that another can be expected post the lockdown, before the pandemic flattens in the State. It is possible that increased testing is the single biggest reason for the large number of cases that Chennai throws up daily. And, yet, experts say, the city is a hotspot also because a common sense approach, community responsibility and participation in public health efforts is lacking. “Urban pockets continue to be a huge problem across the world. Continuous living spaces and urban sprawls make things difficult from a public health point of view. Also we cannot deny that there is poor compliance in Chennai,” says a public health official. While the government claims the State does not yet conform to the definition of ‘community transmission’, the numbers are growing and this is a source of concern. With the Corporation Commissioner commandeering schools for the COVID-19 effort, it is clear that the city is preparing for a possible explosion of cases. These schools will function as COVID-19 care centres, allowing non-symptomatic patients to be isolated, or double up as quarantining centres for vulnerable populations. V. Ramasubramanian, who was on the expert committee panel that made recommendations to the government, says: “This is a good move, because I don’t think putting an asymptomatic person in a hospital is a great idea. This will be a sort of second tier of care for people who cannot maintain isolation at home.” “The NIE has told us that the numbers will tend to go up, but to remain focused on collection of data, identifying, testing and contact tracing,” says Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, adding, “the positivity rate for the tests we are doing is rather low. We are doing nearly 10,000 cases now. Our recovery rate is good, and fatality rate is really low. The government’s focus will be testing, treating, and keeping the vulnerable populations safe, as of now.”
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Contact tracing in Chennai proves tough||The city’s COVID-19 case count has been increasing day after day. This is partly due to its population density — a factor that has made the already challenging task of contact tracing all the more difficult. Tracing contacts of patients was taking more time in Chennai than in other districts of Tamil Nadu, a health official said. Carrying out the exercise in the State capital was arduous, he added. “For instance, we are given the address of a person. On reaching the place, we come to know that he does not live there. We then find out that he resides just behind that particular house,” he explained. As expected, the number of contacts of each patient was relatively higher in Chennai due to urban density, another official said. “Some persons provide incomplete addresses and wrong mobile numbers. This causes delay in the process. It is their responsibility to provide a complete address with the right phone number,” he added. In fact, the metropolitan city has another problem — many residents do not know their neighbours. “There are people who do not know the names of their neighbours. Such details are important for epidemiological investigation,” the official said. An official of the Chennai Corporation said that extensive efforts were being made in terms of contact tracing in the city. The exercise covered both close contacts, i.e., family members, and extended contacts. “Finding the extended contacts is more like an art,” he said. “It is a harder task here. There are places where the population is densely packed. There are narrow streets, or buildings that have 10 families, or slum areas where people are tightly packed. Narrowly defining extended contacts might be meaningless. So we comb the entire area,” he said. Not an easy task For instance, in the north region of Chennai Corporation, there were 111 index cases, for which a total of 3,081 contacts — 640 direct contacts and 2,441 extended contacts — were traced and tested. “For every positive case, we have 30 more persons who are traced and tested,” an official said. By and large, people are cooperating, said officials. “But human memory is fallible. The real challenge is that we come to know that somebody is infected only when they test positive, but they may have been infected 15 days ago,” the official said. “Field-level health inspectors make discrete enquiries, and enable patients to recall from memory the places they visited and the persons they met,” the official added.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Essentials held up at port being released||Around 51,000 tonnes of edible oil and 30,000 tonnes of pulses, which was held up at the Chennai Port due to the COVID-19 lockdown, are being released in a phased manner for sale in Tamil Nadu and other southern States, according to members of the State government’s committee in charge of essential commodities. Following the imposition of the lockdown in March, the two commodities, procured by private traders from domestic and international suppliers, could not be moved out of the port for a variety of reasons, such as the need for clearances from Customs and plant quarantine authorities and the non-availability of lorry drivers. The traders sought the State government’s help, and subsequently, the committee held meetings with officials concerned and others to pave the way for the release of the commodities. Pointing out that huge quantities of black gram (urad dal) had come in from Myanmar and other south-east Asian countries, the members of the panel said that swift action was required, as otherwise, there may have been a shortage of pulses. On an average, Tamil Nadu has been receiving 40-60 truckloads of pulses — essentially red gram (toor dal) — from various States, every day. Likewise, when two private companies — Aachi Masala Foods and Sakthi Masala — which manufacture powdered spices, drew the government’s attention to problems they were facing in getting raw materials from States like Gujarat, Rajasthan and Maharashtra, the committee got the issue resolved after taking it up with officials in charge of departments and agencies concerned in the respective States and the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare.  Monitoring availability A group of officers — Dayanand Kataria, Additional Chief Secretary (Co-operation, Food and Consumer Protection ) , Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Principal Secretary (Agriculture) and P. Thamarai Kannan, Additional Director-General of Police (Welfare) — has been entrusted with the task of monitoring the availability of essential commodities, both in the government system and the open market. It has been holding regular meetings with a wide range of stakeholders in the supply chain.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Retail traders flock to Koyambedu||After four days of total lockdown, the Koyambedu wholesale market saw a large number of traders from the city’s outskirts and neighbouring districts thronging it from early Thursday morning. While entry was restricted for residents, the Koyambedu market saw nearly 30,000-40,000 retail traders from various places, including Ranipet, Arakkonam, Gummidipoondi, Tindivanam and even Nellore, visiting on Thursday to make bulk purchases. Nearly 450 shops of wholesale vegetables, foodgrains and fruits market were open since 2 a.m. Though police personnel were posted, only 50-60% of the shops followed physical distancing norms. According to wholesale traders, many people jostled for space to buy onions and potatoes. Only 180 truckloads of vegetables, which was half the usual daily load, arrived at the market, noted merchants. P. Sukumar, a wholesale trader, said the prices of vegetables escalated by 10-15% due to the mismatch between demand and availability. “We did not receive green peas. Beans, broad beans and carrots were costly. Most of the stocks were sold by 7 a.m.,” he said. While about 200 vegetable shops were open, fruit merchants sold the previous day’s stock as they had decided to halt sales till the end of lockdown period. M. Thyagarajan, president, Koyambedu Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers Merchants Association, said retail traders must be allowed to sell vegetables in places around the market and instructed to follow physical distancing norms. Moreover, action must be taken if retail trading takes place inside the market.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospitals to screen pregnant women from containment zones||Pregnant women from containment zones will be screened for COVID-19 at hospitals. This comes after samples of a 27-year-old pregnant woman, a resident of Chintadripet who died at the Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital (KGH) for Women and Children on Monday, returned positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. Health Department officials said 59 persons — five doctors, 21 postgraduate students, 17 interns, eight staff nurses and eight workers and security personnel — of KGH had been quarantined for coming in contact with the woman. Nasal and throat swabs were lifted from all of them. A few patients and family members of the woman were also being screened. The woman, who was 36 weeks pregnant, was admitted with complaints of watery discharge. She had no diabetes or hypertension and fell in the low-risk category. However, she developed fits and collapsed suddenly. Doctors and staff in the ward tried to revive her and performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation. But she collapsed and died. The baby also died, said official sources. An official of the Health Department said the ward and the operation theatre were being disinfected. Adequate protection “First of all, we have told all doctors to fully protect themselves when attending to pregnant women, especially those coming from containment zones. When they come to the hospital in labour pain, we cannot immediately test them. So we have asked doctors and staff to protect themselves and attend to the expectant mothers. They will be screened simultaneously. We will look at those with symptoms and their susceptibility,” he said. Official sources said pregnant women, known to be in the high-risk category, were being referred to the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and Hospital for Women and Children, Egmore, and the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police deploy ‘robocop’ in containment area||The city police has introduced a robot cop with multiple functions to handle residents who live in containment areas. It can be controlled using a remote control and has a mounted camera for surveillance. The machine called Robot Cop LD v5.0 was deployed in Meenambal Puram Street, a containment area in Mylapore. It is a congested area with over 11 COVID-19 cases, police said. The robot cop has a two-way intercom for direct public announcements and to listen to any communication from the public. A LED display is mounted on it to display messages. Joint Commissioner of Police, East, R. Sudhakar, said, “In containment zones, we can’t enter and visit interior areas. Our personnel had to stand outside barricaded areas. The drones were used to make announcements.”  The robot was specially built for the lockdown in four days jointly by the police, Robothoughts, SCI Fi Innovation, and Callidai Motorworks. It has special features such as steering control for precise mobility, LED display for push messages, two-way intercom for direct public announcements and wireless connectivity range for about a kilometre.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Decide on future of lockdown without delay’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday urged the government to make a decision without delay on whether to extend or not the COVID-19 lockdown after May 3. “The second phase of the lockdown comes to an end on May 3 and people are keen to know whether it would be extended or lifted in a phased manner. Let the government make a quick decision without delay as it will avoid unnecessary tension and confusion,” he said in a statement. ‘People confined’ Mr. Stalin said people had been confined to the walls of their homes for the last 35 days and the government should not wait till the last moment to make a decision. At the same time, Mr. Stalin reiterated that it was the duty of the people to respect and adhere to the restrictions imposed during the lockdown.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre can’t interfere with CWMA: Govt.||The Central government cannot interfere with the functioning of the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA), though it has been brought under the Jal Shakti Ministry, as decisions taken by the Authority are final and binding on the riparian States, according to K. Manivasan, Prinicipal Secretary of the Public Works Department (PWD). Pointing out that the latest notification was only a “procedural measure,” Dr. Manivasan, in a statement, recalled that the Jal Shakti Ministry was formed in May 2019 by bringing under its umbrella two Ministries — Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation and Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation. Subsequently, rules concerning the allocation of businesses were amended and several subjects had been transferred to the new Ministry. Among them were the Godavari and Krishna River Management Boards and the CWMA. Pointing out that there had been changes in the rules concerning departments, organisations and other bodies, coming under the control of the Jal Shakti Ministry, the official said the changes were carried out for enabling the provision of salary to staff and the execution of other official functions. But, “there is no change in the functions and powers of the CWMA and the Cauvery Water Regulation Committee. This has been ascertained with officials concerned in the Union Ministry. So, there will be no adverse impact on interests of farmers who are dependent on the Cauvery river,” the official clarified. Another official in the department said the notification issued in June 2019 on the formation of the new Ministry omitted bodies such as the CWMA, which were originally under the fold of the erstwhile Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation. This was corrected with the latest notification issued on April 27. Meanwhile, the State committee of the Tamil Nadu Vivasaigal Sangam criticised the move and wanted the Central government also to make it clear that the interests of the agriculturists would not be harmed.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Donations pour into CMPRF||Thiagarajar Mills chairman Karumuttu T. Kannan donated Rs. 1 crore to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) for supporting COVID-19 relief measures. He presented a cheque to Madurai Collector T.G. Vinay on Thursday. The Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University donated about Rs. 3.02 lakh as contribution from its employees (one day salary in April) and students. In March, its staff members had contributed their one-day salary totalling about Rs. 1.81 lakh, it said in a statement. Chennai-based Shree Agarwal Samaj said it had donated Rs. 32 lakh. The samaj said it had distributed 12,000 rice and grocery kits worth about Rs. 72 lakh through the district administrations, volunteers and through various charitable trusts and NGOs to stranded and underprivileged families. The kits are distributed in the areas like Chennai Red Hills, Tondiarpet, Vyasarpadi, Ambattur, Ponneri, Avadi, Madhavaram, Tiruttani, remote villages of Chengalpattu district and Tiruvallur district, it added.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Portal for non-resident Tamils who wish to return||The Tamil Nadu government has requested non-resident Tamils living, working and studying abroad, intending to return (whenever air traffic is restored) to the State to register on the portal:nonresidenttamil.org. According to an official release, the registration facility online has been created “for the welfare of Tamils intending to return, their families, to estimate the number of such returnees and to arrange for quarantine faculties”.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IAS officer to tackle issues related to stranded persons||The Tamil Nadu government has appointed senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Atulya Misra as the nodal officer in the State to regulate issues relating to the movement of people stranded in different parts of the country during the lockdown. Pilgrims, tourists, students, migrant workers and others from Tamil Nadu have been stranded in various parts of the country due to the lockdown in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three policemen test positive||Three policemen have been admitted to government hospitals after initial tests showed them infected with COVID-19, said police sources. They were on duty to enforce prohibitory orders. One of them is a 55-year-old sub-inspector working in Mangadu. He is a resident at the Kundrathur police quarters. Another is a sub-inspector from Koyambedu police station and the last one, a 25-year-old constable of Armed Reserve Police on duty with Nungambakkam Police station.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishing ban dole distribution begins||The Fisheries Department has begun depositing Rs. 5,000 into bank accounts of 1.75 lakh fishers in the State as dole for the fishing ban period. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar said a total of Rs. 83.55 crore has been allocated for the scheme.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||App linking ryots, traders finds takers||The Agriculture Department has launched a free app — Uzhavan e market — to create a direct link between farmers and traders. “Farmers can register their produce through this app and the traders can approach them,” said Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Agricultural Production Commissioner and Principal Secretary to Government. He said the objective was to find a market for perishable commodities and there was a huge response from the day one itself.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP accuses Stalin of spreading lies||Tamil Nadu BJP president L. Murugan on Thursday accused DMK president M.K. Stalin of “blatantly lying” on the subsuming of the Cauvery Water Management Authority under the Jal Shakti Ministry. He said, “Mr. Stalin does not even have the basic knowledge that by bringing the Authority under the Jal Shakti Ministry, it would get more strength and lead to faster decision making. His claims that the Authority’s autonomy would be lost due to this move is just a sign of defeat as they are not able to get people’s support owing to the good work being done by Central and State governments for tackling COVID-19.” He questioned why the DMK did not get issue resolved when the party was in alliance with the Congress at the Centre.
01 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco buys cheaper power from exchanges||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has purchased short-term power from the exchanges during the lockdown as prices have fallen below Rs. 4 per unit. Between April 1 and 29, the State utility has procured 253.23 million units of power at Rs. 3.43 per unit from the Indian Energy Exchange and 100.80 million units of power at Rs. 2.93 per unit from Power Exchange India Ltd. “As you can notice from the figures, we are purchasing around 5% of our electricity from the exchange, and that too at a cost cheaper than our own generation cost. This is one reason why we are keeping most of our own power plants on reserve shut during this time of low demand due to the lockdown. This has incidentally helped us build our coal stock to over 20 days of full generation,” a senior Tangedco official said. Tangedco’s own generating cost is around Rs. 4.50 to Rs. 6 per unit. According to the Indian Energy Exchange, the peak power demand across the country has declined by 25%. The State’s requirement for energy during the lockdown has been around 10,000 mega watt (MW).
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC will hear cases through videoconferencing in May||The Madras High Court has decided to postpone the summer vacation due in May and continue to hear cases through video conferencing until the threat of COVID-19 subsides. The decision was taken in a Full Court meeting held on Thursday. It was decided that more judges would be assigned to hear cases remotely in May.
01 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RSK/MTC honours retiring staff by visiting homes||For the second month running, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation honoured retiring employees by visiting their homes. A total of 69 staff of the MTC retired on Thursday. Retirement benefit cheques, work appreciation certificates and sweet packets were distributed to them, MTC said in a press release.
01 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Textile units get into non-woven fabric production||As the demand for personal protective gear and masks have shot up in the last one month with the spread of COVID-19, some textile units in the region, mainly Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode, have gone into production of fabrics that are used to stitch the coveralls. The main suppliers for coverall fabric are from Tamil Nadu, according to official sources. Gopinath Bala, CEO and Technical Director at SVS Advanced Fabrics, says the company was already into technical textiles, manufacturing biodegradable sign board fabrics and roofing fabrics. It has now got into production of PPE fabrics. “We just launched production of three products - fabric for coveralls, cubicle partition fabrics that can be used in hospitals, coveralls with breathable fabric that the police and other healthcare workers on the field can use.” The demand for masks, coveralls, and related products will continue for some more time. Those making quality products will have a market after one or two year too as awareness about PPEs has increased. “There will be a good future for exports too,” he says. The fabric used to produce the PPEs is laminated to make it safe for use for frontline workers. Coimbatore-based Saastha Technical Textiles, started eight years ago, laminates nearly 10,000 metres of fabric a day. A PPE set used by a doctor consumes nearly 3.3 metres of fabric. If each doctor involved in treating COVID-19 patients use even one set a day, the demand for laminated non-woven fabric is huge. There are several enquiries from other countries too, says M. Raaja, its Managing Director, on the potential for the fabrics. Industry sources say that the demand for PPEs and healthcare related products will continue post COVID too. The domestic PPE manufacturers in Tamil Nadu will benefit to have the required eco-system within the State. The market has evolved with COVID-19. Entrepreneurs in other sectors are also looking at opportunities in masks and coveralls. So the demand for fabric will continue. Apart from the domestic demand, the manufacturers can look at exports. But they need to meet the importers’ specifications. Industries do not have to make huge investment to make the fabric. Most of them are using the existing facilities and modifying the machinery.
01 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Post total lockdown, people throng supermarkets||With the lifting of four-day total lockdown in Coimbatore city on Thursday, supermarkets saw people waiting in long queues and there was a steady flow of vehicles on most of the roads. Grocery and meats shops opened in the morning and personal distancing norms were maintained in many places. The police had to allow people in batches into RG Street, the main area for wholesale purchase of grocery products. Vehicle movement on Raja Street was also restricted to control crowd. “People fear there may be another lockdown. That is why they rush to the shops. The police should also restrict entry of retail buyers and permit only the wholesale buyers,” said one of the wholesale traders on RG Street. Since shops were permitted to be open till evening, meat shops and neighbourhood grocery shops had normal flow of customers. As the wholesale vegetable market in the city (MGR market) was open after four days, there was a rush in the morning. More than 50 % of the usual quantity of vegetables were sold on Thursday. There was a reduction in arrivals, but the situation would be normal from Friday, said traders at the market. At the Gandhipuram town bus stand market, the retail prices of some of the vegetables were slightly high. While prices of potato, onion and many other vegetables were the same, carrot and cabbage prices were up. But the prices will start coming down from Friday, said traders at that market. With the Highways Department restarting the flyover work on Trichy Road after four days, and the barricades placed for the total shutdown yet to be removed on Thursday morning, there were traffic snarls near Sungam. The barricades were removed by afternoon and vehicle movement was also down later in the day.
01 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||23 arrested in Coimbatore||The Coimbatore City Police registered 20 cases and arrested 23 persons for violating prohibitory orders during the total lockdown within the limits of the Coimbatore Corporation from Sunday to Wednesday. The police seized 13 vehicles from the violators. On Wednesday, the city police registered one case and arrested a person. The Coimbatore Rural Police registered 355 cases, arrested 421 persons and seized 346 vehicles on Wednesday. On Thursday, the police denied entry of vehicles in busy market areas of Coimbatore city and towns like Mettupalayam in Coimbatore rural where people thronged to buy essentials. Salem/Namakkal The Namakkal police on Wednesday registered 186 cases against 196 persons and seized 120 vehicles for violating prohibitory orders. The Salem district police registered 102 cases against 129 persons and seized 46 vehicles here on Wednesday.  Erode According to Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan, a total of 15,706 cases were registered till April 29 for various violations and 12,230 vehicles were impounded so far.
01 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||C.R.I Group, as part of its CSR activity, donated grocery kits to 100 frontline workers at ESI Hospital. A press release said CRI had contributed corona safety kits, including masks, hand sanitiser, liquid soaps, and gloves to Government Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and to needy primary health centres in Coimbatore. It also provided 750 “ration kits” to needy migrant workmen and rural families that are affected by lockdown.    Coimbatore District Hoteliers Association donated 3,000 food packets on Tuesday. D. Srinivasan, president, CDHA said the Association has been donating food for the last three weeks and has, so far, provided over 80,000 packets. It plans to continue doing so till the end of the lockdown period. Every five days the food is cooked on a rotational basis in a hotel’s kitchen. The funding for this comes from the members of the Coimbatore District Hoteliers Association.    Southern Railways has transported about 1.15 lakh litres of milk and eight tonnes of medicines in a special parcel train to Dimapur, Nagaland, for Assam Rifles. The Railways transported the goods in five high capacity parcel van and one SLR coach from here. E. Harikrishnan, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, Salem, supervised the loading and the Division has earned Rs. 8.3 lakh though this consignment, a release said.   Salem Police Commissioner T. Senthil Kumar on Thursday distributed multi-vitamin tablets and traditional concoction powder to about 2,000 police personnel to improve their immunity. He advised police personnel to take necessary precautionary measures while deployed for COVID-19 prevention duties.
01 May 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Watch towers to monitor transport of people in goods vehicles||The district administration has set up watch towers with personnel in some checkpoints of the district to monitor and prevent illegal transport of people in goods vehicles circumventing quarantine. Further, a detailed travel history of those returning to the district from other districts is gathered at the checkpoints and those returnees are quarantined. A temporary short-stay facility to isolate the returnees has been set up at the Government Engineering College in Chettikarai. Those returning from outside districts are isolated and their swabs are collected after 4 or 5 days. According to the administration, the returnees are then sent to their villages for self-quarantine for 14 days. As of April 24, Dharmapuri ranks 7 in the number of tests per million population. The number of tests taken is 790 per million population.
01 May 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Review meeting held||Around 27,000 workers were employed in 600 mills including textile, garment, tannery, farm equipment manufacturing and other small and tiny units in the district, said Collector M Vijayalakshmi here on Thursday. She was presiding over a meeting to examine the modalities of lifting the lockdown partially and in a phased manner for industries as per the State government’s guidelines in the presence of Special Monitoring Officer C Munianathan and senior police officer Abhay Kumar Singh. After getting concurrence from the government, a meeting would be convened with entrepreneurs and examine proposals. Based on the outcome, an announcement to lift the lockdown would be made. The meeting also discussed steps taken to contain the pandemic. All containment zones and buffer zones were under strict vigil. A police officer said the complete lockdown had immensely helped in bringing down movement of people.
01 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Drone surveillance confined people to homes in containment areas||Surveillance through drones in containment areas prevented people from venturing out during their home quarantine period and effectively prevented the spread of COVID-19 in the district. A total of 70 positive cases were reported in the district and 33,330 families comprising 1,66,806 persons in 17 containment zones were under home quarantine for 28 days. While 59 cases were reported in the Corporation limits, 11 cases were reported in other parts of the district. The containment zones were barricaded and outsiders were not allowed inside the areas while essential commodities, vegetables, milk, drinking water and mobile ATM were made available to the home quarantined people in their respective areas. Police personnel were posted round the clock to prevent people from leaving the area and also from others entering the area. The district police used drones for effective surveillance in all the streets in the containment zones which confined people to their homes, thereby preventing the spread of COVID-19, said Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan. A total of 26 persons, including 14 women, who were the family members of persons who tested positive and were undergoing treatment at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai tested positive on April 9. “If they had ventured out and came in contact with neighbours, more could have infected by the virus,” said the Corporation officials. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said all the needs of people in the zones were fulfilled and hence they did not venture out. “Workers were present in each area to purchase essentials and medicines for the residents,” he said.
01 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||More areas to be released from containment after May 5||The district administration said that more containment areas in the district would be released after May 5 when the 28-day quarantine period ends. A press release from Collector C. Kathiravan said that many containment areas were formed after positive cases were reported, both in the city and across the district. Many areas were released at the end of the 28-day quarantine period. The released areas were Kollampalayam and Sultanpet (from March 21), Railway Colony (from March 27), Marapalam (from March 28), Kavindapadi Panchayat Union (from March 28), Gobichettipalayam municipal areas and Lakkampatti Town Panchayat areas (from March 30), Sathyamangalam municipal areas (from April 2) and Chennasamudram and Kembanaickenpudur in Kodumudi block (from April 2). Meera Moideen Street (Valayakarar Street), Mosikeeranar Street, Shastri Nagar, Karungalpalayam and Kallukadaimedu were under quarantine from March 28, B.P. Agraharam from March 28, Alagapurinagar Town Panchayat in Nambiyur block from March 30, K.N. Palayam Town Panchayat in Sathyamangalam block from April 8, and Karumandichellipalayam Town Panchayat in Perundurai Block from April 12. “At the end of the quarantine period, these areas would also be released,” Mr. Kathiravan said.
01 May 2020||ERODE/TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Erode moves from red to orange zone||With no active COVID-19 cases reported in the past 14 days, Erode district was moved from red zone to orange zone on Thursday. According to the map released by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine showing the COVID-19 status of all districts in the State, Erode has been updated as orange zone. A total of 70 positive cases were reported in the district of which one person died while 69 others recovered. The last batch of four persons was discharged from the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital in Perundurai on April 28. Officials said that if no new cases were reported in the next 14 days, the district would be moved from orange zone to green zone.  Dharapuram out of red Dharapuram block in Tiruppur District was also moved from red to orange zone on Thursday, as it did not have any active case for the last 14 days. All the 14 COVID-19 positive patients from the block had been discharged after they recovered; the last of the 14 was discharged on Thursday. A few more blocks in Tiruppur district are expected to be declared orange zones on Friday, sources said.
01 May 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||CBSE schools take to online classes||Most private schools, especially those affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), in Karur have begun online classes. Unlike the State Board schools, CBSE schools generally start the new academic year in April. The classes will go on up to the last week of April and classes resume in June after summer vacation. They would usually complete at least 15 to 20 % of the syllabus by April. But, due to the extended lockdown in the wake of the spread of COVID-19, several schools could not complete the examination process of 2019-20 academic year and start the new academic session as usual. The situation is still fluid regarding the new academic year schedule. However, several schools have reached out to the students by launching online teaching so as to make up the lost time in a constructive manner. While some schools designed their own online teaching modules, some are taking classes on Skype, Zoom and other platforms. Classes are mainly taken for students of IX, X and XII. The classes that begin at 9 a.m. continues up to 1 p.m. Though the schools, teachers and students had initially undergone teething difficulties, it is said that they have adapted to the new challenge. “We need to adapt to the emerging challenges. We have successfully reached out to all students by mobiles, laptops or desktops. We find that the online education works well particularly during the current circumstances,” says C. Ramasubramanian, Senior Principal, Bharani Park group of institutions, Karur. He said that almost all students had high-end mobile phones with a lot of features. Students were initially given orientation classes on joining online classes, efficacy of maintaining the secrecy of username and password, safety precautions, video and mic usages, importance of signing out after the end of the classes. The students had begun to enjoy online classes. Mr. Ramasubramanian said that teachers had been impressed upon the need to make use of the available technology. Many of them had quickly adapted to the situation. The online education would come into picture whenever the schools were closed in view of heavy rain or other reasons.
01 May 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||One more discharged||The Karur Government Medical College Hospital (KGMCH) on Thursday discharged one more patient of Thogamalai in Karur district after treating him for COVID-19 for the last 14 days. With this, all 42 patients of Karur district, who had tested positive for COVID-19, have been discharged. Transport Minister M. R. Vijayabaskar, Collector T. Anbalagan, Dean of the hospital Rosy Venniala and doctors and nurses gave the patient a warm send off when he left for his home. Out of 181 patients, who had tested positive for the virus, 167 COVID-19 patients were discharged from the hospital up to Thursday. Of them, 42 patients were from Karur, 73 from Dindigul, 50 from Namakkal and one each from Thenu and Tirunelvel districts. With this, the number of patients being treated at the hospital has come down to 14. Mr. Vijayabaskar said that with the discharge of 42 patients, Karur district had become COVID-19 virus-free district. Moreover, there was no fresh case from Karur district for the past 14 days.
01 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Five more test positive in Madurai||Five persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, bringing the total number of positive cases in Madurai district to 84. All the new cases were reported within Madurai Corporation limits. The patient from Vilangudi is a 29-year-old woman, who delivered a baby on Wednesday. Collector T.G. Vinay said that the patient had no travel history and did not have any comorbid conditions. She did not show any symptoms. A Public Health Department official said that the woman and the infant were healthy and were under treatment at Government Rajaji Hospital. Another patient is a 42-year-old health worker at Government Rajaji Hospital. She is a resident of Karumbalai. A 26-year-old policeman, who is staying at Reserve Line, is the third positive case. A 31-year-old man from Karisalkulam, who had contact with an infected person, is also among those who tested positive. The patient from Keela Anupanadi, which is already a containment zone, is a 33-year-old woman. GRH Dean J. Sangumani said that a three-day-old child born to a 24 year-old COVID-19 positive patient from Dhoddappanaiyakanur tested negative. Two tests were taken 24 hours after the baby’s birth on Sunday night. Sources at the hospital said that the child and the mother were healthy.
01 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||No show and no money||The months from March to June is the peak season for artistes like visually impaired musician T. Rajadurai from Tirunagar in Madurai. He was flooded with opportunities to exhibit his talent the same time last year. However, this year everything has come to a standstill in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. This 35-year-old artiste performs in stage shows, marriage functions and temple events to support his family as he receives only a paltry salary of Rs. 7,700 as a temporary music teacher in Government Higher Secondary School in Parthibanur in Ramanathapuram district. Three days a week he teaches there. With the lockdown imposed in the wake of the spread of COVID-19, he has not been able to meet the basic needs of hise family. “I have composed songs and performed them at various events in schools, colleges and other places. This time last year I was busy. However, this year, all the events stand cancelled because of the COVID-19 scare. Since I am a temporary teacher, I will not receive salary this month as no classes were held. Even after eight years, my service has not been regularised,” he says. The situation of his other music troupe members is no different. They also find the going tough. If not for help from government and volunteers, the situation would have been much worse, he says. Mr. Rajadurai is worried about how he would be able to support his family and team should the present situation continues. He stays at home with the hope that the situation will improve. “Prior to the lockdown, my wife was applying for jobs to support the family. Hopefully she will get a job after the lockdown is lifted. At least I will get to spend more time with my wife and three children. I sing at home and my family is my audience now,” he says.
01 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Girl’s prize money goes to the needy||J. Jenitta, a sixth standard student, distributed rice to poor families around her residence with the prize money she got from a competition conducted by Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan. She distributed five kg of rice to 25 families, daily wage earners of Bethaniyapuram, along with her father D. John Michael. She had won a few prizes in the competitions organised by the MP to help children overcome lockdown boredom. She secured the first prize in drawing and bagged the prize money of Rs. 5,000. Michael, who is a member of the Communist Party of India, said it was Jenitta’s decision to help the poor. “When our party offered some relief materials, she was watching me distributing the essentials to our partymen in our area,” he said. But he could not explain when Jenitta asked him as to why those assistance was not given to other poor people in the street. “I could not convince her that it was meant for partymen only,” he said. However, when she got the money, she came up with the idea to spend it for the poor. As a result, five kg of rice was distributed to 25 families, who are daily wage earners in the fish market, and drivers. Jenitta said that she was very happy in distributing rice as some of her friends also benefited from the gesture.
01 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Third policeman infected||A police constable attached to a Tamil Nadu Disaster Response Force (TNDRF) team that was deployed in the city tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. With this, three police personnel in the city have been infected with the virus. A Special Sub-Inspector of Police attached to South Gate police station and a Head Constable of City Traffic Wing had tested positive last week. Following this incident, the district administration has been testing frontline staff, including police personnel, for the Corona virus. The TNDRF personnel from Tamil Nadu Special Police 13th Battalion was part of an 80-member team that had come to the city on March 29. The team had been involved in creating public awareness of the importance of keeping indoors and maintaining social distancing to avoid contracting the virus. The constable has been admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital. A police source said that the TNDRF team that was provided accommodation at a marriage hall in the Armed Reserve Ground had been shifted to another place to enable disinfection work at the marriage hall.
01 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||21 lakh tonnes of paddy procured: Minister||Revenue Minister R.B. Udayakumar said that the State government had procured 21 lakh tonnes of paddy – four lakh tonnes more than last year’s procurement – through 2,016 direct purchase centres (DPCs). Speaking to reporters, he said Rs. 3,954.33 crore was credited to the accounts of 3,54,344 farmers accounts for the paddy procured so far. Joining issue with DMK president M.K. Stalin, who had criticised Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s claim that he was a farmer and stated that the people could not be deceived by such false claims, Mr. Udayakumar said the government acted with utmost responsibility.
01 May 2020||P.A.Narayani,TAMIL NADU||The woman who burned her life to keep the poor alive||The COVID-19 pandemic has brought into limelight the selfless service of several men and women, who are feeding the abandoned and the homeless to ensure their sustenance. Stories of this ilk are not new to Madurai. One such person who fed hundreds of people during the famine of 1876-1878, which struck the then Madras State, was a devadasi. A detailed account of her service is given in Kaval Kottam , the Sahitya Akademi winning novel by Su. Venkatesan, the Madurai MP. Since there is no record of her name, despite the then Collector acknowledging her philanthropy, Mr. Venkatesan named her Kunjarathammal. She had huge wealth and owned two big houses in North Aavani Moola Street. It was during the second week of the famine that Kunjarathammal was moved by the sight of hundreds of people starving and dying. So, she started preparing gruel at her home to feed the poor. “The news of her distributing gruel spread like wildfire across the town. Initially, around 20 people lined up in front of her residence. Soon, the numbers grew and crowds swelled in North Aavani Moola Street,” said Mr. Venkatesan. It was a haunting image to look at hundreds of emaciated people lined up in front of her house. With protruding bones, these hunger-stricken people stood in long queues, along with their children. For those who wanted to outlive starvation, North Avani Moola Street was the only option. The demand for her gruel reached unimaginable levels. But, this did not affect Kunjarathammal who continued cooking with firewood to feed the poor. It was only during the sixth week of the famine that the Collector inaugurated distribution of gruel to the people. This helped in reducing the crowd in front of Kunjarathammal’s residence to an extent. “However, the Collector took advantage of the situation. Those who were fed by the administration were, in return, asked to work for laying a railway track between Madurai and Thoothukudi. Hundreds of these people toiled day and night to have a cup of gruel,” added Mr. Venkatesan. In contrast, Kunjarathammal continued to feed hundreds every day without expecting any returns. She sold her valuables, including gold and silver jewellery, so that she could continue feeding the poor. And this she managed to do for 13 long months. Following the cries of the people urging her to continue nourishing them, Kunjarathammal sold her houses and finally moved to a small tiled house behind her houses. Two months after the end of the famine the health of Kunjarathammal started deteriorating and the end came soon. As the news spread, hundreds thronged her small house and North Aavani Moola Street swelled with people. For all of them Kunjarathammal’s death was an irreparable loss. “According to the Collector’s record, the crowd which was witnessed at that time was the largest gathering of the people in Madurai, barring temple festivals,” said Mr. Venkatesan, adding: “She was like a mother to all those people who were hunger-stricken during the famine.”
01 May 2020||PALAKKAD,TAMIL NADU||Woman tries to flee COVID-19 centre||A 35-year-old woman who tried to escape from a COVID-19 observation centre at Jawaharlal College of Engineering at Lakkidi near Ottapalam was trapped on the first floor parapet of the building on Wednesday. Police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel helped her off the parapet and shifted her to the Taluk Hospital in Ottapalam. The woman tried to escape through the window of the first floor around 10 a.m., but was trapped on the parapet. She reached Pattambi two days ago from Coimbatore, violating the lockdown restrictions. She was first tested at the Taluk Hospital in Ottapalam, and then shifted to COVID-19 observation centre. Police registered a case against her on charges of spreading an epidemic.
01 May 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Total lockdown for three days||The district administration has announced that total lockdown would be enforced for three days from Friday in Labbaikudikadu, Thungapuram and Athiyur in the district. The move comes after two patients, including a pharmacist at a Primary Healthcare Centre, tested poitive for COVID-19 here on Thursday. In an announcement made on Thursday evening, District Collector V. Santha said that the move was an important preventive measure to prevent spread of the virus in those areas. All shops, including vegetable markets, would be shut in the three villages for three days and the people are requested to stay indoors. “Only hospitals and medical shops are allowed to function. No vehicles, except those belonging to frontline workers, can ply,” the announcement said. Further, the three villages have been cordoned off as containment zones and outsiders will not be allowed to enter for 14 days. Police personnel will be stationed at the three villages and monitor all activity round-the-clock. Shopkeepers who try to open their shops during the three-day period will be punished and the shops will be sealed, while residents who venture out will be fined and the vehicles of those trying to wander around will be seized, official sources said.
01 May 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Yoga to improve immunity||A yoga training was organised for doctors, staff nurses and sanitary workers in Pudukottai Medical College Hospital on Thursday to improve their immunity level in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Inaugurating the event, Collector P. Uma Maheswari said the State had come out with guidelines to deliver comprehensive healthcare to increase immunity against infection. There was only one COVID-19 infected patient in Pudukottai district so far, she said adding that the district administration was ready to meet any exigency. The training was organised for the frontline warriors such as doctors, nurses and sanitary workers. Yoga and Naturopathy Medical Officer Venkateshwari demonstrated various asanas and breathing exercises besides techniques for relaxation. The Collector also distributed multi-vitamin and kabasura kudineer. Doctors and nurses numbering 50 participated. The programme was conducted in three places. Hospital dean AL. Meenakshi Sundaram, Joint Director of Health Services Chandrashekhar and others participated.
01 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Nationwide lockdown hits tour operators in Yercaud||The nationwide lockdown has hit several industries, particularly tourism sector. Usually April and May are brisk period for tourism sector. Besides, professionals from Bengaluru during weekends, families visit Yercaud for summer vacation and most hotels operate on 100 % occupancy during this period. However, industry experts say that it has totally collapsed, and they expect revival during the post-lockdown period. Vehicle loan Tour operators in Yercaud are also severely hit and most of the cab drivers, who had taken vehicle loan, have stopped paying the monthly dues. A.P. Manoharan, a taxi operator in Yercaud said, “since lockdown we do not have any trips and vehicles are parked idle for over a month now. There are over 80 tour vehicles and this is the peak season for us. Almost all these vehicle operators have taken loans and they have stopped paying the dues as there is no income at the moment. We have no clue on what would be the way forward after the lockdown.” Kalpanna Sivaraj, Joint Secretary, Tamil Nadu Tour Travel and Hospitality Association, said that business has totally collapsed this season and they may concentrate on domestic and wellness tourism post-lockdown for revival. “The travel operators have also suffered with many cancelling the trips and booked hotels. Even though the lockdown is lifted, foreign tourists are not expected to travel,” she said. Ms. Kalpanna said that they are hoping domestic tourism would improve after the lockdown. “After lockdown and once things normalise, there would be urge among people to travel a bit so we hope domestic tourism would improve. We are also planning to concentrate on wellness tourism.” She added that they are expecting government support, especially for hoteliers to pay salaries and meet other general expenses.
01 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Team visits containment areas in Salem||The field support team deputed for Salem city limits visited the containment areas and reviewed the measures taken by the Salem Corporation to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The team led by Srivenkata Priya along with Corporation Commissioner R.Sadheesh inspected the containment areas in Kondalampatti. Officials said that there were five containment zones covering 19 wards in the Corporation limits. Essential items were being supplied to the zones through over 80 mobile vending vehicles. The team reviewed the disinfection measures and also inspected the supply of essentials in containment zones. The officials advised the public to remain indoors and told the field workers to take precautionary measures against the disease.
01 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Mobile app to identify violators||The district administration on Thursday launched a mobile application, ‘S-Track’, to identify violators of prohibitory orders and take action against them. Collector S.A.Raman along with Salem City Police Commissioner T.Senthil Kumar and Superintendent of Police S.Deepa Ganiger launched the app. Officials said the application would be used by the police at the checkpoints here. The policemen would upload details regarding persons found venturing out unnecessarily during vehicle checks with their photo. If they were held again at another checkpoint, the police would take legal action against them.
01 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Special loan scheme for women SHGs||Credit will be extended to the women self help groups in Thanjavur district through a special loan scheme to help boost the economic activity. After chairing a meeting of officials and bank representatives at the Collectorate here on Thursday, the Zonal Monitoring Officer, COVID-19 and Commissioner, State Archaeology Department, M. S. Shanmugam said that there were 12,317 women SHGs in the district with 1,63,355 women as members. The activities of the SHGs have encountered a setback due to the pandemic and hence in order to help them revive their activities it has been decided to extend loans through a special scheme. Under the scheme, a woman member of a SHG could avail a minimum of Rs. 5,000 to a maximum of Rs. 1 lakh as loan. For availing the credit the SHG to which the borrower belongs should have an impeccable repayment record with respect to two previous borrowings and the interest rate would be in the range of 7.50 -10 % for these credits. The repayment could be made in 24 months to 36 months with a moratorium period of 6 months. Further, the total borrowing limit of an SHG ie. the earlier loan amount and under the COVID-19 special scheme, should not cross Rs. 10 lakh, he said. The banks have been directed to release the loan amount within a week of receiving the application and also asked to submit the day-to-day figures of loans released to the SHGs.
01 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Snakes trapped at the Rajah Mirasdar Government Hospital premises||A dozen snakes were trapped from the Rajah Mirasdar Government Hospital, Thanjavur. According to official sources, the reptiles were caught by snake catchers from the bushes and discarded buildings on the hospital premises. When the bushes near the nurses hostel on the premises were cleared on Wednesday and Thursday, a dozen reptiles were caught and were later released into the woods by the Wildlife personnel.
01 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers undergo test in Thoothukudi||The district administration has started checking health status of migrant workers since a number of them will return to their native places as and when the lockdown is lifted. Over 8,500 migratory workers, who had been working in various private and public sector units in the district, were under the care of their employers during the lockdown. Many of them wanted to return to their hometowns. So, teams of a doctor, a lab technician and an assistant were formed to find whether they have any symptom of COVID-19 . One such team deployed in corporation limits screened around 2,000 migrant workers. “If anyone is found to be suffering from cold, cough and fever, they will be sent to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for blood and throat swab test, usually being done for patients carrying COVID-19 symptoms,” said corporation officials Meanwhile, they sealed 14 salons till Wednesday evening for violating lockdown norms. While some hairdressers kept open their shops, a few others visited their customers’ houses for hairdressing. “Since it will lead to transmission of infection, the salons were sealed,” the officials said. Four salons at Maharaja Nagar, Shanthi Nagar, Palayamkottai and Tirunelevli Junction in Tirunelveli were also sealed for violating lockdown guidelines.
01 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||UGC guidelines bring relief to teachers and students||The UGC guidelines on examination and academic calendar in view of COVID - 19 pandemic have brought immense relief to college heads who, in the last few weeks, had no clear idea on the way forward. On their part, the affiliating State universities were looking for clear-cut guidelines from the UGC for taking decisions on examinations, admissions, and online teaching-learning. Though the UGC has said the guidelines are advisory in nature, the State universities, in all likelihood, will toe a common line advocated by the Higher Education Department, sources said. One of the recommendations is that grading of intermediate semester students could be carried out based on internal assessment of the present and previous semester. In States where the COVID-19 situation has normalised, the exams could be conducted during July. Teachers expect the Higher Education Department to take cognisance of the reality that colleges have not completed one or two units for every paper, and that the internal exam could be conducted only after completion of the portions. Teachers say that despite their best efforts they could not engage the students online during the lockdown period for completion of the remaining portions due to poor internet connectivity in rural parts. The best option in the prevailing circumstance will be to consider the internal marks of the previous semester for the current session and conducting the semester exam right away after completing the portions in ‘chalk and talk’ mode. This is the only way by which the semester exams could be conducted for students in terminal year during July, a teacher of a city college said. But, the main challenge will be in following the social distancing norms. While social distancing requirement could be complied with in exam halls, it is simply impossible in teaching-learning environment, he pointed out. It is for this reason that the teachers say the UGC’s recommendation for start of the next academic year from August 1 for second and third year students and from September 1 for fresh batch students deserves praise. “We earnestly hope that the COVID-19 pandemic would ebb out by then,” a principal of a rural college said.
01 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts adopt new strategies||District-level authorities in the Central region have employed new testing strategies and guidelines laid out by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) following a significant drop in cases of COVID-19. In Tiruchi, pregnant women due in May, and women admitted to the labour wards were being tested since Monday. A list of 2,174 pregnant women was made and samples were being lifted. “The health department has prescribed testing of pregnant women across all containment zones but we will do for all of them across the district,” S. Sivarasu, District Collector told The Hindu . The health officials have also begun random samplings in containment areas, he said. Initially, 177 samples were tested for immediate family members of all patients who tested positive. Then, 929 others, including secondary contacts, neighbours and others within containment zones were tested. Frontline workers, including doctors, nurses, police personnel were also tested, the Collector added. Along with patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), doctors are also keeping a watch on patients with influenza-like illness (ILI). A total of 277 ILI patients and 114 SARI patients have all tested negative so far. Perambalur At Perambalur district, aggressive testing is being undertaken, says R. Geeta Rani, Deputy Director of Health Services (DDHS). Throat swabs are being taken at the District Headquarters Hospital, Primary Healthcare Centres and at private hospitals for all patients regardless of their ailments. “We are even distributing swabs to some private hospitals and are asking them to take the samples and send it to us,” she says. A live list has been made and doctors at the health department will monitor all these patients regularly. Regular follow-ups are being conducted with all individuals having a history of foreign travel or travel to other states. A total of 1,201 individuals have completed 28 days home quarantine on April 20. All those travelling from other places using passes from the district administration are also being allowed after a thorough check-up, Dr. Geetha says. “An Ariyalur man returned from Chennai and was subject to testing at our GH. He was found to have COVID-19,” she adds. Patients are subject to institutional quarantine if they share close living spaces with others or need to use public toilets. Karur At Karur, frontline workers, including 300 police personnel, doctors and sanitary workers are being tested. A total of 3,800 samples were tested including positive cases, contacts, family members and their contacts, Selva Kumar, DDHS said. All antenatal mothers (who have just given birth), SARI and ILI patients, domestic breeding checkers for dengue fever, Anganwadi workers who have been employed to do door-to-door checks are all being tested. Dr. Kumar says that of the 42 positive cases in the district, more 27 patients belonged to one panchayat and 10 were within Karur municipality limits while the scattered cases were very few. Random sampling of residents within these containment zones is also under way. “We have not had any positive cases for over two weeks. Officially, as on May 1, we will enter the orange zone,” he said.
01 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to regularise banana auctions at integrated market||The Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business, which had recently revived banana auction at the Integrated Market Complex for Banana at Thiruchendurai near Jeeyapuram in the district has been making continuous efforts to make the auction a regular feature. It has also been arranging for tie-ups between banana growers and traders for on-field procurement of the fruits, in view of the slump in prices of banana due to poor demand in the wake of the lockdown enforced to check the spread of the novel coronavirus. A 1,000-tonne capacity cold storage at the complex which had been lying in disuse for some time will soon be repaired and made available for farmers to store banana and other farm produce. The integrated banana complex was established at a cost of about Rs. 4 crore nearly six years ago at the initiative of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa now was largely underutilised due to poor patronage by banana growers and traders of the region. The facility was expected to help farmers improve post-harvest handling of the fruit grown in the region, but did not prove to be a success due to a variety of reasons. Despite being located on the State’s major banana growing belt off the Tiruchi-Karur national highway, banana trade at the complex has at best been modest even during peak harvest season. After the initial enthusiasm, banana arrivals for the weekly auctions conducted under the auspices of the Tiruchi Market Committee gradually dipped. Though farmers selling their produce here were not required to pay any commission for the transaction, many among them preferred to shell out up to 13% commission charges to intermediaries to sell their produce at the auction held at the Gandhi Market in Tiruchi or other markets. A section of farmers still contend that they get a better price at the Gandhi Market. Official sources conceded that both farmers and traders were not patronising the facility, preferring to transact the business right at the fields or sending the fruits to the markets .Big traders, who purchase the fruits in huge quantities for making panchamirtham or for export to places such as Bengaluru, come only if arrivals were substantial. However, now with temples being closed there was no off take of the fruit for making panchamirtham. Similarly, with almost all functions remaining suspended there was poor demand in the market. However, officials said they have revived the auction and about two tonnes of banana were traded at four auctions held so far and one of the consignment was sent to Bengaluru. Efforts were on to ensure that the auctions were conducted regularly by roping in farmers producers organisations (FPOs) and retail traders, including self help groups, officials sources said. “This apart, tie-ups between farmers and traders/FPOs are also arranged for online procurement of the bananas. Even on Wednesday, about 400 kg of banana was procured from a field near Somarasampettai in Tiruchi,” said an officer. Meanwhile, Rs. 11 lakh has been sanctioned for the repair of the cold storage, which was damaged in some places by rodents when the facility was in disuse.
01 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T hands over 3D-printed face shields to police||National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) on Thursday handed over 3D-printed face shields to the police department. Produced at the Siemens Centre for Manufacturing Excellence, the face shields made with polylactic acid and transparent film used in overhead projectors are lightweight and would provide better protection than face masks. Wearing of the shield is, in fact, ideal along with the face mask, Director of National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi Mini Shaji Thomas said after handing over a batch of 50 shields to the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Tiruverumbur Suresh Kumar. The police personnel on field duty will provide feedback to the NIT-T for further improvements, Mr. Suresh Kumar said. The transparent shield that provides protection from forehead to chin was found to be user-friendly by security personnel in the campus and there after the NIT-T donated 100 face shields to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. If not for shortage in the availability of polylactic acid, the Siemens Centre of Manufacturing Excellence at the NIT-T has the capacity to produce 150 3D-printed face shields per day. The NIT-T has sourced a certain quantity of the raw material from a Coimbatore-based dealer, and is the process of exploring more avenues for sourcing the raw material. The 3D-printed face shields will be more long-lasting than the ones manufactured through injection moulding, Associate Dean of Planning and Development, NIT-T, S. Moorthi said. The 3D-printed face shield easily fits on the forehead of varying sizes, and the plastic film could be replaced in case scratches caused due to long-time use hinders vision, he said. The shield offers protection from COVID-19 infection in a better way since the contact of the hands with the face is eliminated, Prof. Moorthi explained. The cost of production was Rs. 75 per piece. The NIT-T was distributing the face shields to the community as a fulfilment of social responsibility, he said.
01 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Infrared thermometers, face shields donated||Infrared thermometers and face shields were donated to the 14 Urban Primary Health Centres in Tiruchi by the Rotary Club of Rock City, Tiruchi and Senthilkumar Nallusamy, Chief Cardiologist, Rana Hospital. Dr. Senthilkumar said the hand-held cutaneous infrared thermometers would be of much use during COVID-19 pandemic. This thermometer averts physical contact while screening patients, he pointed out. Face shields were given to doctors working in PHCs as most of them have other necessities such as face masks, hand sanitisers and gloves. An infrared thermometer for use in the Collector’s Office was also handed over to Collector S. Sivarasu by the president of the Rotary Club Rajesh and Secretary Thilakchander along with Dr. Senthilkumar.
01 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Kudos to Karur GH from Centre||At the Government Medical College Hospital in Karur, which is a designated COVID-19 hospital, praises poured in from the Centre for their quick response and in treating positive patients. Railways Minister Piyush Goyal dialled the hospital authorities and congratulated them for their effective handling of COVID-19 cases in the district and surrounding districts from which patients were admitted. Tehrani Rajan, Additional Dean said that Mr. Goyal told authorities that he was conveying wishes from Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well. “He also asked us to take care of ourselves and inform the Centre if we required any assistance,” he said. Dr. Rajan said that the hospital, with the help of the District Collector had ensured the well-being of all patients. In the first week of April, five television sets were installed on four floors which have been converted into the isolation ward. Android phones with video-calling facilities were provided on each floor so that patients could directly contact district psychiatrists in case of fear or other concerns. Teams of psychologists and psychiatrists were also encouraged to meet the patients and interact with them. “When we heard that patients were taking their own lives, we decided to boost their morale. We encouraged regular conversations and counselling,” Dr. Rajan said. The hospital authorities also installed CCTV cameras and appointed nurses to regularly monitor patients. Nutritionists provided round-the-clock consultation and healthy food, including soups and fruits to the patients. “We had four mothers who had just given birth at the GH admitted to the isolation wards. They were concerned whether their children would contract the disease, the doctors made it a point to answer all their queries,” Dr. Rajan added.
01 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Parcel train helps patient get medicine from Kerala||The daily special parcel trains being operated by the Southern Railway to transport various items during the current lockdown period proved beneficial to a patient in Tiruchi who received the medicine from Kozhikode in Kerala on Thursday by a special train. Since the medicine could not be obtained from Tiruchi or from the State due to the lockdown, the patient got in touch with family members in Kozhikode who made the arrangement and decided to send the medicine by a parcel train. Since there was no direct connectivity from Kozhikode to Tiruchi, the parcel containing the medicine was sent on Wednesday from Kozhikode to Nagercoil by a special parcel train that was being operated in that section. Upon reaching Nagercoil Junction on Wednesday night, the parcel was unloaded. It was thereafter loaded in another parcel train that was being operated to Chennai Egmore from Nagercoil via Tiruchi on Thursday morning. The special train reached Tiruchi on Thursday afternoon and the parcel was received by a relative of the patient, said railway sources.
01 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Three more test positive||Three patients, including a pregnant woman tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Thursday. The woman and a man from Perambalur and another person from Ariyalur are admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and are undergoing treatment. The 32-year-old pregnant woman, a resident of Labbaikudikadu was asked to get a COVID-19 test before admission for delivery of her baby at a private hospital in Tiruchi. The test returned positive and the woman was rushed to the Tiruchi GH immediately. “She was due to deliver her third child on May 5. However, now an emergency C- section must be performed. The date of the surgery will be confirmed after consulting gynaecologists at the GH,” R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, MGMGH said. The second patient, a 51-year-old male works as a pharmacist at Thungapuram Primary Healthcare Centre. The source of the infection for both patients is unclear. Contact tracing is on in the district, official sources said.  Ariyalur A 36-year-old man who works at Koyambedu vegetable market in Chennai had returned to his hometown, aboard a lorry transporting vegetables on April 26. The patient, a relative of a woman who works at the Thungapuram PHC in Perambalur district visited the centre with Influenza-like Illness (ILI) symptoms on April 27. He was also rushed to the Tiruchi GH on Wednesday evening. “We have informed officials in Chennai and are tracing contacts in Chennai as well as in Perambalur and Ariyalur. The relative works at the same PHC as the pharmacist who tested positive, however, he is likely to have also contracted the infection in Chennai,” an official said.
01 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||3 test positive in central region||Three patients, including a pregnant mother tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Thursday. The women and a man from Perambalur and another person from Ariyalur are admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and are undergoing treatment.
01 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Special team conducts raids||A special team constituted by the Tiruchi Rural Police has been conducting surprise raids against grocery shops found selling essential items at exorbitant prices. The team has also been checking medical shops in the district which were selling masks at high price. Based on information that essential items such as dhal and edible oil were being sold at exorbitant prices at a time when prohibitory orders were in place to check the spread of COVID-19, the district police authorities constituted a special police team comprising of Tiruchi Rural Police and personnel attached with the Civil Supplies CID of the State Police. The team has been carrying out intensive raids since April 18 in various parts of the district. Up to April 30, the team found that 105 grocery shops had sold dhal and edible oil at high prices, while 33 medical shops were found selling masks at high price. The team has booked a total number of 138 cases against such shops.
01 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Aged couple murdered by son||A 35-year-old man allegedly murdered his aged parents in their house at Ladapuram village in neighbouring Perambalur district in the late hours on Wednesday. The Perambalur Police have arrested R. Ramesh on the charge of killing his father V. Ramasamy (70) and mother R. Sellammal (65) using a sharp weapon. The double murder came to light on Thursday morning based on information passed on by the villagers following which police personnel inspected the crime scene and detained Ramesh who had been working as a driver earlier. His wife had been staying with her parents and three children nearby unable to bear his alleged harassment. According to police, Ramesh used to frequently demand money from his parents leading to disputes. On Wednesday night too, he had reportedly demanded money from his parents. Later, he had allegedly killed them with an 'aruval' when they were asleep. He cleaned up the blood stains on the floor and bolted the house from inside. Suspecting something amiss, neighbours knocked at the door on Thursday morning and with no response coming forth they broke open the door only to find the aged couple murdered. Ramesh allegedly threatened the neighbours not to come near him and rushed out. Acting on information, the Perambalur Police rushed to the spot and later apprehended Ramesh. The Perambalur Police have registered a case of murder.
01 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Beedi rollers to be permitted to resume work?||There is good news for around 2.50 lakh beedi rollers in the district. They are likely to be allowed to resume their work shortly. Ever since the lockdown was clamped in the wake of COVID-19, the hand-to-mouth existence of beedi rollers took a turn for the worse. The announcement of relief for ration cardholders proved insufficient, forcing many of them to queue up for essential commodities distributed by individuals and other organisations. During a videoconference with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish listed the steps taken by the district administration in pandemic-affected areas, especially containment zones, for disinfection and supply of essential commodities to residents through volunteers. Ms. Shilpa also pleaded with him to ensure early resumption of beedi rolling in the district as the workers, who formed a large chunk of the rural workforce, after farming, were in dire straits. Presenting a comprehensive picture of their deteriorating living conditions, she suggested that the beedi rollers from below poverty line families, who earned Rs. 100 to Rs. 160 a day, be allowed to resume work after taking due safety measures. As per plan, the beedi companies would be allowed to distribute raw material to the workers in Palayamkottai, Melapalayam, Ervadi, Kalakkad, Ambasamudram, Cheranmahadevi, Pettai and surrounding areas. “As per our data, there are 53,030 women beedi workers in Tirunelveli, 55,186 in Melapalayam, 16,514 in Ervadi, 3,604 in Ambasamudram and 37,973 persons in Cheranmahadevi. Moreover, 84,857 men are also involved in the industry. On getting green signal from the Chief Minister, they may be given permission to restart work and they have to strictly follow safety measures,” said an official attached to the Department of Labour Welfare. Beedi rollers, who usually sat in groups in front of a particular house while working, had been instructed to ensure physical distancing and wear masks. Beedicompanies too must implement the norms strictly. “Company representatives, while distributing raw material and receiving finished products, will stress safety measures to be followed. They have been told to conduct surprise checks and raw materials will not be given to violators,” the official said.  Relief in sight  There are around 2.50 lakh beedi rollers in Tirunelveli district  More than 1.66 lakh workers are women  Around 84,000 men are also involved The industry has second largest rural workforce after farming  Below poverty line families earn Rs. 100 to Rs. 160 a day
01 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Appeal to residents to remain indoors on May 3||Expressing satisfaction over the measures being taken in the district to check the viral infection, M. Karunakaran, Secretary, Department of Handlooms and Textiles and Special Officer monitoring anti-COVID-19 operations in five southern districts, has appealed to the public to remain indoors so as to put an end to the pandemic. Addressing a review meeting here on Thursday, he said the ongoing anti-COVID-19 operations had so far yielded desirable results thanks to coordinated and sustained efforts being taken by all stakeholders. Officials should take these efforts with more vigour till the end of the war against the pandemic. The public should cooperate with the official machinery by remaining inside their houses. “Those residents, who remained indoors when the total lockdown was clamped in areas under Tirunelveli Corporation limits on April 26, should continue to extend the same support on May 3 also to check possible transmission of viral infection,” he said. Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said the district administration had ensured uninterrupted supply of essential commodities including food, milk, grocery, medicines and other assistance to the residents of nine ‘containment zones’ across the district. She narrated the facilities being extended to doctors, nurses and other staff treating the COVID-19 positive patients in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital whenever they were on duty for seven days and in quarantine for the next seven days.  The ongoing anti-COVID-19 operations had so far yielded desirable results M. Karunakaran Special Officer
01 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 16.76 cr. for 46 kudimaramathu works||The district has been sanctioned Rs. 16.76 crore for executing 46 works comprising desilting of tanks and irrigation channels under kudimaramathu scheme for this financial year. The works will ensure water for irrigation of crops to be cultivated on 23,120 hectares. All projects should be executed in a transparent manner by involving the farmers, who are the beneficiaries, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said at a meeting here on Thursday. District Revenue Officer B. Muthuramalingam, Sub-Collectors Manish Naranavare of Tirunelveli, Pratik Tayal of Cheranmahadevi and other senior officials participated.
01 May 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||No appeals from migrant workers to return home: Minister||There are no appeals from migrant workers, stranded across Tiruppur district due to the COVID-19 lockdown, to return to their hometowns, Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan said here on Thursday. “Some of the workers had submitted petitions to us. But, 99 % of these were not about returning to their hometowns. All they ask is, they want to return to work and measures for that," he told mediapersons. Any request for returning to hometown will be taken to the attention of the Chief Minister, he said. Mr. Radhakrishnan said 1,27,742 migrant workers, from Jammu to Odisha, were residing in Tiruppur district --the largest population of migrant workers in the State. Essential items were being provided to them by the district administration, he said. The Minister chaired a meeting to review COVID-19 prevention measures. Mr. Radhakrishnan also inspected the Amma Unavagams in Kongu Nagar and Thennampalayam Market on Palladam Road, according to a release.  PPE donated Canara Bank, Tiruppur region, on Wednesday donated 100 personal protective equipment (PPE) to District Collector Vijayakarthikeyan.
01 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown hits floriculture in the Nilgiris||The expansive beds of Asiatic and Oriental Liliums in one hectare horticulture farm of Wahid Sait in Coonoor are in full bloom. Unfortunately, due to the nationwide lockdown, the flowers in Mr. Sait’s farm, like those of hundreds of other floriculturists in the Nilgiris, will most likely be left to wither in the fields, due to a lack of demand for the flowers. Apart from liliums, floriculturists in the Nilgiris also grow carnations, chrysanthemums and hydrangea. There are believed to be around 300 farmers growing flowers in the district, with an estimated 90 % of all harvested flowers being sent to Karnataka. However, since the lockdown came into effect, the demand for Nilgiris flowers has fallen to record lows, with farmers now not harvesting any flowers to send to markets in Karnataka and parts of Tamil Nadu, said Mr. Wahid Sait, who is also the president of the Nilgiri Flower Growers’ Association. “I have been a floriculturists for more than two decades, but I have not experienced such a major threat to our livelihood,” said Mr. Sait. Another small farmer growing carnations in the Nilgiris said that farmers such as himself had been advised to prune his flower beds to delay the onset of flowering by a few months. “However, this is a very uncertain times for farmers like myself, and growing flowers is labour intensive, more so than horticulture crops. If this situation continues, we will have to stop maintaining the plants till the pandemic gets over and we return to some semblance of normalcy,” he said. Floriculturists here said that the industry employs more than 3,000 people, and called on the government to announce a financial package that will cover some of the losses sustained by farmers. “We also hope that the government will announce a loan waiver, as many of the small floriculturists have taken loans for setting up infrastructure,” said Mr. Wahid Sait. Joint Director of Horticulture, Nilgiris district, Sivasubramaniam Samraj, said that the district administration, working alongside the horticulture department, had managed to offset the losses that could have impacted farmers growing horticulture crops by employing Farmers Producers’ Groups to procure and sell vegetable, open up cold-storage facilities for the storage of produce and other initiatives. “However, the floriculturists have been affected because the industry is dependent on demand. So we have advised people growing carnations to prune their plants to delay flowering and have advised other mitigation strategies,” said Mr. Samraj. The horticulture department is also taking stock of the losses sustained by floriculturists and is preparing a report that will be handed over to the government.
01 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Essentials distributed to tribal people||District Principal Judge A. Muthusaratha on Thursday distributed groceries and vegetables to 70 tribal families of Ram Nagar along the Western Ghats in Watrap. Assistance worth Rs. 60,000 was distributed with the fund raised by judges of Virudhunagar district. Chief Judicial Magistrate Saran and District Legal Services Authority secretary K. Mariappan were present. Madurai City Police on Tuesday distributed essentials to 70 poor families living in Tamil Nadu Housing Board Colony in Villapuram. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, E. Karthik, gave away a pack of 10 kg of rice, 2 kg of broken rice, 2 kg of dal, cooking oil, eggs and vegetables. Madurai district police on Wednesday distributed foodgrains, masks, soaps and sanitiser to Children’s Home at Petchikulam. Additional Superintendent of Police Vanitha gave away the goods on behalf of Social Justice and Human Rights wing and gave inmates tips about keeping themselves safe.
01 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Positive cases down to 13 in Virudhunagar district||Virudhunagar district extended its no-positive-case streak for corona virus for the sixth successive day on Thursday. Even as the number of positive cases remained at 32, three more positive cases from the district got discharged from the hospital. With this only 13 positive patients from the district are in Government Rajaji hospital. “With the last Tabiligi Jamat person getting discharged today, all the 10 persons who had attended the religious conference and the two contact cases have been discharged,” Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said. Meanwhile, the district has intensified testing for COVID-19 on patients with influenza-like illness, with symptoms of running nose and severe acute respiratory infection, with symptoms like fever and cough. Patients, who come with severe symptoms, are admitted to hospitals and allowed to go home only if their swab test result is negative as a precautionary measure, according to a health official. Meanwhile, testing of ante-natal mothers and frontline workers from health department, local bodies and police was continuing in the district.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Going home from GRH is a costly affair||For 73-year-old R. Ramasamy, a resident of Thonthilingapuram village in Kottampatti block, it was a daunting journey to return home because of the lockdown. This farmer was bitten by a stray dog on Sunday and he was treated at a nearby clinic and referred to Government Rajaji Hospital where he was admitted on Tuesday with fever. After the treatment was over, he was discharged on Wednesday afternoon. However, there was no transport facility available for him to return home. “Hence, I had to stay in the hospital for one more night. I even waited till noon on Thursday in the hope that I would be dropped home by an ambulance. Since no ambulance came to pick me up, I had to pay Rs. 3,000 for taxi to reach home,” said Mr. Ramasamy. While ‘108’ ambulances bring patients from across the district to GRH during an emergency, the lack of other mode of transport to return home affects patients who get treated for non-COVID ailments. This incovenience is more pronounced for people coming from interior parts of rural areas. “Last week, a similar incident happened for my pregnant daughter-in-law,“ said Eswari, a resident of Katchaikatti village in Vadipatti block. “We thought my daughter-in-law’s delivery was due and we were referred to the GRH where doctors told us that the baby will be delivered only by May 6. However, no ambulance was available to drop us at home. Finally, we had to pay Rs. 2,800 for taxi to reach home. Due to the lockdown, there is no income in our family. But, still we borrowed money to ensure that my pregnant daughter-in-law reaches home safety,” she said. In the wake of the lockdown, absence of public transport and restrictions in movement have caused severe distress to patients who want to go back home, said a ‘108’ ambulance driver. “Recently, we noticed several patients from rural parts like Silukuvarpatti, Natham and Kuttalampatti struggling to reach home,” he said. There must be alternative modes of transport for patients to reach home during the lockdown period, the driver said. “Most of these patients cannot afford to pay exorbitant amounts of money to reach home,” he said. V. Vimalraj, Programme Manager, GVK-EMRI, which runs the ‘108’ ambulance service, said that patients who test negative for COVID-19 are dropped at home. Similarly, post natal mothers, along with their infants, and patients who undergo dialysis are dropped at home. However, the number of calls we receive has increased during the lockdown. “But, still, we drop patients at their houses on a need basis. We will look into the issue and see how to fill this void,” he said.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Active COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore drop to nine||The number of COVID-19 patients in Coimbatore district reduced to single digit - nine cases - on Thursday as 132 out of 141 people tested positive for the disease recovered and were discharged from two hospitals. On Thursday, four persons - a 48-year-old man from Ukkadam, a 43-year-old woman from Pollachi, a 58-year-old woman and a 45-year-old woman from Mettupalayam - were discharged from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, the main treatment facility in the district. Of the nine patients from the district who were under treatment as on Thursday, three from Sirumugai were in the ESI Hospital and six police personnel attached to the Coimbatore City Police were in a private hospital. One new case in Salem A 31-year-old staff of Mettur Court tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Officials said that while tracing the contacts of a bank employee from Sooramanagalam, who was reported positive from Kerala recently, the court staff was identified. Samples had been collected from over 50 persons here, the officials said. On Thursday, a 25-year-old COVID-19 patient from the Salem Corporation limits was discharged from the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. The patient, admitted on April 15, had foreign travel history.  Tiruppur With nine active cases, Tiruppur district seems to be on its road to recovery from COVID-19. On Thursday, 12 patients from the district were discharged from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, taking the number of discharged patients to 103 of the total 112 confirmed cases in the district. Sources in the Health Department said that a few more patients are expected to be discharged on Friday. Seven out of the 12 patients were women. Eight were from Tiruppur Block, three from Avinashi and one patient was from Dharapuram Block, the sources added. After witnessing a spike on April 18 with 28 COVID-19 positive cases in a single day, Tiruppur district saw the confirmation of only four cases between April 19 and April 30. In the current week, the district saw no fresh cases from April 27 to April 30.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||It’s important to protect skin||It is imperative that we follow the guidelines laid down by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the government with respect to personal protection against novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Part of this is practising hand hygiene -- frequently washing hands with soap and water or application of sanitisers. While hand hygiene is an excellent method to prevent the infection from spreading, it is also important to protect our skin from adverse reaction to frequent hand-washing or use of alcohol-based rubs. Even though COVID-19 is not skin loving, the pandemic has affected dermatology specialty in more ways than one. Dermatologists are noticing an increase in patients showing up with hand eczema/dermatitis caused due to irritation by exaggerated hand washing with soaps, predominantly made of chemicals. As we cannot shy away from frequent hand washing, it is highly recommended that such patients apply a moisturiser cream after every hand wash. Also, there have been instances where a few patients have mistakenly wiped their faces with alcohol-based sanitisers, resulting in irritation of the facial skin or aggravation of an existing skin condition. Stress and anxiety These problems are common in people with dry skin and with an atopic (skin allergy) background. During the pandemic, it is likely that we are under continuous stress and anxiety at a subconscious level. Since, skin disorders also have a co-relation with emotional/mental stress, the current scenario is expected to exacerbate the existing skin conditions in patients. Patients with chronic skin condition and who are on long-term medication for the same are advised to consult their dermatologists on continuing the medicines. Health care professionals, including doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff, too develop skin problems due to prolonged use of personal protection equipment (PPE). Continuously wearing gloves can cause hand dermatitis and wearing of occlusive masks, goggles for long hours has led to facial itching, rash, and dermatitis and use of protective caps has led to itching, folliculitis, and seborrheic dermatitis of scalp in some professionals. Therefore, it is important to continue using PPE along with skin emollients, barrier creams, moisturisers, and skin-friendly soaps/shampoos. With regard to direct manifestation of COVID-19, there have been reports about skin changes in patients. The skin changes were seen in 20.4% of the 88 patients in a study from Lombardy region of Italy (published in the Journal of European Academy of Dermatology & Venereology by Relcalcati S.). Another study from China by Guan W J. et al., in the New England Journal of Medicine noted rash in only 0.2% of 1,099 COVID-19 patients. Use teledermatology Some skin disorders worsen with stress requiring immediate attention of dermatologists. With lockdown in force, patients are unable to access dermatological care, since most clinics are temporarily closed as a precautionary measure. This problem can be solved by using telemedicine/teledermatology practice. It is prudent to provide teledermatology care to non-emergency skin conditions and the dermatologist will be the right person to decide whether a patient needs in-person consultation.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Talks focus on commencing industrial operations post-lockdown||District Collector K. Rajamani on Thursday held talks with industry associations on how industrial operations can commence in the district when the lockdown is lifted on May 4. The Collector will submit his suggestions to the State Government and the district will follow the final orders of the Government. Coimbator District Small Industries Association president R. Ramamurthy told reporters after the meeting that the discussions included standard operational procedures that the industries should follow, possible areas of operation, etc. The indications are that the district will look at first permitting industries in rural areas to operate, then those in peripheral areas and finally those in the city. “It will be a slow start. Industries in containment zones cannot operate,” he said. J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, said the Collector asked about the expectations of the industry. Regarding the demand of the industries to keep shops open for the units to buy the required consumables, he had said he will consider it, Mr. James said. Textile mill sources said spinning units, including those in the city, that house the workers on their premises should be permitted to operate. In the case of foundries, sources said very few units have accommodation for the workers on the premises. However, for most of the foundries, the workers live in the vicinity in accommodations arranged by the units. But, for the mills and the foundries, the supervisory staff should have permission to travel to the workplaces, the sources said. The industry owners point out that initially, when they are permitted to operate the factories, only maintenance works can be taken up and those who have raw materials will be able to take up production. For many of the industries, the raw materials, such as copper, need to come from the north. If the industries in the northern States do not operate, there will be a break in the supply chain. So, the government should permit 40 % to 50 % capacity utilisation and scale it up gradually, they say. In the case of powerlooms in the district, the job working unit owners claim they have not received payments from the master weavers. “The powerloom sector can function full-fledged only if the north Indian market is opened up. A substantial quantity of fabric made him goes to the north,” says one of the job workers in Somanur. Another major sector located in the city is the micro and small-scale industries. Industry sources say nearly 25,000 units are located within the city. However, many of the unit owners and the workers have gone back home to other districts in the State. If there are no relaxations, just about 25 % of these units will be able to operate when they are permitted too. Further, several workers are staying across the city and they should be able to commute to the workshops. A potential risk is that if the units are allowed to operate, the owners may try to get back the workers from other districts, taking several risks, the sources say.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Newly-wed distribute grocery kits to poor families||A wedding ceremony was turned into an altruistic affair with a couple choosing to celebrate their union by distributing relief to poor families in a Bargur village here on Thursday. The couple S. Rajashekhar and M. Monisha, both engineering graduates, tied the knot in a temple in Emmakalnatham village in the presence of a modest audience of some 20 members. Having scaled down the affair in the light of the lockddown, they decided to walk the extra mile to spread their happiness and put a smile on those unrelated to them on the occasion. The newly-wed distributed 110 grocery kits to the poor families of the neighbouring villages of Nadakottai, Kollapalli and Emakkalnatham. The families hit hard by the lockdown were invited to the wedding and were given grocery kits that included rice, pulses, wheat and other essential commodities. The wedding was presided over by the local DMK MLA T. Senguttuvan.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Crowds back in full strength||People crowded makeshift vegetable markets and grocery stores across the city on Thursday, after the four-day complete lockdown ended the previous day. Despite functioning of shops till 5 p.m., many residents thronged makeshift vegetable markets set up at Krishnankoil ground, Madura College ground and St. Joseph Matriculation Higher Secondary School ground. Long queues were also seen in front of grocery shops. A Corporation official said that while many people rushed to the markets in the morning, the crowd thinned as the day progressed. “Police personnel monitored the vegetable markets and ensured that personnel distancing between customers was followed,” said the official. R. Perumal, a resident of Kannanendhal, said that the high prices of vegetables came down as the day wore on. “Tomato, which was sold at Rs. 30 a kg in the morning, came down to Rs. 10 in the afternoon,” he said.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hospitals follow guidelines for dialysis||Hospitals in Coimbatore are taking extra care while performing dialysis for people with renal problems in the time of COVID-19 pandemic. With dialysis being life-saving procedure, hospitals were asked to follow guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare with reference to COVID-19. While directing hospitals to follow at most care, the Ministry’s guidelines also underline that ‘patients on regular dialysis should adhere to prescribed schedule and not miss their dialysis sessions to avoid any emergency dialysis’. A. Prabhakaran, Head of the Department of Nephrology at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), said that separate dialysis unit was demarcated as per Government instructions to be used if persons tested positive for COVID-19 required to undergo the procedure. However, CMCH did not have any COVID-19 patient who required dialysis, so far. According to Dr. Prabhakaran, there was a fall in the number of dialysis performed by the hospital since the onset of COVID-19 in the region. The hospital which used to perform around 1,200 dialysis per month performed around 600 sessions in the last one month period. Several patients who were on maintenance hemodialysis did not turn up on scheduled dates despite having intimated from the hospital. This was possibly be due to travel restrictions and due to fear of hospital visits during the pandemic. Damodaran Pachaiappan, nephrologist with Coimbatore Kidney Centre, said that the hospital was following Government guidelines for new cases as well as those requiring maintenance hemodialysis before performing the procedure. “We have informed people who are on maintenance hemodialysis to inform us if they have conditions such as fever, sore throat, cough and diarrhoea before coming for the session. They were also asked to inform if they had travelled abroad or had contact with COVID-19 patients. On arrival at the hospital, they are triaged by a doctor who ensure that they do not have symptoms of COVID-19 before permitted to the dialysis area,” he said. Questionnaire For new patients, those having acute renal problems, the staff collects information from the patient and attender to fill a questionnaire prepared by Indian Council of Medical Research to assess whether the patient can be admitted for dialysis, he said. “Those having suspected symptoms are shifted to an isolation room. So far, we sent two persons who had certain symptoms to Government Medical College and ESI Hospital for COVID-19 test. They tested negative and later underwent dialysis here,” said Dr. Pachaiappan and added that the hospital, which performs around 1,300 dialysis sessions a month, did not have any COVID-19 patient so far.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown compounds transgenders’ woes||While lockdown has hit normal life for all, transgenders are worst affected who have lost their livelihood and with the stigma attached, they are not able to seek even usual help from others. While those who have ration cards managed to get Rs. 1,000 and groceries from fair price shops, others are left in a lurch. “When we called the Social Welfare Department hepline, they helped by depositing Rs. 1,000 to some 60 of us who have got identity card from the Social Welfare Department,” said Malavika* (27). Malavika is among some 32 transgenders who live in Ashok Nagar in Srivilliputtur. Many of them used to make a living by dancing in public functions and funerals. Some of them go out for collecting money from shops. “But, under the lockdown condition, we have neither any opportunity to go out for dancing nor to collect money,” said another transgender Rishika*. The immediate need they have to meet is the house rent. These transgenders were living in small groups in various houses in Ashok Nagar. “As we have been deserted by our families, even getting houses on rent is a difficult task. Exploiting our plight, we were forced to pay higher rent,” Malavika said. With the turn of May on Friday, these transgenders have accumulated arrear of two month’s rent. In all these 38 days of lockdown, many of the transgenders have got only around 10 kg of rice and some vegetables, distributed by the local MLA, M. Chandraprabha and the Srivilliputtur Taluk Office. “How can we run our lives with only this? We have now cut down our food to twice a day. But, still it is not manageable,” Rishika said. Complaint After these transgenders complained about their plight with the Social Welfare Department, the district administration deposited Rs. 1,000 in their bank accounts of some of them. “Out of the 260 transgenders in the district, some 50 had ration cards and managed to get the money. We deposited money to 64 persons. Since others did not have bank accounts, we could not deposit money to their accounts,” Virudhunagar district Social Welfare Officer, R. Indira, said “When many of us do not have even a single penny to buy a cup of tea, how can we open a bank account now without depositing a minimum amount,” asked Malavika. The transgenders are looking up at the district administration to mitigate their economical crisis. Ms. Indira said that process of depositing money to remaining of the transgenders is underway and would soon be deposited.  *names changed
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Minister holds talks with industry representatives||Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani on Thursday held discussions with representatives of industries regarding operating businesses post-lockdown and also precautionary measures to be taken to prevent. Minister for Social Welfare V. Saroja, Collector K. Megraj, SP Ara. Arularasu, legislators and other senior officials took part in the meeting. Mr. Thangamani said, “discussions were held with transport associations, powerloom, dyeing units and sago units here. We have taken their suggestions and it would be presented before the Chief Minister.”
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kovilpatti kadalai mittai gets GI tag||The famous Kovilpatti kadalai mittai has been granted Geographical Indication (GI) tag. The application was filed by the Kovilpatti Regional Kadalaimittai Manufacturers. Kovilpatti kadalai mittai is manufactured in Kovilpatti and adjacent towns and villages in Thoothukudi district. Chinnaraja. G.Naidu, Deputy Registrar of Geographical Indications, confirmed that the GI tag has been given for the Kovilpatti kadalai mittai. He said that the tag will now help this brand reach an international audience. “This product has a long shelf life and has a huge export potential,” he added. Kovilpatti kadalai mittai is a candy made of peanuts held together with glistening syrup, and topped with wisps of grated coconut dyed pink, green and yellow. In Kovilpatti, it is sold as single rectangular chunks, or rather cuboids, sealed in packets. It is made using all natural ingredients such as the traditional and special ‘vellam’ (jaggery) and groundnuts and water from the river Thamirabarani is used in the production, which enhances the taste naturally. Kovilpatti kadalai mittai is produced by using both groundnuts and jaggery (organic jaggery), in carefully selected quantities from selected specific locations in Tamil Nadu. The groundnuts are grown in the native black soil in and around Kovilpatti. After sourcing, the groundnuts are shelled and roasted. This is how this Kovilpatti kadalai mittai has a unique traditional flavour. For decades, the Kovilpatti kadalai mittai was traditionally prepared during village festivals using palm jaggery and groundnuts from nearby districts. The switch to sugarcane jaggery happened in the pre-independence era, around the 1940s, when Ponnambala Nadar, who had a grocery store in the Bazaar, decided to use sugarcane jaggery and peanuts.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Policeman tests positive||The Bazaar police station, integrated sub-registrar office, municipal office, sub-jail, fire station, among others, closed down after a policeman tested positive on Thursday. The district, which was on the orange code (below 15 positive patients), slipped to red on April 30 after the number rose to 18. Besides the policeman, aged about 30 years, a fire services personnel, aged about 29, and a 33-year-old female nurse of Sethu Nagar tested positive. As a precautionary measure, their areas of residence were cordoned off and identified as containment zone. For the next fortnight, outsiders would not be able to step in to the areas, while people inside the zone would be confined to their homes. Health officials said after the test results came out, patients who were here for pre-screening were moved to Sivaganga Government Medical College Hospital for further treatment. Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao said the police station would function from a temporary spot. Similarly, other essential service offices would function with skeletal strength. All residents would get essential commodities at regular intervals, he said and asked them to cooperate by remaining indoors.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Ease lockdown in phases’||Even after the lockdown is lifted in some areas, measures such as physical distancing, hand hygiene and wearing masks in public places would have to be continued. Dr. Kaur said vulnerable groups have to be protected. “Young people should not interact much with elderly people. It [interaction] should be in control to some extent,” she said. Other vulnerable people such as those with cancer, kidney ailments and diabetes would have to take their treatment so that the risk was reduced. Under the prevailing situation, certain relaxations could not be granted. The preparedness of health systems had to be enhanced; efforts on surveillance and contact tracing, among others must continue.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore||As on April 30     Persons in hospitals: 173 (Male -45, Male child – 2, Female – 126) Govt. hospitals – 125 Private hospitals – 48 Positive cases: 141 (No new case on Thursday) Active cases: 9 Recovered: 132 (4 discharged on Thursday)      Home quarantined: 934 Samples lifted: 3,423 Declared: 3,321 Positive: 112 (No new case on Thursday)  Discharged: 103 Results awaited: 102    Positive cases: 12 Persons in government quarantine facilities: 26 Home quarantined: 729
01 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A sombre May Day amidst unprecedented labour crisis||As an unprecedented labour crisis unfolds due to the complete lockdown for over a month now, the mood is sombre this May Day. Never in recent history has almost every sector that generates employment – from industries to service sector – stayed shut for over a month and labourers forced to stay home without work. While their job and salary prospects are bleak, despite the government giving a go-ahead for industries to open from Monday with some riders, those in the unorganised sector are battling for survival. Adding to these anxieties is the fear of contracting COVID-19 as they get back to their working spheres. The worst hit are the migrant labourers, who are struggling to make ends meet and longing to go home. While the State government announced that it would organise transport for those who want to go home, many are divided on whether or not they want to go back at all for reasons aplenty. A deterrent is the fact that travellers will have to bear the cost themselves. “We are a family of six and have run out of money even for food. The government must bear the costs and help us,” said Nasreen Bi, who hails from West Bengal and is resident of a labour camp in Bellandur. Vinay Sreenivasa, activist with Naavu Bharateeyaru, a city-based social welfare coalition, questioned how people, who are on the verge of starvation if not for the relief provided, could bear transport cost. Also, not all are keen to go back home. “We came here as we did not find jobs in the village. After the lockdown is lifted, we have to find jobs here again. If Bengaluru has no jobs, how will we find them in our villages?” asked Bharamappa, hailing from Yadgir and working as construction labour in the city. Activists fear that being stranded with no money may push the workers into debt and bonded labour. “There is an organised trafficking network that arranges loans for those in dire need of money and puts them into bonded labour, especially in States like Odisha, Jharkhand, and West Bengal. With migrant labourers set to return home, the spectre of bonded labour is a concern. The government needs to take precautions to prevent this,”said Prathima M., associate director, International Justice Mission. How the desperate informal-sector workers are being pushed into debt traps is borne out by the rather unusual demand made by Slum Janara Sanghatane convener Amrutraj. Pawn broker shops should be opened immediately, he said. “Little government help is reaching us. At least, we can sell our jewellery for sustenance,” he said. Naavu Bharateeyaru has demanded Direct Cash Transfer of Rs. 9,600 to each family. Industrial workers in the organised sector are no better off. Even as Joint Committee of Trade Unions (JCTU), Karnataka, has demanded all of them be paid full wages for April, managements are ready to pay only a part. There seems to be some hope, as the State government on Thursday announced that all industries except those in containment zones will begin work from May 4. As the industry bodies are lobbying with the government to increase working hours, JCTU wants it reduced to six hours from the present eight. “Any increase in work hours, will lead to job loss. Managements will fire those working on contract and maintain production levels by increasing work hours. If work hours are reduced, social distancing will be easier and it will also create jobs,” a statement JCTU said.
01 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||30 new cases in a day in State; 14 of them from Belagavi district||Thirty new cases were reported in the State on Thursday, taking the total number of COVID-19 positive cases to 565. While the condition of 305 patients is stable, nine are in the ICU. Of the new cases, Belagavi reported 14 and Bengaluru Urban 10. In Belagavi, 11 of the 14 are secondary contacts and three are primary contacts. While two cases were detected in Vijayapura, and one each was detected in Dakshina Kannada, Tumakuru, Davangere, and Kalaburagi. According to the bulletin released by the Health and Family Welfare Department, of the 10 cases in Bengaluru Urban, nine are from Padarayanapura and one is a SARI case. While two were detected through random testing, the rest are secondary contacts of patient-292, who tested positive on April 30. This patient was discharged on Thursday after recovery. Through random tests With Thursday’s cases, a total of 34 persons have tested positive from Padarayanapura alone. A health official deputed in this containment zone said three positive cases have been detected so far through random tests. “Of the 23 random tests done on Sunday, one tested positive and two of the 48 tests done on Tuesday tested positive on Thursday. Twenty-six more random samples were collected on Wednesday and their reports are awaited,” the official said. The number of samples tested per day in the State has increased from 500 on April 14 to 4,752 on Thursday. In north Karnataka C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is the nodal officer for lab testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, told The Hindu that sample testing would start in Vijayapura from Monday. “We are working on increasing the testing facilities in north Karnataka as Kalaburagi, Belagavi, Vijayapura, and Bagalkot are emerging as hotspots. Except Vijayapura, all the other three districts have government testing facilities,” he said.
01 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 pandemic worsens already bleak employment picture||The lockdown aimed at checkmating the COVID-19 pandemic is leading to huge job losses, pay cuts, and will see freezing of hiring throughout 2020. This will add to the already distressed employment story. Some estimates have put the job losses at 10-12 million, across travel, tourism and hospitality sectors. The manufacturing sector, meanwhile, is banking on the pace at which the government lifts the lockdown, enabling a large number of worried population to return to work. The Karnataka State IT/ITeS Employees Union had stated that some of the Information Technology (IT) companies, as well as those in the IT-enabled sector, have begun retrenchments and salary cuts. “There is so much uncertainty in the air about salary and jobs. HR managers won’t face any trouble sending people home as most of us are already working from home,” said Girish Pal, a techie, with a sardonic laugh.  Some companies are said to be using this breathing time to build a pipeline. Many an IT firm is said to be on-boarding people ‘virtually’, even if some would only start work much later. This situation has also given rise to people having psychological issues such as anxiety and depression. Consumer durables, automotive, auto components, white goods, capital goods, IT, startups, and MSME sectors will be among the worst hit. The IT sector, meanwhile, which employs over 4 million professionals is expected to witness job loss to the extent of 5%, according to T.V. Mohandas Pai, venture capitalist and former HR director, Infosys. Despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking companies not to retrench people, many IT and ITeS firms have cut salaries and sacked people. ‘Flat economy’ The reason is not too far to seek. V. Balakrishanan, former CFO, Infosys, said: “India has lost straight $250 billion after a month-long lockdown. We are staring at a flat or negative economy. Demand compression has led to serious cash flow issues. Our SME sector employs 107 million people. Unless the government provides cash flow relief, pretty soon, things are going to be ugly. The U.S. has a $350 billion fund for SMEs, a grant to support salaries, and save jobs.” Tougher competition Former president of NASSCOM Chandrasekhar said that a prolonged lockdown may lead to job cuts in the IT industry. However, on a brighter note, he added that the work-from-home culture may become a positive development for the economy in the long run as it would open up new vistas of opportunities and save a lot of investments by IT firms. He also said that startups surviving on venture capitalists may face tougher conditions if the present scenario worsens.  There is so much uncertainty in the air about salary and jobs. HR managers won’t face any trouble sending people home as most of us are already working from home. Girish Pal Techie
01 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru’s Bilal Bagh protest against CAA crosses 80 days||The women of Bilal Bagh have shown how a protest can be held even in the midst of a pandemic. While most people remained in lockdown, the organisers have been carrying out a symbolic protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act for over 80 days. They have organised the protest in such a way that all precautionary and preventive measures, including maintaining social distance and hygiene, are being followed. Shortly after the lockdown was imposed, a handful of protesters, one of whom is from the transgender community, moved to a hall on Tannery Road, and have not left since then. “It’s a huge hall. We are able to maintain physical distance from each other as well as spend the night there,” said one of the protesters. The Bilal Bagh protest began on February 8 on Tannery Road. At the time, the hall, which is in the vicinity, functioned as a library and activity centre, and was also used by the protesters for various purposes, including cooking food. “Some people always stayed here from day one and have converted it into a beautiful space,” said Warsi who hasn’t returned home since the lockdown. Protesters say that the symbolic protest has kept their hopes and spirits up. “We are probably the only Bagh continuing the protest. Others were forcefully cleared. We have moved in here. We are not defying any law. We didn’t want the protest to be stopped because of COVID-19. Since we are up against a deadly pandemic, we shifted the site indoors. We are not giving up,” Warsi added.
01 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Distribute fruits, vegetables to poor for free’||As farmers have been severely hit during the 40-day lockdown, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday suggested to the government to procure fruits and vegetables directly from farmers and distribute them to the poor for free. Unable to harvest summer crops owing to absence of buyers and transport facilities, growers of flowers, vegetables, and fruits have been hit hard during the lockdown. As many farmers are destroying crops, the government should come forward to purchase all horticultural produce and distribute fruits and vegetables to families living below the poverty line, the Congress leader said after a meeting with leaders of the Opposition and farmers’ organisations here on Thursday. He said while residents of urban areas have been put to a lot of hardship owing to inadequate availability of fruits and vegetables, growers are unable to transport produce and find market. Many have destroyed a huge quantity of grapes and vegetables such as tomato, said Mr. Siddaramaiah, who had called the meeting to discuss problems being faced by farmers and unorganised workers during the lockdown. KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar demanded that the government pay compensation of Rs. 10,000 for unorganised workers for the job losses. The RBI has not issued guidelines to banks on deferment of repayment of loans for three months. Bankers have been harassing small traders and self-employed people by asking them to repay loans, he alleged. S.R. Patil, Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council; Satish Jarkiholi and Salim Ahmed, KPCC working presidents; K.R. Ramesh Kumar, chairman of the Congress task force on COVID-19; Bandeppa Kashempur, H.D. Revanna, Venkatrao Nadagouda, all JD(S) MLAs; Swathi Sundaresh of the CPI; M.P. Nadagouda of the JD(U); and Kurubur Shanthakumar and Kodihalli Chandrashekar, representatives of farmers’ organisations, attended the meeting.  Growers are unable to transport produce and find market. Many have destroyed a huge quantity of grapes and vegetables such as tomato.SiddaramaiahLeader of the Opposition
01 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP’s special task force to oversee rain preparedness||The heavy rains the city has been witnessing once again underscores how ill-prepared Bengaluru is for the monsoon. To ensure that the city is better prepared, a special task force — headed by Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar — has been established. This was one of the major decisions taken at a meeting chaired by Revenue Minister R. Ashok and Bengaluru Central MP P.C. Mohan to discuss rain preparedness on Thursday. It was also decided to map areas prone to flooding and to demarcate Bengaluru into red, orange and yellow zones, apart from using models to identify affected areas if the city receives 60 mm, 80 mm, 100 mm, and 120 mm of rain. Other decisions include having nine permanent control rooms and 63 temporary ones, one in each sub-division of the BBMP, and regular maintenance of rajakaluves (major storm-water drains). BBMP officials have also been directed to identify spots that get inundated and to install 16 high pressure pumps, apart from creating storm-water drains to naturally drain the water. Coordination between the BBMP, Bescom, BWSSB, and the Department of Fire and Emergency Services was highlighted. Officials have also been directed to ensure that the shoulder and side drains are cleared periodically to allow water to flow freely. Mr. Ashok said that for effective functioning of control rooms, nodal officials would be appointed. Around 28 teams will clear the fallen branches and trees immediately. Officials have been directed to identify trees that are weak and dead and prepare an estimate of the cost to clear them.
01 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Biased reporting against migrant workers condemned||‘Campaign Against Hate Speech’, a group of activists and citizens, has condemned biased reporting by the Kannada media blaming migrants from Bihar for the spread of COVID-19 in the city. In a statement issued on Thursday, they said the trend of blaming communities and people, starting with the Tablighi Jamaat, is cause for concern. “The media has made statements that is a clear attempt to promote and incite hatred against persons from Bihar. By placing the blame for spreading a deadly disease on the migrant workers from Bihar, by portraying them as unreasonable and demanding, such reports amplify the prejudice and hostility that the migrant worker communities face on a daily basis even in ordinary times,” the statement said. Violation of guidelines It also pointing out that such reporting was in violation of guidelines issued by World Health Organisation, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India.
01 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. to allow one-time travel||The Karnataka Cabinet has decided to allow one-time interstate or inter-district movement of people and migrant labourers stranded in different places owing to the lockdown. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said people from Karnataka residing in other States would be allowed to return only if they test negative for COVID-19. He made it clear that the government would only arrange buses and not bear the travelling cost.
01 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM’s media secretary retires||Bhrungeesh N., Joint Director, Department of Information and Public Relations, who was working as media secretary to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, has retired. According to a release, Mr. Bhrungeesh, who joined the Information Department in 1990, spent over 25 years in the Chief Minister’s Office as media secretary to 10 CMs.
01 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Central team lauds State’s two quarantine facilities||A Central team of doctors deputed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to assess the State’s COVID-19 response and provide required assistance has lauded the State’s quarantine facilities at Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru and National Institute of Technology Karnataka at Surathkal in Dakshina Kannada. The teamconcluded its visit on Thursday.
01 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Directive to BBMP cells||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) Disaster Management Cells set up in 198 wards have been directed to ensure effective implementation of the lockdown but also identify migrant labourers and poorer sections of society to provide facilities such as ration kits, milk, medical care. If any landlord is found forcing labourers and migrant workers to vacate the premises, the cells can initiate action by taking the help of the local police after bringing it to the notice of zonal joint commissioner.
01 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||I PU results to be out on May 5||The results of I PU, for which examinations were held in February/March, will be announced on May 5. Results will be sent directly to students and parents through their registered mobile numbers and email IDs. After the declaration of results, colleges have been allowed to conduct online classes for students who are eligible to attend II PU. The Department of Primary and Secondary Education, which directed schools not to hike tuition fees for the 2020-21 academic year, said the same will be applicable to PU colleges.
01 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pay full wages; will frame rules on longer work hours: Govt.||Agreeing in-principle to extend working hours of industrial employees, the State government on Thursday said it would frame rules on this soon. It asked industrialists to pay salaries/wages of the 40-day lockdown period to staff and commence industrial activities by following the Centre’s guidelines, which are expected on May 4. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Major and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar met representatives of commerce and industry associations on Thursday and told entrepreneurs to commence industrial production from Monday by taking all precautionary measures for the safety of employees on the factory premises, including wearing mask, maintaining hygiene, and social distance. Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar, representatives of FKCCI, KASSIA, FICCI, CII, AWAKE, ASSOCHAM,BCIC,and Confederation of Women Entrepreneurs were present.
01 May 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Drive against sale of tobacco products||Tarikere taluk administration, on Wednesday, conducted a drive in the city and booked 29 cases against those selling tobacco products and collected a fine of Rs. 5,800. The district administration has prohibited the sale of all forms of tobacco products in the interest of public health.
01 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||31 lakh families to get free LPG till June||Following a request placed by the State, the Centre has agreed to provide free LPG cylinders to the families registered under the Ujjwala Yojana. All 31.50 lakh families, who have registered under this scheme in the State, will receive free cooking gas from April to June, Food and Civil Supplies Minister K. Gopalaiah has said. Addressing presspersons here, Mr. Gopalaiah said that in line with the Centre’s decision, the State government too has decided to provide free cooking gas under CM Anila Bhagya to one lakh families for three months. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has sanctioned Rs. 27 crore for this purpose. Besides, the government has started the process of providing free ration (10 kg rice and one kg toor dal) to 1.27 crore BPL families. Nearly 1.88 lakh families had applied for BPL cards but they are yet to get them. However, the government has launched distribution of foodgrains to all these 1.88 lakh families awaiting BPL cards, he said. Therewas a demand from APL card holders too to provide them ration and accordingly, they are being provided rice up to 10 kg at Rs. 15 per kg. A total of six lakh APL families are getting rice at subsidised price, he added.
01 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||No confirmed case of COVID-19 yet||Hassan district continues to remain in the green zone with no confirmed case of COVID-19 so far. The district administration has tested samples of 1,893 people. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish has, in a release here on Thursday, said that 104 people have been kept in house isolation and another 32 are in isolation in hospital. So far, 467 people have completed quarantine.
01 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||517 workers return||With relaxation announced for movement of workers and the arrangements made by the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, 517 workers from Gadag district who had migrated to different districts in the State for livelihood have returned to their native places now. According to a release from the Deputy Commissioner of Gadag, from Dakshina Kannada district alone, 447 workers have returned to Gadag district. This apart, 21 workers from Hassan, 20 from Dharwad, 16 from Uttara Kannada, 10 from Ballari and three from Shivamogga districts have returned to their native places in Gadag district. As per the COVID-19 health advisory, precautionary steps were being taken, apart from conducting their health check, the release said. A total of 60 workers from 13 districts who were working in various places in Gadag district have now been sent back to their respective places. All these were people at the rehabilitation centres set up by the district administration. As many as 23 workers from Viajyapura district, three from Ballari, 10 from Bidar, nine from Bagalkot, two workers each from Uttara Kananda, Dharwad and Koppal, among others, were sent back home.
01 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Booked for violation||The Hubballi Police have booked a case against two for violating containment zone restrictions and allegedly facilitating a gathering to welcome a cured COVID-19 patient. The Kamaripet Police booked a hotel owner and a BJP leader for violating the regulations under Section 188 of IPC and provisions of Epidemic Diseases Act. A complaint was filed after a video of a COVID-19 patient from Mullana Oni being welcomed home by residents went viral. The video shows the patient (P-194) being escorted home while residents without maintaining social distancing were clapping.
01 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa urged to ensure safe return of such workers||Senior BJP leaders from the region, led by Kalaburagi MP Umesh Jadhav, called on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa here and urged him to extend facilities to bring back migrant workers from the region who have been left stranded in neighbouring States amid lockdown. Expressing concern over migrant workers from Kalaburagi and other districts of Kalyana Karnataka region stranded in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, Mr. Jadhav said that around 25,000 workers from Kalaburagi district are stranded in Maharashtra alone. Mr. Jadhav and senior BJP leader Malikayya Guttedar also urged Mr. Yediyurappa to discuss with the respective State governments regarding the steps required to facilitate the safe return of migrant workers from the State and also on providing them food and health services till their return. Mr. Jadhav said that Mr. Yediyurappa had promised them that he will contact the respective State governments to ensure the safe return of migrant workers from the State.
01 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Notice issued to 14 government employees||The Chamarajanagar district administration has issued notice to 14 government employees for commuting to and from Mysuru daily despite lockdown being in place. Taking exception to the violations, Chamarajanagar Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi has asked the 14 officers to explain their stance within 24 hours or face disciplinary action. In the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, the government had directed all staff members to stay in their respective station of posting to be available at short notice in view of the medical and public health emergency. Yet, the 14 employees were allegedly commuting daily from their respective homes in Mysuru to Chamarajanagar through Banahalli check-post. Sources said in addition to violation of the directives it tantamouts to exposing themselves and others to the danger of contracting the virus. This has been viewed seriously as Chamarajanagar is green zone and is among the handful of districts in Karnataka where not a single COVID-19 positive case has been reported while the adjoining Mysuru is in red zone owing to the outbreak at the Nanjangud pharma company.
01 May 2020||RAICHUR/YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Maharshi Bhagirath Jayanti celebrated||Maharshi Bhagirath Jayanti was celebrated in Raichur and Yadgir on Thursday in a simple manner due to the lockdown. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Raichur Durgesh and Additional Deputy Commissioner of Yadgir Prakash Rajput paid floral tributes to Maharshi Bhagirath in their respective district headquarters.
01 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||2,159 migrant workers from Udupi district return to districts in North Karnataka||As many as 2,159 migrant workers were transported to the districts of North Karnataka on Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses from here on Wednesday evening and Thursday. These migrant workers left from Adiudupi APMC Yard and Beedinagudde here in 50 buses. These buses transported the workers to their native places in Bagalkot, Badami, Gulledgud, Hungund, Ilkal, Mudhol, Koppal, Kushtagi, Muddebihal, Hoovinahadagali and Harapanahalli, among others. Udupi Tahsildar Pradeep Kurdekar told The Hindu on Thursday that 49 buses transported the migrant workers from here on Wednesday evening, while one bus transported the migrant workers on Thursday. Of those sent back, 1,578 migrant workers belonged to Bagalkot district, 306 to Ballari district, 202 to Koppal district and 31 workers to Vijayapura district, he said. A medical check-up was done before sending these workers back to their native places. All the returning migrant workers were given masks to wear, and also hand sanitisers, he said. As many as 1,781 migrant workers were still housed in the workers camp in Udupi taluk and they too were desirous of returning to their native places. The administration would make arrangements to send them back in the next round, Mr. Kurdekar said. Udupi KSRTC Bus Depot Manager Uday Shetty said that social distancing was adhered to while transporting these migrant workers.
01 May 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Working relentlessly to take care of those in quarantine||From dawn till around 8.30 p.m., as many as eight workers of Inamdar Canteen relentlessly work to prepare food to serve three times to around 250 persons staying in different quarantine facilities in Vijayapura. After the government imposing lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the district administration started quarantining people who have possibly come into contact with coronavirus positive patients. Since the district administration has been sending people to various quarantine centres, it is the responsibility of the administration to provide food and other facilities to them at the centres till they are accommodated in. “The district administration has given us the job of supplying cooked food to people residing in quarantine facilities,” said Fayaz Ahmed Inamdar, owner of Inamdar Canteen. Speaking to The Hindu , he said that for the last 26 days, they have been supplying food to over 250 persons who are kept in five different quarantine centres that includes government hostels and hotels. “The district administration has directed us to provide three meals a day, water bottles and fruits. We prepare different varieties of food items for them,” Mr. Inamdar said.
01 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Set up factories to help those workers who have returned’||Shrenik Kumar Dhokha, former vice-president of the zilla panchayat, has demanded that the Union government establish industries in the Kadechur-Badiyal industrial hub to recruit migrant workers who recently returned from big cities to Yadgir district due to lockdown. In a letter sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through the Deputy Commissioner of Yadgir, Mr. Dhokha pointed out that nearly 60,000 migrant workers have returned to their native places in district from Bengaluru, Mumbai, Pune, Goa, Hyderabad and different parts of Maharashtra after lockdown was announced. “At present, they do not have jobs and they are not willing to go back to their workplaces worrying about the threat of coronavirus. Therefore, the Union government should take immediate steps to establish industries in the industrial hub to provide them jobs and prevent an exodus again,” Mr. Dhokha said. Mr. Dhokha, who is also an industrialist and educationist, said that the State government had acquired 3,300 acres of land through Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) a few years ago. But, due to the lack of interest of the successive governments, none has come forward to establish industries so far and the acquired land has remained undeveloped. Now, if industries are established, the unemployed migrant workers would get jobs in their hometown itself, he added.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Informing owners||The city police will start releasing seized vehicles from May 1. They are taking measures to ensure there is no crowding at stations. “As per the plan, vehicles seized on March 30 will be released first, followed by other seized vehicles as per the calendar. This is to ensure social distancing and crowd management,” said Bengaluru Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao. Vehicle owners will be intimated of the time and date, and will have to bring their documents for verification.
01 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Thanneermukkom bund to be opened today||With the puncha harvest in Kuttanad completed, the Irrigation Department will open the shutters of the Thanneermukkom bund on Friday. Officials said the department would open all shutters in a phased manner, allowing the entry of saltwater into Kuttanad. Earlier, the delay in the opening of the shutters caused by a late harvest of paddy has invited the wrath of fishermen and environmentalists.  Meanwhile, District Collector M. Anjana has directed the Irrigation Department to remove sediments and soil from the upstream of the Thottappally spillway to ensure smooth flow of water from the Kuttanad region. Officials said four lakh cubic metres of soil would be removed by dredging the 11-km-long channel. Apart from this, various feeder canals of the National Waterway will be dredged and deepened. Officials with the Irrigation Department said that dredging of feeder canals in Kuttanad had already been started.
01 May 2020||KANHANGAD,KERALA||3 children drown||Three children drowned after falling into water in a marshy area at Bhavanagar Kappil, near Kanhangad, on Thursday evening. The deceased were identified as Basheer (6), son of Nooruddin; Ajnaz (7), son of Nazrine; and Nishad (8), son of Sameer. The incident occurred around 5 p.m. when the children accidentally fell into the water while playing. Though they were rushed to a private hospital in Kanhangad, they were declared brought dead.
01 May 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Collector tests negative||District Collector, Kasaragod, D. Sajith Babu, has tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said he was advised to be under observation after he was interviewed by a journalist who later tested positive for the virus. Ashok Yadav, Vijay Sakhare, Inspector Generals of Police, and Manjeswaram MLA A.C. Kamarudheen too have been constrained to quarantine themselves after they came into contact with the mediaperson. District Surveillance Officer A.T. Manoj said Mr. Kamarudheen and Mr. Sakhare, who had interacted with the mediaperson on April 18, were in the low risk category as the mandatory 14-day observation period was nearly over and they had not shown any symptoms so far.
01 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Case for more community sampling in State||Of 3,128 samples collected from amongst select groups in the community as part of an augmented testing drive on April 26, only four positive cases are found so far and 3,089 samples are negative. An official bulletin says that 14 samples are being reconfirmed and that another 21 samples rejected by the labs are being retested. Health experts hail the move saying the community sampling being done in the State is a good attempt to find asymptomatic COVID-19 cases. The fact that the current lockdown would have kept such cases mostly within a closed circle may help in contact tracing and quarantining, if necessary. Increasing the number of samples is likely to throw in more cases. The antibody testing, which has more sensitivity, could help pick up more cases than the RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction), says A. Fathahudeen, pulmonologist and critical care expert, Government Medical College, Ernakulam. Asymptomatic cases Sampling for identifying asymptomatic cases in the community is important as the State is on the path to lift the lockdown in a phased manner. So far only symptomatic cases and their primary and secondary contacts who developed symptoms are being tested. However, it is said that over 60% of the patients in the State are reportedly asymptomatic, says a medical officer. “When you test more, you will end up picking up more positive cases and for policymakers this would create a kind of unrest for fear of bad statistics,” says Dr. Fathahudeen. “The lessons from South Korea and Singapore teach us that testing is the only way to get out of the current lockdown mode and to continue with life and reduce the huge economic fallout,” adds Dr. Fathahudeen. Sometimes a swab sample may return negative while another swab sample may be positive. Besides, the viral load in the secretions in the throat or nasal swabs could vary from time to time. In the asymptomatic person, the virus could be in fragments, sometimes only a skeleton or some bits, but the tests would show the presence of the virus. The nature of the virus present in an asymptomatic person could be ascertained only if a culture is made, but such facilities need high security precautions, says another medical officer. Hence, till the RT-PCR turns negative twice, the patient is not discharged. No real studies Dr. Fathahudeen says no real studies have happened, especially in the Indian context, to make a scientific statement on the viral load of asymptomatic patients. As the State prepares to bring back people stranded in the Gulf countries, quarantine becomes most important in checking asymptomatic spread. It is not yet decided if all the people would be tested or only the high-risk ones.
01 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Three sectors incur Rs. 3,300-crore loss||Pegging the cumulative losses suffered by Kerala’s agriculture, fisheries and animal husbandry sectors in March and April owing to the onset of COVID-19 at Rs. 3,300 crore, the State Planning Board has recommended measures for their revival. Cash crops have been deleteriously impacted by the global trade shutdown, while fall in demand and prices, non-availability of labour and disruption of supply chains have marred food crops. The sector is estimated to have lost Rs. 1,570.75 crore in crop husbandry and another Rs. 200.3 crore in wages in this period. It has proposed bringing under paddy cultivation an additional 25,000 hectares in the next two years to reduce Kerala’s dependence on other States for rice. Vegetable production, estimated to be 12.12 lakh tonnes a year, can be doubled by developing the 14 special agriculture zones (SAZ) already identified. The recommendations also include bringing in a law to streamline the State’s farm marketing system and creation of ‘land armies’ — groups of workers who would travel from village to village and undertake operations during crises. It has asked the State government to demand a ban on rubber imports for a year or at least till the stock available in the market is exhausted. “Anticipated crop losses are relatively high because April-May is usually the peak cropping period in the region,” says the report. With some 1,15,668 fisher families and 23,881 families in the fisheries-allied sectors affected by the lockdown, the sector is estimated to be poorer by Rs. 1,371 crore. Exports have dwindled to just 1% and the pandemic-induced loss in the quantity of seafood exported for two months is about 16,000 tonnes, with an estimated turnover loss of Rs. 600 crore. The board has recommended that the Centre be urged for a economic package for the sector with elements such as waiver of interest for loans, and deferred payment of loans. With trawling ban coming in force from June, the State should focus on alternative livelihoods for the fishers. A well laid-out plan to reform the fish supply chain should begin immediately and practices such as inland aquaculture should be promoted with the help of local bodies and Kudumbashree. The animal husbandry sector, also affected bybird flu, incurred losses are estimated to be about Rs. 181 crore.
01 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Initiatives launched to ensure vegetable availability||Two new initiatives to ensure availability of vegetables and fruits were launched here on Thursday by the Agriculture Department as it prepared for possible shortage of food materials in the future. The first involves cultivation of land available with public institutions, including schools, and the other is a challenge to small unit holders to cultivate vegetables for their own use. A.K. Shereef, Chief Executive Officer, Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK), said the council had launched sale of farming kits comprising grow bags and other inputs to encourage homestead farmers. The kits are now available at the VFPCK headquarters at Kakkanad, and efforts are on to make them available at district centres. The initial target was to sell around 5,000 kits, said the official. The sales programme was inaugurated by Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar at Thripunithura. Besides grow bags, the Rs. 250-kits comprise seeds, organic fertilisers, coconut pith compost as well as neem oil and pseudomonas. While these kits will be useful for those engaged in cultivating small areas, those cultivating larger areas may buy the Rs. 600-kit comprising other materials. The VFPCK has said organisations or groups ordering not less than 30 kits will have the kits delivered at their place in and around Kochi Corporation area. Those interested may contact 9497713883. The kits for the vegetable challenge campaign are in addition to the five lakh saplings and seed packs made available by the VFPCK earlier in April. The Minister also inaugurated the campaign to cultivate public land at Aluva on Thursday.
01 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CBSE schools can increase fee||The Kerala CBSE School Managements Association has backtracked on its decision not to hike the tuition fee in the new academic year. The change in position comes 10 days after association representatives said they had taken into consideration the financial constraints experienced by parents in the COVID-19 situation while deciding not to hike the fee. “It’s a policy proposed by the association in this unusual scenario. However, schools can fix the fee in tune with the facilities provided,” T.P.M Ibrahim Khan, president of the association, said on Thursday. The new decision emerged after several member institutions opposed the stance of the association leadership. “We do not have any legal rights that make our policy binding on member schools,” he said. Mr. Khan said several managements were ready with the new fee schedule before the COVID-19 outbreak. “There are many schools that may not go for a hike. However, we hope that those planning a hike will keep it minimal,” he said. Fee on monthly basis On whether the managements will permit parents to deposit the fee on a monthly basis to ease the liabilities, Mr. Khan said it was up to the managements to decide on it. “Schools that collect the fee through banks may find it difficult to change the existing pattern. The clerical work may also go up if it is collected on a monthly basis,” he said. A circular issued by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on April 17 had said that fee shall be charged under the heads prescribed by the Department of Education of State/Union Territories. Admission fee and fee charged under any other head should be only as per the regulations of the appropriate government.
01 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||SIT constituted to probe successive spirit seizures||A Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been constituted to probe the seizure of nearly 10,000 litres of spirit from the Ernakulam rural police limits in three separate incidents in less than a week and establish whether they were all linked. K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural), constituted the SIT headed by an Additional Superintendent of Police after the third seizure of over 6,000 litres of coloured spirit from a godown near Bank Junction at Aluva on Thursday morning. This was just hours after the Chottanikkara police seized over 2,500 litres of spirit from a house on Wednesday night. In both cases, the spirit was reportedly brought in under the guise of making hand sanitisers. The two incidents were preceded by the seizure of another 100 litres by the Kalady police on April 26. “We have to investigate whether all the three incidents were linked since the cans seized at Chottanikkara and Aluva had similar labels of a Goa-based distillery. Whether the consignment was smuggled in taking advantage of the clearance given to movement of medical and essential items during the lockdown or even before the lockdown also remains to be probed. The spirit was found to have 70% alcohol content and could have been easily diverted as illicit liquor,” said Mr. Karthik. The Chottanikkara police arrested two persons — Manoj Kumar, 37, the house owner, and Abdul Salam, 34, of Aluva — who reportedly admitted to transporting spirit to the house from the Aluva godown. The police suspect that the spirit seized from Chottanikkara and Kalady was part of the same consignment seized from Aluva. “When the Kalady police made the first seizure, the accused were probably scared that the original consignment would be tracked down and hurriedly diverted a part of it to Chottanikkara. The house owner was made to store it just for two days for a hefty fee of Rs. 50,000,” said police sources. Three separate cases invoking relevant sections of the Kerala Abkari Act have been registered. Meanwhile, sources in the Drug Control Department said hand sanitisers could be manufactured and sold only by those with licences issued by the department of the State concerned. “These licences are issued against approved formulas and in almost all cases in Kerala, it involved Isopropyl alcohol. If the lab results show that the seized item was ethyl alcohol, then probably it was meant for misuse,” a senior official of the department said.  We have to investigate whether the seizures were linked since the cans seized at Chottanikkara and Aluva had similar labels of a Goa-based distillery K. Karthik District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural)
01 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Legal experts punch holes in epidemic Ordinance||Legal experts have picked holes in the recent Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020 as the State government has lined up a few more Ordinances to overcome COVID-19-induced socio-economic challenges. However, Law Minister A. K. Balan defends the Ordinance, which, he feels, has provisions to meet the new challenges. B.G. Hareendranath, former Law Secretary, points out that the provisions of the Ordinance, which are inconsistent with the Central legislation, the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, would be void and inoperative to the extent of repugnancy. The Kerala act takes away the power of the Centre to inspect any ships or vessels leaving or arriving at any ports in India and to detain them. The State cannot repeal such powers of the Centre, he says. Punishment The Kerala Ordinance and the Central Act prescribe different punishments and two different procedures to deal with the same offence. While the Central Act prescribes a simple imprisonment for one month and a fine of Rs. 200 for the violations, Kerala would award a higher punishment of imprisonment for two years and a fine up to Rs. 2 lakh by making the violation a special offence, he points out. When two different punishments and different procedures are suggested for the same offence, it invokes the doctrine of repugnance, which says that when a Central legislation and State legislation come into conflict, the former would prevail. According to Roshan D. Alexander, a lawyer, though the 1897 Act has been amended through the Ordinance to curb violence against health-care professionals, it is made applicable throughout India. Only a Central legislation would prevail in such a circumstances, he says. Loopholes Even though the Kerala Ordinance empowers the State to prescribe social distancing and to restrict or prohibit congregation of persons in public places religious institutions, it has not defined what is social distancing or congregation. The Ordinance is also silent on the distance one should maintain as part of social distancing and the number of persons who could be called a congregation. Unless these terms are defined, no offence could be made out, points out a senior lawyer. Meanwhile, Mr. Balan says the Kerala Ordinance makes the offences cognizable so that the police could book cases against violators. The offences under the Central Act are not cognizable ones. Kerala has prescribed harsher punishments, which would act as a deterrent, he says. On social distancing and congregation, Mr. Balan says the norms to be followed for social distancing and congregation are notified by the State from time to time. Such notifications would serve the purpose, he says.
01 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Chullikkal in Kochi no more a hotspot||Panayapilly-Chullikkal, the 8th division of the Kochi Corporation, has been removed from the list of COVID-19 hotspots with effect from Thursday night. Addressing a press meet here on Thursday, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar said the 65th division of Kaloor South-Kathrikadavu would remain the only hotspot in the district. The two places were named hotspots as part of COVID-19 preventive measures in the district because a cluster of cases had emerged from the area. With no new cases of COVID-19 being reported from the district and the first sample of the only patient left at the Government Medical College testing negative, Ernakulam could become COVID-19-free if the patient’s second sample also turns negative. Tests conducted in Ernakulam to check for community spread had not shown any positive results yet, said Mr. Sunil Kumar. The district had completed preparations to receive people reaching here from various places, said the Minister. The airport and seaports will be equipped to deal with the inflow when the lockdown is lifted. Measures to be put in place at the entry points would be discussed with the Navy, Port and airport officials at a meeting on Friday, he added. Mr. Sunil Kumar said the district administration had taken stock of all residents likely to arrive from abroad and had identified homes and other facilities for them to stay during the quarantine period. The Minster said many reports of high prices of construction material had been received, and it was decided to take action against those taking advantage of the lockdown.
01 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||An otherworldly message from a cop||A civil police officer has done an unlikely act of resurrecting a character he played in a street play some years ago for an online drama, to drive home the message of social distancing during the pandemic. P.T. Sabu, attached to the Central police station and an avid theatre enthusiast, had portrayed the character of a drunkard, Velayudhan, in the play Prathyeka Sradhaykku , which was staged over 400 times by the police against alcohol and drug use. “Velayudhan dies in that play, and I gave him a second life though he still remains dead in my satiric online drama Njan Parethan , aimed at creating awareness about social distancing,” said Mr. Sabu. He has been into acting since his school days and has been an integral part of several plays and skits presented by the police over the years. He played a thief in a play based on the Janamaithri Suraksha Project of the Kerala Police when it was rolled out. The play went on to be staged over 700 times.  Njan Parethan portrays a reloaded version of Velayudhan, dressed up in whites and with a knot around his head, speaking from the other world on how he ended up there after getting drunk with his friend from China, ignoring the importance of social distancing. He laments that even his near and dear ones could not turn up to bid adieu to him owing to the dreaded disease and exhorts people not to end with a similar tragic fate before fading away, with the reassurance that “we will overcome it”. A satiric feel “The online drama, just shy of five minutes, was conceived and executed with little preparation. I wanted to give a message on how serious the disease is without being an alarmist. That is why I gave it a satiric feel with the character of a drunkard,” said Mr. Sabu. With senior officers being impressed by the play, he wished to redo it with a lot more finesse though by that time the online drama was shared by many of his friends in social media.
01 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||High Court judge given send-off||Kerala High Court senior judge Justice C.K. Adbul Rehim, who laid down office on Thursday, was given send-off in a reference held at the Chief Justice’s Chamber. The reference was held with bare minimum participants to ensure social distancing. Apart from the three senior judges, Justice C.T. Ravikumar; Justice A.M. Shaffique; and Justice K. Harilal, it was attended by Advocate General C.P. Sudhakara Prasad, Kerala High Court Advocates Association president Lakshmi Narayanan R and Registrar General K. Haripal. Chief Justice S. Manikumar joined the reference through videoconferencing. The function was streamed live on social media and YouTube. Justice Rehim became a judge in 2009 and functioned as Acting Chief Justice of the High Court for a month in 2019.
01 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Pharmacists launch drug information centre||The Doctor of Pharmacy Association (Kerala), in collaboration with the Kerala State Pharmacy Council, has launched a Drug Information Centre that will give individualised drug information to the public and health-care professionals. The service will be available from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. as clinical pharmacists from different parts of the State will be available to resolve issues of people. There is also an emergency number: 9842875996. Pharmacists believe that lack of proper understanding in medications leads to many drug-related problems, which are mostly under-reported. Many health-care professionals too face this problem, according to the association. With high numbers of patients with co-morbidities, there was a need for knowledge in medication regimen. While the dosage was fixed by the doctor, it had to be in relation to various other drugs they were usually taking. The best time to take a drug, what the drug was intended to do in the body and the foods to be avoided in case certain drugs were taken needed to be considered.
01 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||IAS officer challenges govt. notice||A writ petition was filed in the High Court on Thursday by Raju Narayanaswami, IAS, challenging the show-cause notice issued by the State government for his unauthorised absence from service. While working as Chairman of the Coconut Development Board, he was repatriated to his parent cadre in March 2019. The Chennai Bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal had dismissed his petition challenging the repatriation order against which he moved the Madras High Court. He said he had communicated to the State government these events from time to time.
01 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Take up nurses’ issues with nodal officer: HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Thursday asked the United Nurses’ Association (UNA) to approach the respective nodal officers appointed by governments outside the State to take care of the safety of health-care workers for redressing the grievances of Malayali nurses working in Maharashtra and other States. The Bench comprising Justice P.V. Asha and Justice Shircy V. passed the order while disposing of a writ petition filed by the association complaining that nurses working outside the State were not getting proper medical care. When the petition came up for hearing, Union government counsel pointed out that the Centre’s recent advisories and guidelines would take care of the safety and protection of the health-care workers, including nurses. The association or individual nurses could approach the nodal officers of the respective governments appointed in terms of the Centre’s guidelines, with their grievances. Disposing of the petition, the Bench expressed the hope that the State and Centre would take appropriate action to ensure the safety of the health-care workers.
01 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Strict enforcement measures implemented in all hotspots||With the District Collector imposing prohibitory orders on Kalluvathukkal and Oachira grama panchayats, strict lockdown enforcement measures have been implemented in all hotspots in the district. Kulathupuzha, Nilamel, Thrikkaruva, Chathannur, Ward 17 in Punlaur, Wards 16 and 17 at Nedumbana and Wards 13,14 and 15 at Poruvazhi grama panchayat will remain under stringent regulations. The police arrested 244 persons and registered 240 cases in Kollam city on Thursday for violating the lockdown norms.  156 vehicles seized As many as 156 vehicles were seized and 16 persons served notice for not wearing masks. Cases were registered against makeshift eateries, shops and other business outlets for not following the lockdown protocols. “Since many cases were reported from the district in the last days, the public should stay alert and follow all instructions issued by the government. It is compulsory to wear masks and avoid all unnecessary travels,” said District Police Chief T. Narayanan. Kudumbashree units and local bodies have been instructed to make available the required number of masks and ensure ward-level distribution. The district administration has urged the public to stay away from unlicensed street vendors and door-to-door salesperson. “Since they pose a serious threat in the current situation, strict legal action will be taken against them under the epidemic Act,” the District Collector said.
01 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||No fresh cases reported in Kottayam||Despite being marked as Red zone for COVID-19, the viral outbreak in the district appeared under control with no fresh cases being reported here for the third consecutive day on Thursday. Of 102 sample results received during the day, all were negative. Authorities are now awaiting the results of 311 samples collected over the last couple of days. Health officials on Thursday identified 59 primary and 78 contacts of the COVID-19 patients in the district. With this, the number of primary contacts of patients in the district rose to 519. Udayanapuram hotspot Meanwhile, Udayanapuram panchayat, where 32 primary contacts and 47 secondary contacts have been identified so far, was declared a hotspot. Eight other local bodies too have been declared hotspots besides six wards of Kottayam municipality and a ward in Changanassery municipality. Having traced the links of at least five cases in the district to the Kottayam town market, the authorities brought in more restrictions on the operation of markets in all municipalities and panchayats across Kottayam. The restrictions, initiated in line with the latest recommendations of the Union Home Ministry and the State government, will be implemented through the tahsildars, who have been designated as incident commanders of the respective locations . The new regulations stipulate opening of separate zones for the entry and exit of goods vehicles to each market place. All trucks should be subjected to disinfection while the unloading of goods should be permitted only after gauging the body temperature of drivers and assistants.  New regulations A register of passes issued must be kept and no unloading of goods from vehicles without passes should be permitted. No trucks will be permitted to remain in the market after unloading the goods. Restrictions have been also imposed on retail sale, non-licensed merchandising and street hawking. Meanwhile, the merchants have been directed to jointly establish a help centre and restrooms for truck drivers, which should be subjected to disinfection from time to time. District Collector P.K. Sudheer Babu directed the incident commanders to convene meeting of traders and officers for implementing these restrictions.
01 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC(M) leaders meet Governor||Kerala Congress (M) leaders on Thursday met Governor Arif Muhammed Khan with a demand to exert pressure on the Central government to bring back non-resident Keralites stranded abroad. The delegation led by MPs Jose K. Mani and Thomas Chazikadan and MLAs Roshi Augustine and N. Jayaraj also submitted a memorandum to the Governor seeking steps for the safe return of Malayalis in others States.
01 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||No fresh cases in Kozhikode district in around a week||There have been no SARS-CoV-2 positive cases in Kozhikode district for around a week now even as more people continue to get discharged from hospital. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, one more person, a native of Azhiyoor, recovered on Thursday. So far, 21 persons from Kozhikode have been cured. Four from other districts too have recovered here. Only four are undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital now. They include two from Kozhikode, one from Kannur, and a native of Tamil Nadu. As of now, 1,247 people are under observation, including 42 at the hospital. Twenty-six people were discharged on the day. Web application The district administration said over a million people had visited its COVID-19 Jagratha web application. It was launched in March to compile data on the disease and monitor the steps to contain its spread. As on Thursday afternoon, 10,27,664 people visited the application. Only 50,000 visited it on March 28. The number of visitors jumped to a lakh on March 31. The 10-lakh bar was crossed on April 29, said a release. People from other districts can also make use of it. The link ishttps://kozhikode.nic.in /covid19jagrathaorhttps://covid19jagratha .kerala.nic.in
01 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||India sets in motion evacuation process||The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has set in motion the process to evacuate Indians stranded abroad and Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) wishing to return to the country. An indication to this effect was given by the Embassy in Abu Dhabi and Consulate General in Dubai by asking Indians in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to register their names so as to create a database of citizens wishing to travel back to India following the COVID-19 situation. The development comes close on the heels of several States, including Kerala, urging the Centre to repatriate Indians stranded in different countries, especially the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. Kerala has already created a database of NoRKs seeking to return home through the website of the Non-Resident Keralites Affairs (NoRKA) Department. As of now, over 3.5 lakh people have registered on this website since Sunday. About 5 lakh Keralites are expected to return. Keralites in the UAE who have registered on the NoRKA website should also enter their details on the website of the embassy (www.indembassyuae.gov.in) or consulate (www.cgi.dubai.gov.in). In case of families, each member will have to fill the form separately. Employees of companies too should register their details. The MEA has clarified that the registration will not entitle automatic allocation of seat on a flight to India. The main objective of the database is to estimate the number of people who wish to travel to different parts of the country.
01 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Industrialist’s body flown in from Dubai||The body of Arakkal Joy, an NRI businessman from Wayanad who died in Dubai, was flown down in a chartered air ambulance at the Calicut international airport on Thursday evening. Arakkal, who owned oil refineries in Sharjah and Ras al Khaimah in the UAE and Dammam in Saudi Arabia, had reportedly ended his life on April 23. He is survived by wife Celine Joy and children Arun and Ashley. An ICATT Air Ambulance Service transported the family along with the body of Mr. Arakkal. Clearances were secured from multiple Ministries. He hit the headlines last year when he built Arakkal Palace, a 45,000-sq-ft house, said to be the biggest in Kerala, at Manathavady.
01 May 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Mumbai returnees contract virus||A 40-year-old man from Maranchery in the district who returned from Mumbai furtively on April 15 by violating the travel ban was found Sars-CoV-2 positive on Thursday. He returned from Mumbai partly by truck and partly on foot along with another person from Kalady, near Edappal, who was found to have contracted the virus on April 27. District Collector Jafar Malik said that the man had been admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. The district has so far reported 22 COVID-19 cases. Only two of them, including the Maranchery man, are currently under treatment. Both the men from the district who returned from Mumbai were working as tender coconut vendors at Bhiwandi in Thane district of Maharashtra. With the help of truck drivers, they started from Mumbai on April 11 and reached Kozhikode on April 15 via Kalpetta, Wayanad. They arrived at Ramanattukara by a rice lorry at 6 p.m. on April 15. They reached Chelari on foot by 8.30 p.m. They continued their homeward journey in an autorickshaw from Chelari. When one of them got off near Chamravattom bridge, the other proceeded to Maranchery and reached his home at 11.30 p.m. Health officials, on learning about their surreptitious return from Mumbai, shifted them to a COVID-19 centre on April 16. The man from Kalady started displaying symptoms on April 26 and was soon shifted to the medical college hospital. The Maranchery man’s sample was sent for COVID-19 testing on April 27, and was found positive on Thursday. His primary contacts included his father, mother, brother and the autorickshaw driver who picked him up from Chelari. They were all shifted to isolation wards at the medical college hospital. Four in isolation wards Four other persons who had returned from Mumbai too were shifted to isolation wards at medical college hospital. The Collector said that anyone who had contacted them should go into self-quarantine. “None of them should approach a hospital directly if they have any symptoms. They should contact the district control cell at 0483 273 7858, 273 7857, 273 3251, 273 3252 or 273 3253,” he said. As many as 42 more persons were put in quarantine in the district on Thursday. The total number of people under observation stood at 1,524 in the district. Only 17 of them are in hospitals. In Kasaragod Staff reporter writes from Kasaragod: A 41-year-old man from Udama who returned from Dubai on March 21, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. The Health Department said he had not shown any symptoms of COVID-19 and his sample was tested after random collection. There are now only 11 persons undergoing treatment in the district. Two persons who were cured of the disease were discharged from the Kanhangad district hospital on Thursday.
01 May 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Migrant workers stage protest march||A group of migrant workers took out a protest demonstration at Chattipparamba near here on Thursday demanding that facilities be arranged for them to return home. The protesters said they were in anguish, although they were getting food. “We want to go home,” they said. About 100 workers took part in the procession. Holding placards and raising slogans, the workers took out the march at 10 a.m. at the nearby Chattiparambil bazaar. The police chased them away, picked up a few of them, and slapped cases for violating the lockdown norms. The police said they were investigating if someone had instigated them. The demonstration comes a day after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued guidelines to allow interstate movement of stranded migrant workers, tourists, pilgrims, students and others. “Fewer than hundred workers from other States took out a protest march seeking assistance to go back to their native States. We used force to disperse them and held discussions and noted down their demands,” Malappuram Deputy Superintendent of Police Jaleel Thottathil said. No work, no money “They said their families were suffering back at their homes as the workers here were unable to send money due to lack of work during lockdown period. They said they had food and other facilities here but were unhappy as they were unable to return to their families,” the official said.  (With inputs from PTI)
01 May 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||AVS donates Rs. 1 crore||Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala has donated Rs. 1 crore to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund. Arya Vaidya Sala officials said their contribution would strengthen the State’s fight against COVID-19 pandemic.
01 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Primary contacts of driver test negative||Alathur panchayat in the district heaved a sigh of relief on Thursday as the primary contacts of a tipper lorry driver from there who was under treatment for COVID-19 at Idukki were tested negative. The man from Kizhakkankadu, near Alathur, was tested positive for the virus, and was under treatment at Idukki. The swab tests of his parents, wife, two children, and several other people who had come in contact with him at Alathur were found negative. However, the results of 10 others, including a person who travelled to Idukki along with him, were yet to come. The district administration had declared Alathur panchayat as a hot spot on April 28. Concerns rose among the people as it was found that the man in question had reached a grocery shop, a vegetable shop and a chicken shop at Alathur.
01 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||110 care centres, 7 first-line treatment units being set up||The district administration has taken measures to quarantine Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) returning to the State from other countries and States. According to District Collector P.B. Noohu, two types of isolation centres — COVID care centre and COVID first-line treatment centre — will be set up in all six taluks. In the first phase, the administration would open 110 COVID care centres in Thiruvalla, Ranni, Konni, Mallappally, Kozhencherry and Adoor taluks. He said 2,133 bath-attached rooms with 4,261 beds and 1,298 non-attached rooms with 3,183 beds had been arranged for quarantining people in the first phase. Of these, 2,431 rooms had been set apart for men and 1,000 for women. Kozhencherry taluk would have 28 COVID care centres with 430 bath-attached rooms (899 beds) and 269 non-attached rooms (655 beds). Adoor taluk with 24 care centres would have 510 attached rooms (875 beds) and 88 non-attached rooms (273 beds) and Thiruvalla taluk with 33 centres would have 875 attached rooms (1,888 beds) and 559 non-attached rooms (1,431 beds). In Konni, there would be 163 attached rooms (300 beds) and 26 non-attached rooms (112 beds) at nine centres. Ranni taluk with 14 care centres would have 148 bath-attached rooms (285 beds) and 252 non-attached rooms (761 beds) while Mallappally taluk would house two care centres with seven attached rooms (14 beds) and seven non-attached rooms (48 beds). The centres will house people without symptoms and have not tested positive for the viral infection. Treatment centres The COVID first-line treatment centres are for treating those who test positive for SARS-CoV-2 and those having symptoms akin to the viral infection. Mr. Noohu said seven such treatment centres would be functioning in the first phase.
01 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||One more patient leaves isolation ward||The district which was the epicentre of the second spell of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the State has started flattening the curve. With one more patient who tested negative for the infection leaving the isolation ward on Thursday, only one patient was undergoing treatment in the district now. A medical bulletin released by District Collector P.B.Noohu said only five persons, including the COVID-19 patient, remained in the isolation wards of two government hospitals in the district as on Thursday afternoon.
01 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Hotspots at Neyyattinkara||A day after two persons in the region were diagnosed with COVID-19, the district administration declared parts of Neyyattinkara municipality as hotspots on Thursday to contain the spread of the disease. Restrictions have come into force in the Aralummoodu, Puthanambalam, Moonnukkalinmoodu, Koottappana, Pallivilakam, Nilamel, Alummoodu, Town, Brahmamkodu, Athiyannoor, and Vazhimukku wards of the municipality. The decision came following a meeting chaired by District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan at Neyyattinkara to assess the situation. While the meeting also mulled imposing restrictions in the adjacent local bodies, including Kunnathukal, Parassala, Vellarada, and Balaramapuram, the district administration chose to closely observe the unfolding situation in the areas prior to clamping the restrictions. Commercial outlets selling essential commodities will be permitted to function only from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. in these areas. Government offices will function only with minimal workforce. The Collector also issued orders to ensure that the restrictions did not hinder smooth flow of goods vehicles. According to official sources, the second set of throat swab samples collected from the two COVID-19 patients returned negative on the day. Another set of samples will be collected after two days.  Efforts were under way to trace those who had come into close proximity with the patients. While the 68-year-old Tamil Nadu native who hails from Melpalai in Kanyakumari was found to have sought treatment at the Government Taluk Hospital, Parassala, and NIMS Hospital, Neyyattinkara, the 48-year-old Neyyattinkara native had been admitted to Rollands Hospital, Neyyattinkara, and NIMS before being referred to the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. The latter had also made regular visits to a milk society outlet opposite his house at Aralummoodu. While the Health Department was yet to identify the source of their infections, close to a hundred health workers, including seven doctors, of the three hospitals have been quarantined. A few police officers who purportedly came in close contact with one of the patients were also reportedly placed in isolation. In all, the district administration placed 250 people in isolation on the day, thereby increasing the number of those under observation in Thiruvananthapuram to 2,087. Among them, as many as 1,946 people were quarantined at their homes. Meanwhile, the capital city continued to witness a marked increase in vehicular movement with the police taking to task several motorists who flouted the lockdown norms.  Cases against 247 The City police registered cases against 247 people and seized 157 vehicles. As many as 120 motorists were penalised for violating the odd-even scheme for vehicles. Another 90 people were booked for failing to wear masks outdoors. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police also registered 539 cases, arrested 553 people, and confiscated 362 vehicles. The Nedumangad police registered a case against Adoor Prakash, MP, and several others shortly after he formally launched the distribution of food kits at a function organised by the Indian Lawyers’ Congress. The Attingal MP alleged that the move was politically motivated, since the Congress has been demanding action against Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran who participated in a meeting at a school in Pothencode few days ago. Congress workers organised demonstrations outside the Pothencode police station and also took out a march to the Raj Bhavan in connection with the issue.
01 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tighter curbs in 4 districts||The State government has further tightened lockdown restrictions in Kottayam, Kollam, Thiruvananthapuram, and Idukki after new COVID-19 cases cropped up in the districts, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Mr. Vijayan also declared Neyyattinkara in Thiruvananthapuram, Oachira in Kollam, and Udayanapuram in Kottayam as COVID-19 hotspots. Kerala now has 70 such hubs of highly transmissible COVID-19 infection. The police have sealed off the hotspots. Only essential services are allowed and entry and exit points are restricted through one designated road. The police have formed special tracking teams for every 20 households to monitor persons in quarantine, trace the contacts of those who have tested positive, collect field information, and clamp down on public activity in designated hotspots. Crowding at harbours Mr. Vijayan said crowding at fish landing centres to conduct banned auctions put the coastal population at risk of disease spread. People had thronged the Vizhinjam harbour in Thiruvananthapuram in violation of lockdown norms. He also flagged the case of migrant workers protesting in Malappuram. The police are often hard-pressed to speak harshly to persuade the public to adhere to lockdown regulations. The government would brook a measure of tough-talking. However, it would punish law enforcers who rough up or wantonly harass citizens on the pretext of enforcing the lockdown. Illegal entry via boats Mr. Vijayan said a set of boat operators smuggled people from Kottayam to Alappuzha through the backwaters. The police would stop the illegal transit that jeopardised both districts.
01 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NoRKs from UAE top applicants’ list||As much as 43% of the Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) who have registered online to return to the State is from the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Till Thursday, 3,53,468 NoRKs from 201 countries have registered on the website of the NoRKA-Roots to return to the State. Among them, 1,53,660 are from the UAE. NoRKs from Saudi Arabia — 47,268 — are in the second position among those who registered on www.registernorkaroots.org. GCC countries Malayalis from other Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries such as Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman and Qatar follow on the list. From the United Kingdom, 2,112 have registered, followed by 1,895 from the United States and 1,764 from Ukraine. The online registration for NoRKs who are unable to return to the country due to the ban on international flights to the country owing to the COVID-19 situation commenced on Sunday and is continuing. From other States Within 24 hours of the launch of online registration for Malayalis stranded in other States on Wednesday evening, 94,483 have registered on the website. The highest registration is from Karnataka (30,576), followed by Tamil Nadu (29,181) and Maharashtra (13,113). A total of 2,527 have registered from Delhi. Malayalis from Uttar Pradesh (1,813), Madhya Pradesh (1,671), Gujarat (2,690), Andhra Pradeesh (2,816), West Bengal (650), Assam (181) and Jammu and Kashmir (149) have also registered to return to Kerala. A hundred people stranded in Lakshwadeep and 84 from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands too have registered to return to Kerala.
01 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Two more positive cases in the State||Two persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram and Kasaragod districts in the State on Thursday. One person came to the State from Maharashtra while the other developed the disease through contact. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said 14 patients had tested negative and had been put on the recovery list. Of the 497 COVID-19 cases reported in the State so far, 111 are currently undergoing treatment in various hospitals. A total of 383 persons have recovered from the disease so far. Kannur has the maximum number of COVID-19 patients now — 47. Kottayam has 18 patients, Idukki 14, Kollam 12, Kasaragod 9, Kozhikode 4, Thiruvananthapuram 2, Malappuram 2 while Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam and Palakkad districts have one each. A total of 20,711 persons are under surveillance in the State, with 426 of them isolated in various hospitals while the rest are in home quarantine. The State has tested 25,973 samples so far, out of which 25,135 have returned a negative result. Mr. Vijayan said of the 1,508 samples tested from amongst priority groups as part of the sentinel survey, 897 tested negative. The Chief Minister did not specify how many samples from this turned positive.
01 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||It’s back to studies for India’s first COVID-19 patient||Her days in the isolation ward no longer haunts India’s first COVID-19 patient. The 20-year- old medico, who has fully recovered, is now busy attending online classes of her university in Wuhan in China after she completed three months since being diagnosed with the disease. She is not unduly perturbed by the fact that Wuhan turned out to be the epicentre of the deadly virus. She is eagerly waiting to go back to the Chinese city and resume her course once normalcy returns. It was on January 30 that the third-year medical student from the Wuhan university tested positive for SARS-CoV2, becoming the country’s first COVID-19 patient, days after she had come home for semester holidays. After nearly three weeks of treatment at the Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital, she was discharged on February 20. Soon, she started attending the online classes of her university in Wuhan, which has been attracting several students from Kerala in view of its comparatively lower fee and other facilities. “I have been attending online classes since February. The classes are held every day depending on the subjects,” the student told PTI from her home town in Thrissur district. The classes begin at 5.30 a.m. (Chinese time 8 a.m.) and go on till 9 a.m. with a 10- minute break, she said. “The faculty in the university include those from China, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, but our faculty are mostly Chinese teachers and they take classes in English,” she said. Though the university has indicated that the classes would be conducted afresh once students return, no time-frame has yet been given. “It seems there are no patients in Wuhan now. That’s what we have been told,” she said adding the flight services have to commence first. Asked how she was passing her free time since recovering, she said she was fond of cooking and was helping her mother in the kitchen. All praise for the Health Department for the care and treatment, she said: “Our health-care system is very good and I got excellent treatment. I did not have any fever during my hospitalisation.” Her classmate from Alappuzha and a senior from Kasaragod who were the second and third positive cases in the country has also since recovered.
01 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BUDS finds ways to keep students active||Shiv (name changed) attends a BUDS school in Malappuram. With the school closed since the start of the lockdown, Shiv is stuck at home. Since he is hyperactive, his teacher Kaulath P. has asked him to plant saplings and vegetables, a task he especially likes. Another student walks to shops some distance away when his family needs to buy something. Yet another child has been asked to cycle regularly. There are 65 students in Shiv’s BUDS school, run by the Kudumbashree in association with the local self-government institution. In all, there are 270 BUDS institutions across the State with 8,521 differently abled students. Since any gap in therapies or special education training for differently abled students leads to setbacks, the Kudumbashree has hit upon ways of continuing the training and keeping the children engaged during the lockdown. At the outset itself, teachers were asked to devise activities the children could do at home with the support of family members or on their own. In Malappuram, an activity calendar called Mazhavillu was prepared for them. . The activities were designed to keep the children physically active and aid their mental development. A parents’ WhatsApp group was used to communicate the activities each morning. On the academic side, it involved revising school sessions, be it writing letters, identifying words, naming animals, colouring, or learning their name and address. Activities galore Other activities include drawing and colouring, craft, beading, stacking coconut shells, planting vegetables, washing dishes, exercise, playing ball, rearing goats, washing cars, drawing water from wells, and yoga. Teachers make phone calls and video calls to give instructions. Photos and videos of the activities are posted by parents on the WhatsApp group each day for teachers to keep track. BUDS schools across the State are similarly encouraging their students.
01 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pinarayi stresses need to wear masks||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wore a mask to his customary COVID-19 briefing here on Thursday to stress the civic responsibility, reciprocal social obligation, and medical necessity to cover the face sufficiently in public. The government had made wearing masks mandatory from Wednesday. On Thursday, the law enforcement booked 954 persons for having failed to abide by the order. The government permits face coverings such as scarves, handkerchiefs, shawls, and towels. Mr. Vijayan said citizens should wear masks in offices, grocery stores, banks, and other facilities. An official said the government was weighing a sufficiently deterrent penalty to nudge the public in the direction of getting habituated to covering the face in public. Mr. Vijayan said the crew of cargo lorries entering the State might be a source for the recent bout of infections. He said the epidemic situation remained precarious. The threat of community spread loomed. Kerala could not afford to let down its guard.
01 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||It’s back to studies for first COVID-19 patient||Her days in the isolation ward no longer haunts India’s first COVID-19 patient. The 20-year- old medico, who has fully recovered, is now busy attending online classes of her university in Wuhan in China after she completed three months since being diagnosed with the disease. She is not unduly perturbed by the fact that Wuhan turned out to be the epicentre of the deadly virus. She is eagerly waiting to go back to the Chinese city and resume her course once normalcy returns. It was on January 30 that the third-year medical student from the Wuhan university tested positive for SARS-CoV2, becoming the country’s first COVID-19 patient, days after she had come home for semester holidays. After nearly three weeks of treatment at the Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital, she was discharged on February 20. Online classes Soon, she started attending the online classes of her university in Wuhan, which has been attracting several students from Kerala in view of its comparatively lower fee and other facilities. “I have been attending online classes since February. The classes are held every day depending on the subjects,” the student told PTI from her home town in Thrissur district. The classes begin at 5.30 a.m. (Chinese time 8 a.m.) and go on till 9 a.m. with a 10- minute break, she said. “The faculty in the university include those from China, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, but our faculty are mostly Chinese teachers and they take classes in English,” she said.
01 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||VICTERS to showcase talents||Children with special talents now have an opportunity to showcase these to the world through the General Education Department’s education channel Victers. In the wake of the lockdown, the KITE VICTERS channel is launching ‘Muthodu Muthu’ to telecast children’s talents. Those who can sing, dance, paint, recite stories, or do experiments can send videos to 8921886628. The videos should be less than three minutes long. Selected videos will also be put up on VICTERS’ YouTube channeland Facebook page.
01 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||COVID testing low: Cong||A meeting of the Congress parliamentary party on Thursday said COVID-19 testing was pitiably low in the State. Kerala had barely conducted 24,952 tests while neighbouring States had done lakhs. Only widespread testing would reveal the extent of the spread of the virus. Any attempt to scale down the lockdown before a clearer picture of the transmission of the epidemic emerged would prove catastrophic. Results suppressed The Congress alleged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan suppressed test results to mislead the public. The Chief Minister ‘fudged’ epidemic figures to paint a rosy picture of the State to improve his political image and get higher television ratings for his customary COVID-19 news briefing.
01 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM bats for online learning||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday hinted that schools and colleges might have to increasingly opt for delivering education online to students given the COVID-19 epidemic situation. He said the epidemic had taken a heavy toll on the education sector. It had necessitated the closure of schools and colleges. It had become impossible for teachers to interact in person with students in a classroom or lecture hall environment. Hence, the State was pushing for a switch to online learning. He said various universities had prepared teaching modules for multiple subjects. They would upload them on their websites in different formats, including video. The government has also dispersed scholarship to students for the 2018-19 academic year. It was yet to set a deadline for the opening of schools and colleges.
01 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KVVES seeks loans for small traders||The Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi (KVVES) has urged the government to provide interest-free loans and loans at low rates of interest to small traders hit by the COVID-19 lockdown. In letters to the Chief Minister and the Ministers for Cooperation, Industries, and Finance, KVVES leaders said the loans should be provided through the Kerala Bank and other financial institutions controlled by the State government to prop up the sector. Traders who lack GST registration should be provided loans up to Rs. 3 lakh at 4% interest on the strength of their trade licences, KVVES said.
01 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Request for elephant parade denied||The District Collector has denied permission for elephant parading at the Thrissur Pooram. The Paramekkavu Devaswom, one of the two main organisers, on Thursday approached the Collector for permission to conduct the pooram on May 2 by parading one elephant. The Devaswom raised the demand citing that the district has no active COVID-19 case now. They pointed out that the pooram had been conducted with one elephant earlier too, when the celebrations were cancelled. No exemptions However, the Collector dismissed their demand in the wake of COVID lockdown in the country till May 3. Lockdown relaxation was not applicable for educational and religious institutions, he said. Ten temples participate in the Thrissur Pooram. The other temples are against parading of elephants and celebrations. Usually, around 90 caparisoned elephants participate in functions in the 36-hour pooram celebrations. As per the earlier schedule, the sample fireworks, the first round of pyrotechnic show, a dress rehearsal of the main pooram fireworks, would have been on Thursday. This year, since there were no fireworks, the temple advisory committee lit the Deepasthambham at the Sreemoolasthanam of the Vadakkunnathan temple.
01 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Murder: three in custody||The police have taken three persons into custody in connection with the alleged murder of a youth at Karalam on Wednesday night. Vishnu Vahid, 22, son of Vasu Chankaramkandath, was reportedly killed in a clash between two groups at Karalam.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Against the tide||
01 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur district registers three more positive cases||There COVID-19 positive cases were reported from Anantapur district on Thursday taking the total number of confirmed cases to 61. While 34 active cases are being treated, 22 persons were discharged. One of the new positive cases was a 19-year-old boy and a son of a police officer. The second one was a 32-year-old man connected to the GGH and residing at Obuldevara Nagar and the third person was a 43-year-old home guard working in Puttaparthi, but residing in Rahmat Nagar in the city. A doctor from Anantapur Medical College, and a resident of Hindupur were among the discharged on Thursday after two of their samples tested negative over a period of 48 hours. MLA's appeal to residents Meanwhile, Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy visited the Rahmat Nagar locality, which is very close to his residence and advised the residents to stay put in their houses. He also promised them to take care of all their needs during the containment operations in their locality. Bleaching powder would be sprayed in all streets and disinfection of all houses was being done regularly, he told the residents. The MLA appealed to all of them to abide by the announcements made by the district administration and be in touch with their ward volunteers to meet all their needs on a daily basis as the containment operations would be done for next 28 days. Meanwhile, the focus of the revenue and police officials is mainly on containment operations in the red zones in Anantapur and Hindupur towns. Containment Officer R. Jagannath Singh along with DSP G. Veeraraghava Reddy toured all the containment zones in the city and SP B. Satya Yesu Babu visited the newly set up Police Control Room in Hindupur town to monitor the situation in the red zones.
01 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Industries outside containment zones to open in Karnataka||The State Cabinet on Thursday decided to grant permission to industries across the State, except those in COVID-19 containment zones, to resume production from May 4. The Centre’s scheduled lockdown ends on Sunday. This means industrial activities are expected to resume in industrial estates, industrial parks and SEZs in Bengaluru and other major cities from Monday. Only industries that are located in containment zones in urban areas are not allowed to function from Monday. Public transport, however, will continue to stay off the road for the time being. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa cautioned that the COVID-19 crisis may last another two to three months. “But we feel that the cases are reducing and coming under control in the State. In Bengaluru, not many cases have been reported in the last three to four days. If this continues, it will help us to open industries in and around Bengaluru,” he told presspersons after chairing a Cabinet meeting. “Based on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s directions, stringent lockdown measures in red zones and reviving economic activity will go hand in hand,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. A couple of days ago, the government permitted industries in rural areas of 14 districts to start production. The Cabinet meeting today permitted all types of industries in rural and urban areas, except those in containment zones, to commence production from Monday. However, barber shops, hotels, malls, cinemas, and all modes of mass transport continue to remain closed. Only parcel of food is allowed in hotels. “Opening of malls and hotels is not an option before us right now,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. On opening of liquor outlets, he said a decision would be taken after May 3, based on the Centre’s guidelines. “We are waiting for guidelines from the Centre,” he added.  Stringent lockdown measures in red zones and reviving economic activity will go hand in hand B.S. Yediyurappa, Chief Minister
01 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bengaluru police to release 35,000 vehicles||In a temporary relief to owners of around 35,000 motor vehicles that were seized for violation of lockdown norms in Bengaluru, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday permitted the city police to release the vehicles after collecting a tentative fine. However, the court made it clear that the release of vehicles was subject to the final outcome of the prosecution launched against vehicle owners under provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act, 2005 before the jurisdictional magistrate. While owners of four-wheelers will have to pay a tentative fine of Rs. 1,000, the owners of two- and three-wheelers will have to pay Rs. 500, apart from executing a bond as required under Section 102(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The police will also have to impose a condition that the vehicle owners will not violate the conditions of the lockdown again, the court said. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Savanur Vishwajith Shetty passed the interim order on an application filed by the State government. The government, in its application, had sought authorisation for the police to release the seized vehicles by adhering to procedures of the CrPC and the Motor Vehicles Act, instead of following the normal procedure of vehicle owners having to seek permission from the jurisdictional magistrate. It was also pointed out in the application that sticking to the normal procedure would result in crowding of the magistrate’s court and defeat the purpose of social distancing. While th HC order is limited to Bengaluru city limits, it has given liberty to file similar applications for the release of vehicles seized for violations in other parts of the State.
01 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine held for stealing liquor from distillery||The Chittoor Rural police on Thursday nabbed nine youth in connection with the theft of 110 liquor cases of various brands from a local distillery here over one month during the COVID-19 lockdown, when the factory remained closed. The management of the distillery at Murakambattu bypass road on the outskirts of Chittoor noticed that the liquor cases were stolen between March 31 and April 25. After a police complaint on the same day, a vigil was kept at the factory. Without knowing the trap, a five-member gang sneaked into the factory around 2 a.m. on Thursday, and was nabbed by the police and factory personnel. After their questioning, four more youth were nabbed from various localities in Chittoor town in the morning. Deputy SP (Chittoor) K. Eeshwar Reddy said Neeladraksha (24), a former worker of the factory, allegedly hatched a plan to steal the liquor cases taking advantage of its closure. He allegedly formed a gang with eight others and lifted 110 cases of liquor between March 31 and April 25. The cases were sold at a price to prospective clientele at Chittoor and Vellore. The police seized a part of the booty amounting to Rs. 3.07 lakh which they got through clandestine sales. All the accused were in the age group of 20 to 30 years.
01 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fearing quarantine, two strangers flee into forest||The presence of two strangers created a flutter in the remote and forested village Keeramanda in Bangarupalem mandal on Thursday evening. The duo, reportedly transgenders, visited the village to see a local youth, who reportedly showed signs of abnormal behaviour in recent months. When a resident objected to their presence during COVID-19 lockdown, one of them allegedly said that they were from Mumbai. Suddenly a group of villagers surrounded them, demanding that they be sent to quarantine. The duo then broke the cordon and fled into the nearby forest. As it was already dusk, the locals informed the Bangarupalem police about the incident. Sub-Inspector (Bangarupalem) K. Ramakrishna said the duo, dressed oddly and behaving strangely, came to the village to meet a youth. When the villagers threatened to send them to quarantine, the duo fled into the forest. “We have launched a search for them. A special party is despatched to trace them. Preliminary information is that they are not from Mumbai, but used to frequent Mumbai,” he said.
01 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||JMC Projects-SRMU gets British Council award||British Safety Council has applauded JMC Projects (India) Limited - SRM University AP for fostering a safe and healthy workplace at construction site. The green campus of SRM AP, Andhra Pradesh, is in the process of expansion to ensure a place that continuously inspires and nurtures students. The buildings foster a new culture of learning that is multi-dimensional, global, social, experiential, and interactive. Designed by Perkins + Will, the American architecture firm which specialises in educational institutions and has been involved in developing some of the marquee structures in this category, JMC Projects (India) Limited took up the monumental task of constructing the buildings of SRM AP. British Safety Council has awarded the International Safety Award with Merit 2020 to JMC Projects (India) Limited - SRM University AP, for its commitment to keeping the workers and workplaces healthy and safe during the 2019 calendar year. True dedication The prestigious award recognises the organisations from around the world which have shown a true dedication to prioritising the safety of the workers and workplaces and have made outstanding advances to achieve it. It requires organisations to invest in workers’ health, safety, and well-being. The business leaders, managers, and staff play a crucial role in making health and safety a reality and inspiring their colleagues to do the same. The joint venture of JMC Projects (India) Limited and SRM AP have pledged to continue maintaining the international standards in future.
01 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: Collector clarifies on cremation of bodies||District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has said that all burials henceforth will be conducted as per individual religious customs and traditions. Speaking at a meeting held with religious elders, the Collector said that funerals would be held as per individual religious customs and traditions. Recently, the cremation of a 53-year-old man, who owned a hotel on GT Road, stoked a controversy with the State Minority Commission expressing concern over the denial of a proper burial to the deceased, whose samples tested positive for COVID-19. With the district administration taking a stand that his body should be incinerated as per the COVID protocol, the commission raised its objections. The Collector clarified that the decision to incinerate the body was taken after the consent by the family members. However, in future, a separate burial ground would be identified for cremation of those who died of COVID, said Collector.
01 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special flight repatriates US nationals||The Hyderabad International Airport handled another special passenger relief flight operated to repatriate the citizens of the United States from here on Thursday. Domestic flight of Air India arrived from Mumbai, landing at 2.46 p.m. This aircraft departed with 101 US nationals to Mumbai at 3.52 p.m. The passengers of this flight were to be further airlifted by the Delta Airlines from Mumbai to the US. With the support and collaboration of the US consulate, Hyderabad and the Telangana government, the US citizens started arriving at the airport from 12 p.m. to 2 p.m. in buses from various parts of the city. Special screening and safety measures were in place during the flight’s handling as part of COVID-19 precautionary steps that included thermal screening, mandatory social distancing at all passenger processing points.
01 May 2020||hyderabad/bengaluru/thiruvananthapuram/Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims three more lives in Telangana, one in Karnataka||Telangana, recorded a fresh surge in COVID-19 cases as 22 new ones were detected on Thursday. Three people died taking the toll to 28 and 33 were discharged. All fresh cases were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits. Andhra Pradesh, which added 71 new cases of infection on Thursday, provided a profile of its COVID-19 cases. About 75% of cases showed no symptoms associated with the disease and only 25% were symptomatic, the State’s Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare said. The Department revealed the details till April 29 on Twitter. Among asymptomatic patients, 44% were in the 20 to 39-year age group while 29% were between 40 and 59 years old. The rest were below 20 years of age and above 60 years, who were considered vulnerable. Among the symptomatic patients, 81% were 20 to 59 years old, while 19% were 0 to 19 years old, and others more than 60 years.  The State tally touched 1,403 cases and 34 patients from Guntur (28), Anantapur (3), East Godavari (2) and one in Visakhapatnam had recovered. Of the 71 fresh cases, 43 were in Kurnool, 10 in Krishna, four cases each in Guntur and Kadapa, three cases each in Anantapur and Chittoor and two cases each in East Godavari and Nellore districts. Kurnool had reported 386 positive cases in all, while Guntur and Krishna reported 287 and 246 cases respectively. In Telangana, a cluster of cases was observed as the virus spread from two people who work in Malakpet Gunj, Pahadishareef to three shop owners and their family. Of the 1,038 cases reported till April 30, 568 were active cases, 442 had been discharged and 28 had died. From April 27 to 29, single digit cases were reported. Kerala has two cases Two persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday in Malappuram and Kasaragod districts in Kerala. One person had returned from Maharashtra, while the other acquired the disease through contact with a known or unknown source. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that 14 patients had tested negative and had been put on the recovered list. Of the 497 COVID-19 cases reported so far, 111 were undergoing treatment in hospitals. A total of 383 persons had recovered. Kannur currently had the maximum number of COVID-19 patients, at 47. Kottayam had 18 patients, Idukki 14, Kollam 12, Kasaragod 9, Kozhikode 4, Thiruvananthapuram 2, Malappuram 2 and Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam and Palakkad districts one patient each. Mr. Vijayan said that of the 1,508 samples collected and tested from among priority groups in the community as part of the sentinel survey, 897 were negative. The Health Department had collected 3,128 samples from select groups in the community under an augmented testing drive on April 26. Four positive cases were found, and 3,089 samples are negative. The official bulletin said that 14 samples were being reconfirmed and another 21 samples “rejected” by the labs were being re-tested. On Thursday, Tamil Nadu recorded 161 more COVID-19 positive cases, the highest number since the first one was reported on March 7. Chennai alone had 138 cases. With this, the State’s total case count increased to 2,323. A total of 97 men and 64 women tested positive. The majority - 141 persons - were in the age group of 13 to 60 years, while there were 13 children aged 0 to 12 years and seven persons aged above 60 in the day’s cases. There were no deaths. As on date, 1,035 persons (active cases) were under treatment in hospitals. The number of districts that reported fresh cases increased to 11. Apart from Chennai, there were five cases each in Chengalpattu and Madurai, three cases each in Kancheepuram and Ramanathapuram, two cases in Perambalur, and one case each in Ariyalur, Cuddalore, Ranipet, Salem and Tiruvannamalai. While Chennai’s total COVID-19 count soared across the 900-mark, Chengalpattu too reported fresh cases over the last few days. Chennai at present has a total of 906 cases. Ranipet and Ramanathapuram districts which had moved to the orange zone (less than 15 cases or no new case in the last 14 days) on Wednesday - moved back into the red zone.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Thiruvananthapuram, and Chennai Bureaus)
01 May 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four more frontline staff test positive for COVID in Proddatur||As four more positive COVID-19 cases were reported from Proddatur, all of them government employees, the district machinery is concerned over the increasing instances of frontline staff getting infected. While two of them are policemen, the other two are government hospital staff, residing in Srinivasa Nagar, Rameswaram, Eswara Reddy Nagar and Prakash Nagar, which have since become red zones. As many as 8,233 throat swab samples were taken as on April 29, of which the results were out in 7,330 samples, and 69 tested positive. With the latest four cases, the number of positive cases has risen to 73. As 28 have been discharged so far, the active cases still remains at 45. Commercial hub Proddatur is a commercial hub for the entire district and the huge number of cases in this town brought life almost to a standstill elsewhere. The town supplies groceries to most of super markets and departmental stores in major towns. The cargo vehicles and trucks carrying goods, especially eatables and daily consumables, from Proddatur are sanitised using sodium hypochlorite solution before being allowed into other towns. At a COVID-19 camp inaugurated by Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha and Member of Parliament Y.S. Avinash Reddy for veteran journalists working in Kadapa, Collector Ch. Hari Kiran and former mayor Suresh Babu gave their throat swab samples and got themselves tested. At Mydukur, MLA S. Raghurami Reddy distributed copper water bottles, goggles and sanitisers to 235 policemen guarding the constituency to ensure lockdown.
01 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Close call for personnel as tree falls on police station||Personnel of Pithapuram police station had a miraculous escape on Thursday when a tree fell on the sub-inspector’s office building following heavy winds coupled with rain in Pithapuram town of East Godavari district. Pithapuram Circle-Inspector B. Suri Appa Rao said: “A big tree on the Pithapuram police station premises fell on the sub-inspector’s office building which was built in 1995. None of the staff was present in the office when the incident occurred.” No damage to nearby old building According to police, the building is adjacent to the Pithapuram police station old building which was built in 1907. “However, there was no damage to the historical old building,” Mr. Appa Rao.
01 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool struggles to bury deceased as cases shoot up||Burying the bodies of COVID-19 patients is proving to be troublesome for the Kurnool district administration, which is already grappling with an unrelenting rise in the number of positive cases. On Thursday alone, 43 positive cases were reported taking the total number of cases to 386. Thirteen patients were discharged from the Shantiram COVID-19 Hospital after they recovered and tested negative. However, it is little solace for officials as the adherence to the lockdown norms in the town, particularly in the red zones, is poor with residents of Saibaba Colony near Kondareddy Buruju venturing out of their homes despite police making all efforts to confine them to their homes. There have been nine COVID-19 deaths in the district so far. Residents of two areas objected to the burial of the victims fearing that the infection might spread. District Collector G. Veerapandian said that it was unfortunate that some civic staff and policemen who had gone to provide security were attacked. “We follow all the norms in burying the bodies. The family members of the victims are also allowed to participate in the last rites and are given proper personal protection kits,” Mr. Veerapandian told The Hindu . Four bodies were buried at Jagannathagattu near Prajanagar, while one body each was buried at the Budhawarapeta Hindu Burial Ground, Sunkesula Road Hindu Burial Ground, Muslim Burial Ground, KMC dumpyard and Panyam village. Strong resistance While attempting to bury bodies at Budhawarapeta, there was strong resistance from locals while stone-pelting was reported at Jagannathagattu on Tuesday night. The Chief Minister reviewed the situation with district officials on Thursday. Out of the 43 new COVID-19 cases, 32 were from Kurnool Municipal limits, eight from Nandyal town, two from Pamulapadu and one from Alampur in Telangana. Out of the 386 cases, 324 cases were from Kurnool (231), Nandyal (73), Nandikotkur (10) and Atmakur (7) municipal limits, while 62 cases were from other rural mandals. Those discharged included four from Kurnool city, two each from Nandyal and Banaganapalli and one each from other mandals.
01 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore reports two new cases||Two more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in SPSR Nellore district in the last 24 hours. Both the persons were from a red zone area of in the city. With this, the total number of confirmed cases in the district rose to 84, health officials said. So far, 27 persons have been discharged after recovery. Test reports of 613 persons turned out to be negative on Thursday. The results of 641 suspects were yet to be received. Health officials swung into action and implemented the cluster containment action plan. The civic staff sanitised the Moolapeta area. All the family members of the duo were shifted to a quarantine centre. Health officials found that ignoring the advice to practise social distancing, they had allegedly played cards with a group of 13 friends.
01 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikakulam may remain in lockdown even after May 4||Residents of Srikakulam, anticipating a relaxation in the lockdown after May 4, may have to remain indoors for a further period of time as the district administration prepares to ramp up containment measures after a COVID-19 case was reported from the heart of the town in PN Colony. Three cases were earlier reported from Patapatnam, and all the four persons are now being treated at GEMS Hospital located on the outskirts of the town. Restrictions have been placed on movement of people in PN Colony even during the morning hours to control the spread of the virus. Over 10,000 families, including many prominent ones, live in the posh locality. The district administration has commenced supply of essential goods directly to residents’ homes through mobile bazars, thus imposing a total shutdown in the area. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas and Joint Collector K. Srinivasulu, Srikakulam District Civil Supplies Officer G. Nageswara Rao and other officials are closely monitoring the supply of essential goods to residents of the colony. Indian Red Cross Society chairman P. Jaganmohana Rao and his team have started supplying medicines and food packets to senior citizens and physically challenged persons in the colony, which is expected to be a red zone at least for the next two weeks, according to officials. Officials are closely monitoring the situation in Patapatnam and Palakonda, while also declaring many villages as red zones after the identification of the four positive cases. Palakonda Revenue Divisional Officer T.V.S.G. Kumar told The Hindu that restrictions were imposed in 27 villages of Palakonda mandal as it was adjacent to Patapatnam mandal which has been declared a red zone for the last one week. The district administration has been collecting data of all those who have returned from Delhi and Mumbai, and sending them for testing. Travel history undisclosed It has come to light that some returnees have not disclosed their travel details fearing quarantine. The Collector has reportedly directed officials to conduct the survey with the support of volunteers and collect data through various channels.
01 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ordinance on salary gets Governor’s nod||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has cleared the draft Ordinances forwarded by the government for deferring six days’ salary of teachers and employees for five months and for shelving the delimitation of local body wards in the wake of the crisis triggered by COVID-19. The Ordinance on salary deferment followed a stay order issued by the High Court on the government decision to defer the salary. The stay for two months was issued on the premise that it lacked legal sanction. The Ordinance gives legal sanction to the government to deduct the salary. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said here on Thursday that the impediment to deducting the salary had now been cleared and the disbursal will commence on May 4. The government was not on a collision course with the employees and teachers but was forced to take the decision in the wake of the grave crisis. The deferred salary would be retained in a separate account and used only for virus containment efforts and not routed to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund, he said. Referring to the United Democratic Front (UDF) allegation that the government did not take the Opposition into confidence, Dr. Isaac said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had broached the proposal for Salary Challenge with them but to no avail. Delimitation The Ordinance to amend the Kerala Panchayati Raj Act and the Kerala Municipalities Act seeks to relinquish the delimitation of wards before the local body elections in October. Earlier, the government had amended the Acts to add one more ward each to the rural and urban local bodies. The Ordinance will empower the government to conduct the elections on the basis of the existing wards.
01 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to bring back Keralites in other States by road||Amid putting pressure on the Centre for operating special non-stop trains to facilitate the return of 3.6 lakh migrant labourers held up in the State following the lockdown, the government is busy chalking out plans to bring back Keralites stranded in various States by road. The Transport Department has taken the lead in the consultations with the Home Ministry issuing norms for inter-State movement to allow the stranded return home by road. The transportation of 3.6 lakh migrant labourers using the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation fleet to West Bengal, Odisha, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, and other States is not feasible in the present condition, official sources told The Hindu . Only non-AC buses can be used and only 22 can travel on a 50-seater bus as only one commuter can be accommodated in two seats. Moreover, per km running cost will come to Rs. 25, excluding salary. Each will have to shell out over Rs. 4,000 minimum as the bus fare. The other hurdles are the four days’ journey, COVID-19 hotspots, medical care, new terrain for drivers, scattered migrant population and buses returning empty after dropping the commuters. Taking these factors into account, the sources said special trains were the best option for the migrant labourers. However, railway sources said no decision had been taken on the request of the State. Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, and Maharashtra have also demanded for special trains. Adequate social distancing norms will have to be followed on trains and only 40 can travel in a sleeper class coach of 72. Each non-AC train will be able to carry 1,000 people per trip. Transport dept. plan In the case of bringing stranded Keralites home, the government is moving ahead with the Transport Department’s proposal to facilitate entry only through inter-State check-posts at Amaravila, Aryankavu, Kumily, Walayar, Muthanga and Manjeswaram. Instead of using KSRTC fleet for bringing the stranded, the government is considering non-AC private contract carriages to operate the services.
01 May 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD fete postponed||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has resolved to postpone the celebrations in respect of the three-day annual ‘Padmavati parinayotsavam’ at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here. The festival, which is normally celebrated in all its grandeur at the sprawling Narayanagiri gardens, is scheduled to commence on May 1. Given the lockdown in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, the TTD has decided to postpone it to another convenient date after holding deliberations with senior pontiff of the temple and agama advisers.
01 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway staff brush up on social distancing norms||Railway staff at the Tirupati Railway Station are rehearsing social distancing measures that will be implemented once the lockdown is lifted in phases after May 4. Officials led by Station Director S.N.R. Sarma and Station Manager Rajendra Prasad enacted a demonstration of the social distancing etiquette to be followed by staff while dealing with passengers. Policemen from the GRP and RPF, travelling ticket examiners (TTEs) and other employees were roped in for the demo, who wore masks and walked on the platforms at a distance of one metre from each other. Little squares were drawn a metre apart at the entrance, meant for arriving passengers to stand in before getting checked by thermal scanners. Similar squares were drawn at enquiry and ticket counters, where passengers will wait in line and hop from one square to the other as the line moves ahead. Some staff acted as passengers, and policemen made them follow social distancing to be followed while boarding the train. However, it is not immediately known how many passengers will be allowed into a compartment, if the one-metre norm has to be adhered to.
01 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor fire at Sriharikota||A minor fire was reported at the Satish Dhawan Space Centre at Sriharikota (SDSC SHAR), located 100-km from here. Though the incident happened on Wednesday, it came to light on Thursday. The accident took place at the Solid Propellant Plant (SPP), in which two panels were reportedly gutted. The staff manning the plant immediately doused the fire, though the cause and source of the accident was not immediately known. Officials in the know of things, however, brushed it aside as an “insignificant event,” and attributed it to the burning down of worn-out cables kept aside as scrap. The shortage of manpower at the sprawling compound, ostensibly due to the lockdown situation prevailing across the nation, is believed to have added to lack of supervision. Senior officials, who are seized of the matter, however, remained tight-lipped on the issue.
01 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||More patients likely to be discharged soon, says CM||Andhra Pradesh is likely to witness discharge of more number of COVID patients in two to three days and there have been no casualties in the State during the last three to four days. The officials informed this to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at a review meeting on COVID-19 on Thursday. So far, 94,558 COVID-19 tests have been conducted in the State, and 1,771 tests per million population. The country’s COVID-19 positive rate and the mortality rate are 4% and 3.26% respectively, whereas in A.P. it is 1.48% and 2.21% respectively, they said. Mr. Jagan took serious note of reports that the last rites of a person who died of COVID-19 were obstructed by locals in Kurnool and termed their behaviour inhuman. “It damages human bonds,” he said and asked the DGP to see such incidents do not recur. The officials, referring to Central government guidelines, said legal action could be taken against those who were involved in such incidents.  ‘Focus on infra’ The Chief Minister asked the officials to monitor the facilities at the Kurnool Government General Hospital and improve the infrastructure at health facilities and quarantine centres. At present, there were 80 very active clusters, 64 active clusters, and 66 dormant clusters in the state besides 20 clusters with no active cases in the past 28 days. Preventive measures were being intensified in Kurnool, Guntur, Vijayawada in the wake of increasing cases. Lockdown strategy was being strictly implemented and high-risk patients were being monitored with more care, the officials said. A comprehensive system would be put in place within three days for effective functioning of the YSR Telemedicine programme, they said.
01 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MSMEs lift the lid on poor finances||Members of the Federation of Andhra Pradesh Small and Medium Industries’ Associations (FAPSIA) have expressed their inability to pay salaries and wages to their staff and workers during the lockdown period due to zero cash inflow. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday, Federation president Murali Krishna Vasireddy said paying salaries to the workers for the month of March itself was a very difficult task due to the lockdown. Appeal to government “It is not possible to pay salaries to the employees for the month of April due to acute shortage of funds. Some entrepreneurs are not in a position to even meet their regular expenses,” he explained. He appealed to the government to intervene and provide the MSME sector the support needed to withstand the COVID-19 blow and get back to normal. If the situation remained the same, many manufacturing units in the State might face the end of the road soon, he said. Explaining the grim scenario, Mr. Murali Krishna said the outbreak of COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown had dealt a severe blow to the SME sector. The raw material purchased for production, the processed material and the material held in transit had severely disrupted the cash flow. Apparently, some material with limited shelf life and certain semi-finished material were also set to expire due to various reasons, which, in turn, were causing a dent in their financial sustainability. To restart the production activities and proper maintenance of machinery, the entrepreneurs would incur additional costs, he pointed out.
01 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Mood in favour of English medium’||A majority of the parents of children going to the government schools in the State have voted in favour of English as medium of instruction, according to an official statement issued on Thursday. The statement said 96.17 % of the parents have opted for English as a medium of instruction for their children. As part of reforms in the education sector, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government announced its decision to introduce English as a medium of instructs in all government schools in the State from the new academic year in an attempt to “provide equal access to quality education for all children”.  HC observation Following the observation made by the High Court that the choice of the medium of instruction for primary school children should be left to the parents, the government decided to elicit parents’ opinion on the same. A format prepared by the Department of School Education was circulated among the parents by village and ward volunteers. It comprised three options — English medium with Telugu as a compulsory subject, Telugu medium and ‘other medium,’ and the parents had to tick their option and append their signature on the forms. The statement said according to the data collected till April 29, of the total strength of 17,87,035 students in 1 to 5 classes, parents of 17,85,669 students made known their preferences. Of them, 96.17% chose English medium, 3.05 % opted for Telugu medium and 0.78 % opted for other language medium.
01 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toddy tappers allowed to resume their work||The State government has allowed toddy tappers to resume tapping operations. They, however, will have to follow the physical distancing norms and other measures as enshrined in the COVID-19 protocol. Social distancing must Special Chief Secretary (BC Welfare) R. Karikal Valaven, in a GO dated Thursday, said the Government of India had allowed certain exceptions for Agriculture/Horticulture operations, while maintaining social distancing. “District Collectors/Managing Director, A.P. Toddy Tappers Cooperative Finance Corporation were instructed to take further necessary action to enable tappers to conduct the toddy tapping operations,” he said.
01 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM downplaying threat only for political gain: Yanamala||Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council and senior TDP leader Yanamala Ranakrishnudu took exception to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy's assertion that coronavirus cannot be eliminated and “we have to live with it.” “Dismissing coronavirus as a small fever and saying there is no imminent danger from it amounts to self-deception and tricking the people,” Mr. Ramakrishnudu said in a statement on Thursday. Mr. Jagan should realise that the ‘small fever’ had wrecked the livelihood of crores of people across the world and crippled even developed economies. Mr. Jagan was looking for political gain at the cost of people’s lives, he alleged. COVID positive cases have been increasing at an alarming rate in the State. Now, Andhra Pradesh occupies the second place in the country with regard to the rate of increase. AP had overtaken Telangana in the number of cases in just a week’s time and might soon overtake Tamil Nadu, he said. The TDP leader said the recovery rate in A.P. was abysmally low compared with States such as Kerala, Haryana and Tamil Nadu. Also, the number of discharged cases was 287 in AP, 1,210 in Tamil Nadu, 409 in Telangana, 369 in Kerala and 216 in Karnataka. Notwithstanding, the CM and YSRCP leaders were making exaggerated claims and issuing irresponsible statements. It was not wise to hide facts as it would only create confusion, he added.
01 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrant labourers are our priority, says Sudha Murthy||“Ïn a normal situation I would have been on the road, helping my team pack food and other relief material for distribution among the affected population, but I am close to 70 years and can’t move out of the house in the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19,” says Sudha Murthy, Chairperson of the Infosys Foundation which is actively involved in relief work across the country. Started in 1996 by software giant Infosys, the foundation supports the underprivileged sections of society. “We have worked actively during 14 national disasters, but COVID is an unprecedented experience the human race is going through. We don’t know how long the virus will run its course,” says Ms. Murthy, sharing the experience of providing succour to the needy at the time of disasters. “We built houses, schools, classrooms and toilets. At the time of Hudhud cyclone, we built 300 houses for fishermen,” she says, adding: “we built a hostel for children at Haripuram.” Of the total Rs. 120 crore the foundation has committed towards COVID relief, it has donated a sum of Rs. 50 crore to the PM CARES Fund. It has distributed dry ration to 2.3 lakh families. Assuming that each family comprises five members, it distributed food to them for 21 days and over 12.41 lakh individuals have been served cooked meal. Besides, 1,000 daily wagers have been paid a month’s salary that cost Rs. 1 crore. Equipment and medicines “Migrant labourers are the worst sufferers during such hard times. They do not have ration card or any other identity to benefit from the government schemes. Our focus is on this section crumbling under the lockdown stress,” she said. In A.P., the foundation reached out to the daily wagers in Mangalagiri and in parts of Visakhapatnam through the Akshay Patra Foundation. Ms. Murthy, through her foundation, has donated 142 ventilators, 26 multi-para patient monitors, 14,102 litres of sanitiser, 40,200 PPE kits, 2,56,500 gloves, 32,105 N95 masks, 22,45,300 3 ply masks, 10,000 face shields, 190 Viral Transport Media, 50,000 Oseltamivir natflu 75 mg capsules¸ and 1,17,000 sodium hydroxychloroquine tablets, etc.
01 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. breathes new life into sector||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy sanctioned Rs. 905 crore for paying incentives which are due since 2014-15 to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) to help them overcome the impact of the lockdown on their meagre finances. Mr. Jagan ordered that half of that sum be remitted in May and the balance in June. Another significant relief measure okayed by him at a review meeting on the MSME sector on Thursday was a working capital infusion (for MSME) of Rs. 200 crore with minimum interest. Besides, the Chief Minister gave the nod for waiving power demand charges amounting to Rs. 188 crore for three months (April-June) and deferring the minimum demand charges payable by large industries for the same period as above (April-June) along with exemption from penalties or any additional charges. The total outstanding incentives include Rs. 828 crore pending from 2014-15 to 2018-19 and Rs. 77 crore for 2019-20. According to an official release, the decisions will benefit 72,531 micro, 24,252 small and 645 medium industries respectively which have a total employee strength of 9,68,269. The fund for working capital is being raised from the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI).  Heavy units next While paying off the dues to MSME, the government is working out a plan to clear the arrears for large and heavy industries such as textile units and extend assistance to industries across the board, with due priority to MSMEs after the Central government takes a call on the proposed financial package. A high -level review meeting would be held in that regard soon. Minister for Industries Mekapati Goutham Reddy, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Special Chief Secretary (Industries and Commerce) R. Karikal Valaven and Commissioner of Industries J.V.N. Subrahmanyam were among those present.
01 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special insurance cover sought for power staff||The Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Employees' Joint Action Committee (APSEE-JAC) has appealed to the government to provide a special insurance cover of Rs. 1 crore each for the employees of APGenco, APTransco and discoms discharging their duties during lockdown. Joint Action Committee chairman P. Balachandra Babu and convener S. Prasad stated in a press release that the electricity employees were doing their best to ensure uninterrupted power supply, particularly to hospitals and quarantine centres, in spite of high risk of contacting the coronavirus and the hazards that were part of their job. The government should, therefore, give special insurance and pay them full salaries like in case of others rendering essential services, the JAC requested the government.
01 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Geotagging for pension disbursal: Minister||For the first time, the State government will use geotagging in the distribution of social security pensions. The government has made a special app available for the same. The photographs of beneficiaries would be taken, geotagged and uploaded on to the server. The distribution of pensions will begin on Friday. Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy on Thursday said the government geared itself up to disburse 58.22 lakh pensions on May 1. The Minister said that 2,37,615 volunteers would visit the houses of the beneficiaries to hand over the pensions under the YSR Pension Kanuka. Special mobile app “As part of the COVID-19 control measures, a special mobile app is being used to avoid collecting the biometric details. The photos of beneficiaries will be geotagged and uploaded on to the server. The app has already been downloaded by the volunteers,” he said. The government has released Rs. 1,421.20 crore towards the pensions. The amount was credited into the accounts of the Village Secretariats. The distribution would begin in the morning. If any of the beneficiaries was not available, or was stuck at other places due to the lockdown, the pension would be given to them through portability.
01 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown: Jain Samaj extends help to the poor||Members of the Jain Samaj on Thursday distributed 4,560 food packets and fruits like bananas to the needy in the red zone areas, hospitals, the poor living on hill slopes at Autonagar, Ambapuram, Mangalagiri, and Tadepalli areas. From March 23, members of the Samaj have been distributing 4,500 to 5,000 food packets daily. On Thursday, the Jain Samaj members served breakfast, lunch, evening tea and dinner to the 225 inmates of the shelter home established in Gandhi Municipal College. The samaj members have adopted this shelter home ever since it was opened here. Those who participated in the distribution on Thursday include Praveen Jain, Sanjay Jain, Bhavesh Solanki, Dinesh Jain, Manoj Kothari, Bharat Golecha, Rakesh Solanki, Sheetal Jain, Akshay Jain, and Sunil Jain.
01 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Rishi Kapoor’s demise an irreparable loss’||Expressing his condolences on the demise of veteran Bollywood actor Rishi Kapoor, JSP president Pawan Kalyan said on Thursday that his passing away was an irreparable loss to the Indian film industry. Mr. Pawan Kalyan said Rishi Kapoor had a distinct style and was a legend in his own right who came up in life through sheer hard work and talent, which few others could match. A.P. Film, Television and Theatre Development Corporation (APFTTDC) chairman Vijay Chander expressed shock at the demise of Rishi Kapoor. APFTTDC managing director Vijay Kumar Reddy said Rishi Kapoor was a role model for many up-and-coming actors, and his death left a void that was difficult to fill.
01 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||60-year-old woman from Madhavadhara tests positive||A 60-year-old woman from Madhavadhara in the city was tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. Sources in the Health Department said the woman, a resident of the Seethanna Gardens in Madhavadhara area, was a secondary contact of a Delhi returnee, adding that it would be confirmed by the State health bulletin on Friday. About 10 days ago, her husband died owing to kidney failure. It is learnt that she showed the COVID-19 symptoms recently, after which the health officials conducted the test. After her report was confirmed positive, as many as 32 people including her close contacts were sent to the isolation ward at Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD). Containment zone High alert sounded in Madhavadhara, Murali Nagar and its surrounding areas. Police teams put up barricades in the bylanes leading to house of the patient. At present, the city has six containment zones —Poorna Market, Padmanabham, Akkayyapalem, Allipuram, Thatichetlapalem, Gajuwaka. With the new case, Madhavadhara will be the new containment zone, the officials said. Special teams, along with the ward volunteers and ASHA workers, will conduct a survey to check health conditions of people in the locality on Friday. At present, 39 people are in the isolation ward of the chest hospital.
01 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Help just a call away for victims of domestic violence||Disha Police Station officials have urged women to reach out to them if they face any instance of domestic violence. Police said they were ready to conduct counselling for couples through video calling if needed, and said that help is just a phone call or a message away. The State government has alerted Disha police stations in the wake of the increase in domestic violence cases ever since the lockdown was imposed. The Andhra Pradesh Women’s Commission and Department of Women and Child Welfare have also been asked to reach out to those in need of help. The city police issued a statement saying that victims could dial 9493336633, Disha Police Station (0891-2561933), Cyber Mithra (9121211100), apart from 100, 181 or 112 if they come across any instance of domestic violence. ACP Prem Kajal of Disha Police Station said victims were approaching the nearby police stations in some cases. However, those living far were unable to approach the police due to the lockdown, which was why they had released the list of numbers and enabled the WhatsApp numbers to help out the victims. “We have facilitated several helplines. We are responding to all the complaints on a priority basis. If the complainants so desire, we are ready to conduct counselling via video calling,” she said. The ACP also said that victims can even contact the Mahila Mithra coordinators in their ward. A senior police officer said that there are some cases where men are venting their frustration on their spouses ever since the lockdown has come into force.
01 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drivers ferrying fish to undergo checkup before and after trip||With the increasing number of coronavirus positive cases among the people involved in the supply chain of essential commodities, the ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology has issued an advisory pertaining to transportation of fish. It suggests measures to be undertaken by the transportation personnel and and the facilities provided by the State government to check the spread of the virus. The advisory recommends that all drivers should undergo mandatory health checks and testing before and after a trip. Personal hygiene They need to ensure personal hygiene and maintain social distance.
01 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||12-year-old boy donates masks, sanitisers to police||A 12-year-old differently-abled boy donated 100 masks, 40 health drink bottles and five sanitisers to the police personnel here on Thursday. Mula Deepesh, a Class VII student of PEN School at Madhavadhara, was moved by the yeomen services being rendered by the police force during the lockdown period. So, he bought the items worth around Rs. 2,500 from his pocket money and handed them over to the SHO of Kancharapalem Police Station, Krishna Rao. “I have been seeing since day one of the lockdown in television and other media how the police force has been rendering services against all odds and want to do something for the force,” he said speaking to The Hindu . Suffering from a birth disorder, Deepesh moves in a walker, and is one among the toppers in the school. Aims to crack Civils An avid painter and quizzer, the boy dreams to crack the civil services after completing his engineering from a good college. “I dream to become an IPS officer, but I don’t know whether my physical condition will permit, or will I ever recover from it,” he says. Mr. Krishna Rao, who received the packet, was visibly moved by the gesture of the boy and wished that he recovered fast and realised his dreams. His mother S. Sridevi is a doctor at KGH and his father a realtor.
01 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Sirona’ app to deliver medicines at doorstep||Joint Collector L. Shiva Shankar on Thursday launched a mobile application of ‘Sirona Pharmacy’, through which customers can get delivery of medicines at their doorstep. He appreciated the idea of Sirona Pharmacy by facilitating door delivery service by creating a local app and said that this would help citizens who were unable to go out to purchase medicines during the lockdown. Representatives from Sirona Pharmacy startup, K. Shiva Shankar said residents living in the stretch between Madhurwada and Gajuwaka could order medicines through the Sirona Pharmacy mobile app. “The medicines will be delivered at the doorstep of customers within two hours. Keeping in the view of the senior citizens, pregnant women and other needy, we have come up with the app,” the Joint Collector said.
01 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One patient discharged||One more COVID-19 patient was discharged from GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (GIMSR) after his reports tested negative on Wednesday, the State health bulletin said on Thursday. With this, the total number of active cases in Visakhapatnam district stands at three. According to health officials, a 53-year old man from Akkayyapalem who had a travel history to New Delhi was tested positive three weeks ago, He was discharged on Wednesday after treatment. Three women patients are undergoing treated as of now. Among the three, one woman from Thatichetlapalem was a close contact of Mumbai returnee, while another is a native of Tamil Nadu with a travel history to Delhi. She was tested positive 10 days ago. The third patient is from Kasimkota who had returned from Vijayawada recently.
01 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC nets Rs. 5 cr. in a day||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has generated a revenue of Rs. 5 crore on Thursday, on the last day for payment of property and vacant land taxes with 5 % rebate. The total tax collection was put at Rs. 37.22 crore when compared to Rs. 32.28 crore generated on Wednesday. A majority of the citizens paid their taxes at 18 counters set up at the zone offices and the GVMC main office on the last day, said GVMC Deputy Commissioner (revenue) M.V.D. Phani Ram. Assesses may now pay the tax for the first half-year without penalty till the end of June, he added.
01 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retail chains urged to sell GCC products||Joint Collector L. Shiva Shankar has appealed to the retail chain stores, hypermarkets and delivery platforms to sell the products of the Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC). At a meeting with the representatives of Spencer’s, Reliance, Zomato and Swiggy on Thursday, the Joint Collector said minor forest produce such as tamarind, honey, turmeric, rajma, and other products like broomsticks, soaps and organic vegetables and fruits should be sold in the malls. It would help the tribal people sell their produce. Online marketing option should also be explored. GCC General Manager Ashok Kumar was present.
01 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain likely at isolated places in State today||The cyclonic circulation over south Chhattisgarh and neighbourhood now lies over south Odisha and neighbourhood and extends up to 0.9 km above the mean sea level. Thunderstorm and lighting, accompanied by gusty winds with speed reaching 30 to 40 kmph, might be experienced at isolated places over north and south coastal A.P. and Yanam on Friday. There might be thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places over north coastal A.P., Rayalaseema and Yanam on May 2 and at isolated places over north coastal A.P. and Yanam on May 3 and 4, an IMD release said. The chief amounts of rainfall (recorded in cm) during the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday were: Tuni (East Godavari) 5; Yanam (Yanam) 4; and Cheepurupalli (Vizianagaram), Palakonda (Srikakulam), Gajapathinagaram (Vizianagaram), Merakamudidam (Vizianagaram), Palasa (Srikakulam), Garividi (Vizianagaram), and Narsipatnam (Visakhapatnam) 3 each. Low pressure The cyclonic circulation over north Sumatra and neighbourhood now lies over south Andaman Sea and neighbourhood and extends up to 4.5-km above the mean sea level. Under its influence, a low pressure is very likely to form over south Andaman Sea and neighbourhood during the next 24 hours. It is very likely to become more marked and concentrate into a depression over the Andaman Sea and neighbourhood during the subsequent 48 hours and intensify further thereafter, according to the IMD.
01 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Banana growers to get aid||Vizianagaram Joint Collector G.C. Kishore Kumar said that compensation would be paid to farmers who have lost their crops due to heavy gales in Gantyada, Gajapathi Nagaram, Vizianagaram and other mandals. Mr. Kishore Kumar visited Mandanapuram village of Gantyada mandal on Thursday to gain first-hand information about the damage to banana crops. Many farmers told him that they were already facing problems in selling their crop due to the lockdown, and that the heavy rain only compounded their losses.
01 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Be polite with persons in quarantine’||Vizinaagaram District Revenue Officer J. Venkata Rao on Thursday asked doctors to be cordial with those kept at quarantine centres and make them feel at home. Mr. Venkata Rao held a review meeting with special officers of quarantine centres and listened to their grievances. He said that supply of nutritious food would boost their immunity. “COVID-19 tests should be conducted on the 12th day. Those who test negative have to be discharged but should be advised to remain cautious at home. Their details have to be given to police officials so that they can be vigilant,” Mr. Venkata Rao said.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||All-out efforts||
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor mishap at steel plant, no casualty reported||A minor mishap occurred in the Steel Melt Shop-2 of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) on Thursday. However, neither was any casualty nor major damage to any equipment and machinery, a company official said. A ladle carrying metal weighing around 120 tonnes slipped down in the Continuous Casting Department as the main hoist of the crane developed a technical snag. The production resumed immediately after the rectification of technical snag, the steel plant officials said.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Homeward bound||
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cautious approach||
01 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Migrant labourers’ long march on NH44 on May Day||Thousands of migrant workers will have no reason to celebrate the International Labour Day or May Day on May 1 thanks to the upheaval COVID-19 has generated in their lives. They will most certainly spend the day, celebrated in honour of the working class, on NH 44 and other roads as they will be walking towards their distantly located homes. There will also be no celebrations for the trade unions either owing to the lockdown restrictions in place. Though Friday is a general holiday, officials attending emergency work will still be working. No cheer Even news of the Union government permitting their passage to their home States did not bring cheer to the embittered workers headed home. The news started percolating the previous evening itself thanks to the labourers staying connected with their families through mobile phones. Devender Kumar Sonwane from Paldongri in Lanji tahsil of Balaghat district in Madhya Pradesh is bitter because his government had done nothing so far to get them home. “Our people back home got our names registered with the MP government some 20 days back hoping it will help take us back home,” he recalled. “Now we are on the road for the last three days with little chance of officials identifying and getting to us,” Mr. Sonawane, the head of his family feared. The rich-poor divide “Modiji (Prime Minister) and Yogi Adityanath (Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister) can bring back students from Kota, Rajasthan because they are from rich families. He should also care equally for the poor like us,” said a piqued Sandeep Yadav, a carpenter from Gorakhpur, which incidentally is the Assembly constituency represented by the UP Chief Minister. Mr. Yadav and eight others from various parts of UP who worked together on a construction site at Suchitra area in Hyderabad are savvy about developments related with COVID-19 and lockdown as they keenly watch news on national TV new channels. They are not only critics of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the UP Chief Minister but also the Telangana government and concerned officials. Echoing a common complaint Manoj Kanojia from Maharajganj, and Abhimanyu Vishwakarma from Mustafabad in Azamgarh district in UP said they were not provided food by authorities or the contractor in Hyderabad. “Officials had arrived sometime in March to take selfies and group photos of handing us food packets and vanished without a trace after that,” they pointed out.
01 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Officials noting down details of migrant labour||In the light of the guidelines issued by the State government to facilitate movement of stranded workers, students, tourists and others, the administrations in Adilabad, Kumram Bheem Asifabad, Mancherial and Nirmal district have begun identifying the workers on Thursday. This will entail reconciliation of the numbers to make list of people from those who were put up in shelter camps and those who were employed and were willing either to go home or stay back. In Kumram Bheem Asifabad, the identified number of labourers done after the lockdown was implemented was about 3,000. “The latest process will reveal the actual number and we will also be able to classify them,” KB Asifabad Collector Sandeep Jha told The Hindu . In Mancherial, there are about 5,400 migrant labourers identified as belonging to different States. The list will be ready soon so that further action can be taken on it. In Adilabad, the total number of identified migrant workers is over 9,000, including 83 in Utnoor Division, who are from other districts in the State. The classification work has begun and the new list will be ready in a day or two, according to officials. Meanwhile, workers continued their arduous foot journey towards the far located home all during the day. About 2,000 of them are estimated to have crossed over into Maharashtra at Penganga bridge in Adilabad district since Thursday morning.
01 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Tests on asymptomatic patients vital’||Doctors who are treating COVID-19 patients in government hospitals have expressed their reservations against the decision to not test asymptomatic secondary contacts. As experts across the world, including India, are predicting a second wave of infection, doctors stressed that all forms of pre-confirmatory tests and pool testing also have to be put to use to know the extent of spread of coronavirus. Instructions were issued to district collectors and health officials, more than a week ago, not to test asymptomatic secondary contacts. It was decided that they would be placed under home quarantine for 28 days and their condition to be monitored. “There are at least over 100 COVID-19 patients at Gandhi Hospital who are asymptomatic, which is a modest number. Some of them are secondary contacts. Rather than placing them under home quarantine, proactive testing will help in early detection of cases. Delays will only increase the chances for the virus to spread and that could lead to more cases in the coming days,” said a government doctor, who attends to COVID-19 patients, on condition of anonymity. The doctor questioned the logic that sufficient swab samples cannot be collected if a person do not have symptoms. “If that is the case, then how were samples collected from all asymptomatic patients at the hospital who tested positive?,” the doctor questioned. Three days ago, Health Minister Eatala Rajender justified the number of tests conducted here, stating that accuracy of tests conducted in the State is higher than the national average. He cited guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on April 17 to buttress why only symptomatic contacts were tested. Officials earlier said that they were judicious about use of testing kits as cases might rise in the coming days. However, a few doctors did not completely agree with this. “Pre-confirmatory tests to detect nucleic acids is being used in Andhra Pradesh. Besides, pool testing can be used in which close to 10 samples can be tested at once. If the entire sample load is negative through RT-PCR test, it saves kits too. Each sample will be tested if the pool is positive. These methods help in testing more samples,” the doctor said. Another doctor said that of the 19,278 samples tested in Telangana, only 1,016 tested positive. This means 96.8% samples tested negative. “Given the situation, why can’t we use pool testing. Only 10 tests have to be performed for 100 samples. This saves time and kits. Samples from asymptomatic suspects can be put to test too,” the doctor said.
01 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Exodus of workers set to hit GHMC projects||With the Centre permitting transport of migrant labourers stranded across India to their home-states, GHMC is plagued by fears of mass exodus of labour force, impairing the ongoing projects for an indefinite time. Already, thousands of migrant labourers, skilled and semi-skilled, have left the State along with their families, trusting their own feet to carry them to their destinations. This was despite the lockdown regulations barring inter-State travel of people. Opening the gates to reverse migration could result in labourers clamouring to get back to their home-towns, officials fear. “The workers are extremely homesick, and worried about their children back in their native places. No amount of wages could hold them back now. Already several batches have left, and still more are ready to go,” said an official of the GHMC. The corporation has employed several thousands of migrant labourers in its double bedroom housing project, while scores of them are working in various project components of the Strategic Road Development Plan. “So far, the SRDP works have been going on at a brisk pace, so we could hold the workers back somehow. But now, since the Centre has accorded permission to travel, they might not be willing to stay,” the official said. The process is not simple though. The workers will have to first appeal to their State governments to take them back, which will be routed back to the Telangana government, before the process is furthered. Permission or no permission, several workers have already left by stealth, not giving any information to the contractor. According to officials, there were several attempts to escape, and a batch of 40 labourers did succeed in their mission. “They escaped one fine day, without informing even the project manager, after which all of them switched off their mobiles. They could be traced only after reaching their home State, Rajasthan,” the official said. Of a total 55,000 labourers working at 104 double bedroom project sites, about 45,000 are from outside the State. More than half of the workforce had already left, and the remaining would leave now, said another official. “The project work cannot be resumed before October-November even by the most optimistic estimate,” the official said. Work is going on for construction of close to a lakh dwelling units in the city under the flagship project of the TRS government. Of these, more than 50,000 dwellings have reached the stage of completion, officials said.
01 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rice to be given to cardholders for second consecutive month||The Civil Supplies Department is gearing up to begin distribution of 12 kg rice each to members of the 87.5 lakh families of white ration cardholders across the State free of cost for the second consecutive month. The government had decided to supply one kg of red gram to white ration cardholders during the month. To being with, red gram would be supplied in four districts — Nizamabad, Nalgonda, Warangal Rural and Medak — as the National Cooperative Agriculture Marketing Federation (Nafed) was yet to supply the assured quantum of red gram. Of the 8,754 MT of red gram assured, the State had received about 3,233 MT so far and supply of the commodity to other districts would commence once the assured quantity of red gram is received. For the second consecutive month, cardholders would be receiving the benefit from the government in line with the assurance given by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to provide relief to below poverty line families which are affected by the ongoing lockdown. In addition to rice, the government had credited Rs. 1,500 each into the accounts of majority of cardholders while deposition into some accounts was hit by technical glitches. The government had released Rs. 2,417 crore — Rs. 1,103 crore for 3.3 lakh metric tonne of rice and Rs. 1,314 crore towards the cash component — last month. The government, according to officials, would also commence crediting cash into the accounts of the cardholders in a couple of days as May 1 happens to be a holiday. The government has asked the fair price shop dealers to ensure sanitisers and soaps at the shops while cardholders had been asked to maintain social distancing norms.
01 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fresh true-up claims sought from Discoms||The Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission has conveyed to the two power distribution companies (Discoms) of the State that their true-up claims based on revenue gaps for previous years will be considered afresh based on their petitions for Annual Performance Review for financial year 2019-20. True-up claim is the expenditure incurred by power utility over and above the Annual Revenue Requirement (ARR) approved by regulator. While the southern power distribution company claimed the total gap at Rs. 1,300.69 crore on account of true-up of third control period in separate Telangana from 2014-15 to 2018-19, the northern company claimed the gap at Rs. 82.62 crore for the same period. The total claims of two companies amounted to Rs. 1,383.51 crore. The Commission in its order of Wednesday said it was not expressing any opinion on the merits of the true-up claims of Discoms. The order was passed by the full commission headed by T. Sriranga Rao and members M.D. Manohar Raju and Bandaru Krishnaiah on Aggregate Revenue Requirement and wheeling tariffs for distribution business for fourth control period (financial years 2019-20 to 2023-24) in the supply areas of the Discoms. The stand of the Commission was made clear in response to petitions filed by the companies in December last under multi-year tariff principles in accordance with the Commission’s provisions for three control periods spread across erstwhile Andhra Pradesh and Telangana; control period one - 2006-07 to 2008-09, period two - 2009-10 to 2013-14, and period three - 2014-15 to 2018-19.  The Discoms pleaded that the delay in filing the petitions be condoned due to non-finalisation of their annual accounts for base years. The Commission also directed the Discoms to file the Performance Review (true-up) for each year of the fourth control period before December 31 of following year. As a first step, the Discoms should file the Annual Performance Review for financial year 2019-20 by December 31, 2020. The ERC expected power connections in 2020-21 to touch 1.48 crore as against Discoms claims putting the figure at 1.53 crore.
01 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS has adequate testing, PPE kits: Central team||The Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) which visited hospitals, central drug stores, shelter homes and other places in Telangana stated in their report that adequate stocks of testing kits and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and other resources are available with the State. However, they observed some issues at the District Hospital in King Koti. Punya Salila Srivastava, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, said that the team has suggested distance be maintained between donning and doffing areas — where healthcare professionals wear and remove PPE — in the hospital. Besides, they found that some of the wards do not have attached bathrooms. Suggestions was given not to admit patients in those wards. The team checked stock monitoring system in central drug store. Officials from the State Health department said that Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMIDC) has procured 5.51 lakh units of PPEs, and over 47,000 COVID-19 testing kits. Around 7.3 lakh N95 masks, 34 lakh surgeon masks, over 11 lakh surgical gloves, and others are available with the Health Department. “Currently, we have capacity to test 47,000 samples. The kits have to be maintained at minus temperatures. Only so many kits can be stored. Procuring the kits is a continuous process,” officials said. Space in the central drug store was taken into consideration before procuring the drugs. Currently, 55 forms of drugs which are related to symptomatic treatment, or prophylactics, are being procured.
01 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UoH alumni ready low-cost ventilator||Two alumni of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) are closely working with T Works to develop a low-cost ventilator that can be used in the current COVID-19 crisis situation. Venkata Rahul S studied M. Sc Electronics from the School of Physics in 1998 and went on to found ConserVision Technologies, the company involved in this novel effort. Rajnikanth Sabnekar, Rahul’s colleague, is also working on this project and is an M. Tech in Computer Science (2014- 2016) from UoH. ConserVision is incubated at the Technology Incubation and Development of Entrepreneurship (TIDE) at UoH, and works on Energy Management Products, leveraging the Internet of Things. The ventilator is being designed to meet the respiratory needs of acute coronavirus cases. The prototype is a BVM-based device but is now being expanded to support various modes (SVIM and CVM) and to be used with oxygen supply cylinders or hospital supply lines. The cost of the ventilator is expected to be between Rs. 65,000 and Rs. 1,00,000. Mr. Rahul S can be reached on 7032416521 and Mr. Sabnekar 7674033275.
01 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR seeks support for IT industry||IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has sought support for the IT industry in Hyderabad, particularly for small and medium scale units, to ensure enough cash flow for them for healthy functioning and to avoid lay offs. In a letter to Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, he sought reimbursement of I-T dues upto 100% for those below Rs. 25 lakh and 50% for those above Rs. 25 lakh. He also wanted GST dues to be immediately released or add the amounts to the credit ledger that can be adjusted against any of the heads. These companies have paid several crores of rupees under various heads but got clarity on payments and adjustments much later. “Even the Finance Minister said that such amounts will be released in 30 days but it needs to be expedited,” he said. He also sought 50% enhancement on the line of credit to SMEs as this would take care of payroll for at least 3 to 4 months and avoid lay offs. “The sunset clause for direct benefits of SEZ units should be extended until March 2021 from March 31, 2020, as many companies couldn’t file their applications on time,” he said, adding that the Telangana government has already submitted a letter to the Commerce Ministry in this regard. Mr. KTR also wanted the employee-per sq.ft. ratio to be fixed at 100-125 sq.ft., to ensure better social distancing practices once all the units become fully operational.
01 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Don’t download fake Aarogya Setu app’||Cyberabad police advised citizens to download the Aarogya Setu app only from authentic sources like http://Mygov.in or Apple or Android playstore, as several spoofed apps are on the Internet. As the app has become very popular among citizens, cyber fraudsters have once again become active and are making use of the situation by creating fake Aarogya Setu applications with similar names and design by making minor changes. “People may receive such app links via email, or through WhatsApp or Facebook projecting it as a genuine one. We request them to download only via government website or Apple or Google playstore,” Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar said, adding that the app also has an option ‘play protect’. The app tries to determine the risk, if one has been near a COVID-19 infected person (within six feet of distance) by scanning through a database of known cases across India.
01 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS corporator booked||Yosufguda corporator Sanjay Goud was booked by the Hyderabad police on Wednesday for violating the lockdown norms by venturing out of the containment zone. The accused TRS corporator’s house in Venkatagiri falls in a containment zone after seven of a family living in a house, adjacent to his, tested positive for COVID-19. One of them died and six persons are under observation at Gandhi Hospital. Jubilee Hills police, who registered a suo motu case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC and Section 51 of Disaster Management Act, said Mr. Goud was coming out every day to participate in food distribution and other programmes organised in his area by violating the norms laid down in containment zones. Despite repeated requests from police, the corporator used to come out of the containment zone citing medical emergency and other reasons to attend the various programmes, Inspector K Sattaiah said. “People living in the red zones should not venture out. But he turned a deaf ear to our repeated requests, as a result, a case was booked against him,” he said, adding that the corporator could be a potential carrier of coronavirus as his house was next to that of the positive patients. Police said Mr. Goud also organised essential commodities distribution programmes with no prior notice to the authorities concerned and failed to ensure social distancing.
01 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Women mango farmers can access market from their villages||The mango farmers, more so the women farmers now, have a platform and mechanism to market their yield through the farmer producer groups in their villages and also become shareholders in the women farmer producer company (FPC) Minister Harish Rao launched a procurement centre at Venkatapur village in Nangunur mandal in Siddipet district on Thursday and announced that a plan was finalised to procure mangoes raised in 13,400 acres in Siddipet district and it would be extended to vegetables soon. He instructed DRDA Project Director Gopal Rao to set up purchase centres for this season’s crop as several mandals like Nangunur, Koheda, Akkannapeta, Maddur, Chinna Kodur, Kondapaka, Jagadevpur have extensive mango cultivations. A mango yield of 5,000 quintals was expected in the identified 14 villages of Nangunur mandal and 115 small and marginal women mango farmers were identified to form producer groups and these producer groups would become share holders in Women Farmer Producer Company. An agreement was entered by the FPC with State level Benishan company to give remunerative price for the mango farmers and market it to wholesale customers.
01 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC gets HC nod for work on steel bridge||Telangana High Court on Thursday permitted the GHMC to dismantle the advertising hoardings coming in the way of construction of a steel bridge near NFCL rotary in Punjagutta. Observing that public interests will override interests of individuals, the HC said the need to widen roads for constructing the bridge cannot be questioned. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A. Abhishek Reddy said, however, the hoarding owners should first submit a representation to the GHMC expressing their willingness to remove the hoardings. The bench instructed the GHMC to examine their representation giving them an opportunity of hearing. The hoarding owners have the right to challenge the GHMC orders on shifting the hoardings, the HC said. The advertising hoardings’ owners first approached the HC challenging the notices issued by the GHMC to remove the hoardings. After hearing their petition, a single judge issued interim stay orders. The GHMC appealed over the single judge order before the division bench. Advocate General B.S. Prasad told the HC that it would be convenient for the GHMC to undertake road widening work with little or no public movement due to lockdown. The bench directed the police to issue passes to the hoarding owners to be present at the time of removal of the hoardings. The hoardings should be dismantled in the presence of the owners only, the bench said.
01 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 1,500 for ration card holders in May too||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that 12 kg rice and Rs. 1,500 will be given to daily wagers with ration cards in the month of May also, to support them during the lockdown. Mr. Harish Rao announced this during distribution of kits of essential commodities and Rs. 500 to Muslim minorities at Siddipet under the aegis of Friends Foundation on Thursday. He called upon the Muslim community to pray for the welfare of people in the State and the country during the holy month of Ramzan and offer ‘Namaz’ at their homes. Siddipet has become COVID-19 free district and people should continue to extend their support to the lockdown and not to step out unnecessarily, he said.
01 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rs. 10 lakh compensation sought for COVID victims||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has demanded that the government announce Rs. 10 lakh compensation to the families of people who passed away due to coronavirus. Speaking to media after leading a delegation of all parties to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, he said those who died due to the virus were primarily the breadwinners of the family and above 50 years of age. Families of these people should be compensated, he said. Mr. Reddy also charged the government with suppressing the real figures of COVID-19 deaths as they would expose how hollow the government’s actions on containing the virus were. He also demanded that the financial assistance to the needy be enhanced from Rs. 1500 to Rs. 5,000 as people have lost employment. The TPCC chief also demanded that the coronavirus tests be increased like in other States in the country. Just 19,000 people have been tested in Telangana while Andhra Pradesh has tested over 88,000 people, Rajasthan over 92,000 and Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have tested over 1 lakh people. “Government is hiding the actual spread of the virus with fewer tests,” he alleged. President of the Telangana Jana Samithi Kodandaram said they were extending support to government’s decisions on lockdown but wanted more transparency in its functioning. He wanted the government to reveal how the CMRF funds have been spent so far. He also warned of agitation if the procurement centres don’t function in the interests of the farmers.
01 May 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Team tours city extensively||The Central team headed by Additional Secretary, Jalshakti, Arun Baroka, visited Government Maternity Hospital, Koti, and interacted with patients about the services rendered by the doctors and nurses during the lockdown. Later, the team discussed with doctors and paramedical staff the facilities provided to patients. Further they visited general market in Uppal and enquired about transportation of goods. The team also inspected night shelter at Uppal, the Containment Zone in Chintalkunta of L.B.Nagar Zone and Fever hospital, Nallakunta, a statement from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation said.
01 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Varsity to stagger entry of students||The University of Hyderabad (UoH) will stagger the entry of students with first priority to research students working in experimental laboratories and the graduating batch of Master’s students. However, it will finalise a modified academic calendar, including pending end-semester examinations and entrance exams for admitting new students to various programmes when the lockdown ends in Telangana State on May 7. “The plan is to stagger the return of students and complete the semester work in phases in a manner that is empathetic to the current situation of students, even while ensuring that we do not compromise on the high academic standards of the university,” a statement said, after considering the new UGC guidelines on examinations and academic calender. The university had already taken a decision to extend the timelines for research students pursuing M. Phil. and Ph.D. degrees. The last date for submission of applications for new admissions to all programmes has been extended to May 22. The summer vacation has been advanced for faculty members to May 21.
01 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ICRISAT DG takes charge||Jacqueline d’Arros Hughes, a well-known plant health expert, and leader in international agricultural research from Britain, took charge as Director General of ICRISAT on Thursday. Owing to travel restrictions, Dr. Hughes assumed office from the Philippines during a virtual event. She took charge from Dr Peter Carberry. Interacting with the staff, she outlined priorities for the institute during and post the COVID-19 pandemic. “ICRISAT’s help will be in assuring productivity in the Semi-Arid Tropics. Risk to people, staff, communities, stakeholders, and the research on which many of our stakeholders depend, has to be minimised as the lockdown lifts,” she stressed. After earning a doctoral degree in microbiology and virology and spending her early research years in the UK, Dr. Hughes, a British national, moved to Ghana in the early 1990s to work with the Cocoa Research Institute and then at the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in Nigeria. She later joined the World Vegetable Centre in Taiwan as its Deputy Director General (Research).
01 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Contract given to ineligible pharma unit, says Revanth||TPCC working president and Malkajgiri MP, A. Revanth Reddy, alleged that a company without much name and experience in the pharma sector has been given a contract to manufacture pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates for medicine to be used to treat coronavirus patients. At a press conference here, he claimed that the company Laxai Life Sciences Private Ltd has entered into a MoU with the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) after the Union Cabinet approved a special package for promotion of bulk drug manufacturing in India. This collaboration will primarily focus on Umifenovir, Remdesivir and a key intermediate of Hydroxy Chloroquine (HCQ) tablets, he said. He alleged that the MoU was suspicious because one of the company’s directors was a close relative of a Minister in the TRS government. Moreover, he joined the company only in 2018 and since then it has been awarded more contracts, he alleged. This suspicion needs to be cleared, he said.
01 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Khazana Jewellery pledges Rs. 10cr.||Khazana Jewellery has pledged Rs. 10 crore to the State Disaster Management Authorities of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, in their fight against COVID. Andhra Pradesh will get Rs. 4 crore and Telangana and Tamil Nadu Rs. 3 crore each, a release from the jewellery store said. The donation will go towards procuring healthcare equipment, feeding the underprivileged and other humanitarian deeds. In this regard, chairman of the jewellery Kishore Kumar Jain expressed his solidarity with relief efforts across the country.
01 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mentally unsound man abuses policemen||A video of a middle-aged man abusing Langer Houz police on Thursday went viral on the internet. However, police later found that he was mentally unsound and had been discharged from the Institute of Mental Health, Erragadda. It happened near Tippukhan Bridge when he was stopped for riding a bike without helmet and mask. After COVID-19 test, he would be admitted back to IMH, police said.
01 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Student held for harassing woman online||A 20-year-old student was arrested by the Cyber crime police of Rachakonda for sexually harassing a woman by sending abusive messages. The accused, Gavini Sanjay Raju, from Achampet in Nagarkurnool district was also sending the victim’s private photographs to her relatives. Based on her complaint, he was arrested.
01 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man steals 170 liquor bottles from a bar in Tarnaka||An unidentified man broke into a bar and restaurant in Tarnaka and decamped with 170 bottles. The burglar covered the CCTV cameras inside with towels, and his face with a mask and cap. Osmania University police said that the incident took place between April 21 and April 29, and came to light only on Thursday morning when the owner went there to water the plants. “The offence took place in two or three spells. The burglar gained access into Goodlands Bar and Restaurant from its terrace after climbing it with the support of a tree in the university ground,” Inspector S. Rajashekar Reddy said.
01 May 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Frustration from no pay led to revolt at IITH||Hiralal is in his 30s. He is from Mothihari district in Bihar. Along with dozens of others, he came to Sangareddy by travelling more than 1,600 kilometres to work at a construction site of the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IITH). Depending on the hours of work, Hiralal makes between Rs. 300 and Rs. 400 per day, and there will be no pay for days he does not work. From this, he has to save some money and send it back home. For the past three months, Hiralal was unable to send a single rupee to his family due to the lockdown. And even work stopped at the construction site. For about 2,400 workers slogging at the construction site at IITH, it was no work, no pay, and no money. In addition, they had to live in the heat in asbestos roofed small rooms. Each room will be shared by eight or more people. Many of them are addicted to smoking, drinking or chewing tobacco, which were not available. All these led to an increased frustration among these workers spread in two camps adjacent to the IITH premises. Within no time, the situation went out of control on Wednesday, forcing the district administration to deploy a large police contingent. “We earn very less. And even that was not paid regularly. How can we send money to our family? How will they survive? How long are we supposed to stay here? When will the lockdown be lifted? Will transport services resume after that?” asked Bipin, a migrant from West Bengal. Within hours of the incident on Wednesday, wages were credited to their accounts by the respective companies. A grocery shop was opened in addition to the existing one at the site. Also, tents were erected for them. Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) M. Nagesh visited the camp and interacted with them. In addition to the existing ration, two more varieties of vegetables were supplied.
01 May 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Harish inaugurates third pump of Ranganaiksagar||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao visited Ranganaiksagar on Thursday evening and inaugurated the third pump. At a review meeting held here, he asked officials on the quantum of water released so far, and when it would be released to the right and right canals - to which, he was informed that it would be released within two days.
01 May 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||New sampling, testing norms make Suryapet COVID-free||While the State government likes to assert that quick action and strict implementation of lockdown brought down COVID-19 cases, Suryapet, the district next only to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) with maximum positive cases, suggests more verifiable reasons. Suryapet experience proves that rise in number of positive cases is directly linked to its exhaustive contact-tracing, sample collection and tests, and in the process, it had also painted a worrisome picture for itself. The district had 12 Markaz returnees on March 17, of whom only one from Kuda Kuda locality tested positive. His primary contacts and from all those who he came in contact with, about 58 samples were collected and tested. Eight of them were diagnosed positive. Another returnee at Nereducherla who initially tested negative and was released, later showed symptoms and tested positive. The infection reportedly did not spread in that locality. However, the infection from Kuda Kuda to a town pharmacist — to a vendor and then into the Kothagudem Bazaar vegetable market, opened a Pandora’s Box. Official sources confirm that the COVID-19 chain of infection in one instance from the locality was nine-families long, the longest in the State, and all of them were traced. In fact, of the nearly 500 contacts and 480 test samples linked to Kothagudem Bazaar, 44 persons had tested positive, a 53% of district’s total figure. A comparison of the percentage of positives also affirms Suryapet’s test accuracy is higher (total 747 samples tested — 83 diagnosed positive) at 11.11%, more than double the State’s 5.3% and the country’s 4.1%. But in the past week, there is a sea change in how COVID-19 is being approached and the initiative to change the norms was taken at the top-most level. District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy in recent briefings clarified that “Samples of only primary contacts and those showing symptoms will be tested. Rest all will be in home quarantine and monitored regularly.” This has instantly transformed Suryapet into a ‘COVID-free district’ in the last week. It was Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar who visited the district to review the ground situation, along with Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy and Principal Secretary, Health, V. Santhi Kumari, who announced the district’s last three positive cases. Since then not a single sample has been collected or tested and there have been no positive cases. However, a study of all the bulletins and briefings, suggests the direction would hardly allow identification of new cases, which eventually would make Suryapet COVID-free on paper. Applying the ‘symptomatic and only primary contacts to be tested norm’ would bring much relief to Suryapet in retrospective. The bottom line being: Only one case of the total 83 was symptomatic, three others suspects showed symptoms and showed positive while in institution quarantine. Two, Suryapet’s COVID-19 figure in view of the norm would have been 15 — two Markaz-returnees, their six family members, a cook and his son, the pharmacist, his two primary contacts and their two family members — with 10 already discharged. And it would not have been 83 cases.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Ikea junction to be beautified||HMDA is taking up development and beautification of Ikea junction near Raidurg, aiming to complete it by the end of the lockdown period. A statement by the authority headed by principal secretary Arvind Kumar said the 1000 square yard available space in two plots would be beautified with metal sculptures of animals, and well grown olive trees. Larger than life metal sculptures of a bear family and a cat are ready for installation, along with two big and three small olive trees.
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||3 deaths, 76 fresh cases reported in the Capital||Three deaths and 76 new COVID-19 cases were reported here on Thursday, taking the total number of deaths to 59 and cases to 3,515, according to the Delhi government. Of the 3,515 cases, 1,094 people have recovered and there are 2,362 active cases. Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said that containment zones where no new cases have been reported for many days will be changed to orange and green zones. The Delhi government decided to remove Vardhaman Apartment in east Delhi from the list of containment zones, as there was no new cases from here in the last four weeks. After Mansara Apartment, this is the second containment zone to be removed from the list. Mr. Jain also said that the government was trying to resolve problems faced by people providing essential services while crossing the Delhi-Haryana border. Also, the Delhi government on Thursday declared two more private hospitals, Maha Durga Charitable Trust Hospital and Sir Gangaram City Hospital, as COVID-19 treatment facilities, as there is a “shortage” of isolation beds at private hospitals, according to an official order. “Medical Superintendents of these two hospitals are directed to make isolation beds facility COVID-19 functional at their respective hospital before May 3, 2020,” an order issued by Secretary of Health and Family Welfare Department, Padmini Singla, said. In a related development, a doctor at GB Pant Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research was tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. The doctor was working till Thursday morning. Six people who came in his contact have been identified. A woman nurse working at Jeevan Nursing Home in Karol Bagh has also been tested positive, said health department officials. “The nursing home is sanitised and staff who came in contact with her have been placed under quarantine,” the official added.
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||Hospitals warned of action if essential services denied||The Delhi government on Thursday warned hospitals and clinics, which are non-COVID-19 treatment facilities, especially those in private sector, of cancellation of registration “without further notice” if they deny essential critical services to people. Such services include dialysis, blood transfusion, chemotherapy, and institutional deliveries. Virus fear An order issued by Secretary of Health and Family Welfare Department, Padmini Singla, on Thursday said that some private hospitals are hesitating in providing critical services on account of “fear of contracting COVID-19” or are “keeping their hospitals, clinics closed”. On April 24, the Delhi government had said that no patient who is reaching any non-COVID-19 hospital, other than with COVID-19 infection, should be denied treatment or admission. On Thursday, the Secretary ordered all hospitals, clinics, especially those in private sectors, to remain functional and ensure no one is denied essential services. “It has come to notice that some hospitals in the private sector, are hesitating in providing critical services, such as dialysis, blood transfusion, chemotherapy and institutional deliveries to their regular patients, either on account of fear of contracting COVID-19 or they are keeping their hospitals/clinics closed. It is also noticed that in many places the hospitals/clinics are insisting on a COVID-19 test before providing services,” the order read. The Delhi government on Thursday reiterated the medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital and DirectorofDirectorate General of Health Services (DGHS) to make in-house dialysis facility operational on a 24X7 basis exclusively for COVID-19 patients. An order issued by Ms. Singla, said that COVID-19 patients are finding it difficult to get their dialysis done, despite Lok Nayak Hospital being assigned to create enough in-house sufficient capacity through outsourced agency to serve all COVID-19 patients who needs dialysis.  It has come to notice that some hospitals in the private sector, are hesitating in providing critical services to their regular patients, either on account of fear of contracting COVID-19 or they are keeping their hospitals/clinics closed Health and Family Welfare Department order
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||Four more traders from Azadpur Mandi infected||Four more traders from Azadpur Mandi, Asia’s largest vegetables and fruits market, have tested positive for COVID-19, according to government authorities concerned. The total number of traders associated with the mandi to be infected by the virus now stands at 15 even as officials from the Azadpur Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) claimed that the “actual” figure in this regard is an estimated 27 which is yet to be “officially accepted”. According to officials, of the four fresh cases, one is a trader who tested positive on Tuesday and three tested positive on April 29. All the 15 cases reported from the mandi , according to official records, have surfaced between April 20 and 29 with traders demanding that the market has clearly turned into a hotspot and must be shut to prevent the infection from spreading, but to no avail. “The district administration has confirmed the reports of 15 people associated with the market and the District Surveillance Team is in touch with them. As many as 13 shops have so far been sealed and 43 people have been placed under quarantine. The mandi administration has made arrangements and is providing food and essentials to such individuals,” said APMC chairman Adil Ahmed Khan.  APMC member Anil Malhotra claimed the family members of many traders who had contracted the virus were in private hospitals. “Not only the family members of these traders, but the employees engaged at their shops as well as their families should be tested to ascertain the extent of the infection. The mandi should be declared a hotspot, shut down and shifted to an open space,” he said.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi govt. scraps plan to distribute pulses||Delhi’s ration cardholders were supposed to have started getting their free 1 kg of pulses by now, as promised by the Centre in its COVID-19 relief package. However, a number of ration shop owners have complained to the Delhi Food Department that the chana dal delivered to them for distribution had a high moisture content and could not be used. Quality check The Delhi government has scrapped plans to begin pulses distribution while it takes up the issue of a quality check with central agency NAFED. The central agency now says it will replace the 25 tonnes of stock that seem to have been affected, although NAFED officials maintained that the stock they had provided was of good quality, blaming the Delhi government for subsequent storage and transport conditions. On April 15, the Delhi Food department directed the Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation to pick up the 1,750 tonnes of chana dal for the month of April from NAFED’s designated delivery points at Timarpur and Sirajpur. “The whole quantity of chana dal is now lying ready in the fair price shops. But we got complaints from 15 to 20 FPS shopkeepers that the dal has too much moisture content and will not be usable,” said Desh Raj Singh, assistant commissioner in the Food Department. A senior NAFED official told The Hindu that complaints had arisen regarding only one truckload of the chana dal of the 68 trucks of stock that were sent. “We take five samples from every truck, and one goes to Delhi government while two each stay with SGS and NAFED. How is it that only the Delhi government’s sample shows high moisture content while ours is fine? Still, we do not want to tarnish the objective of the programme, so we will replace the 25 tonnes of stock,” said the official.  How is it that only the Delhi government’s sample shows high moisture content while ours is fine? NAFED official
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nizamuddin centre chief to get another notice||The Delhi Police will send another legal notice to the head of Nizamuddin centre, Maulana Saad, as he has not responded properly to any of the notices and asked him to get COVID-19 test done at AIIMS, a senior officer said on Thursday. The police said that Mr. Saad had responded to the notices but never answered to the questions asked in those. He has responded through a legal team, they said “In a second notice, we had asked Mr. Saad to get COVID-19 test done at AIIMS as they will only accept AIIMS report but he never responded. The legal team claimed that they had got him tested at a private lab and the report was sent to the police, but actually they had never sent any report,” said the officer. “The seven accused, including Mr. Saad, who were named in the FIR are untraceable. In response to the legal notices, they have not disclosed details of other bank accounts of the said centre,” the officer added. .
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||One more tests positive at Hindu Rao Hospital||One more nurse at Hindu Rao Hospital has tested positive for COVID-19, the spokesperson for the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, which runs the hospital, said on Thursday. The hospital was closed on April 25, when a nurse was found infected, in order to sanitise the premises and undertake tracing of all the primary contacts of the nurse. The nurse found positive on Thursday was one of the 76 contacts of the earlier case. The nurse who tested positive on Thursday had been admitted at a quarantine facility on Monday and tested on the same day, the official said. As many as 42 contacts have also been placed under either home or institutional quarantine. Meanwhile, four primary contacts of a staff at Rajan Babu Tubercolosis Hospital who had been found positive for COVID-19 was tested for the virus and the results are awaited.
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Sikh body liable to pay extra for non-payment of salary’||The Delhi High Court has stated that the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee is liable to pay an additional Rs. 10,000 for each month of delayed salary payment to teachers of its schools in the Capital.
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||Internet providers should not charge offices, shops during lockdown||A petition has been filed before the Delhi High Court seeking directions to all telephone operators and Internet Service Providers (ISPs) not to charge any amount for offices, shops, business houses, and factories that remained “compulsorily closed” due to ‘lockdown’.
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- DMC||A delegation of BJP MLAs called on Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal here on Thursday to demand the immediate removal of Delhi Minorities Commission chairman Zafarul Islam Khan from his post and directions to the police to lodge an FIR against him. Citing a Facebook post by Mr. Khan, BJP MLAs alleged that he had endangered the unity and integrity of the country and tried to spread hatred among Hindus and Muslims.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Living in the past||The only time I met Ronal Vivian Smith was about a year ago in the office, when he came to tea one Saturday afternoon with his son, Rodney. I had been editing his copy for a few months, and had wanted to meet the man who wrote about Delhi through such a personal lens. “Are you settled?” he asked, a question I managed to steer the conversation away from. Instead, we spoke of his family — his seven siblings and five children, and how his son Tony was born in a hotel where the family stayed, while Smith was away in Agra. The two other children slept, while a midwife from one of the galis in Old Delhi saw the birth through. Storified everything Like his columns in the last year, when he hadn’t kept very well, Smith storified everything in stream of consciousness manner even in the way he spoke. He talked of how a newspaper called The Englishman merged with The Statesman, of how he came to Delhi from Agra in 1957. “I stayed with my eldest brother and his wife, you know,” he said. “They used to go to work and I used to be on night duty in PTI. He would take his cycle all over Old Delhi. “Now you can’t cycle there.” After two years of living with his brother, he moved to the top floor of Naaz Hotel, opposite the Jama Masjid, where M. F. Husain often stayed. He’d seen Husain walk around barefoot and get food at Karim’s. Later Smith himself had a monthly account at the place, eating breakfast, lunch, and dinner here with his family — the children feasting on biryani daily. He remembered the exact cost of a quarter plate of korma: Rs. 1, 4 annas. In some time he moved to another hotel in the area, where the proprietor was a poet, who had seven wives and 28 children! Perhaps he makes an appearance in his tales, because Smith’s off-duty persona was no different than his on-duty one. He also stayed in The Statesman flat in Daryaganj, living for several years in the area that his columns were set, before moving out to a DDA complex in Mayapuri. He reels off names and dates like everything happened yesterday: We spoke about how he had Armenian, British, and Indian blood, and of his ancestor Col Salvador Smith, born in 1783, who joined the Gwalior forces. It was he who bought the house in Agra where many generations grew up. The house is no longer in the family, but the last he’d heard, it still hadn’t been consumed by flats. He could rattle of dates, old names of roads, bus routes. I can barely remember what I ate for breakfast. As we eat brownies and sip on tea (I had thoughtlessly bought muruku that he couldn’t eat because he had no teeth), he talks of his early days at The Statesman, where the news editor had the luxury of a liveried waiter who appeared with a pot of tea and biscuits on a tray. They also got a three-course English lunch: soup, mains, dessert, and coffee, the cost of which was deducted from the salary. After an hour or so, he took our leave, and called me later to tell me how much he’d enjoyed the afternoon. With his passing we have lost the voice of the man who brought history alive, and believed that “far away from the learned tomes of historians, there is a charm in what’s often dismissed as gossip.”  (R.V. Smith passed away on the morning of Thursday)
01 May 2020||Agartala,||No withdrawal of curbs, says Tripura CM||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb has said the State government is not considering withdrawal of the ongoing lockdown in near future but will weigh options to relax some restrictions in a phased manner. He said it is impossible to “resume inter-State bus, train or air services immediately after May 3”, the date till which the nationwide lockdown has been extended. “We do not find any way to withdraw the lockdown as it is the only viable mean to break the chain of the COVID-19 outbreak. It seems we have to continue with the lockdown and we have to withdraw some restrictions in a phased manner,” Mr. Deb said on Wednesday evening after an all-party meeting.
01 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||217 Odia migrant workers return from Surat by bus||Amid the continuing lockdown and COVID-19 threat, 217 Odia migrant workers from Surat in Gujarat reached Odisha’s Ganjam district at midnight on Wednesday. Without waiting for government measures to evacuate them from Surat, they had opted to hire buses to reach their home district. Their long journey was permitted by the Surat district administration. Each of these poor migrant workers, without employment because of closure of textile units in Surat, had to pay Rs. 3,500 for the bus journey. The district administration and the police were waiting for the arrival of these workers at Bhanjanagar. Their buses were taken to quarantine centres at Sheragarh and Dharakote under tight security. All of them underwent immediate thermal scanning. According to health department sources, as a precautionary measure swabs of some returnees with suspected symptoms have been collected for COVID-19 test. As these migrant workers returned from Surat, where COVID-19 cases are prevalent, Ganjam district Collector Vijay Amruta Kulange has ordered strict following of quarantine norms at the centres. Strict action will be initiated against persons trying to visit these quarantine centres, the Collector said. On Thursday some more buses with migrant Odia workers have started their journey for Ganjam district. Akhila Padhi, a migrant worker from Hinjli block of Ganjam, boarded a bus for his home district on Thursday afternoon. He was working as an operator in a textile firm in Surat. When contacted over phone, he said he had exhausted all his savings during the days of lockdown and did not had money to buy food. He could think of returning only when his family members sent him money to buy the bus ticket.  ‘No medical check-up’ According to him, there was no medical check-up in Surat when they boarded the bus. The bus in which he is travelling back has over 50 passengers that increases the possibility of infection. “I felt it is better to remain in quarantine near home than suffer in cramped rooms in Surat without proper food,” he said.
01 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Not complete job freeze: Haryana CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has clarified that the moratorium announced on new recruitments in government jobs for a year in the State will apply only to certain posts in universities. “In universities, where it’s not needed, recruitment will not be done. Wherever the need arises, recruitment will continue,” he said after his announcement earlier this week about a job freeze drew flak from several quarters. Mr. Khattar said hiring for 12,500 posts for which candidates had already appeared was already in the pipeline. “These recruitments will be made in due course, which will take total number of recruitments made in the past five years to nearly 86,000,” he said, adding in all about 86,000 recruitments were made during 10 years of previous Congress government. Separately, on Thursday, the Haryana government decided to put a complete ban on the purchase of new vehicles during the current financial year, except buses for public transport and vehicles used for emergency responses including ambulances, fire tenders. The decision was taken in the Cabinet meeting chaired by the Chief Minister here. “The Cabinet has also decided that even in case of very urgent need of a new car etc, outsourcing, hiring of the vehicles should be resorted to rather than outright purchase,” said an official statement.  Bus fare hike The Cabinet also decided to increase the bus fare in Haryana for ordinary, luxury, and super luxury buses from 85 paise per passenger per km to Rs. 1 per passenger per km to partially meet the increased cost of operation of buses from Rs. 37.48 per km in June 2016 to Rs. 52.23 per km in December 2019.
01 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||AMU decides to send students home||Following the Ministry of Home Affairs’ order allowing students stranded in different parts of the country to move to their hometowns, Aligarh Muslim University has taken up the matter with the Uttar Pradesh government and started the process to safely transport the students to their respective homes. In a notice issued on Thursday, AMU Registrar Abdul Hamid said: “The process of transportation of students will start from Friday and buses will be available at the Proctor’s office.” The notice further said: “Students are advised to avail of this facility as no class, examination and entrance test are scheduled for May and June and it is important to get all the students safely to their hometowns in view of the rising cases of COVID-19 in Aligarh district and the consequent potential risk of COVID-19 infection in hostels.” Aligarh had at least 34 active cases on Thursday, including three junior doctors of AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital. Mr. Hamid said the transportation of the students will be done as per the arrangements made by the U.P. government. “Initially, travel arrangements by buses for students residing in Uttar Pradesh are being made by the district administration and it will be followed for other States, including Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir and Jharkhand etc,” he said. “The students are required to avail of this facility as the same may not be available in the future depending on the situation,” the Registrar emphasised. Later in the day, Vice-Chancellor Tariq Mansoor, clarifying through an official release, said: “The process of sending students is a continuous one... students are advised to be patient and not to panic unnecessarily.” Local sources said some students would like to stay back as the university premises allowed freedom of movement and food was available in the hostels. ‘No compulsion’ University spokesperson Shafey Kidwai said there was no compulsion to leave immediately but the idea was that during Ramzan the students would like to be home. “Only foreign students would stay back,” he said. Meanwhile, M. Salman Imtiaz, outgoing president of AMU Students’ Union, said the move could be dangerous. “I have received messages from students expressing fear of infection or of turning into carriers of COVID-19... in light of fake narrative built around theTablighi Jamaat and the recent statements against JNMCH by leaders of the ruling regime, any natural incident could be used against the university students.” Taking strong objection to the move, Mr. Imtiaz suggested that the university upgrade the health infrastructure and take precautions as recommended by the WHO. In a related development, Haris M. Khan, Nodal officer and Chairman of Microbiology, JNMCH, said COVID 19 tests were being done under the prescribed protocol in three shifts. He was responding to the district administration’s charge of delay in the reports from JNMCH. “Since samples that are tested positive require confirmation, the reports get delayed. Sometimes, samples received from the centres do not conform to protocol. It causes delay and inconvenience,” he said.
01 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Illegal hand sanitiser unit busted in Haryana||An illegal hand sanitiser unit with a fake World Health Organisation certificate bearing the organisation’s logo, besides several fake test reports and compliance certificates, has been busted at Pataudi here. A case has been registered under various acts, including Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and two persons arrested. The company had sold sanitisers worth over Rs. 18 lakh over the past one month because of spike in demand due to COVID-19 outbreak. The raiding team, led by Drugs Control Officer Amandeep Chauhan, allegedly seized around 3,000 litres of sanitiser packed in bottles of different sizes and another 3,000 litres of raw material for making the sanitiser. The directors of the company, both siblings, failed to produce any purchase record of the material. The Gurugram Food and Drugs Administration department had earlier busted a similar illegal unit in Manesar and has recovered hand sanitisers worth Rs. 50 lakh in total. Similarly, face masks worth Rs. 1 crore and thermal scanners hoarded at different places were also recovered. Mr. Chauhan said Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri and Police Commissioner Muhammad Akil had clear directions to curb illegal manufacturing and black-marketing of drugs and related goods. Mr. Chauhan said the fake World Health Organisation-Good Manufacture Practice certificate with its logo was a matter of grave concern since the buyers were influenced by the document to purchase the product. The officer said only State Drugs Controller had the authority to issue the certificate. The directors of the unit, running from a fake address, also had Quality Management System Certificate, a Compliance Certificate and a fake Medical Devices Management System certificate when they were actually making sanitiser categorised as a drug and not a medical device. “The certificates were all issued by Sameer, a Delhi resident, in return for Rs. 40,000. He runs a company in the name of M/s Saraswati Certification,” said Mr. Chauhan. He added the WHO certificate was probably issued from a fake domain address and needed a detailed investigation. The raid was mounted at the unit, running in the name of “Bancy Advanced Hand Sanitiser”, under the overall supervision of Food and Drugs Control Administration department Commissioner Ashok Meena following a tip-off. The sanitiser was allegedly being made by the directors of the company, Sandeep and Sunderby mixing the ingredients in kitchen utensils under utter unhygienic conditions close to open sewage, and a toilet with the flies and mosquitoes swarming around.
01 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Governor’s Rule in BTAD may impact Assam alliance govt.||The imposition of Governor’s Rule in the Bodoland Territorial Area Districts (BTAD) may impact the Bharatiya Janata Party-led alliance government in Assam. State Governor Jagdish Mukh had on April 27 “assumed to himself the administration” of the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) that administers the BTAD comprising four districts of western and northern Assam. The Governor is the constitutional head of a tribal council that falls under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution. The five-year term of the BTC expired on April 27. The elections to the council, scheduled on April 4, were deferred because of the COVID-19 pandemic and guidelines for maintaining social distancing. “Though we are in alliance with the BJP in the State, we are forced to reconsider our understanding. We are looking at other alternatives,” BPF president Hagrama Mohilary said on Thursday, seeking the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP’s national president J.P. Nadda. The BJP rules Assam in alliance with the BPF and the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP). Mr. Mohilary had been the Chief Executive Member of the BTC since its creation in 2003 until its dissolution. The BPF had been insisting on an extension of the council’s term by six months in view of the “unprecedented health-related crisis in India and elsewhere on earth”. But the BJP was in favour of the imposition of Governor’s Rule.  ‘Petition filed in HC’ “In this time of emergency, people here need our government more. But instead of extending the term, the Governor has given the charge of BTAD to the Principle Secretary of Assam. We strongly oppose this decision and filed a petition in Gauhati High Court against the order,” Mr. Mohilary said. The BJP, however, is not worried by the development. “It is their call. We have not said anything about the alliance that can survive without them,” a party leader said, declining to be quoted.
01 May 2020||Jodhpur,||‘Honour killing’||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly strangulated, burnt and buried in Pali district of Rajasthan by her mother and uncle in a suspected case of honour killing.
01 May 2020||Kharar,||Curbs gone? Confusion in Punjab||After Punjab permitted the opening of shops in a staggered way on rotation for four hours every morning from Thursday, a state of confusion prevailed among shopowners in many parts of the State. Several shops in the markets at Kharar in Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar district were open between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. Though the owners said the curfew was “relaxed”, the district authorities issued guidelines only later. The order issued by Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said that in rural areas all shops registered under the Shops and Establishments Act will be allowed to operate with 50% of employees. In urban areas, all stand-alone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes will be allowed to operate. Single-multi-brand malls or multiplexes or shops in market complexes shall not be allowed.  Saloons to remain shut “The shops that have been allowed to open are those which deal in goods only. Shops-establishments dealing in services like saloons and barbershops would remain closed...,” the order said. Attending to customers, Devinder Pal, owner of Pal Boot House, said that after most owners opened their shops in his vicinity, he too did so. “I heard yesterday that the government announced relaxation in the curfew from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m., and, therefore, I have opened my shop. I am not aware that shops are to be opened on a rotation basis or after taking permission. If the administration asks me to shut my shop, I’ll do that,” said Mr. Pal. Supporting the government’s decision to ease the curfew, Mr. Pal said the decision was welcome and the relaxation should continue. “A few customers came as soon as I opened the shop. For over a month, the business had been at a standstill. I have already suffered losses running into thousands of rupees. How long can one continue to suffer losses.” Across the road, a man running a dry-cleaning shop and who did not want to disclose his name, said the government should give clear instructions. “There’s a confusion among people about the curfew relaxations. The administration should make public announcements about the situation to clear the confusion,” he said. Meanwhile, Punjab reported one more COVID-19 death, taking the number to 20, and 105 fresh cases, an official statement said.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Hero returns||
01 May 2020||WASHINGTON,||Virus was not manmade: U.S. agencies||U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded that the new coronavirus was “not manmade or genetically modified” but say they are still examining whether the origins of the pandemic trace to contact with infected animals or an accident at a Chinese lab. The statement from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the clearinghouse for the web of U.S. spy agencies, comes as President Donald Trump and his allies have touted the as-yet-unproven theory that an infectious disease lab in Wuhan, the epicentre of the Chinese outbreak, was the source of the global pandemic that has killed more than 220,000 worldwide. In recent days, the Trump administration has sharpened his rhetoric on China, accusing the geopolitical foe and vital trading partner of failing to act swiftly enough to stop the spread of the virus that causes COVID-19 or sound the alarm to the world about the outbreak. "The Intelligence Community also concurs with the wide scientific consensus that the COVID-19 virus was not manmade or genetically modified,” said the statement. “The IC will continue to rigorously examine emerging information and intelligence to determine whether the outbreak began through contact with infected animals or if it was the result of an accident at a laboratory in Wuhan.” Mr. Trump addressed the theory earlier this month, saying, “More and more, we’re hearing the story.” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo added: “The mere fact that we don’t know the answers — that China hasn’t shared the answers — I think is very, very telling.” Mr. Pompeo also pressed China to let outside experts into the lab “so that we can determine precisely where this virus began.” Scientists say the virus arose naturally in bats. Even so, Mr. Pompeo and others have pointed fingers at an institute that is run by the Chinese Academy of Sciences. It has done groundbreaking research tracing the likely origins of the SARS virus, finding new bat viruses and discovering how they could jump to people. “We know that there is the Wuhan Institute of Virology just a handful of miles away from where the wet market was,” Mr. Pompeo said two weeks ago. The institute has an address 13 kilometers, from the market. U.S. officials say the American Embassy in Beijing flagged concerns about potential safety issues at the lab in Wuhan in 2018, but have yet to find any evidence the virus originated there nearly two years later.  Purely fabricated The Chinese government said on Thursday that any claims that the coronavirus was released from a laboratory are “unfounded and purely fabricated out of nothing.” Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang cited the institute’s director, Yuan Zhiming, as saying the lab strictly implements bio-security procedures that would prevent the release of any pathogen. “I would like to point out again that the origin of the virus is a complex scientific issue, and it should be studied by scientists and professionals,” Mr. Geng said. He also criticised U.S. politicians who have suggested China should be held accountable for the global pandemic, saying they should spend their time on “better controlling the epidemic situation at home”. But a government spokesman, Zhao Lijian, demonstrated that China was not above sowing confusion . He tweeted in March the falsehood that the virus might have come from the U.S. Army.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Coronavirus is pulling millions back into poverty||Like thousands of women across South Asia, Shahida Khatun dropped out of school to work in the garment factories that were springing up in Bangladesh’s cities, hoping to pull her family out of poverty. At 12 years old, she clocked in for long shifts in an overcrowded factory. But the $30 she made each month ensured that for the first time, her family had regular meals and could buy previously unheard-of luxuries like chicken and milk. A decade later, Ms. Khatun more than tripled her wage. But when Ms. Khatun and her husband were laid off in March as Bangladesh, like much of the world, went under lockdown because of the coronavirus pandemic, she dropped back to dark places she hoped she had left behind. “The garment factory helped me and my family to get out of poverty. But the coronavirus has pushed me back in,” Ms. Khatun, now 22, said in a recent interview. The gains the world was making in fighting poverty are now at grave risk. The World Bank says that for the first time since 1998, global poverty rates will rise. By the end of the year, 8% of the world’s population — half a billion people — could be pushed into destitution, largely because of the wave of unemployment brought by virus lockdowns. While everyone will suffer, the developing world will be hardest hit. The World Bank estimates that sub-Saharan Africa will see its first recession in 25 years, with nearly half of all jobs lost across the continent. South Asia will likely experience its worst economic performance in 40 years. Informal sector Most at risk are people working in the informal sector, which employs 2 billion people who have no access to benefits like unemployment assistance or health care. In Bangladesh, 1 million garment workers like Ms. Khatun — 7% of the country’s workforce — lost their jobs because of the lockdown. The financial shock waves could linger even after the virus is gone, experts warn. Countries like Bangladesh, which spent heavily on programmes to improve education and provide health care, which help lift families out of destitution, may now be too cash-strapped to fund them. “These stories, of women entering the workplace and bringing their families out of poverty, of programmes lifting the trajectories of families, those stories will be easy to destroy,” said Abhijit Banerjee, a winner of the 2019 Nobel Prize for economics. “There will be groups of people who climbed up the ladder and will now fall back,” he added. “There were so many fragile existences, families barely stitching together an existence. They will fall into poverty, and they may not come out of it.” The gains now at risk are a stark reminder of global inequality and how much more there is to be done. In 1990, 36% of the world’s population, or 1.9 billion people, lived on less than $1.90 a day. By 2016, that number had dropped to 734 million people, or 10% of the world’s population, largely because of progress in South Asia and China. Some of the biggest gains were made in India, where 210 million people were lifted out of poverty from 2006 to 2016, according to the UN. Since 2000, Bangladesh lifted 33 million people — 10% of its population — out of poverty. Famines that once plagued South Asia are now vanishingly rare, the population less susceptible to disease and starvation. But that progress may be reversed, experts worry, and funding for anti-poverty programmes may be cut as governments struggle with stagnant growth rates or economic contractions as the world heads for a recession.NY Times
01 May 2020||WASHINGTON,||Won’t extend physical distancing norms: Trump||President Donald Trump said the federal government will not be extending its physical distancing guidelines once they expire Thursday, and his son-in-law and adviser, Jared Kushner, predicted that by July the country will be “really rocking again.” To underscore his confidence, Mr. Trump said on Wednesday he plans to resume out-of-state travel after spending more than a month mostly cooped up in the White House, starting with a trip to Arizona next week. Rallies planned Mr. Trump said he’s hoping to hold mass campaign rallies in the coming months with thousands of supporters, even though medical experts have said there is little hope of having a vaccine by then. Putting a positive face on the latest grim numbers — the U.S. death toll has now surpassed American lives lost in the Vietnam War — Mr. Trump delivered his daily upbeat update. Mr. Trump also talked up the good news the day provided — hopeful results for a possible COVID-19 treatment. Meanwhile, Mr. Kushner described the administration’s much-criticised response to the pandemic as “a great success story.” But the government announced dismal new economic numbers as the pandemic took hold and shut down much of the country. The U.S. economy shrank at a 4.8% annual rate in first quarter of the year — a precursor to far grimmer reports that are expected this summer from the severe recession triggered by the pandemic.
01 May 2020||Washington,||Joe Biden under pressure to address sexual assault charge||Pressure is mounting on Democratic presidential hopeful Joe Biden to personally respond to a sexual assault allegation made by a former Senate aide — despite a strong denial issued by his campaign. A 56-year-old former aide claims that the assault took place in 1993, when she was a 29-year-old staff assistant in the office of Mr. Biden, then a U.S. Senator from Delaware. Kate Bedingfield, Mr. Biden’s deputy campaign manager and communications director, has issued a statement dismissing the allegation but there has been no comment so far from the 77-year-old former Vice-President himself. “Vice President Biden has dedicated his public life to changing the culture and the laws around violence against women,” Ms. Bedingfield said in a statement. “What is clear about this claim: it is untrue,” she said. “This absolutely did not happen.” President Donald Trump’s campaign manager Brad Parscale has flooded his Twitter feed with mocking references to the former aide’s allegation, ignoring the string of accusations made by women against his own candidate. According to the former aide, the assault took place in August 1993 in a hallway on Capitol Hill. “We were alone, and it was the strangest thing,” she said in an interview. “There was no, like, exchange, really, he just had me up against the wall.  The allegations have led some supporters of Senator Bernie Sanders, who dropped out of the race for the Democratic nomination and endorsed Mr. Biden, to call on the former V-P to end his White House bid.
01 May 2020||Paris,||11,000 fewer deaths in Europe due to drop in pollution levels||There will be 11,000 fewer deaths in European countries under coronavirus lockdown due to a sharp drop in fossil fuel pollution in April, according to research released on Thursday. Measures to halt the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic have slowed the region’s economies to a crawl, with coal-generated power falling by nearly 40%, and oil consumption by a third. “This will result in 11,000 avoided deaths from air pollution,” said lead author Lauri Myllyvirta, senior analyst at the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA). Globally, oil use has declined by about the same amount, with drops in coal consumption varying by region. An unintended boon of shuttered factories and empty roads has been more breathable air. Levels of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and small particle pollution known as PM2.5 — both toxic by-products burning coal, oil and gas — fell 37 and 10%, respectively, according to the findings. “The impacts are the same or bigger in many other parts of the world,” Ms. Myllyvirta told AFP. “So we are looking at an even larger number of avoided deaths.” Air pollution shortens lives worldwide by nearly three years on average.
01 May 2020||Berlin,||Germany extends ban on Hezbollah||German police raided five sites linked to the Lebanese Shia group Hezbollah, as authorities announced Thursday that they were banning activities by its political wing in Germany. The raids, intended to prevent evidence about possible front organisations being destroyed, took place at mosques and community centres in Berlin, Bremen, Muenster, Recklinghausen and Dortmund. German lawmakers last year called on the government to extend an existing ban on activities by the group’s militant wing to include those of its political branch. At the time, officials had warned that such a move was legally difficult, because Hezbollah doesn’t have any official presence in Germany. The Interior Ministry said the decree issued on Thursday bans all activities in support of the group in Germany, including the use of its symbols or publications. Hezbollah supporters have staged annual anti-Israel marches in Berlin for several years. The U.S. and Israel welcomed Germany’s move against the group, which is rooted in Lebanon’s Shiite community and has close ties to Iran. U.S. Ambassador Richard Grenell called on other European Union countries to also ban Hezbollah’s activities, saying the group “cannot be allowed to use Europe as a safe haven to support terrorism in Syria and across the Middle East.”
01 May 2020||Seoul,||South Korea leads virus success with no new case||South Korea, once one of the hardest-hit countries in the COVID-19 pandemic, reported no new cases on Thursday, boosting hopes of an eventual return to normality. The good medical news caused equities to rally, despite mounting deaths worldwide and abysmal economic figures caused by the COVID-19 crisis. Data showed the pandemic, which has killed more than 2,24,000 people, has plunged the U.S. into its worst economic slump in a decade, and has left Germany expecting its biggest recession since the Second World War. But for the first time since the new disease was detected there in mid-February, South Korea reported zero new infections. The East Asian nation had the world’s second-largest coronavirus outbreak for a period after the virus emerged in China late last year. But with an aggressive test-and-trace strategy and widespread social distancing, it has managed to bring the spread of the pathogen under control.
01 May 2020||JOHANNESBURG,||Anti-apartheid activist Denis Goldberg dies||South African anti-apartheid activist Denis Goldberg has died at his home near Cape Town, aged 87. Mr. Goldberg was a prominent member of the now-ruling African National Congress and stood trial alongside Nelson Mandela. He spent 22 years in prison for his involvement with the ANC’s fight against apartheid, the racist system of oppression imposed by the white minority government. When his fellow accused were sent to Robben Island, as a white prisoner Mr. Goldberg was separated from them and imprisoned in the capital, Pretoria. Mr. Goldberg had continued his activism in post-apartheid South Africa and was a critic of former President Jacob Zuma, who stepped down in 2018 and faces multiple allegations of corruption. Mr. Goldberg was a critic of the ANC’s performance in government and the socio-economic conditions of the largely black poor majority in South Africa, one of the world’s’ most unequal countries.
01 May 2020||Moscow,||Cases in Russia cross 1,00,000||COVID-19 cases in Russia surged past 1,00,000 on Thursday, the government said, with an increase of 7,099 confirmed infections in the last 24 hours. Russia has so far recorded 1,06,498 cases and 1,073 deaths from the virus. Russia recently surpassed Iran and China in the total number of confirmed infections and is now eighth in the world in virus cases. With the number of infections on the rise, President Vladimir Putin warned this week that the situation remained “very difficult”.
01 May 2020||Benghazi,||Benghazi, Libya, April 30, 2020 (AFP) -||Libya strongman Khalifa Haftar said on Wednesday his forces would cease hostilities for the holy month of Ramzan following international calls for a truce in the war-torn country. Haftar’s rival, the UN-recognised Government of National Accord (GNA) had yet to respond.AFP
01 May 2020||Washington,||Washington, April 30, 2020 (AFP) -||A person was arrested early on Thursday after opening fire on the Cuban embassy in Washington, the U.S. Secret Service said. No one was injured. The unidentified person fired multiple rounds from what some reports said was a high-powered assault rifle.AFP
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The making of the modern public intellectual||In Sophocles’ powerful play, Antigone , the daughter of Oedipus defies the edict of King Creon of Thebes that her brother’s corpse should be left on the road for birds and vultures to feast on. When Creon charges her with disobedience of the law — “And thou didst indeed dare to transgress that law?” — Antigone replies: “Yes; for it was not Zeus that had published me that edict: not such are the laws set among me by the Justice who dwells with the gods below; nor deemed I that the decrees were of such force, that a mortal could override the unwritten and unfailing statutes of heaven.” Antigone articulates the fundamentals of a just law. Law is not the source of its own moral authority and legitimacy. A setback to democracy Centuries later, M.K. Gandhi reiterated that a law is binding only if it satisfies the unwritten codes of public ethics. He spoke in the context of colonial rule. Surely democratic regimes ought to respect the right of citizens to dissent. In today’s India, however, holders of state power refuse to tolerate ideas, reflection, debate, and discussion. Two years ago, the government arrested eminent members of civil society on charges that were clearly produced by conspiratorial imaginations. On April 14, two of India’s well-known scholars/activists, Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha, surrendered before the National Investigation Agency. In early April, an FIR was filed by the Uttar Pradesh government against the editor of the news website, The Wire, Siddharth Varadarajan. The charges in these cases are flimsy. It is obvious that intellectuals are being penalised for taking on the government. The arrests are a depressing commentary on the nature of the present government. Sophisticated societies respect intellectuals because they subject the present to historically informed investigation, interpretation, critique and prescription. This is integral to the idea of democratic politics as self-critique. Politics establishes rules that govern multiple transactions of society. It cannot be its own defendant, judge and jury. If politics is, as Aristotle put it, the master science (science for Greeks is knowledge), it has to accept reflective and critical activity. Politics is too important to be left to politicians alone. While authoritarian societies breed court historians, mature democracies appreciate critical scholarship. But today intellectualism is dismissed contemptuously as elitist. Not only does this attitude foster a culture of mediocrity, intellectuals who hold a mirror to the state are hounded and arrested. This is a setback to democracy, because it forecloses engagement with structures of power. Without its public intellectuals, democracy slides into authoritarianism. The Dreyfus affair The first public intellectual was, of course, Socrates. The modern notion of the public intellectual is, however, fairly recent. It took shape in the tumultuous days of what has come to be known as the ‘Dreyfus affair’ in France in 1894. Alfred Dreyfus, a Jewish army officer, had allegedly handed over important government documents to the Germans. He was convicted of treason amidst a roar of revolting anti-Semitism. When Dreyfus was stripped of his medals, the crowd shouted ‘Death to the Jew’. The atmosphere was charged, mob mentality ruled, and sane voices were drowned in the din. Scholars, artists, and novelists could hardly keep away. They had to summon their knowledge to reflect on citizens’ rights, the irrational behaviour of crowds, the ugly slogans that stereotyped an entire community, and the unholy glee with which crowds watched the humiliation of an army officer. The incident propelled Paris-based intellectuals into the mainstream of French politics. This was the time when scholars came out from their ivory towers and took sides, despite massive crowd hysteria that broke bounds of civility. Dreyfus was later exonerated, but the affair split the French intelligentsia wide open. Emile Zola wrote an open letter, J’Accuse, in support of the beleaguered army officer. Zola attacked injustice, prejudice and intolerance. He reserved for the intellectual the function that Socrates had reserved for the philosopher: stand by the universal in the quest  for truth and in the fight against injustice. Julien Benda, a noted Jewish intellectual, argued that the duty of the intellectual is to defend universal values over and above the politics of the moment. But other scholars propagated  anti-Semitism. In 1942, the philosopher Hannah Arendt wrote an account of the anti-Semitism directed at Dreyfus by right-wing intellectuals in France. Intellectuals who upheld Republicanism and basic rights were too weak to confront the power of the mob. Mobs are fickle, their rhetoric is blood-curdling, they hate debate, detest institutions, and hero-worship leaders. When intellectuals follow the mob or, worse, the leader, they pave the way for fascism, the destruction of institutions, the emergence of the hero, and pogroms of the minority. When intellectuals fail to live up to codes of public ethics, they uphold injustice. Their commitment to truth, reason and justice lapses; they become partners in injustice. Moral conscience of society The Dreyfus affair legitimised the idea that a public intellectual has to denounce injustice despite the power of the mob. Since then it has been held that intellectuals are not defined by what they are — professors, writers, artists or journalists — but by what they do. Intellectuals have to be competent in their own field, otherwise they will not be taken seriously by anyone. But there is more to being an intellectual. Scholars have to be public intellectuals. They have to cast their scholarly gaze on issues that cause explosions, sift out the details, analyse, evaluate, and take a position. An intellectual has to be involved in public affairs. Public intellectuals are the moral conscience of society, simply because they think. To think is to question, to call for freedom, and to invoke the right to disobey. Our intellectuals have to be reflective, philosophical beings, philosophical in the sense that they think about issues, addresses contemporary social problems and see them as the legacies of previously unresolved issues of social injustice. It is precisely the unresolved issue of social injustice that has been taken up by Mr. Teltumbde, Mr. Navlakha and Mr. Varadarajan repeatedly and insistently. All three of them have battled the reproduction of injustice in their own ways. Mr. Teltumbde is a fine chronicler of the injustice that has been heaped on the Dalit community. Mr. Navlakha has fiercely castigated violations of civil liberties. And Mr. Varadarajan has exposed the horrific crimes committed by the merchants of hate. None of them has advocated violence, none of them has asked the Indian people to revolt against the elected regime. All they ask for is that the provisions of the Constitution be honoured by our leaders. Leaders wield the scalpel, they ought to be the healers. Their touch should nurse the wounds in the body politic. Public intellectuals are the conscience of our country. They should be respected because they speak out against injustice wherever it occurs, not be subjected to punitive action. Public intellectuals are of value because they bring the sane, cool voice of reasoned reflection to bear on contentious and stormy public issues. Neera Chandhoke is a former professor of Political Science at Delhi University
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Should govt. intervene in platform-publisher relationships?||In the last few weeks, France and Australia have taken significant steps to make news aggregators such as Google pay for re-use of news. The beneficiaries will be news publishers, who for years have been struggling to make a digital transition. While the competition regulator in France has effectively pushed Google into negotiating a remuneration deal with publishers, Australia has proposed to make platforms pay for use of news. In a discussion moderated by Sriram Srinivasan , Rasmus Kleis Nielsen, Director, Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism, and Parminder Jeet Singh, Executive Director, IT for Change, discuss whether governments should intervene in correcting lopsided platform-publisher relationships.  What do you make of these developments? Rasmus Kleis Nielsen (RKN):It is a clear political recognition of how difficult many publishers find it to build a sustainable business in the digital space. It is also a political recognition in some quarters, that while independent professional journalism is often inconvenient for people in power, it is fundamentally also a public good. And if the market on its own does not provide this public good [at] the level that we want in a society, then there is room for political intervention. In the developments we see in Australia and France, there is focus on a very particular type of response, which is to force one part of the private sector to transfer money to another part of the private sector. This is quite an unusual approach. Parminder Jeet Singh (PJS): To the question that the government needs to step in, in managing the relationship between platforms and media, I would say yes. But I would also warn against doing it in a ‘plug-the-leak-here and patch-a-tear-in-the-fabric there’ kind of approach. It won’t work. And you have seen it since at least 2014, governments trying to make platforms pay for news snippets and the difficulties in doing that. So, we need to place this problem in the larger problem of the relationship of digital platforms in all sectors, with those small actors who are dependent on the platform. In that sense, this problem is not very different from the problem that small traders have with Amazon platform. But some commentators point out that it is an important step because it is about shoring up an essential industry. PJS:Yes, the media is a very different kind of essential industry. What I am saying is that unless we understand the nature of digital power — what is that platforms have power because of, and go and address those issues — we will not succeed. I completely agree that measures are needed to protect the media sector now. And therefore, even patchwork attempts are good. Is there an agreement that the platforms have disproportionate clout when dealing with publishers, and this skewed relationship needs to be addressed somehow, if not in this manner? RKN:It is clear that the largest platform companies are extremely powerful, and that their power extends to all the different fields that they’re active in. It is important for us to recognise at the same time that this power is a problem, because unaccountable power is always problematic. But I think it is also worth recognising that the root of this power is relations. It is the choices made by billions of end users and millions of third parties who embrace large platforms because they feel that they benefit from working with them, even as they also rightly have reservations about the power of these companies. The challenge from a public policy point of view is how can you first ensure a competitive and transparent digital economy where you prevent the abuse of dominant positions, without punishing success or simply protecting incumbent industries who will always scream ‘blue murder’ when new entrants disrupt their old and profitable businesses. PJS:There are a lot of tough decisions to be taken at the top of the political economy system, of who owns the data, whether platforms are essential utilities, whether they should be regulated as utilities, and so on. Also, there is a geopolitical angle. No country can on its own do it because then it becomes a race to the bottom, and the Facebooks and the Googles of this world will always say that we are moving out and the next country is ready to take us. I want to bring you both in on gauging what is happening in France and Australia from the lens of what role the government is playing.  RKN:The particular model that’s being considered in Australia and France, I would be very interested to see more details on how exactly it is proposed to work. It is not a model we use to fund public services in general. We don’t fund public education by taxing a few big companies solely for that purpose. We don’t fund the public health system by taxing a few large companies solely for that purpose. The normal approach is general taxation and then political positions about where we allocate that money. And I think this sort of form of enforcement of B2B relationships or hypothecated taxes from one sector to another is one that is quite complicated. And it tends to be quite vulnerable to people with clever lawyers and clever accountants and the like to find loopholes. And so it is not obvious to me that it is necessarily the best way to achieve the public interest goal of funding independent professional journalism. But the goal itself, I personally have a lot of sympathy for. PJS:I understand Rasmus saying that there are difficulties in this model. I wouldn’t call it a tax. But what they’re trying to do is to have a fair sharing of value. And the problem here is that fair sharing of value does not take place because we have not gone down deep enough to recognise what is the nature of the value that the platform brings by controlling the channels of distribution access, and interconnection, which is one kind of value that a platform brings. The second kind of value a platform brings is through data and data-based intelligence that it develops and how therefore it uses that intelligence to control and orchestrate all other actors and puts them at a disadvantage, power-wise. There’s also a sense that over the years, the primary tool that governments used was the copyright law. And now it seems that the competition law is becoming an important tool. Do you see that direction?  PJS:Yeah, I think so. But both are industrial-era attempts to solve a digital-era problem. And in the digital platforms, much of the economic interactions do not take place in the nature of typical markets. India has now a committee of experts by the IT Ministry which is talking about the value of data, including non-personal data and how its economic value should be distributed and so on. We need to get down to those basics. And without that, we would not be able to solve these problems. RKN:There’s probably three basic sides to this. The first is what we can do with the tools that we already have? We also need to recognise that there are some very large companies by now who have built up their position over 10 or 20 years. And that developing entirely new regulatory and policy tools will take time. So, if we want to do something in the short term, it is primarily about how we can use existing rules of competition law, data protection and privacy regulation and the like to ensure that we have a more competitive digital economy that benefits citizens and all legitimate interests. And I am very encouraged by some of the steps being taken in the European Union to do that. It is really important to recognise, speaking narrowly about news, that the general policy goal in competition is not to protect competitors, but to protect competition and that we cannot assume, a priori , that new regulation in this space will benefit news publishers specifically. That is why we need to make a political decision about whether there is broad public support for the idea that independent professional journalism is in public interest and is a public good, and needs to benefit from public funding. There’s a geopolitical angle too. Many of the large and dominant technology companies are American. And the American government does sometimes let slip that they’re keenly aware of this and that they will fight their corner. Many of their main competitors are from mainland China. And it is also clear that the regime in Beijing is not naive about the assets that this represents. We just need to recognise that when governments elsewhere are thinking about intervention in this space, it could also be because they themselves think that national champions are in their geopolitical self-interest. Now, how important that is, I think it is a political question. I can totally understand why the French government might like to see a French YouTube or French search engine. But it is not obvious that journalism would benefit more from a relationship with a French search engine or a French video-sharing platform than from a relationship with American platforms. How do you see this from the point of view of the general Internet user? And also, do you see that the publishers have got onto something which they have never had in many years?  PJS:I see hope. There will be difficulty in trying to do what they’re doing right now. But there is a sense of urgency among major countries, and that sense of urgency will make them stick to trying to do something and this time around there would be more sustained progress. There is good traction now for things to move forward and things will move forward much faster now. RKN:We need to just confront the fact that most politicians around the world regard independent journalism at best with benign indifference, more often with rank hypocrisy, and very often with open hostility. And that many governments have a very mixed record in terms of how they deal with independent news media. Now the fact that in two out of 193 countries that are members of the United Nations, there now seems to be some move to change this, is potentially encouraging. But I don’t think we should consider that a trend until we see a much larger number of countries take such steps. France has a long tradition of intervention within this space. Australia is a country where there’s a conservative government, and a very well known conservative media owner, who has been very active in this space for a long time. The only people who care about figuring out the future of the business of news are those who are in it, those who believe in the editorial principles but also the practical commercial realities of digital journalism. Now, in that space, I am an optimist, a cautious optimist but an optimist nonetheless.  There are a lot of tough decisions to be taken, on who owns the data, whether platforms are essential utilities, whether they should be regulated as utilities, and so on Parminder Jeet Singh, IT for Change
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Needed: a pandemic patent pool||Every April 26, we celebrate World Intellectual Property Day. This year, it was not a day for celebration, but one for reflection and dedication. It provided us an opportunity to reflect upon the role of intellectual property (IP) in the ongoing health crisis and dedicate IP to finding a solution. A long road ahead The purpose of creating and recognising patent rights is for the common public good, i.e., innovation should be made public in exchange for a limited monopoly. Thus, patents need to be disclosed to the public in order to enable further research. Should pandemics such as COVID-19 be an exception to this? For human life to become normal again, vaccines or medicines are the only permanent solutions. However, even by conservative estimates, it will take at least 6-10 months for any vaccine/drug to be available. Even when approval for marketing of a vaccine/drug is granted, it will be impossible for it to be made instantly available across the world. This is because even after approval for commercial production is granted, say, in one country, in order for the product to be available to the rest of the world, approvals will be required in each and every country. Then countries will have to gear up for instant manufacturing and marketing of the drug. For this to happen, continuous dialogue has to take place among innovators, manufacturers and supply chains. This requires massive efforts by private players, governments and international organisations. With the outbreak of COVID-19, there are several innovations. All these innovations may be the subject matter of patent applications around the world. It will be a few years before patents are even granted. However, friction already exists among various stakeholders. For instance, one country made attempts to obtain exclusive rights to a vaccine being developed. On the other hand, there are also collaborations taking place. However, the spirit of collaborative solutions is only on the anvil. The question that arises is whether the exclusivity that is recognised by patent rights will be detrimental to society. Will patents create roadblocks or is there a solution? Pandemics need disruptive solutions. Governments and international organisations need to arrive at a consensus in advance to ensure that the system is ready. Procrastination would be disastrous. Creating hindrances through exclusivity claims, in the wake of a pandemic, will result in dividing countries, corporations and international organisations. This will not benefit patients and the world as a whole. If patent owners create impediments on the strength of patent rights, the world will start despising patents and that is not a situation IP owners ought to be in. Under the TRIPS (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) regime, there are several tools such as compulsory licensing that are available to ensure access to medicines. However, beyond the laws, society needs to respect innovation. To protect the sanctity and integrity of patent systems, and in order to ensure that an anti-IP sentiment is not generated globally, answers need to be found within the existing regime. In exceptional circumstances such as these, there is a likelihood that societies may resort to extreme steps to protect themselves. Before such ideas are floated, solutions should be created. Creating a patent pool One method by which aggregation and dissemination of innovative products can be ensured is by creating a patent pool. Patent pools are usually effective in aggregating, administering and licensing patents related to specific areas of technology. Such pools are usually managed by a central agency and the patents which become part of the pool are readily made available for licensing. Some pools even publish the royalty rates payable for such licences. Anyone who wishes to obtain a licence will be able to approach the pool, agree to the terms, and begin to manufacture and sell the products. Such pools are prevalent in, for instance, standard essential patents related to telecom and digital innovations. At the moment, individual efforts are being made by research organisations to create their own pools. A more fruitful endeavour would be to create a global pool of COVID-19-related innovations, or innovations related to rare pandemics, in respect of vaccines and medicines. This could be managed by a trustworthy international organisation. All countries ought to have the right to implement these innovations without further permission from the patent-holders and without resorting to provisions such as compulsory licensing, state acquisition, etc. Even if royalties are at a minimal level, the revenues would still be in billions of dollars owing to the large swathes of the population affected by the pandemic, who will need to be administered these products. Creation of a pool and immediate licensing will ensure that there are hundreds of manufacturers across the world. As a result, vaccines and medicines will be quickly available. Some part of the royalties could then be disbursed to patent owners on a periodic basis and some part could be retained to fund further research to deal with such pandemics in future. Such a pool needs the cooperation of not just countries and international organisations but also the hundreds of researchers, innovators, companies and universities involved. Concerns relating to patents and profits to be earned therefrom should be put aside. The world has to come out of this crisis quickly and patents ought to accelerate rather than impede the path. Combating the crisis and earning collectively is the need of the hour. Pooling of patent resources is also in line with the Doha Declaration on Public Health which is a part of the TRIPS agreement. This declaration recognises the need for taking measures to ‘protect public health’ and ‘promote access to medicines’. Public-private partnerships (PPP) need to be scaled up. Creation of the ‘PPP-pandemic patent pool’ at a global level, to pool all innovations, is the way forward. Let us not wait any longer. Justice Prathiba M. Singh is Judge of the Delhi High Court and was a member of the IP think tank that drafted India’s Intellectual Property Rights policy
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Plasma therapy is no silver bullet||The COVID-19 pandemic has posed unprecedented challenges to governments, health professionals and the general public at large, around the world. Every response, administrative, social, economic or medical is being subjected to intense public scrutiny, as it rightly should be in the spirit of mature democracy. Scientific research in medicine is the only means to overcome novel and complex diseases such as COVID-19 and that too thrives on the same spirit of debate and criticism. The difference, however, is that the standards of evidence required, to generate consensus and arrive at the most optimal protocols, are far more rigorous and time-taking than in most other walks of life. So is the case with the convalescent plasma therapy, that is being currently studied by the Indian Council of Medical Research, through open label, randomised controlled trial to evaluate it for both safety and efficacy. Already, four patients have been enrolled in Ahmedabad and the study will be rolled out in 20 hospitals by the end of this week and at more centres over the next month. The therapy involves infusing patients suffering from COVID-19 with plasma from recovered patients. In theory, the antibodies of the recovered person may help that patient’s immune system fight the virus. While showing great promise, it is a line of treatment that is yet to be validated for efficacy and safety and cannot be deployed widely without caution. The current evidence to conclude anything about the true benefits of this therapy is very thin. Need for more research The most important principle in medical ethics is “do no harm”. The transfusion of convalescent plasma is also not without risks, which range from mild reactions like fever, itching, to life-threatening allergic reactions and lung injury. To recommend a therapy without studying it thoroughly with robust scientific methods may cause more harm than good. Till date, there have been only three published case series for convalescent plasma in COVID-19 with a cumulative of 19 patients. Given the very small number of patients involved in these studies and a publication bias in medicine, we cannot conclude the therapy will work on all patients all the time or even believe that the convalescent plasma was the only reason for their improvement. To say with certainty whether a drug is truly effective or not, the gold standard in medicine is to conduct a randomised controlled trial, where half the patients get the experimental drug and the other half do not. Only if patients in the first half show substantial improvement over those in the second half, it indicates the drug is beneficial. Further, convalescent plasma therapy requires intensive resources, healthy COVID-19 survivors to donate, a blood bank with proper machinery and trained personnel to remove plasma, equipment to store it and testing facilities to make sure it has an adequate amount of antibodies. Too much focus on one approach can take away the focus from other important therapeutic modalities like use of oxygen therapy, antivirals, and antibiotics for complicated hospital courses. To overcome the pandemic comprehensively, we should focus on strengthening health systems at all levels, including referral systems, supply chain, logistics and inventory management. We need to work on protecting our healthcare workers, improving prevention methods, promoting cough etiquettes, effective quarantining and accurate testing. Even these times of collective uncertainty are no reason to lower scientific temper. While it is good to be hopeful, the fact remains there are no real silver bullets in medicine and health outcomes are a result of not just a few pills or therapies but a complex set of factors. Science should be driven by reason and evidence with hope as a catalyst but not by either fear or populism. Pushing one or the other therapy without evidence or caution can only set back our larger fight against COVID-19. Dr. Balram Bhargava is Director General, Indian Council for Medical Research
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Biden’s bid||Hillary Clinton, the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee and former Secretary of State, has endorsed the presumptive Democratic nominee for the 2020 election, former Vice-President Joe Biden. With her endorsement Mr. Biden now enjoys unequivocal support across the spectrum of Democratic Party heavyweights, including former President Barack Obama, Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren, and Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders. The support of Mr. Sanders is especially critical to the Biden campaign. Young voters, voters of colour and a variety of other cohorts within the larger body of U.S. progressives through this year’s campaign were, and possibly still are, vocal supporters of Mr. Sanders and his “democratic socialist” policy agenda for the middle class. These groups also backed Mr. Sanders in 2016, when he spoke of reining in the excesses of Wall Street, cancelling student debt, Medicare for all, expanding social security and a green new deal emphasising renewable and clean energy over traditional reliance on fossil fuels. While the then nominee, Ms. Clinton, went on to win over 65 million votes in the presidential election, her nomination campaign was hobbled by a long season of bickering with Mr. Sanders. In that regard Mr. Biden has already surpassed Ms. Clinton in securing the support of the most important voices in the Democratic pantheon. As the nomination race draws to a close at the Democratic National Convention in August, his ground game must now move up a gear to take on incumbent U.S. President Donald Trump, with a special focus on managing the COVID-19 pandemic. On the one hand Mr. Biden’s most obvious line of attack will be to highlight a series of bungles that Mr. Trump has made in his handling of the crisis, from not heeding intelligence calls to take decisive action early enough when there were warning signs coming out of China, to playing politics with states desperately in need of medical equipment, and to making bizarre and reckless comments on untested “solutions”. Yet, just like Ms. Clinton in 2016, Mr. Biden cannot win without paying heed to undecided and independent voters, especially in the swing states. If the 2016 election held any lessons for Democrats, it is to not underestimate the importance of economic issues, especially job losses. Indeed, in the context of the COVID-19 crisis, there have been numerous rallies across the U.S. where protesters have not only lashed out at Democrats for what they described as deliberate exaggeration and politicisation of the pandemic and its effects, but also appear to genuinely question the lockdowns that impact commercial activity. To win in November, Mr. Biden will have to balance his policies promoting mainstream values of his party with bipartisan outreach that brings a large swathe of the working population of middle America under the Democratic tent.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Religion and freedom||Religious freedom is of paramount importance, not because it is about religion, but because it is about freedom. The characterisation by the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) of India as a country of particular concern, in its annual report, is not entirely surprising, considering its dim and known views about sectarian violence and aggravating governmental measures over the last year. The Indian government not only repudiated the report but also ridiculed the USCIRF. The autonomous, bipartisan commission’s influence over any U.S. executive action is limited and occasional but its presumption of global authority appears amusingly expansive. Whether or not the U.S. government acts on its recommendation to impose targeted sanctions on Indian government agencies and officials depends on American strategic interests. The U.S. has used arguments of freedom, democracy, tolerance, and transparency as tools in its strategic pursuits, but there is no proof of any uniform or predictable pattern of enforcement of such moral attributes. The process can be selective and often arbitrary in spotlighting countries. Mirroring this pattern, India selectively approaches global opinions on itself, embracing and celebrating laudatory ones and rejecting inconvenient ones. The frantic, and relatively successful, efforts to raise its Ease of Doing Business ranking by the World Bank is a case in point. Many of these reports have a circulatory life — the USCIRF report quotes UN Special Rapporteurs to buttress its point on the discriminatory outcome of the National Register of Citizens in Assam. Overall, such reports contribute to the construction of an image of a country, and the Indian government is cognisant of this pattern. In March, the Indian government told Niti Aayog to track 32 global indices and engage with the bodies that measure them, to advance reform and growth. India advertises itself as a multi-religious democracy and as an adherent to global norms of rule of law. It also aspires to be on the table of global rule making. For a country with such stated ambitions, its record on religious freedom as reflected through events of the last one year is deeply disconcerting. The catalogue of religious violence, incitement and wrecking of the rule of law in several parts of the country remains an unsettling fact. The partisan nature of the ruling dispensation is also difficult to wish away. Reputation is important for a country’s economic development and global standing but beyond that instrumental perspective, rule of law and communal harmony are essential for any functioning democracy.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Take care of yourself too, fellow journalists||Journalists out there on the field run the risk of exposing themselves to the highly contagious virus, much like our other foot soldiers: sanitation workers, police personnel and all those in the healthcare sector, rendering selfless service to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. Of course, we understand anything can happen, whether we are covering a war, riot or an epidemic. It is perhaps not always easy to follow every instruction to stay safe especially when in the line of duty. Print journalists can manage to get stories over the phone but our photographers, TV reporters and camerapersons do not have that luxury. This takes me back to my health reporting days for the paper during the 1990s. It makes me realise that city reporters, who are always full of josh (enthusiasm) to report on what could be a lifetime opportunity, can also carelessly drop safeguards while entering risk-prone zones. When something out-of-the-normal breaks out, it often is a first-time experience for the reporter. So it was for me in 1994 when cholera and plague hit the national capital.  The 1994 epidemic One was not armed with as much information and resources those days. I recall one morning when the “Infectious Diseases Hospital” was diligently marked against my name by the chief reporter in the assignment register. “Cholera cases are coming in. Find out the reason and talk to patients if possible, was his brief.” The next moment, the photographer and I were in a cab on our way to Kingsway Camp. I rattled my brain for my knowledge about cholera and found it limited to what I had read in biology textbooks in school perhaps. There were no mobile phones in 1994 to call up doctor friends to understand the disease better, nor was there the Internet to do quick online research en route to the assignment. The best way to get the real story was to be on the spot. I don’t want to delve into the details about the condition of the hospital wards and the residential areas that we visited thereafter. But yes, I could meet the treating doctors who explained how cholera infects, its symptoms and spread. The patients and their attendants cried out loud about contaminated water supply in their habitation. That evening, when I returned home, my father made me wash and leave my shoes outside and advised me to give myself and my clothes a dettol wash. That became a habit each time I visited hospitals. Those infected with plague in Delhi were mostly quarantined in hospitals such as the Guru Tegh Bahadur (GTB), Kasturba, LNJP and Bara Hindu Rao. The regular health reporters were allowed to see the facilities, with due advisories to wash our hands with soap thoroughly. As an utmost precaution we also covered our faces with handkerchiefs or dupatta s. Those regular visits felt eerie at times. But the fear of contracting the disease was somehow not there. Surely, that is how it continues to be with our mediapersons. I used to regularly bump into a security guard at one of the hospital gates. Each time I flashed my card, he would wryly say: “Don’t impress me with your ‘press’ ID. If you are not scared of the epidemic, who am I to stop you!”
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Naxalites spread out to elude Police||The murder of a wealthy landlord in Prodduvaka village in Krishna district on the night of Sunday (April 26) has brought to focus the growing Naxalite activity in the coastal Andhra districts since three months. In the Srikakulam agency area the last murder took place in the third week of January. Since then Naxalite groups have killed landlords in villages in Anantapur, Warangal, Nellore and Guntur districts. The Naxalite activity has slackened in the Srikakulam agency area. The pattern of attacks showed that the Naxalite groups who once operated in the Srikakulam agency areas have now spread out into the coastal Andhra areas following intense police activity in the agency areas. One theory is that the Naxalites wanted to show off to the country that the entire Andhra Pradesh is under their sway but the second and more plausible theory is that bv striking here and there throughout coastal Andhra the Naxalites want to divert the strong Police force in an effort to weaken police concentrations Inselected pockets in the State. Though a number of people have been interrogated in connection with the latest murder in Prodduvaka village, the police have not made any arrests so far.
01 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Football legend Chuni Goswami passes away||Subimal ‘Chuni’ Goswami — the man who inspired India to its most talked-about moment of football glory, gold at the 1962 Asian Games in Jakarta — is no more. The footballer extraordinaire breathed his last in a city nursing home on Thursday evening. He was 82. The high point of India’s presence in international football came in the 1960s, and it was Goswami’s leadership that brought together a group of outstanding players who produced magic for the team, which beat South Korea 2-1 in the final. Extremely skilful “I always called him ‘Captain’. There was a commanding [quality] about him that made him the natural choice as captain,” said Arun Ghosh, the great defender of the gold-winning team. “He was extremely skilful as a forward and most of our opponents planned their strategies keeping Chuni da [elder brother] in mind. He possessed the skill and ingenuity to beat any kind of defence.” According to statistics available with the All India Football Federation (AIFF), Goswami represented India in 36 official international matches, including 16 as captain. He scored 13 international goals. He was honoured with the Arjuna Award in 1963 and the Padma Shri in 1983. Goswami had spoken many times of receiving an invitation from prominent English club Tottenham Hotspur to appear for trials. This came after news of India’s win in Jakarta spread far and wide. But Goswami refused to travel. He was not keen on leaving Mohun Bagan, where he enjoyed immense popularity as captain and spent the entirety of his career. “It is sad to hear that Chuni-Da, one of India’s greatest footballers, is no more. He will stay synonymous with the golden generation of Indian football. Chuni-Da you will remain alive in our hearts,” said AIFF president Praful Patel in a statement. Darling of fans, peers Goswami’s quick reflexes and dribbling ability made him the darling of both fans and peers. “The stories about his exceptional skill which helped Mohun Bagan win scores of titles have been passed down through generations and make him so popular even now,” said Olympian Samar Banerjee. “Chuni Goswami is a god for me. He is definitely one of the best footballers to have played for the country. The loss is irreparable,” said former India captain and Mohun Bagan stalwart Subrata Bhattacharya. A versatile sportsman, Goswami captained the Bengal cricket team to the Ranji Trophy final in 1971-72 and was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award by the Cricket Association of Bengal in 2012. Goswami is survived by his wife and son.
01 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Bengal’s cricket family fondly remembers Chuni||Bengal’s cricket fraternity too mourned deeply at the passing away of Chuni Goswami. Former Test cricketer Dilip Doshi said it was a privilege to play with Goswami. “He was India’s all-round sportsman and there was much to learn from him about fitness and fighting spirit. “His will to fight the issue out was infectious and as a footballer and India’s captain as well, we learnt much about fitness attitude from him. He had a great sense of humour which he used timely to release the tension in the dressing room. India is poorer without such icons,” said Doshi. First Class cricketer Satyabrata Mukherjee, who also played with Goswami, remembered the multifaceted icon. “He set examples for others to follow. The best thing about him was his tremendous sense of humour. Once, a Bengal batsman was worried about the size of the sightscreen and Chuni da said, ‘Are you going to watch the sightscreen or the ball?’ Former Bengal captain Sambaran Banerjee hailed Goswami as a natural athlete. “He was equally good in football, cricket and tennis. He was always cheerful and boosted youngsters.”  He was India’s all-round sportsman and there was much to learn from him Dilip Doshi
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Greats pay tribute||Tulsidas Balaram (part of the football trinity with PK and Chuni): I am really shocked. First PK Banerjee and now Chuni is gone. We were very, very good friends. We had mutual respect. I have so many fond memories. I’m really not in a frame of mind to speak further.  S.S. Hakim (Olympics teammate) : I vividly remember he played the best against France in the 1960 Games. India may not see such great footballers. They were passionate about the game, simple, humble and gentlemen to the core, who put national pride ahead of anything.  Sunil Gavaskar: Today is a truly depressing day. First Rishi (Kapoor) and now Chuni da have left us. Both champions and legends in their craft. The world will be the poorer for their departure.  Bhaichung Bhutia: It’s a big loss for Indian football in two-three months. First PK Banerjee and now Chuni Goswami. He was a true sporting icon. He was the first superstar of Indian football.  Sunil Chhetri: We’ve lost one of the leading lights of Indian sport. Not too many can boast of being top-notch in two sports. You played your part to the fullest, rest well, Chuni sir. Strength to the family.
01 May 2020||MELBOURNE,||Labuschagne, Burns land CA contracts||Marnus Labuschagne  and Joe Burns were rewarded for their performances in Cricket Australia’s annual player contracts announced on Thursday. Usman Khawaja and Shaun Marsh missed out.  PTI
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||Sania nominated for Fed Cup Heart award||Sania Mirza on Thursday became the first Indian to be nominated for the Fed Cup Heart Award from the Asia/Oceania zone. She recently made a comeback to Fed Cup tennis after four years, with her 18-month son Izhaan present in the stands.PTI
01 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Rishi and the inheritance of romance||If one were to describe Rishi Kapoor in a single phrase, it would be the embodiment of youth and romance. He defined love and all its protocols for the Gen X in India. An idea that, surprisingly, far from getting frayed at the seams, has been embraced heartily by millennials and Gen Z as well. Cool and retro-cool have come to live happily ever after in the persona of Rishi Kapoor. Perhaps it has been so because the energy and liveliness he brought to romance was infectious and timeless. It’s also the reason why it’s hard to imagine him robbed of it now. That too at the age of just 67. He was full of life even in the thick of his treatment for leukaemia in the United States in 2018. For a young man bequeathed with the enviable Kapoor blood and genes, Rishi was born into acting. The evidence of which was for all to see in his debut itself. Not the song ‘Pyaar hua iqrar hua’ in his legendary father Raj Kapoor’s Shree 420 (1955), when he was barely three, but as the young Raju later in Mera Naam Joker (1970). It was a complicated role, of a boy’s deep infatuation with his school teacher (played by Simi Garewal) and he brought alive the pain and anxieties of unattainable love well enough to bag the National Award for the Best Child Artiste. It was the following film, again by his father, Bobby (1973), a quintessential Bollywood romance, that unleashed him, along with Dimple Kapadia, as heartthrobs of the nation. The film came to form a new template for rebellious love. It was a love across class barriers, a love in which eloping was a way of making a grand statement against societal constrictions. It was all about breaking free. More of such youthful films started piling up for him in the 1970s and early 1980s — Rafoo Chakkar (1975), Khel Khel Mein (1975), Laila Majnu (1976), Kabhie Kabhie (1976), Hum Kisise Kum Naheen (1977), Sargam (1979), Zamane Ko Dikhana Hai (1981) and more. All of them were marked by a zestful musical score and cool dancing moves that have been rocking the dance floor till date. Wholesome package For the Spartan, pre-liberalisation 1970s and 80s India, his cinema would have been a wholesome package of headiness, abandon and recklessness. It reflected in his own body language and the colours and designs of the trademark sweaters and mufflers he wore while singing and dancing with his lady love against fetching backdrops, in the hills, by the sea and often abroad. These films were dreamscapes in which the audience could live vicariously. Some even tried to turn the aspirational into attainable. Bollywood screenwriter Ishita Moitra tells me that one of the reasons her mother agreed to marry her father was because he was called Rishi. Such was the delirious passion for him. Heady phase His stand-out turns in this heady phase were as Akbar Ilahabadi in Manmohan Desai’s Amar Akbar Anthony (1977), a lost and found film about three brothers which became a paean to the secular spirit of the nation. The element of cool reached the peak as music got mixed with murder to serve the most entertaining reincarnation saga — Subhash Ghai’s Karz (1980). As Monty, Rishi strummed the guitar and sang ‘Dard-e-dil’ and danced to ‘Om Shanti Om’. The young India did as well. Late 1980s and 90s marked the decline of those romances. There were two stand-out films that were love triangles, in fact. One had him and Kamal Haasan vying for Dimple in her much touted return Saagar (1985), and Chandni (1989) in which it was a fight between him and Vinod Khanna for Sridevi. Bol Radha Bol (1992), Damini (1993) and Eena Meena Deeka (1994) paved the way for the character roles of the 2000s. In between, in 1999, Rishi also turned to direction with Aa Ab Laut Chalen . Undervalued versatility Cinema has way of often creating neat demarcations. It can box people in limiting slots. So a mainstream star may often get disregarded as an actor, unfairly so. Rishi Kapoor’s versatility and the ability to transform was immense and criminally undervalued. If his debut wasn’t radical enough, a few years down the line came Ramesh Talwar’s Doosra Aadmi (1977) that looked at the tantalising possibility of a young man-older woman relationship. He played a man, forced by tradition, to marry his widowed sister-in-law Hema Malini in Sukhwant Dhadda’s Ek Chadar Maili Si (1986), which was adapted from a Rajendra Singh Bedi novella. Raj Kapoor’s Prem Rog (1982) made a progressive call for widow remarriage. “I did offbeat films like Doosra Aadmi and Ek Chadar Maili Si back then, both of which failed. I was stuck with the identity of a lover boy in colourful sweaters singing songs in Ooty and Switzerland. I wasn’t given enough challenging roles,” he said. He also took easily to the new ways, transitioning seamlessly into character roles and films made by a new brigade of filmmakers. From Zoya Akhtar’s Luck By Chance (2009) to Rakyesh Omprakash Mehra’s Delhi 6 (2009) to Imtiaz Ali’s Love Aaj Kal (2009), from Nikhil Advani’s D-Day (2013) to Atul Sabharwal’s Aurangzeb (2013) and more recently as the lascivious grandfather in Shakun Batra’s Kapoor and Sons (2016) and the patriarch with a secular heart in Anubhav Sinha’s Mulk (2018). The most scintillating of them all was Habib Faisal’s real slice of Delhi life — Do Dooni Chaar (2010) — in which he and wife Neetu returned to the screen as the middle-aged, middle-class Duggals working hard to bring up their two bright children. It felt so lived in, as though they hadn’t left the big screen at all. Social media stint In his later years, he took just as easily to the social media as he did to the new filmmakers. Anushka Sharma introduced him to Twitter and Abhishek Bachchan revived his long defunct account. And so he started tweeting with his characteristic bluster, was blunt, forthright, disagreeable and often politically incorrect and aggressive in putting his views across. I also got a glimpse of his mercurial side once. It was for the interview on his new online avtaar that I WhatsApp-ed, him only to be rebuked for not having appreciated him in Kapoor and Sons . However, within minutes, he seemed to have cooled down and had me come over the next day for an interview. “I started acting when I was 15. Now, I have played a 90-year-old in Kapoor & Sons . I know you didn’t like me in it, but it was important for me as an actor to have covered the entire spectrum,” he told me. It was a wide-ranging conversation conducted over glasses of pudina chhaas (mint buttermilk), which he claimed was the best I could get in Mumbai. I couldn’t have agreed more. What lingers on still is this one line: “I am happy being an abhineta (actor), not a neta (politician)… Acting gives me a high”.
01 May 2020||Mumbai,||Film fraternity recalls star’s jovial personality||Rishi Kapoor’s death was mourned by the film industry, as Lata Mangeshkar, Amitabh Bachchan and Karan Johar called it the end of an era of Hindi cinema, recalling his jovial and larger-than-life persona. In a statement, his family said that the actor remained “determined to live to the fullest right through two years of treatment across two continents”. The actor died at the age of 67 on Thursday at H.N. Reliance Hospital after a two-year-long battle with leukaemia. His last rites were conducted at the Chandanwadi crematorium at Marine Lines and was attended by close family members. On social media, daughter Riddhima Kapoor Sahni said Rishi Kapoor was her “strongest warrior”. Mr. Bachchan, a close friend and frequent collaborator of the actor, was the first to break the news on social media, but deleted his tweet later. They last acted together in 102 Not Out (2018). Actor Rajinikanth, who worked with Rishi Kapoor in Dosti Dushmani (1986) said he was heartbroken. Ms. Mangeshkar said the actor’s passing away has created a huge void in the cinema industry. “It’s really tough for me to bear this pain,” she tweeted. Singer Asha Bhosle said the actor was always by her side but she could not be with him in this hour of grief. Filmmaker Habib Faisal, who directed Kapoor in Do Dooni Chaar (2010), told The Hindu that the actor was keen on doing a sequel to the film once. “He was passionate about three thing: films, food and people,” said Mr. Faisal. Filmmaker Nikhil Advani, who worked with Kapoor in D-Day told The Hindu , “We were pretty honest with each other and I would call it a unique friendship.” Aamir Khan said that the industry has lost one of the greats today, who was “100 percent a child of cinema”. “You will be badly missed Rishiji,” he said. Madhuri Dixit said working with the veteran actor in films like Yaarana (1981) and Prem Granth (1996) was an honour and that she was “absolutely heartbroken” with his demise. Filmmaker Maneesh Sharma, who directed him in Shuddh Desi Romance (2013) said, “He was the oldest person on set but the youngest at heart. It was the biggest pleasure for me when he agreed to do that film, and I was a fanboy throughout the shoot.”
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Solitude vs Isolation||I was immersed in the daily humdrum of Urban life and the noises associated with it. The early morning alarm bells, the neighbouring house inmates racing against time to pack their kids off to school, the roar of motorcycle and auto rickshaw engines, incessant horns, the vegetable vendors calling out, the temple bells and the music from the loudspeakers were all normal to me. laying from temples and party halls... were all normal to me. And then, there was this sudden lull. The noises gave way to a serene calmness. The chirping of the birds, the mewing of the cats, the swish of the breeze along with the smell of fresh air enveloped me — and it was an energising experience. Soon, the equilibrium started taking a beating. The social media became hyperactive. The jet-setting crowd which was living life at a frenetic pace, hopping from one city to another, meetings to parties, with very little family time, were suddenly cooped up in their houses. They were at a total loss and their fears, anxieties rubbed on everyone. I was the recipient of many calls asking me how I was coping with lockdown and the curtailed freedom of movement. It was then that the word SOLITUDE hit me with all its significance. As a visual artist, I’m accustomed to confinement. Three decades ago, when I was commissioned to create 25 artworks in a span of 45 days using the medium of cork for the first time, I shut myself from the outside world and plunged into the creative process. Whenever this happens music keeps me company. All conversations and interactions are only between me and my work. The current lockdown has been like a bonus time for me to revisit my works, introspect and analyse them critically and also perceive the transitionary phases in my journey. And I realise that solitude, which is a part of my artistic life, can be so challenging for others. I see musicians and dancers moving on to the online platforms to showcase their works, busier than they were before the lockdown. I needed to find out how visual artists, who are equally comfortable with solitude cope with forced aloofness. How do they find solitude, surrounded by kith and kin all the time? Do they have access to their materials, which do not come under the essentials category? Having lived in Chennai for many years, the shift to the tranquil surroundings of her new home at Tiruvannamalai itself was a transition to a peaceful life for Asma Menon. Says she: “Being an artist, I’m a solitary being, while working. With the lockdown and sudden shuffle of priorities, a sense of pervading peace descended on me. Absolutely alone with occasional visits of the housekeeper, I was soon bombarded with messages and forwards flooding on the social media and when it reached a plateau, I opted out of it. “With no intrusions, the work started — on paper, small format and mixed media. With high level of concentration and adrenaline rush, I could not stop myself. The jealous lover had arrived and taken up all the space. The works kept flowing and continue to do so. The question of running out of art materials does not arise, because of my working in a small size format at this point. Also because I am away from urban setting, I do stock up on materials whenever I go out.” The atmosphere at Cholamandal Artists’ Village has been a haven for Bhagwan Chavan. He is in the urban milieu, but surrounded by greenery and the sounds of waves. His creative thoughts find expression on his canvas in the the stillness of his studio space. The lockdown has brought a new perspective to his work. Travel back in time  “I was travelling to Sholapur when the news was out. I rushed back to Chennai not knowing what the next few days would be like. This pandemic has brought life to a standstill and it was like going back 30 years — a time when life was simple and not moving as fast as it does now. I decided to use this time to continue my usual work in the studio, that’s when I felt this solitude is different from the solitude I have known as an artist. Solitude to me is when I get deeper into my artistic process, but this is different. This has made me think of the world outside, with social media updates on what’s happening around us,” says Chavan and goes on to describe an accident. “In the midst of all this, I spilled an entire bottle of ink on my table, and not having the heart to waste it, I started a miniature ink series on Coronavirus. And then I thought, why not dedicate three works everyday on social media to police officers, medics, caregivers, public and civil servants, vegetable vendors who are risking their lives. I ended up doing 104 drawings. I have decided to continue dedicating at least one work a day for these heroes even after the lockdown ends,” says Chavan, who concedes that his outlook might have changed. “It has given me the time to just slow down and I am sure tomorrow is going to be better for me as a person.” A sculptor, whose expressions take shape on stone and wood, Rajasekharan Nair, who moved from Chennai to Thiruvananthapuram is facing problems in sourcing materials. “For a sculptor, the only way to interact with people is to showcase my works at art exhibitions, and the lockdown has seriously affected my prospects,” he says. “I always hope my work brings out emotional response in the viewer. Four years ago, I created a sculpture titled, ‘Memories and Disaster,’” he continues. “Disaster always brings a wave of memories in people’s minds and this emotional connect between the two inspired me to create this sculpture. At that time I never imagined something like this would happen. When people saw the work, they said that they were disturbed and could feel the pain and sadness I was trying to bring out, and the fact that my work was able to communicate my thoughts, made me happy. “It has been almost a year since I moved to Thiruvananthapuram and has been re-working some of my earlier works. I have new ideas but lockdown has made things difficult for me. I am not getting certain tools and other working materials, but I take heart from the fact that this will also pass and things will get back to normal.” Speaking about art in a historical perspective, Aparajithan Adimoolam says, “Isolation that we are are experiencing today is not new to artists. In the pre-Modern traditional society, the artist was an integral part of the cultural milieu. Arrival of Modernism brought in a dramatic change in the social order, pushing artists beyond the margins of society, into isolation. “The pandemic has ruptured the boundaries between the inside and outside. The imagined wall of security from which society functioned has been breached. The suspension of time and restricted space, in which the entire humanity is conditioned to live now, is the unusual terrain from which the artist works. What he has been trying to make everyone see or hear has suddenly become visible and comprehensible. Maybe it is time to listen to the artists.” One thing is certain. The current phase of life has truly shaken people out of their comfort zones and made them look at life, family, society, relationships and even ambitions and aspirations with a fresh perspective. Arising stronger out of all these experiences, Artists and their Art too would evolve chartering a new path of wider perspective and vision.  Shaken out of their comfort zones, artists find their outlook changing
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Opportunities aplenty||(This is the third and final part of an article on Karaoke)  Karaoke has revolutionised amateur singing and unlocked huge talent all around. Before Karaoke, people were shy and had misgivings. These reservations have now vanished. I know of homemakers, who sing their favourite songs, while they go about their chores at home. They are most forthcoming when a Karaoke Session is announced in a friend’s house on a weekend evening. People are coming forward to display their talent. With increasing access to Karaoke, they are excelling in it. There are opportunities in the form of Reality Shows, and the like, for people to awaken their dormant singing skills. So what are some current trends in Karaoke singing? First, in India today, like in Japan, you have a plethora of clubs and bars, which observe a Karaoke Evening. This has become a huge attraction, and one can find people of all ages holding the mike. Social clubs encourage their members to take the floor through a Karaoke Nite. This has become an attractive and inclusive idea to let the members get some prominence in displaying their talent. Popular hangouts Enterprising individuals have commenced Karaoke clubs which are subscription-based. Their model is to have a spacious hall, with the offer of beverages and snacks. And of course, a stage for belting out your favourite songs. These places have also emerged as popular hang-out joints. Next, there are eateries and regular hotels and pubs, where a specified day of the week is earmarked for Karaoke. One can order drinks and food, add their choices in the common playlist and step on to the stage when their turn comes. Then there are these private Karaoke studios where interested persons have to enrol through a subscription. The owner of the studio most often is well versed in Karaoke and apart from singing also doubles as a trainer for new aspirants. The studio is acoustically well-equipped and the facilitator operates the laptop from which the tracks are played. This format is very popular and ensures large number of subscribers, who are grouped into smaller teams each of which is assigned a day. One can pick and choose to suit one’s convenience. On the Net, you have some very good channels which offer free Karaoke tracks. With increasing digitisation technology on offer, the quality of these tracks is getting better, aspiring for professional standards. Again, on the Net, there are videos, which are not for singing along but very good to listen to since the original song plays in the background and like a Karaoke prompt, the lyrics appear on the screen, with the colour changing as the songs progress. Such tracks are very good for practice, since we can see how the singer has dealt with a particular phrase or line, or a particular alaap or indulged in harkatein (twists & turns) for impact. Today on the Web, there are several sites, channels and blogs that provide Karaoke tracks. But, to sound a note of caution, not every such provider has got it right. In the context of Hindi Film Music, particularly the genre that my troupe represents — 1950-70s — Karaoke tracks for film older than 1950 are few and far between. But for later years, the quality of these tracks keeps improving. One must keep trying out these tracks in order to zero-in on the right one for downloading. So to conclude a three-part article that was intended to serve as a guide for aspiring and current Karaoke singers, this is a stellar example of how we have embraced technology to improve our lives. Its phenomenal popularity and success stand testimony to this fact. And in the process, we are experiencing joy and pride at being able to sing and entertain those around us. That’s a priceless reward in itself. Happy singing…   (The Author is a veteran HR professional and founder and lead singer of his troupe, ‘Geet Gaata Chal.’ He lives in Chennai and can be reached at geetgaatachal chennai@gmail.com)    There are reality shows, and the like, for people to awaken their dormant singing skills
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Fascinating connection||First generation immigrants usually remain connected to their roots, and retain their customs and traditions. With subsequent generations, the old links get attenuated. And yet, the past is not erased totally. The research of epigraphist Pulavar Dr. S. Raju shows the vestiges of the Kongu connection among the Vellala migrants to Palakkad. “There is a Kongu Chola inscription, more than a 1,000 years old, which talks of Vellalan Kumaran Kumaranaana Dhananjaya Pallavaraiayan, living in Palakkad. Many Kongu Vellalas lived in Palakkad, Chittur, Kollangodu and Alathur. One story that repeats in literature and copper plates is that of the marriage of a Chola princess into the Chera royal family, and the subsequent movement of 8,000 Kongu Vellalas to Chera Nadu. ‘Alagumalai Kuravanji’ talks of these Vellalas,” says Raju. “According to Mezhi Vilakkam, the Vellalas had landed rights (kani urimai) in Kochi, Kollam, Kozhikode and Palakkad. Kongu Vellalas came to Palakkad from Kangeyam, Karur, Kaadiyur, Sanguppalayam (corruption of Sankarandampalayam) and Pazhaiayakottai.” Record of Kongu-Chera war C.M. Ramachandra Chettiar, the first to record the history of the Kongu region, wrote of a Kongu-Chera war about 1,000 years ago. When the Kongu king died in battle, some of the Kongu generals stayed back in Chera Nadu. In the Bhagavati temple in Chittur, the Kongu-Chera war is enacted during Siva Ratri. “Mannadiyar is a title, which the Angarath and Vadaseri families of Kerala have,” says Raju. William Logan, in his Malabar Manual, says that the Mannadiyars were a caste of Vellalars from Kangeyam, in Coimbatore province, who had settled in Palakkad. Mandradi is a title held by many Kongu Vellala families, says Raju. Mandradi became Mannadi in Malayalam, just as the Tamil nandri (thank you) becomes nanni in Malayalam. When Raju visited Mannadi families, some said that their ancestors moved to Kerala with their cattle. Others said that they had bought land in Kerala. “Vadaseri Mannadiyars have the privilege of opening the Western entrance to the Perur temple, near Coimbatore, because they once owned all the land to the West of the temple. They owned forests, running to thousands of acres in Kerala, from where they used to supply wood for erecting pandals during the temple festival in Perur. Mannadiyars were disciples of the Melmatam in Perur, to which many Kongu Vellalas owe allegiance,” says Raju. “When a Mannadiyar died, concluding rites after 14 days, were performed in Perur, on the banks of the Noyyal. Vadaseri Mannadiyars owned a choultry in Palani, where pilgrims were served food throughout the day. Provisions were supplied by the Mannadiyar family. The choultry was sold in 1974 to the Palani Devasthanam and now a Nagaswaram college functions there.” Palm leaf manuscripts Raju found many Tamil palm leaf manuscripts in the possession of Vadaseri Mannadiyars. In Vannaamadai, even in Malayalam manuscripts, names of Vellala migrants were in Tamil. Mannadiyar families in Mathur, Palakkad district, were familiar with Kamba Ramayanam. Pavakoothu, based on the epic, is a 14-day festival in the Chunanghi Bhagavati temple in Nallepilly. Both Palakkad and Kongu Nadu have villages with the same name - Ayilur, Velladhi and Alathur, to name a few. In most other cases, there are only slight variations between the Kongu and Kerala names - Neelamperur in Kongu Nadu and Nilambur in Kerala, points out Raju. Raju says that Menon is a title indicative of a person’s social status, and derives from the Tamil word Melavan, meaning a person of high rank. He points to L.A. Anantakrishna Iyer’s observation in his book, Cochin - Tribes and Castes that Menons are connected with the Vellalas. Interestingly, many of the Mannadiyars are Menons. “Krishna Menon of the Valluva Nadu royal family had five sons, of whom the fourth was Sankunni Valiya Mannadiyar, born in 1832. Sankunni Mannadiyar held a judicial post in Cochin. His son was Gopala Menon, born in 1884. Gopala Menon’s wife, Satyabhama, belonged to a family in Mathur, which was referred to as Vadavanur Vellalar in copper plates. To Gopala Menon and Satyabhama, a son was born in 1917, who was to become famous not only in Tamil films, but in the political scene in Tamil Nadu. That son was M.G. Ramachandran! So MGR had Kongu Vellala ancestors, both on his father’s side and mother’s side!” says Raju. Other communities beside the Vellalas also made Kerala their home. According to Cochin Manual, the Tamil merchant communities in Kerala - Moothaan and Tharakan - followed a patrilineal system. Sociologist M.N. Srinivas writes in his book, Social Change in Modern India , “…the Tarakans of Angadipuram and the Mannadiyars of Palakkad, gradually changed… from patriliny to matriliny.” Vellaan Chettiars moved from Dharapuram, in Coimbatore, to Velladi, near Palakkad. There is a popular legend about Pannirandam Chettiars, who were merchants. While returning from Kerala to Tamil Nadu, they were accosted by a girl, who asked them for some pepper corns. Not wanting to give pepper corns gratis, they said all they had with them were pulses. When they reached home, they found that the pepper corns had changed to pulses. They realised that the girl must have been a goddess. So, they built a temple for the goddess in Paarai, near Palakkad. Raju says that according to an inscription, the Paarai Mangaraiyamman temple was built by Muthu Chettiar in 1115 C.E. The temple continues to be administered by his descendants.  153268526 (perur temple)
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Her tinsel journey continues||Potential women actors often choose to step away from the arc lights in favour of a quiet married life. Poornima Jayaram is one of them. A bright start and several memorable films in multiple languages later, she receded to the background after marrying leading director-actor K. Bhagyaraj. But she has kept herself busy, apart from playing the pivotal role in a close-knit family. Of late, her presence is noticed in both cinema and television. So what are her plans for the future and has the lockdown come as an unexpected roadblock? Excerpts from a chat with the actor.  Let’s begin at the beginning in the 1980s, when you were one of the busiest heroines... Yes, I was busy with films till my marriage. Manjil Virinja Pookkal (Malayalam, 1980) was my first film. I went on to act in 40 Malayalam films, one each in Telugu and Bhojpuri, half-a dozen in Hindi. Majority of my films are in Tamil and Malayalam. In all about 70. Marriage changed everything and my focus was family and the outfit designing company, which I had started. I made a comeback a couple of years ago with Aadhalal Kadhal Seiveer . Now I’m doing both cinema and television. I made my small screen debut with ‘Kanmani’ (Sun TV). ‘Suriya Vamsam’ for Zee Tamil is another serial but now the Lockdown has interrupted shooting. How do you spend the time now? I’m using the leisure to learn a new language (Telugu) and brushing up what I already know — Malayalam and Marathi. And cuisine. I’m honing my culinary skills. Soon I’ll be ready to cook a feast. Just give me a couple of hours notice. After the lockdown, of course (laughs).  What are the changes you see now in the film industry? Well, in both cinema and TV, those at the helm are well-equipped with knowledge. And they are quick, with an eye on the deadline. When I entered the scene, way back in 1980, I was a novice and learnt the ropes rather slowly. Today’s artistes seem to know everything — from script to camera angle, they are well informed, thanks to technology. The internet and online apps teach you everything. An unforgettable moment in your life... My marriage. Both of us went to invite the great MGR. He promised to be there ahead of the Muhurtham. He kept his word. Also the legend Sivaji Ganesan was present. They gave the mangal sutra to my husband and he tied the knot. We have preserved that photograph. When Shantanu got married, we wanted Vijay to do the courtesy and he obliged. What is more, he came again for the evening reception, accompanying his wife, who couldn’t attend the Muhurtham. What would be your choice — three best films of yours and Bhagyaraj? Well, I only accepted roles when I liked them. So all of them are my favourites. Manjil Virinja Pookkal , however, is special. For several reasons. It was the first film — not only for me but for Mohanlal, director Fazil and music director Jerry Amaldev. For actor Shankar it was his first Malayalam film. The best part is we all got the Kerala State best performance award in the respective category. The film was a mega success at the box office with a 200-day run. That all those I mentioned went on to become big stars is a different story. The second film I like to mention is Darling Darling Darling , in which both Bhagyaraj and myself played lead roles before our marriage. As the list is too long, I’ll restrict myself to one each in Malayalam and Tamil — Olangal and Payanangal Mudivathillai . Regarding my husband’s films, my choice would be Andha 7 Natkal , Idhu Namma Aalu and Vettiya Madichu Kattu . How active is your company, ‘Poornima Stores.’ Incidentally, it sounds like that of a serial... (Laughs) My company was born 20 years ago, long before the serials. I wanted to use my designing talent and clients were women, whom I knew. I was very busy with this work all these years and have slowed down now because of acting commitments.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||When the music was suspended||We are going through an unusual phase in our lives. Nobody has any memory of such a complete lockdown out of deference to a calamitous pandemic. Carnatic music too has taken a beating — concerts, music festivals and overseas tours stand cancelled. The livelihood of artistes who are not in the top rung is a matter of concern and above all, there is no clarity on when normalcy will return. Will it? For now, most artistes have gone online but this does not appear to be a revenue generating model as yet. Are there instances of the world of music being affected by earlier such occurrences? A flashback reveals a few. The first is of an outbreak of plague in Mysore in 1900. Mysore Vasudevachar describes it in his memoirs — Na Kanda Kalavidaru . Despite the ravages of the disease, the administration did not think it fit to stop the religious observances during Dasara, with terrible consequences: “The plague epidemic of 1900 took a heavy toll of lives in Mysore. Men died in hundreds every day. The Dasara festival was in progress. The State Elephant and the State Horse were taken out every day in a procession for puja at the tank outside the Fort. Till the procession was through, the dead bodies were not allowed to be carried along that route. It took about fifteen to twenty minutes for the procession to cover the route from the Fort to the Tank Bund. Within this short span of time, the dead bodies could be seen in rows all along the half mile route from the Palace Ayudhasala to the Amble Annayya Pandit Girl’s School. People were thoroughly demoralised. Whenever anyone had an attack, the rest of the family, terrified, would abandon him and set up camp outside the city.” One of the victims of this outbreak was Veena Padmanabhiah, a celebrated artiste of the Court. Vasudevachar recalls that his disciples were hesitant to go near him, as were his wife and children. Disregarding the advice of others that he too should stay away, Vasudevachar nursed him to the best of his ability but to no avail. A subdued Aradhana  If plague was a disruptor, cholera was no different, appearing with alarming regularity in most parts of South India. In January 1943, an epidemic broke out in the Thanjavur region and the Collector refused permission for the holding of the Tyagaraja Aradhana. There was disappointment all round, with the Aradhana Committee making repeated representations to the administration. It was Bangalore Nagarathnamma alone who remained unperturbed, stating that it was all Tyagaraja’s will and if he so wished, the event would happen. The Collector relented and gave permission for the conduct of a three-day festival. He also withheld permission for the broadcast of performances. When asked he said that it was the radio recording that caused large numbers of musicians to attend and if that were absent, most performers would stay away, leading to a reduction in crowds! The 1943 Aradhana was therefore a rather subdued affair. Worse was to follow later in the year, when Madras had to be evacuated following wartime scares. It caused a scattering of musicians that was unprecedented. Thus while Musiri Subramania Iyer moved to Dindigul to be with his disciple and fan, C.V. Narasimhan, ICS, Papa K.S. Venkataramiah moved to Karur. Madurai Mani Iyer moved to Mayiladuthurai. Saraswati Bai, noted Harikatha exponent shifted to Ranipet and Palani Subramania Pillai to Tiruchi. Given the communication technology of the time, it was a wonder that musicians still got together, performed and kept the home fires burning. It however helped that there were plenty of concert opportunities in the mofussil and many musicians had still not made Madras their home. Help was available too — Vellore Gopalachariar, father of maestro Vellore Ramabhadran, welcomed musicians to his hometown and arranged tuition engagements for them. Musiri and CVN together ran a Sabha in Dindigul to ensure concert opportunities. By August 1943, normalcy returned and most musicians came back to Madras. Some such as Madurai Mani Iyer and Papa Venkataramiah opted to stay back, returning much later to the city. The Second World War had a more long-term impact on Carnatic Music — the loss of Chettiars as patrons. With the fall of Burma, most members of this community were in straitened circumstances. That meant a complete stoppage of music and Harikatha performance invites in the Far East and closer home, at Chettinad as well. It took Carnatic Music quite a while to emerge from this situation. It was only the growth of the NRI diaspora from the 1980s onwards that once again saw big-time prosperity. We need to see how the COVID pandemic will impact the arts in the long run.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Extending a healing touch||As Lockdown continues, there is not a section of the population, which has not been impacted by the inactivity it has necessitated. While the Government and private organisations are taking care of the basic needs of the underprivileged to keep hunger at bay, there are certain categories, which do not come under the mainstream umbrella. These relate to temple activities and people performing various roles in the practice of Sanathana Dharma. Led by Sri Sankara Vijayendra Saraswati, 70th head, Sri Kanchi Kamakoti Pitam is making efforts to address the lacunae by providing relief on several fronts to those deprived of their livelihood during this unprecedented situation. Sri Kanchi Kamakoti Peeta Vaidika Dharma Rakshana Sabha continues its good work with the third disbursement of financial assistance to Vaidikas. Thanks to the support of Veda Vidwans and philanthropists, the Sabha has given Rs. 3000 each to 150 Vaidikas and 200 support personnel. The total now is 519 Vaidikas and 285 support staff. With generous support from donors, Sri Pratyaksha Charitable Trust could disburse Rs 1,000 each to 1,350 Archakas belonging to North Arcot, South Arcot, Chengalpattu, Kanchipuram, Puducherry, Tiruvarur, Kumbakonam, Nagapattinam and Ramanathapuram districts. It is note worthy that among the beneficiaries were those in villages and remote hamlets. Support was also extended to those who are performing pujas in temples and Adishtanams belonging to Sri Kanchi Kamakoti Pitam. The Trust plans to continue the gesture in May as well. Those who wish to support the Trust may send the money to Sri Pratyaksha Charitable Trust, A/c 049001000645148, IFSC CIUB0000049, CUB Anna Salai Branch, Chennai. The Purohita Sabha at Arcot was given financial support to help those engaged in purohitam — service related to religious and cultural practices. A special financial package was given to 60 Purohitas belonging to Thanjavur district. In Kanchipuram, groceries and provisions were given to 70 of them. Sri Mahalakshmi Charitable Trust has extended substantial financial support to Shilpis and workers involved in temple construction. The Trust has also extended support to priests of both Siva and Vishnu temples, pundits and Odhuvars. Sri Kamakoti Ghatikasramam Trust extended financial support to Bhagavathas, Oduvars and Archakas belonging to Madurai district and others involved in cultural services across Tamil Nadu. Also the Trust has extended support to 300 volunteers from Tirupur and Coimbatore region, who are involved in Swach Bharat work. Sankara Maths at Madurai, Tiruvidaimarudur, Chennai and Kumbakonam and several affiliated organisations have arranged distribution of food to needy people and migrant workers. Sri Kamakoti Ghatikasramam Trust is participating in a big way both in Chennai and Mumbai. Sri Kanchi Kamakoti Chennapuri Bhakta Jana Samajam is providing migrant workers with wheat flour on a daily basis. Beyond the shores, the South Indian Society, London, has donated to PM Cares, Archaka Scheme and Food for Frontline doctors and nurses in the U.K.  Sankara Jayanti The Jayanti of Adi Sankara was celebrated on Tuesday at many places in the country, including the Shankaracharya Hills (Srinagar, J&K), Sikkim, Assam, Kalady, Puri, Machilipatnam, Bhilai, Gokarna, Pune and many places in Tamil Nadu. At Thenambakkam, where the Sankaracharya is camping, it was a low-key affair as demanded by the situation. Rituals such as havan and pujas and abhishekam, however, took place for four days — April 24-28. In his benedictory address, the Acharya said how worship was offered for both prosperity and wisdom with Akshaya Trityai on Sunday last (April 25) and Bhagavadpadal jayanti (April 28) falling in the same week. Adi Sankara dedicated himself to the propagation of Dharma in this land, which he covered on foot for the purpose. He established Shanmatha — eight forms of worship for one practising Sanathana Dharma — composed numerous hymns steeped in bhakti and reflecting the philosophy of selflessness and surrender to the Supreme. He founded Pitams at five places in the country, accomplishing all this in a short span of 32 years. The Acharya urged devotees to derive inspiration and guidance from Sankara’s works to be united in their prayer for the welfare of mankind.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Diaspora rises to the occasion||Artistes are certainly not idle during lockdown. Many are staying connected through social media platforms and are even performing there. Initial shock giving way to enterprise, they have galvanised themselves into active groups helping each other pitching in with moral and financial support. What are artistes living abroad doing during this period? Again thanks to technology, they are continuing to practise art, teachers among them in touch with their students through virtual classes, be it dance or music. Nirmala Rajasekhar for instance. The dynamic vainika, based in Minneapolis, runs Naadharasa, a music school. Strong in vocal and with strings, Nirmala collaborates intensely with international musicians and has released albums. She has not let the pandemic interrupt her creative pursuits. At the helm of several initiatives, she concedes that the situation has indeed come as a speed-breaker but finds that there are things to do. She was in the middle of rehearsing for Veena Gaanam 2020 to present in the Cleveland festival. Also she was getting ready to premiere her ode to Pancha Mahaboothas. “‘Elemental Spirit’ was a western composition commissioned by the University of Wisconsin that I have co-written for about 20-odd instruments with my daughter Shruthi Rajasekar,” explains Nirmala. She is proud to be the first Indian — in 54 years — in their annual Composers Commission programme, which was scheduled March 17-19. (https://www.uwrf.edu/MUS/ CommissionedComposers.cfm) “The Global Carnatic Musicians Association (GCMA) is an organisation formed by musicians for musicians in June last year. I am honoured to serve on this along with my colleagues and fellow musicians,” informs Nirmala. According to her, it is also relevant to speak of the Board of Directors of the American Composers Forum, headquartered in St. Paul, Minnesota. “I am serving as a Chair on the Strategy Committee here and will be taking over from the current Anne Lebron as the Co-Chairperson of the Board in June. I mention because of the COVID Relief efforts they both have been doing for artistes in India and the U.S.,” she says. “Through Naadharasa, we have managed to raise money from our generous patrons and student communities across the world to support musicians and artistes, who have lost income in these challenging times. It is heartening to think that music has been the driving force behind these fund-raising activities in the past four weeks. We are also co-partnering with the India Association of Minnesota to help the local community, including service organisations such as SEWAA which helps elders.” Nirmala has also been counselling the Senior community in a session organised by the Hindu Society of Minnesota. Both talks and performances – veena and vocal - were done for the Raghanubhava Society. On April 19, she presented a one-hour performance, followed by a short Q and A session for Dhvani, Columbus, Ohio curated by Padma Sugavanam and Shankar Ramachandran. She is getting ready for online festivals. According to Nirmala, the lockdown has made teaching a different experience. “Normally I teach 15-20 students. But it's a different scenario now. I teach different groups on different days, about two hours each. It seems to be working out. In fact, students like it. Including the younger ones, whom I would normally think need face-to-face interaction to maintain focus. They have been fantastic. There is now no reason to miss a class as there are no conflicts with other activities such as sport or recreation. Even in severe snow, classes are continuing. We are all learning to accept the new normal.” United dancers In New Jersey, Ramya Ramnarayan keeps herself anchored to art through long-distance classes. Fresh from uploading two video clips dedicated to International Dance Day on April 29, Ramya speaks at length on how dancers from many parts of the U.S. are meeting every Sunday to help the dance fraternity raise funds or to stay as a support system. Ramya is offering free abhinaya classes for over 10 dance teachers in her area. Young audiences of New Jersey and Pennsylvania are inviting artistes like her to do innovative projects for public and private schools, which are up and running online. “I feel this pandemic has united so many artistes and created camaraderie among the arts community like no other time,” says Ramya. “At a personal level, this has made me introspect,” she continues. “... trace my journey from childhood, the teachers who shaped me, shared their knowledge with me, especially Kalanidhi Mami, who enriched my skill and repertoire with her sensitive approach. And I can’t help thinking about the art lovers here — the diaspora, which has nurtured me, encouraged me, let me put out roots, be there with me when I have crossed milestones. This is give-back time, to reciprocate... be there for them and cheer them up in these difficult times.” So the dance community has bonded to support those, whose livelihood is the art, to explore ways to garner resources and also disburse them through the right channel to the target group.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Theatre can also make you rich and famous’||Abhishek Pattnaik describes himself as “A writer by choice, an actor by profession and a producer by chance.” This is as accurate an assessment as can be of his decade-long theatre career with Out Of The Box Productions, the group he co-founded. When fresh out of college, Abhishek and his associates, Suketu Shah and Murtuza Kutianawala, all management graduates, decided that they would make a living out of theatre, in spite of having no background of the stage, and no idea how a theatre company functioned. The three started their group, by pooling in Rs 20,000 each, taken from their parents. “We did not want to rely on anyone else, which is why I say I became a producer by chance. My dad was okay with my choice of career; he said, you must have either purpose or passion — we chose passion. So, we took the call to work together — Suketu and I are still at it, Murtuza went on to start his own YouTube company.” Abhishek says he wrote what he was experiencing. His first play, ‘Little Did They Know,’ was a comedy about a group of amateurs trying to make it in the theatre industry, which reflected their own struggles and goofs. Finding a mentor “I was willing to learn, so when my mentor, Uma Narayan told me that to be able to write well, I had to read, and gave me a bunch of plays. What she said made a lot of sense, so I started reading. I also started watching a lot of plays — every evening, I would make my way to a theatre to see a play all by myself, meet and observe people. After we managed to stage three plays, without knowing how to build a team or market a play, we decided that we had to work with dedication and understanding. It is one thing to work for fun, it is quite another when people pay to see your work. We cannot take them for granted. That needs a different level of commitment. We had to get more content driven for the audience to enjoy our plays. I am comfortable with comedy, I enjoy writing it and humour is the best medium to build a base. I think our plots are like movies, then I visualise how it will look on stage” Right from the start, Abhishek and his partners put their management training to good use, by getting sponsors. “We just went and met people and impressed them with our presentations. Also, we were young and sponsors caught on to our energy.” The first two productions made losses and Abhishek looks at that as the experience they needed. “When you face a little hardship, you value things more,” he says. The turnaround came with ‘Two Adorable Losers’, that put their fledgling company on the road to success. Surprisingly, the play was a simple comedy about a professor who suffers from low self-esteem because of his pronounced Oriya accent. He seeks help from one of his students, helping him cope with statistics in return. Abhishek, who was in his mid-twenties thenplayed the 52-year-old Jagannath Mahapatra, with an authentic Oriya accent, which he had picked on visits to his home town in Odisha. “The play had no set, no glamour, no music but it changed everything for us.” With this play, OOTB started travelling, performing in India abroad. They learnt more about theatre management and marketing than they would have at an institute. The group has grown steadily, done bigger productions with known names like Darsheel Safary, Rakesh Bedi, Ananth Mahadevan and Joy Sengupta. Meanwhile, Abhishek got better as an actor, showing off his skills in the play ‘Kaise Karenge?’ in which he played a character with multiple personality disorder. “We work on running our productions like it is a day job. Now we have a core team of seven, and the average age is 23. We take on summer interns every year, so that we can pass on some of our experience to them. We are growing stronger as a team, gaining maturity as we go along. We are like a family and enjoy ourselves; there is some discipline too, like no ice-cream a day before the show. Every show is a high for us and we are our own biggest critics. We never come out of a performance saying ‘Good show guys.’ If it is good, we know; over dinner we talk about what could have been better. “After one of our shows, a compere said that people do TV to get rich, films to get famous and theatre to learn. Then I took the mike and said that if done properly, theatre can also make you rich and famous. Now I have to live up to it,” says Abhishek.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Shorts from Komal Theatre||Among the Tamil theatre aficionados going the extra mile to keep their fans in good spirits is Dharini Komal, daughter of the illustrious Komal Swaminathan. Having redeemed her father’s legacy — she revived Stage Friends and called it Komal Theatre — she reprised his plays and also adapted short stories to the stage. Dharini had plans to celebrate World Theatre Day with a bouquet of plays but the Lockdown came as a dampener. Dharini, however, has converted it into an opportunity by uploading short plays. Stories written by legendary writers are being dramatised and presented as ‘Quarantine Series.’ Two of them are already available. ‘Enna seyyattum sollungo’ is a monologue. Jayakanthan's story gets a visual lift as Lavanya Venugopal talks about her life. A child bride she blossomed into the traditional spouse of a learned man, of whom she is proud. Now, she is in a dilemma and wants viewer’s advice. The success of this venture depends solely on the actor’s articulation and expressions and Lavanya doesn’t disappoint. ‘Manidha Uravugal’ of Komal Swaminathan is more emotional and involves the parents of a son settled abroad. Written nearly 20 years ago, the premise is a bit outdated but the accent here is on human relationships and thus has a resonance. How does Dharini manage to create these plays in this time of social distancing? “I select stories with minimum characters. I work on the script giving it a dramatic structure,” explains Dharini. The lines are numbered and sent to the artistes with directions. After shooting the sequences on their mobile phones, the actors send them to Dharini, who in turn forwards them to her editor, with the sequences numbered. Music provided by the composer is mixed and the play is ready for public viewing. “One play is released on YouTube every Friday,” informs Dharini adding that on the anvil are Pudumaipithan and Thi. Janakiraman. Sujatha is the author for Friday, May 1.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Heart-warming story with a message||The film is about a person who gives life’s simple joys a pass because of a rare disorder that causes him to faint when he experiences strong emotions. But his life takes a turn when he meets a charming woman. @PriveHD will premiere the romantic comedy film, ‘Ode to Joy,’ based on a true story, tomorrow, 1 p.m. and 9 p.m. Charlie  (Martin Freeman), a kind-hearted yet reclusive  Brooklyn based librarian suffers from a form of narcolepsy that causes him to collapse like dead weight at the sudden exertion of strong sentiments like joy and happiness. This causes him to lead a sedentary lifestyle sans emotion while living a monotonous life. But life throws him a curveball when the over enthusiast and gorgeous Francesca (Morena Baccarin) comes along turning his life upside down. Will Charlie finally have his ‘happily ever after’ life? The film also stars Jason Winer as the duo takes the viewers on a journey of highs and lows through the life of Charlie.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Documentary on Meenakshi temple||HistoryTV18 is premiering ‘Meenakshi Amman & The Marvel Of Madurai,’ on May 4, Monday, 8 p.m. The screening coincides with the famous Chitirai festival, Meenakshi Kalyanam in particular. The iconic festival, steeped in history and legend, stands suspended this year due to the Lockdown. The celestial wedding, however, will be streamed live for the benefit of devotees. Meenakshi Kalyanam, witnessed by lakhs of people, is one of the highlights of the Chitirai festival. Filmed in 2019, the documentary celebrates the legend of Meenakshi — Mother Goddess, Queen, and patron deity of the ancient city of Madurai. It showcases the first two weeks of the grand celebrations in Tamil Nadu’s second-largest city, taking viewers through its history, behind the scenes of key events, along with their back-stories and socio-cultural significance. The narrative includes stories of human interest too. The film explores the historical and architectural significance of Madurai’s glorious landmark, its origin, expansion and present form. High-definition cameras capture the beauty of the thousands of intricately chiselled sculptures and murals inside the temple complex, comprising 14 Gopurams. The Chithirai festival — from ‘Pattabhishekham’ (coronation of the goddess), to ‘Thirukkalyanam’ and the mammoth car festival — is documented in all its colourful glory. the divine wedding, and ‘rathotsavam’ the chariot or car festival. The festivities of course include the coming of Kallazhagar. Watch ‘Meenakshi Amman & The Marvel of Madurai,’ premiering on Monday, May 4, 8 p.m., on HistoryTV18.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||ABHAI fund-raising initiative||ABHAI (Association of Bharatanatyam Artists of India) has started the ‘Abhai — Artists for Artists Welfare Fund’ to help artistes tide over the problems caused because of cancellation of performances and classes. ABHAI came to the rescue of artistes, who suffered heavy losses during the Chennai Floods of 2015 and the Kerala floods in 2018. Now, the COVID Lockdown finds ABHAI back in action. The cancellation of temple festivals has rendered traditional folk dance artistes and nagaswaram and thavil vidwans jobless. Many artistes, philanthropists, institutions and the public in general have contributed to the ABHAI fund, a noted donor being Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Chennai Kendra, with Rs.50,000. Contact 98840 98453/ 99400 18804/ 89037 17751 and abhaichennai@gmail.com.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Sony’s summer treat for kids||In these tough times, here is a reason for kids to smile, rejoice and learn everyday. Sony Yay, a kids channel from Sony Pictures Network, is launching a new segment. As it completes its three-year journey, Sony YAY! continues to add to its expansive multi-genre and multilingual offering. ‘What’s your Summer plan?,’ the latest, aims to entertain kids through summer. ‘Honey Bunny ka Jholmaal,’ ‘Kicko & Super Speedo’ and ‘Paap-O-Meter’ will have new episodes. Besides, eight new Honey & Bunny movies will be premiered in April-May along with one Paap-O-Meter movie in June. These apart, a digital IP – YAY! Summer Camp — will be launched that includes a huge bank of videos covering diverse topics including Art and craft and Zumba Story telling. These videos will be hosted across the Sony YAY! communities on YouTube, Facebook and Instagram. Summer camps with yoga expert Sakshi Kharbanda, gardening pro Smita Kharbanda, India’s first Zumba education specialist Sucheta Pal, science workshop expert Shashank Karam and storytelling by Devaki from Little Readers' Nook are the other areas covered. The Kicko and Super Speedo game package is available on Android play. Honey Bunny will also find a place in the Android store soon.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||01fr_sony Pix||Sony Pix Johnny English Reborn  After a disastrous mission in Mozambique, British agent Johnny English (Rowan Atkinson) has retreated to a Tibetan monastery to try to forget his shame. But when he receives an urgent call from MI-7 to lead a mission that only he can handle, Johnny is back in action. Using his questionable combat skills and an assortment of hi-tech gadgets, Johnny English, along with his new partner, Agent Tucker (Daniel Kaluuya), must foil a plot to kill the Chinese premier. Sunday, 9 p.m. Geostorm After an unprecedented series of natural disasters threatened the planet, the world's leaders came together to create an intricate network of satellites to control the global climate and keep everyone safe. But now, something has gone wrong: the system built to protect Earth is attacking it, and it becomes a race against time to uncover the real threat before a worldwide geostorm wipes out everything and everyone along with it. Monday, 7 p.m. Journey 2: The Mysterious Island Now 17, Sean Anderson (Josh Hutcherson) receives a coded distress signal from an island where none should exist. Knowing that he will not be able to dissuade Sean from tracking the signal to its source, Hank (Dwayne Johnson), Sean’s stepfather joins the teen on a quest to the South Pacific. Together with helicopter pilot Gabato (Luis Guzmán) and Gabato’s feisty daughter, Kailani (Vanessa Hudgens), they set out to find the island and rescue its sole human inhabitant (Michael Caine). Tuesday, 7.30 p.m.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||01fr_tubewatch||Sony BBC Earth Indian Ocean with Simon Reeve  With its sun-bleached shores and stunning islands, the Indian Ocean washes some of the most beautiful and exotic locations on the planet: Zanzibar, the Seyche, Mauritius, the Tasman Sea… But the world’s third largest body of water is also crucial to its future - politically, economically and environmentally. From pirates plaguing ships off the coast of Somalia, to the Tamils of Sri Lanka and the rise of militant Islam in Yemen and Sumatra, the region touches places of extreme volatility. It is also increasingly the hub of global trade and competition, and industrial activity is having a huge impact. Simon Reeve brings his unique brand of adventure journalism to this portrait of a fascinating and increasingly important area, as he engages in the lives and struggles of its varied coastal peoples. Saturday, 9 p.m.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Migrants feel returning home is a more suitable option for them||Outside a food distribution centre in the city, migrant workers queued up for their daily meals under the scorching son. All of them have been out of work for over a month now. Hailing mostly from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal, they said returning to their villages was a more suitable option for them rather than living under poor conditions in the Capital, where they came in search of livelihood. But their wait to return is getting longer day by day as there is no communication from the authorities. For Gandhi Mandal and Ravidas, both from Bihar, a journey to the national capital every few months was a normal affair. But this time they got “stuck” in the city.  “For the last 10 years we have been coming to Delhi and most of us are daily wage labourers. We stay here for a short while — between four to nine months — and then return to our villages. The constant need to look for work is what drives us to the Capital. We got stuck here this time,” said Mandal, who reached Delhi a month before the nationwide lockdown came into force. A resident of Katihar district in Bihar,  Ravidas said, “We want to return as soon as possible as our families are waiting for us. With no work and erratic food supply, how long can we continue here like this?” Domon Mandal, a native of West Bengal’s Malda district said: “We are so poor that we have to do some work or the other. If we are not getting that here, we might as well return to our families. Here we get thrashed by the police as they enforce numerous restrictions and we have nowhere to go. Though we heard that the government is willing to help us, we have not received any direct communication from authorities.” “Whether we will return or not is something to be thought later. First we need to save ourselves from this situation,” Mandal added. Registration woes Some workers residing in Sriniwaspuri claimed that the police had refused to get their names registered when approached during a registration drive in neighbouring Nehru Nagar. Displaying his government ID, Dilip Paswan, a resident of JJ Indira Camp said: “We have made a list of over 100 people who are willing to return home and have kept documents like aadhaar cards ready. But no one has come to us for the registration. When we heard about registration drive in Nehru Nagar, we went there. But the police refused to register us citing some jurisdiction issue.” At a government school near Masjid Moth, Seema, a 26-year-old daily wage labourer, said: “The government makes announcements but how do we believe unless we see the process start. If we manage to go back, there is no question of coming back in the near future. We can’t take this risk again.”
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Application date for JNU exam extended||The last date for submitting applications for Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) entrance examination has been extended to May 15. Earlier, it was April 30. The National Testing Agency (NTA), which is conducting the online entrance examination for the university, said: “Due to the prevailing difficult circumstances, the NTA has extended the deadline of registration and submission of application forms for the JNUEE 2020 entrance examinations to May 15.” It, however, did not mention when the examination scheduled for mid-May was likely to be conducted. On Thursday, the university conducted a webinar on how to keep the teaching-learning process going smoothly during COVID-19 pandemic. “It is important that teachers learn how to use digital platforms. Post-COVID-19 too, digital platforms are going to be important. Time has come to decide which part of education can be online and which can be in the class room. Online education is going to bring more flexibility and greater access to education,” said JNU V-C M. Jagadesh Kumar. He also welcomed the UGC guidelines on examinations and academic calendar for the universities in view of COVID-19. “These guidelines emphasise the need to follow the measures taken by the government to contain the spread of COVID-19 while making sure that the educational processes continue by an effective use of various available technological options,” the V-C added. He said it makes sense to reschedule the academic calendar 2019- 2020 because after the lockdown is lifted, it will take some time for the students to complete their examinations and move on to the next academic session.
01 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram issues orders barring cross-border movement to curb spread of COVID-19||A day after Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal said the government had taken the “tough decision” to seal its borders with Delhi to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the Gurugram District administration issued orders barring cross-border movement, except for essential commodities vehicles, ambulances and Central government officials. The orders will come into force from 10 a.m. on May 1. The District Magistrates of Jhajjar, Sonipat and Faridabad also revised their earlier orders restricting the cross-border movement to issue similar directions. With 156 COVID-19 cases, the four districts bordering Delhi account for 46% of the total cases in Haryana. Faridabad with 53 cases also recorded the first COVID-19 death on Wednesday. The district has reported seven new cases in a single day. The four-page orders stated that despite the lockdown efforts there were still cases of COVID-19 with the contact history traced to cross-border sources. As per the directions, commuting across the border would not be allowed and those who need to travel for work daily should make accommodation arrangements at their respective workplaces. The movement, except in case of exemptions, is allowed only with specific permission granted by the office of the Deputy Magistrate. However, even in case of exemptions, the installation of Aarogya Setu application is mandatory, besides thermal and symptomatic screening at the border. District Magistrate (Gurugram) Amit Khatri said mediapersons were not exempted under the orders. 3 more test positive Meanwhile, two nurses at Medanta Hospital and another woman tested positive for COVID-19 in Gurugram taking the total number of cases to 57. A total of 5,857 samples have been taken so far in the district and the results for 301 are awaited. The district has 19 active cases. With 18 COVID-19 cases reported on Wednesday, Jhajjar has 24 cases. Sonipat has 25 cases so far.
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||Guidelines issued for home isolation of positive cases||The Delhi government on Thursday issued guidelines for “home isolation” of people who have tested positive for COVID-19. For a patient to be treated at their house, the person should be clinically assigned as a “very mild case/pre-symptomatic case” by the treating medical officer or by the in-charge of nearby public health facility, the guidelines stated. These patients do not need to get admitted to a hospital or any other facility and can be treated by a caregiver at their own houses. “Such cases should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts,” the guidelines read. Also, the person will have a stamp reading — committed to home isolation — on his/her left hand with the date of release, which is 16 days from the date of sample taking. A sticker will also be pasted outside the patient’s residence. A health team under the supervision of a medical officer of the public primary healthcare facility will visit the house and also give a list of advisory. They will also make the person download Arogya Setu App on their mobile phone. The patients need to be active at all time on the app. “A caregiver should be available on a 24X7 basis. A communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a prerequisite for the entire duration of home isolation. The caregiver and all close contacts of such cases should take hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) prophylaxis as per protocol and as prescribed by the treating medical officer,” the guidelines read. A surveillance team will monitor the medical condition of the patient and caregiver over phone or any other mode which the District Surveillance Officer decides. On the 14th day of the home quarantine, another sample will be collected. If the person tests negative then 24 hours after this, he or she can visit the COVID-19 testing centre or hospital for another testing. Two consecutive samples are to be tested negative for the home isolation to end. If the two subsequent samples tested are not negative then home isolation will be extended as per prevailing guidelines. “If tested positive on the 14th day, then a stamp on the right hand for an extension for another five days will be placed,” it read.
01 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ensure children are not malnourished: NGO to govt.||Mobile Creches (MC) — an NGO working for the rights of vulnerable children for quality Early Childhood Development — on Thursday said as a part of the COVID-19 emergency relief response, governments are not adequately addressing the needs of children such as care, balanced nutrition, health and hygiene. Also, early learning has taken a backseat, the NGO stated. “The risks of increasing malnutrition levels is very high as a result of increased hunger among children during the pandemic,” the organisation said and called for the implementation of a Supreme Court order of March 18 that had said: “the schemes for providing nutritious food to the children and nursing and lactating mothers are not adversely affected” during the restrictions imposed due to COVID-19. Sumitra Mishra, executive director, MC said thousands of people, including young children are living across construction sites, labour camps, temporary shelters, urban slums without access to basic food, health, safety and protection systems.
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||Nikon launches online photography classes||Camera company Nikon India has launched an online photography class in collaboration with various renowned photographers, starting with Padma Shri Awardee Raghu Rai. Each class is hosted by a professional photographer to offer in-depth knowledge, the company said. It added that the idea of conducting these classes is to not only provide guidance but also assist the community with some tips and tricks. The classes are also available through live video streaming on the company's social media handles.
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||DCP Rajan Bhagat retires||An IPS officer of the 2008 batch AGMUT cadre, Rajan Bhagat, who served the longest stint as the spokesperson of the Delhi Police, on Thursday retired after a career spanning close to four decades. Mr. Bhagat, who joined the force as a Sub-Inspector in 1981 and was currently posted as DCP (Crime), received a President Police Medal for meritorious service in 2003 and a President Police Medal for distinguished service in 2011. He also received a National Award for being behind the Lost Report Application of Delhi Police for Innovative Use of Technology in e-Governance in 2016.
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Working on SOP for movement of labourers’||The police and the government are working on standard operating procedure (SOP) for the movement of migrant labourers and other stranded people after the Ministry of Home Affairs issued guidelines regarding the same, said officials on Thursday. They are in regular contact with the officials of other States, the police said. The MHA on Wednesday issued a fresh set of guidelines to help migrant workers, students, tourists and pilgrims stranded in different parts of the country reach their respective home towns. “The government and the police are finalising its modalities and working on the SOP,” said Delhi Police PRO Mandeep Singh Randhawa. The inter-State movement of these people will be facilitated by the State/UT governments by road only, the order stated. “People will have to register themselves so that their movements till their homes can be regulated. Till the time your SOP is being finalised, we request you to not pay attention to any social media posts. The police will take strict actions against people for spreading rumours,” Mr. Randhawa said.
01 May 2020||May 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Nikhil- inset with lead||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said the government was in touch with other States for sending people back to their own places. He added that the government will screen people before sending them back. On Wednesday, the Ministry of Home Affairs allowed inter-State movement of stranded tourists, pilgrims, students and migrant workers following which Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said the government was in the process of formulating a plan regarding the movement of migrant workers to their respective States.
01 May 2020||New Delhi,||Drive against stray cattle and illegal dairy owners||Nearly 250 stray cattle have been impounded by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation following an intensive five-day drive near Azadpur Mandi, the civic body said on Thursday. FIRs have also been lodged against at least 11 illegal dairy owners under relevant IPC sections, it added.
