01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre invites farmers’ unions for talks||It is time for the Prime Minister to listen to the “ mann ki baat ” of the farmers or pay a heavy price for not doing so, their leaders said on Monday, the fifth day of their protest on the borders of Delhi. Their demand for the repeal of the Centre’s three agricultural reform laws is non-negotiable, they added. After the protesting farmers rejected Home Minister Amit Shah’s invitation for talks on the condition that the protest be moved to the Burari grounds, there have been at least two meetings among senior Ministers and Cabinet officials, and several unofficial contacts between the government and the Punjab farmers’ union leaders. Mr. Shah and Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar met BJP president J.P. Nadda late on Sunday. Mr. Tomar was seen leaving Mr. Shah’s residence again on Monday afternoon. Some Punjab farmers’ union leaders said they received calls from senior bureaucrats and politicians, including Mr. Shah himself, with possible invitations for unconditional talks on Tuesday. “The Punjab leaders have responded that the invitation must come officially, but we have not got anything in writing yet,” said one leader, who did not wish to be quoted. More farmers gather Tens of thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at the Tikri and Singhu border crossings for five days, and a crowd is now growing at the Ghazipur border point as well. Traffic into the city has been severely affected, and farmers have threatened to block five border points as more protesters are mobilised. A senior Cabinet Minister who hails from Punjab also signalled that the Centre may be ready for an unconditional dialogue. “Talks are always held without preconditions or preconceived notions. I sincerely hope that the Ministers will listen to all their genuine demands, they will be considered and whatever problems they have will be solved,” Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri told news agency ANI.
01 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Naidu, 12 TDP MLAs suspended from Assembly for a day||The Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly witnessed high drama on Day One of its winter session on Monday as the ruling and Opposition parties locked horns on the government’s claim on compensation to the farm sector due to cyclone Nivar in Rayalaseema and a few coastal districts. What pitted them against each another was the denial of an opportunity to former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu to speak on the matter after Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy gave a clarification on the issues raised by TDP MLA Payyavula Keshav, who started it all by alleging that Agriculture Minister K. Kanna Babu misled the House on crop insurance, which the government boasted of. Mr. Keshav kept shouting at the top of his voice when it was TDLP leader Nimmala Rama Naidu’s turn to give his party’s version on the subject. As Mr. Chandrababu Naidu stood up and insisted that he be allowed to make his point, Deputy Speaker Kona Raghupathi refused, saying it was for Mr. Rama Naidu to respond to the Chief Minister’s remarksand the matter was not up for discussion. Infuriated by the Chief Minister’s objection to his demand, Mr. Chandrababu Naidu and 12 other MLAs squatted on the floor in front of the Speaker's podium. Their protest evoked a strong reaction from Mr. Jagan, who said Mr. Chandrabau Naidu's demand was in violation of the procedural norms and he could not dictate to the House by “behaving like a rowdy”. The YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and TDP MLAs rushed menacingly towards each other at this moment plunging the House into chaos for about half an hour. When repeated pleas by Mr. Raghupathi and Speaker Thammineni Seetharam later to the TDP MLAs to return to their seats were not heeded, Information & Public Relations and Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah moved a motion for suspending the agitating members for the day resulting the marshals carrying away five of them, while the others including Mr. Chandrababu Naidu, walked out. The day's proceedings came to a close with the adoption of a resolution moved by Finance and Legislative Affairs Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy which condemned the TDP MLAs’ behaviour and proposed steps to prevent such incidents from recurring in the future. Some YSRCP MLAs described the Opposition leader’s action (of sitting on the floor) as unprecedented and alleged that it was intended to derive political mileage.
01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Health Ministry issues norms to curb virus spread in markets||Cautioning that shop owners, employees and visitors living in containment zones shall not be allowed entry into marketplaces, the Union Health Ministry, on Monday, released its SOP on “preventive measures in markets to contain spread of COVID-19”. The measures include levying of fines/penalties on defaulters for not wearing mask/face cover, or for not following physical distancing norms, exploring the option of allowing markets/shops to open on alternate days, and the possible incentive/ discounts for those who shop during non-peak hours. The Ministry has advised closure of markets in case a larger number of cases are reported by the administration with epidemiological links with the market. It added that there has to be effective crowd management in specific cases of local Metro rail stoppages at stations directly feeding into markets and that provision for online booking of groceries/ items and delivery at the doorstep must be encouraged, where vendors should ensure that the staff who make home deliveries undergo thermal screening. The SOP further added that vehicles may only be allowed to be parked in assigned parking lots and that proper crowd management in the parking lots and outside the premises — duly following physical distancing norms must be ensured. “CCTV monitoring may be considered to detect overcrowding and staggered time of opening shops/utilities should be explored to allow them to remain open for longer duration,” noted the SOP. The Ministry has said that marketplaces are visited by a large number of people for their daily needs. “Amid the COVID pandemic, with gradual opening of economic activities, markets are witnessing high footfalls. Such large gatherings, without observance of COVID- 19 appropriate behaviour, have the potential to spread coronavirus disease,” it warned. It noted that there should be separate entry and exit points, if feasible, with unidirectional flow of visitors. “Roads within the marketplaces may be made vehicle-free (including cycle/ electricrickshaws) and secured only for pedestrians/bicycles as far as possible, and strict penal action against illegal parking on market roads may be taken by law enforcing authorities,” the SOP said.
01 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Man sentenced to life for sexually abusing daughters||The Fast Track Special Court (FTSC)-1 (PoCSO Court) in Udupi on Monday sentenced a man to life on finding him guilty of sexually abusing his teenaged daughters. This is the first case of a man accused under Section 6 of PoCSO Act being given the maximum punishment in Udupi district as per an amendment made to the Act in 2019. FTSC Judge Yadav Vanamala Anandrao, who found the accused guilty under Section 376 of IPC and Section 6, its equivalent in PoCSO Act, ruled that the accused will have to pay a fine of Rs. 15,000. Finding the man guilty under Section 10 of the Act, the judge directed him to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000 and an equivalent amount for the charge under Section 506 of IPC. Both sections warranted the accused to undergo seven years rigorous imprisonment. According to Special Public Prosecutor, FTSC-1 Y.T. Raghavendra, the court directed the accused to undergo one year imprisonment if he defaulted in paying fine. In addition, the court directed the State to pay a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the elder of the two teenaged daughters of the accused, whom the man sexually assaulted, and Rs. 1.5 lakh to the younger one whom he molested, under the Victim Compensation Scheme. The District Legal Services Authority will hand over this amount to the victims who are under State care, at a later date through the Department of Women and Child Welfare, he said. A case in this connection had been registered in the Hebri Police Station after a complaint the Child Protection Unit received based on information that an anganwadi teacher gave it [Child Protection Unit] on October 1, 2019. The court heard the testimony of eight of the 26 witnesses listed by Prosecution.
01 December 2020||GUNTUR,||Amaravati farmers try to block Jagan’s convoy||Tense moments were witnessed on Monday morning when several protesters, demanding that the Capital be located at Amaravati, tried to block the convoy of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. However, a heavy police bandobust ensured that the convoy sped past the protesters. The protest against the decision of the YSRCP government to have three capitals entered the 349th day with some of the protesters demanding that the State Government start a dialogue with them. The police personnel formed a chain as the convoy was passing through Mandadam village en route to Assembly and ensured that the protesters did not block the convoy. Gadde Seshagiri Rao, secretary of Joint Action Committee, said that they would follow the protesting farmers from Punjab, who laid siege to Capital Delhi and had been protesting at the border.
01 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Government itself will settle crop insurance claims’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said the government will settle crop insurance claims (CICs) for the 2020 kharif season by March-April 2021 after the crop cutting experiments are over by the end of January and the Planning Department submits its report in February. Never in the State’s history was a CIC settled in less than a year and there were claims pending from 2012. Besides, the premium rates were so high that the farmers could not afford to pay. Taking this grim scenario into consideration, the government has decided to set up Andhra Pradesh General Insurance Corporation (APGIC) on its own to promptly pay insurance to farmers instead of leaving at the mercy of insurance companies. The proposal to establish it was sent to the Central government to obtain necessary clearances, the Chief Minister said, while claiming to have disbursed Rs. 13,000 crore under the ‘Rythu Bharosa’ scheme in just 18 months after his party came to power. Procurement Another thing which the government took upon itself was the procurement of discoloured and sprouted grains especially paddy, which was largely confined to rhetoric previously. Making a statement in the Legislative Assembly on the schemes being implemented in the agriculture sector, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the government categorically stated that the enumeration of loss caused by cyclone Nivar to the farm sector would be completed by December 15 and compensation paid by December 31. An ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh each has already been paid to the families of eight persons who died during the Cyclone Nivar, and Rs. 500 was paid to each person (irrespective of age) who took shelter in relief camps. “Work on restoration of public infrastructure is going on at a brisk pace. Also, damages to private buildings will be compensated after assessment by December 15.” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy further said the government had cleared free power dues amounting to roughly Rs. 8,655 crore which were passed on by its predecessor. Similarly, input subsidy running into hundreds of crores of rupees were paid to the farmers.
01 December 2020||Mumbai,||MiG-29K crash: Navy’s search for missing pilot continues||Indian Navy’s operation to locate the second pilot of the MiG-29K trainer aircraft which ditched off Goa on November 26, continued with extensive deployment of ships and aircraft, a spokesperson said on Monday. Intensive aerial, coastal and surface search by Indian Navy ships and aircraft is in progress to locate the second pilot Cdr Nishant Singh, according to a defence release. “Underwater search by divers and sea bed mapping using specialised equipment in vicinity of primary wreckage of MiG-29K is being undertaken,” it said. The Navy had said on Sunday that some debris of the aircraft, including landing gear, turbo charger, fuel tank engine and wing engine cowling, had been located. The Russian-origin jet had taken off from aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya , and went down at around 5 p.m. on Thursday, officials had said, adding that one pilot had been rescued. The MiG-29K is an all-weather carrier-based multi-role fighter aircraft developed by Russian aerospace company Mikoyan (MiG). The Indian Navy had procured a fleet of 45 MiG-29Ks from Russia over a decade back at a cost of around $2 billion to operate from INS Vikramaditya .  INS Vikramaditya was part of the second phase of the Malabar exercise involving navies of India, the U.S., Australia and Japan. The MIG-29K fleet on board the aircraft carrier was also involved in the mega naval drill that took place from November 17 to 20.
01 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Isaac gives reply to Speaker||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac appeared before Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan on Monday and gave his explanation in connection with a breach of privilege notice moved by Congress legislator V.D. Satheesan. Dr. Isaac gave the explanation sought by the Speaker on the basis of the notice moved under Section 159 of the Kerala Legislative Assembly, Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business. Mr. Satheesan had alleged that Dr. Isaac had infringed on the rights of the House by prematurely disclosing the details of an audit report of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) for 2018-19 by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). In his explanation, Dr. Isaac reportedly said he thought it was a draft report from the CAG and that he assumed that the CAG would seek the opinion of the government ahead of preparing the final report. However, it was only later that he realised that the report referred by him was the final CAG report. Later, speaking to the media, the Minister hoped that the Speaker would take appropriate action and that he was ready to appear before the Privileges and Ethics Committee to explain the facts.  On raid on KSFE  “As it is election time, many are interested in dragging on the issue. I have nothing more to add to what I said,” the Minister said about the VACB raid on KSFE branches. Action would be taken on the basis of the VACB report. The details of the report had come not to the department but in the media.
01 December 2020||Kolkata,||Artist transforms Lalbazar into village of dreams||Two years ago, Kolkata-based artist Mrinal Mandal was so captivated by the charm of a tiny village — close to where West Bengal borders Jharkhand — that he decided to make the hamlet of some 80 people his second home. In doing so, he has demonstrated how art is capable of rescuing a human settlement from neglect and poverty. “I have been travelling in search of folk art from the time I graduated from the Government Arts College 20 years ago,” Mr. Mandal, 42, told The Hindu . “In 2018, I chanced upon this village, surrounded by forests, and I immediately took a liking for it. I decided to make it a beautiful village by teaching art to its people.” Today, the residents of the village — officially called Lalbazar but christened Khwaabgram, or village of dreams, by one of the admirers of the project — earn a decent income by selling paintings and handicraft to tourists, whose increasing presence, in turn, has earned it the attention of the local authorities. “These people are from the Lodha tribe, once outlawed by the British. Traditionally, they are shy people; if you built a house next to theirs, they would shift elsewhere. It wasn’t easy for me to make friends with them, until I began making drawings related to their life,” said Mr. Mandal, who lives in Jhargram and commutes to Khwaabgram on a daily basis. Until he arrived on the scene, the villagers mainly worked as labourers in nearby farms. Some of them were small farmers. Today, they are trained in kutum-katum (handicraft made from twigs and roots), kantha stitching, pottery and wall painting. “All these years, I survived on whatever little I made from farming,” said Sashti Charan Ahi, 46, who, in spite of a physical handicap, is today a successful artist.
01 December 2020||COIMBATORE,||Lawyer, wife get double life term||The Fifth Additional District Court in Coimbatore on Monday awarded double life sentence to advocate E.T. Rajavel (52) and his wife R. Mohana (45) for the murder of a 45-year-old woman in 2011 that they had plotted and executed to fake Mohana’s death. Judge T.H. Mohammed Farooq also sentenced the couple’s driver P. Palanisamy (48) from Podanur to undergo life imprisonment for his role in the murder of the woman, Ammasai, from Sivananda Colony. Ammasai had approached Rajavel for legal consultation on December 10, 2011. The woman visited the advocate again at his office at Gopalapuram near Coimbatore Collectorate on December 11, after which she was reported missing. While the Rathinapuri police registered a case following Ammasai’s missing, Rajavel made relatives and others believe that Mohana had died of a sudden health complication and the body was cremated on December 12. He managed to obtain a death certificate in the name of Mohana. However, the police, based on inputs given by the registration department officials, found that Mohana was alive as she and Rajavel made efforts to get a property registered in her name later. The couple, Palanisamy and their aide P. Ponraj (39) alias Ponnarasu from Pillaiyarpuram were arrested in December 2013, nearly two years after the murder. Cheating case The investigating team found that Rajavel murdered Ammasai with the help of Palanisamy and Ponraj at his office on December 11, 2012 to fake the death of Mohana who was then wanted by the Odisha police in a cheating case involving Rs. 12 crore. Apart from the two life terms, Rajavel was awarded five sets of seven years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) and a two years of RI for other offences including forgery and destruction of evidence. The court also awarded seven years of RI to Mohana and Palanisamy for two different offences. All the sentences will run concurrently. Fine ordered The judge slapped a total fine of Rs. 80,000 on Rajavel, Rs. 55,000 on Mohana and Rs. 30,000 on Palanisamy. Special Public Prosecutor U. Sankaranarayanan said the court also ordered that the legal heirs of the murdered woman be paid Rs. 1.2 lakh from the total penalty. Ammasai’s husband Marimuthu, son Rajendran and daughter Sagunthaladevi were present in the court when the verdict was pronounced. “We feel happy as the court has finally punished the guilty,” said Mr. Rajendran. Ponraj, who was an approver in the case in the initial stage, was not part of the trial as he later turned hostile. The prosecution has filed an application for a separate trial of Ponraj for his role in the murder.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Cross-border terror biggest challenge for SCO region: Venkaiah||Cross-border terrorism is the biggest challenge for countries belonging to the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, said Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu while chairing a meeting of the SCO heads of government, comprising India, Russia, China, Pakistan and four Central Asian states. Without identifying Pakistan, he stated that India was concerned about state-sponsored terrorism. “The most important challenge faced by us in the region is terrorism, particularly cross-border terrorism. Terrorism is truly the enemy of humanity. It is a scourge we need to collectively combat,” said Mr. Naidu, who stood in for Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the PM-level conference. “We remain concerned about threats emerging from ungoverned spaces and are particularly concerned about states that leverage terrorism as an instrument of state policy.” Imran skips meet Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan also decided to skip the meet hosted by India, sending the Parliamentary Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Andleeb Abbas, in his place. Condemning terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, including “state terrorism inflicted upon people living under foreign occupation in disputed territories”, Mr. Abbas cautioned against the recent “rise in extremist and racist incidents, inspired by neo-Nazism and Islamophobia,” in a veiled reference to the Kashmir dispute. A joint communiqué issued at the end of the meeting, however, made no reference to terrorism. Close cooperation The SCO Council that focuses on trade and economic issues said all countries in the grouping were committed to cooperating on the “prevention and control of infectious and non-infectious diseases, responding to sanitary and epidemiological emergencies, eliminating the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, countering the circulation of counterfeit medicines and developing medical tourism”.
01 December 2020||Ghaziabad,||Hit by pandemic restrictions, wedding industry faces the music in Uttar Pradesh||Instead of perfume, it is the smell of sanitiser that pervades the air. The groom is welcomed by a mustachioed guard holding a thermal device to test his temperature before the bride’s sister brings the aarti thali (plate). It is next to impossible to convince the female guests to put the masks on. After all, they have spent thousands of rupees on make-up. This wedding season, life in a banquet hall has been reduced to a long list of dos and don’ts and the stakeholders are feeling the pinch. As the guests come and go, the manager is busy reminding the parents of the groom and the bride to keep the number to 100, the prescribed limit by the government. The reference point is a Meerut case where the manager of the banquet hall, along with fathers of bride and groom, were booked for flouting COVID-19 norms. Nobody wants to be labelled a “super spreader”. “Keep them floating”, is the new mantra but is hard to practise. How would you ask the groom’s friends jiving to “ Mere yaar ki shaadi hai ” to maintain social distance. Heavy losses “We are running heavy losses. This is a business where commitment has to be kept and right now we are fulfilling just that,” says Pradeep Sharma, general manager of Rudrakshaa banquet hall on Vaishali Metro premises in Ghazia-bad. Rudrakshaa has put billboards reminding guests to follow COVID protocol, including downloading the Aarogya Setu app. Giving a sense of the changed scenario, Mr. Sharma says his banquet hall has a seating capacity on the ground floor for 270 people. “For maintaining social distancing, we reduced it to 200 but now we offer only 100, following the government guidelines. We can’t survive with these numbers as our input costs on lighting, staff salary, maintenance and rent remain the same.” The surge in COVID-19 cases after Deepavali, he says, has come as a double whammy for the wedding industry. “We were sinking after the April season was washed out. We expected to breathe easy this season but now we are choking again. After December 12, for the next four months, there is no work as there is no auspicious date for weddings. If we see a surge in April as well, the industry would be finished,” he says. “Aeroplanes and buses are running to full capacity but a banquet hall, which has a capacity to accommodate 1,000 guests, can host only 100.” This many people, he says, could be seen outside a wine shop near his hall. “This is unjustified and I appeal to the government to relax the restrictions,” says Vivek Mohan, who runs a wedding farm on NH-9 on lease. He, however, agrees that the surge in COVID-19 numbers is real as many weddings are getting postponed or cancelled because somebody in the family has been hospitalised or died because of the infection. “The sudden cancellations are adding to our losses as there is no point in keeping the booking amount and harassing a family that is already grieving. Anyway, forfeiting the advance amount of Rs. 50,000 for a booking of Rs. 5 lakh doesn’t make any sense,” he says.  Md. Aslam, the bandmaster of Punjab band, plays his trumpet to show how his lungs are in good shape. “An atmosphere of fear is being created, keeping us of out of business. We are artists, we can’t suddenly start lifting bricks,” he avers. “Earlier, we had bookings for three shifts and up to 30 members used to play. Now we have only one and that too not on all the dates of the season and the number of members has come down to 15, including those holding the lights.”
01 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Faced suspension for sake of farmers’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu said that he had faced suspension from the house for the first time in his political career for the sake of farmers. “I endured the humiliation and suspension for the sake of the farmers who suffered losses owing to the rain ,” he said. “No Chief Minister ever dared to mete out such humiliation and disrespect to the Leader of Opposition,” he said.
01 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Suspicion about man-eater on the prowl||Suspicions about the presence of a man-eating tiger around the Dahegaon and Penchikalpet mandals of the Kumram Bheem Asifabad district are getting strengthened, based on the corroborative evidence. Two incidents of tiger attack in quick succession add to the doubts. On Sunday, a tribal girl P.Nirmala aged 15 was fatally attacked by the tiger, when she was picking cotton in a field abutting forest area. Over a fortnight ago, another youth Sidam Vignesh too became victim of a tiger attack, and evidence suggests that the animal had eaten from the body. While a single instance of human meat consumption may not be construed as evidence of a tiger turning man-eater, the animal’s behaviour in the latest instance is strongly suggestive of such tendency. “Normal tigers shy away from human beings. But this one had stalked the girl before pouncing, and shown aggression when her body was being removed,” said an official under the condition of anonymity. The animal, which had retreated hearing the relatives and others scream, apparently returned and tried to stalk the group menacingly when her body was being removed, the villagers reported to the forest officials. It disappeared again after villagers shouted and threw stones at it. More worrisome is another piece of information shared by another villager whose bullock cart was followed by the tiger for some distance on the road. “The villager reported that the bullocks panicked when they noticed the animal on their trail, following which the tiger vanished into the cotton crop which was standing six feet on the roadside. He had not noticed that there were people working in the field,” another official informed. Villagers also observed tiger movements on the road side after the incident, but it was said to be another native cat which had not been known to harm any human beings. For the villagers in Penchikalpet and Dahegaon mandals, tiger sightings are regular occurrences, hence spotting one seldom creates alarm. While Forest officials are steadfast on their claim that the tiger which had attacked Sidam Vignesh was different, and that it had moved to Maharashtra following the attack, no pug marks could be recovered from the area around the attack spot on Sunday. “It is a kneejerk reaction to announce that the animal is not the same, without even obtaining the pug marks. The same animal might have returned from Maharashtra, or the attacker may be a native tiger. It is too early to say,” a wildlife expert opined. Two teams have been sent into the forest to trace the animal and two trap cages have been set up to capture it, informed officials. Already, camera traps have been deployed to capture images of the animal. Forest officials also have started alerting the surrounding villages about the presence of a tiger, and issuing the protocol to be followed while moving around.
01 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/Chennai,||Depression puts south T.N., Kerala on cyclone watch||Another potential cyclonic storm, brewing over southeast Bay of Bengal, may strike the Sri Lanka coast first and then emerge into the Comorin area on December 3, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, declaring a pre-cyclone watch for the south Tamil Nadu and south Kerala coasts. A depression which lay east-southeast off Kanniyakumari and Trincomalee on Monday noon was expected to concentrate into a deep depression early on Tuesday and transform into a cyclonic storm in the subsequent 24 hours. The cyclonic storm is expected to cross the Sri Lankan coast during Wednesday evening/night. By Thursday morning, it is expected to emerge into the Kanniyakumari region, the IMD said. Heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy falls is likely in Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga districts of Tamil Nadu (above 24 cm); and Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts of Kerala on Wednesday and Thursday. These regions can also expect isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall on Tuesday and Friday, the IMD said. Should the system develop into a cyclonic storm, it may be named Burevi, a name suggested by Maldives. Officials said heavy rain in one or two places may start over Tamil Nadu’s delta and southern districts such as Thanjavur, Sivaganga, Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari on Tuesday and continue for two days. Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts may receive isolated heavy rain on Wednesday. Red alert for Kerala Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts have been put on red alert for Thursday, given the likelihood of extremely heavy rainfall. Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki are on orange alert on the same day for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall. Yellow alerts for isolated heavy rainfall are in place for Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam on Tuesday. On Wednesday, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki are on orange alert and Alappuzha, Ernakulam and Kottayam on yellow alert. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanam- thitta and Alappuzha are on orange alert on Friday and Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki on yellow alert. Squally winds with speeds reaching 55-65 kmph gusting to 75 kmph are expected over Gulf of Mannar, along and off south Tamil Nadu and Kerala coasts, Lakshadweep, Maldives and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea. for two days from Thursday.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||All-party meet on Friday||The government has called an all-party meeting on December 4 to discuss the COVID-19 situation. Sources confirmed that floor leaders of all political parties in Parliament have been invited by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi.page 10
01 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||Opposition is misleading farmers: Modi||Amid the protests in and around the national capital, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday accused the Opposition parties of spreading propaganda that the new farm laws would bring adverse consequences for farmers. Mr. Modi said the agricultural reforms introduced by his government would provide farmers with new options, and legal protection against fraud and cheating. Speaking at an event in his Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi, Mr. Modi explained the measures taken by his government in the interests of farmers and assured “farmer families that still have some concerns” that the government was making every effort to resolve them.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Remembering the Guru||
01 December 2020||JAIPUR/Gurugram,||RLP threatens to quit NDA over farm laws||The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, a constituent of the NDA in Rajasthan, on Monday expressed unhappiness over the Centre’s farm laws and said it would “reconsider its alliance” with the BJP if the new legislations were not withdrawn. In Haryana, Independent MLA Sombir Sangwan resigned as the chairman of the livestock development board in support of the farmers’ agitation. He is the first MLA supporting the BJP-JJP coalition to resign.
01 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Advocates want police inspector suspended||Advocates in Hubballi-Dharwad are up in arms against the police as an advocate was said to have been handcuffed while being taken to the police station. They have demanded the suspension of the inspector of APMC Police Station in Hubballi who has now been transferred. After the incident happened last week, police personnel of APMC Police Station too reportedly complained to their higher-ups that they were not being allowed to discharge their normal duties. As the issue started getting complicated, Inspector-General of Police Northern Range Raghavendra Suhas heard the police personnel and also the advocates and subsequently, transferred APMC Navanagar Police Inspector Prabhu Surin and a few constables to ease the tension. However, the advocates are not happy with the development as they want suspension of the inspector. On Monday, an emergency meeting of the Dharwad Bar Association was called for to discuss the future course of action. In a press note issued later, the Dharwad Bar Association has taken exception to the handcuffing of advocate Vinod Patil and the case registered against him and demanded the suspension and arrest of Prabhu Surin before 3 p.m. on Tuesday failing which they would be forced to intensify their agitation. Meanwhile, in Hubballi, an emergency general body meeting of the Hubballi Bar Association was held under the chairmanship of association president Ashok Baligar and a resolution to urge the Home Minister seeking the suspension of the inspector was passed. Subsequently, the Bar Association wrote to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Santosh denies suicide attempt||N.R. Santosh, Political Secretary to the Chief Minister, who was discharged from hospital on Monday, has denied attempting suicide. He was admitted to M.S. Ramaiah Hospital late on November 28 after he attempted to end his life consuming sleeping pills. However, Mr. Santosh said he “mistakenly took a slight overdose of sleeping pills” and became drowsy. He said he had mistakenly consumed two tablets instead of half, and not 12 as reported in the FIR. A senior police officer said since he was denying attempting suicide, the probe may have reached a dead end.
01 December 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal BJP chief sends legal notice to Abhishek||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh, who on Monday sent a legal notice to Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee through his lawyer on Monday, said the State’s ruling party will get a taste of its own medicine. At a rally on Sunday, Mr. Banerjee, while addressing a public rally at Diamond Harbour, had called Mr. Ghosh a “goon” and “mafia”, and dared the BJP leadership to take legal action against him. “Abhishek has seen nothing of goondaism so far. We [the BJP] will do it in greater measure. They [the Trinamool Congress] will get the taste of their own medicine,” Mr. Ghosh said, adding that if standing up for people is doing “goondaism”, the BJP will continue to do so in greater measure. Referring to the legal notice, Mr. Ghosh said Mr. Banerjee was second-in-command of the Trinamool, and was using such language against the State president of an Opposition party [the BJP].
01 December 2020||Agartala,||CM Deb flays Left for ‘mixing politics, sports’||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Monday slammed erstwhile CPI(M)-led left front government for mixing politics with sports. He claimed the present BJP-led coalition government created a constructive environment in fields of sports. He went on to say that the incumbent BJP-led alliance government stopped the old practice and created a positive atmosphere in sports. He was speaking after opening a renovated coaching campus
01 December 2020||Bhopal,||Dalit man beaten to death in M.P. village||A 50-year-old Dalit man from Karod village in Guna district of Madhya Pradesh was reportedly thrashed to death by two youth after he said he did not have a matchbox to give them. The two accused have been arrested. Farm labourer Lalji Ram Ahirwar was admitted to the district government hospital, where he died of his injuries.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Payment only for garbage vehicles with trackers||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has earned the ignominy in the past for clearing bills for works not executed, for paying garbage contractors despite there being fewer vehicles on ground, etc. This is despite its large spend on civic works and solid waste management in the city.
01 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Fish processing unit planned at Kulai||Newly appointed chairman of the Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation, Mangaluru, Nitin Kumar said on Monday that the corporation has drawn up plans to set up a fish processing and freezing unit at Kulai in the city. Mr. Kumar who will take charge here on Thursday has been nominated as chairman of the fisheries corporation here for the second time.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Symptomatic positivity rates see wide variation||In the past seven days, the asymptomatic positivity rate in all districts across State has remained below 2.3%. While the decline is a huge relief, a closer look at the data shows that when it comes to the positivity rate among symptomatic COVID-19 patients, there is a huge variation across districts during the same period.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,||State farmers to go on series of strikes||Multiple farmers’ organisations, outraged by the “shabby treatment” meted out to protesting farmers in Delhi, have now threatened to go on a series of strikes in the State from Tuesday.
01 December 2020||MYSURU,||Govt. event cancelled following spat||A programme launched by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri in Mysuru now stands cancelled in the wake of a spat between her and a section of the MLAs in the district.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Testing for HIV and STDs declines sharply||The number of people tested for HIV and sexually transmitted infections in Karnataka has declined sharply this year. This is an impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The centres designated to conduct these tests failed to meet the required targets as many of them were not functioning fully during the pandemic.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Congress still a major force in T.N.: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said even though the national party had not been in power in Tamil Nadu for the past 50 years, it continued to remain a strong movement and it could further be strengthened by intensive field work by party cadres.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu has 10,997 active COVID-19 cases||Another 1,410 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Monday, while 1,456 persons were discharged after treatment. The number of persons under treatment stood at 10,997. Of the 37 districts, Perambalur and Ariyalur reported no fresh cases.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,||CM visits flood-prone localities in Chennai||As the first step towards chalking out a plan to prevent flooding and inundation in low-level areas in and around Chennai during the monsoon, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami visited some of these localities to take stock of the situation.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. sets up mechanism for vaccine administration||The State government has issued orders for the formation of a coordination mechanism at the State and district levels on vaccination administration for COVID-19, in line with the suggestions made by the Centre in view of the multiple vaccine candidates that are in various stages of development in the country.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. cuts RT-PCR test price to Rs. 800||The Delhi government on Monday ordered all private laboratories to reduce the price of RT-PCR tests in the city from Rs. 2,400 to Rs. 800. Sample collection through home visit will cost Rs. 1,200. All labs and hospitals have been asked to display the revised rates at a prominent spot within 24 hours.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Plea seeks redress over govt.’s failure to stop riots||The Delhi High Court has taken cognisance of a petition by a family seeking compensation from the Delhi government for its failure to prevent the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February. Justice Navin Chawla issued notice to the Delhi government and direc-ted it to submits its counter affidavits within four weeks.
01 December 2020||BENGALURU,||CM’s political secretary denies charge||N.R. Santosh, political secretary to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who was discharged from hospital on Monday, has denied that he attempted suicide by consuming an excess amount of sleeping pills. He was admitted to M.S. Ramaiah Hospital late on November 28, by his wife. Sadashivanagar Police have booked him for “attempt to suicide” under Section 309 of Indian Penal Code.
01 December 2020||Mumbai,||Urmila Matondkar set to join Shiv Sena||Actor Urmila Matondkar is all set to join Shiv Sena, and the announcement is likely to be made on Tuesday. Ms. Matondkar contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from the North Mumbai constituency on Congress ticket. Though she lost the election to BJP’s Gopal Shetty, she was seen as an addition to the Mumbai Congress team. However, months after the election, Ms. Matondkar quit the Congress citing in-house politics as the reason. For days now, Ms. Matondkar’s name has been discussed as one of the 12 candidates for the Maharashtra Council.
01 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Recoveries outpace cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra Maharashtra on Monday reported 3,837 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the total case tally to 18,23,896, the State Health Department said. With 80 more patients succumbing to the viral infection, including 35 fatalities in the last 48 hours, the overall death toll has mounted to 47,151. A total of 4,196 patients were discharged, taking the count of recoveries to 16,85,122. The State is now left with 90,557 active cases after conducting 1,08,56,384 tests so far. The recovery rate now stands at 92.39% and the fatality rate is 2.59%. Mumbai reported 646 fresh cases and 19 deaths, taking the case load to 2,83,467 and death toll to 10,884. A total of 775 patients were discharged from hospitals in the day, taking the tally of recoveries to 2,56,635.
01 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala CM denies rift in govt. over vigilance raid on KSFE||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday forcefully rejected the allegation that the surprise raid by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) on Kerala State Financial Enterprises offices (KSFE) reflected a rift in the government and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]. Mr. Vijayan said the innuendo was a media invention. He had no rupture with Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac or CPI(M) State committee secretariat member Anathalavattom Anandan as alleged in the media. Dr. Isaac and Mr. Anandan had said the raid served the business purpose of private chit firms seeking to elbow the KSFE aside for a larger piece of the estimated Rs. 1 lakh crore financial pie. The Communist Party of India (CPI) had also echoed a similar sentiment. The Congress had interpreted the statements as indicative of a mustering of forces against Mr. Vijayan in the government and the party. Mr. Vijayan said the media had “deviously” read too much into a “routine Vigilance inspection”. The press had acted as a “fake news syndicate”. The raid was a routine inspection based on an intelligence report vetted by the Vigilance Directorate. The KSFE had aired an apprehension whether the inspection would erode its financial credibility and drive away customers to the embrace of private chit firms. The government would verify the Vigilance’s final report and decide on its merit, he said. Mr. Vijayan was unsparing in his criticism of the media. He said several media outlets had, in conjunction, propagated “the lie” that the Chief Minister had “blamed” his police adviser Raman Srivastava for the Ordinance, now withdrawn, to amend the Kerala Police Act, 2011, while chairing a meeting of the cabinet. The “cliquish” nature of the media was also evident in the move to blame Mr. Srivastava for the Vigilance inspection on KSFE offices. Congress charge (The Congress had alleged a conflict of interest between Mr. Srivastava’s role as Chief Minister’s police adviser and legal consultant to major private financial institutions.) The media should stick to facts. Empirical evidence should inform their analysis and not personal bias and political prejudice. However, for the media syndicate, when it came to vilification, Left leaders and government were always fair game, he said.
01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Suspend new farm laws: Cong.||The new Central farm laws are meant to “steal” from farmers and help “two or three friends of Prime Minister Narendra Modi”, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi alleged on Monday. Releasing a minute-long video as part of the Congress’s day-long social media campaign, “Speak up for farmers”, in solidarity with the protests against the laws, he appealed to his party colleagues to provide farmers with any kind of assistance, including food, they might need. “Narendra Modi ji says these three laws are beneficial to the farmers. If they are in the interest of the farmers, then, why are they so angry? Why are the farmers not happy?,” he said. ‘Black laws’ “The farmer of the country has come to Delhi in the cold, leaving his home and fields, to voice his protest against the black agriculture laws. In this battle of truth and untruth, with whom do you stand — the Annadata [provider of food] farmer or the PM’s capitalist friends,” he stated in another tweet. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra joined the #SpeakUpForFarmers campaign and tweeted, “In the name of farm laws, all billionaire friends are benefiting. How can farm laws be framed without even talking to farmers? How can the interests of farmers be ignored? The government will have to listen to the farmers. Let us together raise our voice in support of farmers.” ‘Let PM talk to them’ Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala urged Mr. Modi to talk to the representatives of all farmer unions, announce the suspension of the three laws and take back all 12,000 FIRs filed against farmers without preconditions. Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said if the BJP was convinced of the laws passed by them, “they [the BJP] should have the courage to meet the farmers and convince them”. Accusing the BJP of ‘unleashing repression on farmers”, former Union Commerce Minister Anand Sharma said, “History will not forgive this government for muzzling Parliament during the corona pandemic to pass anti-farmer laws.”
01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Solve vaccine firms’ issues: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a virtual conference with heads of three vaccine development and manufacturing companies: Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, Pune; Biological E Ltd and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd., Hyderabad. Biological E got permission to begin human trials of its COVID-19 vaccine candidate in October. Gennova is scheduled to begin human trials of its proprietary m-RNA vaccine — similar to those of Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna — in December. Dr. Reddy’s has tied up with Russia’s RDIF and Gamaleya to test the Sputnik V vaccine on Indian volunteers. If all steps go according to plan and pending regulatory approvals, these companies are expected to begin making millions of doses of vaccine by next year. The RDIF claimed an “interim efficacy”, via a press release, of 91.4%, from its ongoing Phase 3 trials. Human trials are also scheduled in India with Dr. Reddy’s, under a previous agreement between the companies. The RDIF said it planned to start producing 100 million doses of the vaccine in the beginning of 2021 in partnership with Hetero Pharma. “The PM advised all the departments concerned to engage with the manufacturers and seek to resolve matters so that the efforts by these companies bear fruit in order to serve the needs of the country and the entire world,” said a statement from the Press Information Bureau on Monday. ‘Remarks reassuring’ During his interaction, Mr. Modi discussed how the pandemic has placed “extraordinary demands” on the pharmaceutical industry. “He was briefed about our efforts in combating COVID-19 ranging across all stages of the disease from prevention to critical stages of the disease, including the advancements about Sputnik V vaccine clinical trials, and the collaborative work with the regulatory bodies and hospitals in India,” Dr. Reddy’s said in a statement, “We are honoured and feel appreciated by the honourable Prime Minister’s reassuring remarks.” A spokesperson for Biological E said the company did not have any comment on Mr. Modi’s interaction. Bio E, Dynavax Technology Corporation, a U.S.-based vaccine and biopharmaceutical corporation, and Baylor College of Medicine, a health sciences university in Houston, have initiated Phase 1/2 trials last month in India of their candidate vaccine. However, the details of the vaccine construct or platform technology is not yet known.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||RS audio feed hit during farm Bill debate: CPWD||The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has clarified that the audio feed in Parliament was disrupted for nearly 20 minutes when the three contentious agriculture Bills were debated in the Rajya Sabha on September 20 during the monsoon session. The three Bills were passed amid din, with the entire Opposition up on its feet. Eight members were suspended following the pandemonium in the Upper House. The members also sat on a night-long dharna. Response to RTI The CPWD put out the clarification in a tweet on Sunday. It provided the information in an answer to an RTI application. “CPWD, which maintains the facility, clarifies that the feed was disrupted between 13:05 Hrs to 13:35 Hrs on 20 Sept, 2020 due to the damages caused to the microphones (mics) at the Chairman’s seat by some of the Hon’ble MPs,” it tweeted. It laid the blame on Opposition members, some of whom pulled out the microphone at the Chairman’s table. At that time, Deputy Chairman Harivansh was in the chair. “As directed by the chair, no other MIC was ON at that very time except that of Hon’ble Chairman. So when these MICS were broken, there was no audio output from the system to RSTV. It took nearly half an hour to restore this after following necessary protocols,” it said in another tweet. The disruption of the audio feed of the Rajya Sabha TV also meant that many of those sitting in the Lok Sabha chamber as part of COVID-19 protocol could not hear the proceedings or participate in the debate. .
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Congress meet reviews T.N., Assam strategies||Senior Congress leaders who are part of the panel to assist party president Sonia Gandhi, along with former party chief Rahul Gandhi, on Monday discussed the party’s preparedness for the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and Assam in April-May 2021. The virtual meetings were closed-door ones, but party insiders said it was decided that the Congress, backed by a data-driven exercise, should identify winnable seats in Tamil Nadu when it negotiates with its ally, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. The central leadership, however, asked Assam leaders to refrain from making any public comment on a possible alliance with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), a party with a large minority base led by Badruddin Ajmal. Maintaining discipline and the need to refrain from speaking out of turn on crucial issues figured in the meetings. Mr. Gandhi and other members of the special panel, including K.C. Venugopal, Ambika Soni, Mukul Wasnik and Randeep Surjewala, had separate meetings with the leaders of the two States. Leaders cautioned Without mentioning anybody’s name, the meeting on Tamil Nadu ended with Mr. Venugopal cautioning party leaders on violating discipline by speaking out in the press. Mr. Gandhi endorsed his statement. Fresh from the Bihar debacle in which the Congress won only 19 of the 70 seats it contested, Tamil Nadu leaders talked about identifying seats where the party can win as part of the DMK-led alliance. Former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram is learnt to have stressed identifying the seats using data and strengthening booth-level committees. Several leaders, including Lok Sabha member Manickam Tagore, are said to have asked Mr. Gandhi to campaign more aggressively in Tamil Nadu as it be could be “a gamechanger for the party”. A few State leaders also asked the party high command to effect organisational changes only after the Assembly polls. In the meeting with Assam leaders, Mr. Gandhi told them to speak in one voice on all important political issues and “leave the question of alliances and funding to the central leadership of the party”.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Fight ‘fake news’: BRICS Media Forum||Representatives of media organisations from BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa) on Monday called for the five nations to work together to jointly combat the “virus of disinformation” in the pandemic era. At the fifth BRICS Media Forum, held virtually to coincide with the recently concluded BRICS summit, media organisations discussed ways in which journalists from the grouping could collaborate more closely to tell stories, with the countries facing many similar challenges, from economic issues to public health, as they grapple with COVID-19. N. Ram, Director of The Hindu Publishing Group and former Editor-in-Chief of The Hindu Group of Publications, noted that India, Brazil and Russia were among the five in the world with the highest number of confirmed cases. “The news media around the world, especially daily newspapers, and also other forms of the media, have taken a big hit during the pandemic,” he said. “It is heartening that media organisations that come under the aegis of the BRICS Media Forum have done a commendable job in informing and educating readers, viewers, and listeners on the pandemic and its consequences for people’s lives, health, livelihood, and well-being; on the tools and individual and social behaviours that can enable a country or a community to mount defences against this coronavirus; on the development of diagnostics, therapeutics, and vaccines for COVID-19; and on the science behind all this,” he said. “I believe the mainstream media in our five countries have also helped by fielding well-informed discussions on how to strike a reasonable balance, tricky as it is, at the policy level between saving lives and health on the one hand and protecting work, livelihood, and the economy on the other.” Jose Juan Sanchez, President of Brazil's CMA Group that specialises in financial and agri-business news, said a common thread was a growing problem of disinformation or ‘fake news’. “We need to come together to fight disinformation. It is important for news to be instantaneous, and it is equally important to remember that false news is dangerous. Transparent and reliable information is important more than ever,” he said. The forum was attended by Sergey Kochetkov, Deputy Editor-in-chief of Rossiya Segodnya (Russia’s state-owned news agency), whose subsidiaries include Sputnik and RIA Novosti ; Iqbal Surve, Executive Chairman of Independent Media in South Africa; and He Ping, President and Editor-in-chief of China’s Xinhua news agency, which came up with the idea of a BRICS Media Forum in 2015. More cooperation Mr. He said the pandemic had reinforced the needs of the countries to step up, rather than shun, cooperation. “In times of crisis, no one can stand alone or stay immune,” he pointed out. “As a Chinese saying goes, fire tests gold, and adversity reveals friendship.” Mr. Ram observed that disinformation that was being “transmitted globally at warp speed on the so-called technology platforms, notably Facebook, Twitter, Google, WhatsApp, and Instagram”, was “a major threat not just to the mainstream media but, more importantly, to the lives and well-being of tens of millions of people and the safety and integrity of society as a whole.” He said: “The BRICS Media Forum can make a real difference in the fight against motivated and harmful disinformation by promoting and strengthening relevant media exchanges, workshops, training of journalists, and interactions with technology companies that are willing to work with us to contain and end the menace. “For example, rigorous fact-checking and investigation by well-trained teams of journalists and the new type of specialised fact-checking organisations can be supplemented by technological solutions, with the deployment of technologies like AI, in the fight against disinformation, especially large-scale online harms. BRICS countries have advantages in doing both things.”  News media around the world ... have taken a big hit during pandemic N. RamDirector, The Hindu Publishing Group
01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.P. conversion ordinance challenges SC orders||The Uttar Pradesh ordinance criminalising religious conversion via marriage breaks away from a series of Supreme Court judgments, which hold that faith, the state and courts have no jurisdiction over an adult’s absolute right to choose a life partner. The choice of a life partner, whether by marriage or outside it, is part of an individual's “personhood and identity”, the top court has held. Matters of dress and food, of ideas and ideologies, of love and partnership are within the central aspects of identity. Neither the state nor the law can dictate a choice of partners or limit the free ability of every person to decide on these matters, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud wrote in the Hadiya case judgment. Autonomy of the individual was the ability to make decisions in vital matters of concern to life, the Constitution Bench said in the K.S. Puttuswamy or ‘privacy’ judgment. Any interference by the State in an adult’s right to love and marry has a “chilling effect” on freedoms. Privacy inviolable Intimacies of marriage lie within a core zone of privacy, which is inviolable, the court has said. “The absolute right of an individual to choose a life partner is not in the least affected by matters of faith”. In the Lata Singh case, the court recognised the country is going through a “crucial transformational period”. It said the “Constitution will remain strong only if we accept the plurality and diversity of our culture”. Relatives disgruntled by the inter-religious marriage of a loved one could opt to “cut off social relations” rather than resort to violence or harassment. “If the parents of the boy or girl do not approve of such inter-caste or inter-religious marriage, the maximum they can do is that they can cut off social relations with the son or the daughter, but they cannot give threats or commit or instigate acts of violence and cannot harass the person who undergoes such inter-caste or inter-religious marriage,” the court said. This is still a “free and democratic country”, the Supreme Court noted. In the Soni Gerry case, the court warned judges from playing “super-guardians”, succumbing to “any kind of sentiment of the mother or the egotism of the father”.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Centre convenes all-party meet on COVID-19 on Friday||The government has called an all-party meeting on December 4 to discuss the COVID-19 situation. Senior sources in the government confirmed that floor leaders of all political parties in Parliament have been invited for the meeting by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi. The meeting, to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will be held via videoconference in the morning. Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan and Ministers of State V. Muraleedharan and Arjun Ram Meghwal are expected to be present at the meeting. Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba will also attend it. The floor leaders of different parties include Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Ghulam Nabi Azad of the Congress, Sudip Bandyopadhyay and Derek O’Brien of the Trinamool Congress, and Midhun Reddy and Vijayasai Reddy of the YSR Congress, among others. Parliament sessions While the monsoon session of Parliament was held earlier in the year, there has been talk of merging the winter and budget sessions looking at the expected surge in COVID-19 cases during winter. It is expected that this too might be discussed. As for the format, leaders, at least many heading the parties with a significant number of MPs, will be asked to speak, with Mr. Modi making the closing remarks. Mr. Modi is also expected to brief party leaders on his meetings with officials of the six vaccine development and manufacturing facilities that he reviewed over this week. This is the second all-party meet being called by the government on the pandemic, the first being in April during the lockdown.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Effective information sharing crucial, says FATF||The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has apprised about 400 experts from both the public and private sectors of the latest risk findings related to money laundering and terror funding. During its annual joint experts’ meet, attended by participants from various government agencies all over the world and international bodies such as the United Nations, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and Interpol, the FATF also informed them about solutions and its ongoing projects. “The FATF attaches great importance to effective information sharing, which is one of the cornerstones of a well-functioning AML/CFT [Anti-Money Laundering/Combating the Financing of Terrorism] framework,” said the FATF in a statement. Ensuring that countries had strong tools to fight money laundering, terrorist financing or the financing of proliferation required an in-depth understanding of the evolving risks and the latest detection, investigation and prosecution techniques, it said. During the four-day meeting, the experts deliberated on, and proposed, various priority projects. They also exchanged ideas on issues such as financing of ethnically or radically motivated terrorism, their transnational links, environmental crime, illegal arms trafficking and terror financing, and digital transformation. Terror funding “Experts shared their experience and findings from money laundering cases linked to illegal logging and land clearance, mining related crimes and waste trafficking. Participants noted the important role of export companies, refiners, logistics and other non-traditional sectors in detecting anomalies and illicit financial flows from these crimes,” said the FATF. The experts presented the international legal framework on preventing access of terrorists to arms and provisions covering illegal arms trafficking. “Participants also focused on the linkages between illicit arms trafficking and terrorist financing and the need for national risk assessments to address these risks,” it said.
01 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala’s new cases may have peaked in Oct. at 2.3 lakh||Kerala’s COVID-19 tally touched 6,02,982 cases on Monday, when 3,382 new cases were reported from 34,689 samples. A dip in testing on Sunday resulted in the slump. But the test positivity rate remained 9.75%. In October, the State reported the maximum of 2,35,889 new cases. There were 741 deaths in October. The November figures showed the case load going down by 73,037. Deaths did not show a big decrease, and 732 fatalities were added in November. While low disease transmission was seen and new cases dropped in many places, in districts like Idukki, Wayanad, Kottayam and Malappuram, cases were again on the rise. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said new cases seemed to be coming down, but the recovery rate did not show a matching increase. Andhra Pradesh reported 381 fresh infections, and four new deaths on Monday. In the past day, 40,728 tests were conducted. Their positivity rate was the lowest in six months at 0.94%. The infection tally was 8,68,064 and the death toll 6,992. The number of active cases came down to 7,840 as 934 patients recovered in the past day. The overall recoveries were 8,53,232 and the recovery rate was 98.29%. All the districts reported less than 100 new infections. Telangana recorded 593 cases on Sunday from only 33,040 samples. The 593 new cases included 119 from Greater Hyderabad, 61 from Rangareddy, 55 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 40 from Karimnagar. Karnataka on Monday added 998 new cases. Testing on Sunday was lower at 81,333 samples with a positivity rate of 1.22 %. Of new cases, 444 were in Bengaluru Urban district. Another 1,410 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Monday, while 1,456 persons were discharged after treatment, the number of persons presently under treatment stood at 10,997 in the State. Of the 37 districts, two districts - Perambalur and Ariyalur - had nil new cases. Perambalur reported zero cases for the second day in a row. Nine districts recorded fresh cases in single digits. A total of 385 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Chennai, taking the city’s overall tally to 2,15,360.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
01 December 2020||special correspondent,||‘Every polling booth in Kashmir is sensitive’||All the district constituencies witnessing polls in Kashmir on December 1 have been declared “sensitive”, State Election Commissioner (SEC) K.K. Sharma said on Monday. “Every polling booth in Kashmir is sensitive. However, adequate security measures are in place for the second phase of the District Development Council (DDC), in which 43 constituencies will go for polls tomorrow [December 1],” Mr. Sharma said. On the allegations made by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti that candidates of the Gupkar Alliance were being stopped from campaigning, Mr. Sharma said, “No candidate is barred from going for campaigning. Ms. Mufti, being former chief minister, needs to follow security protocol.” In the second phase of DDC polling in 43 constituencies, 25 are from the Kashmir Division and 18 are from the Jammu Division. Polling will be conducted from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. “A total of 321 candidates are in the fray,,” Mr. Sharma said.
01 December 2020||KOCHI,||Decision on Sivasankar’s custody extension today||The court of the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences) Ernakulam will pronounce a decision on the Customs Department’s demand for extension of custody of M. Sivasankar, former principal secretary to the Chief Minister, on Tuesday. Mr. Sivasankar has been remanded in judicial custody for a day. The court allowed the Customs custody of Swapna Suresh and P.S. Sarith, accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, till December 3. Swapna and Sarith wanted to talk to the court confidentially, but were told to furnish in writing what they desired to communicate, through their counsels. Earlier in the day, the Customs submitted in a sealed cover the statements of Swapna and Sarith recorded by it. The Customs told the court that Swapna had said during interrogation that Mr. Sivasankar was involved in the currency smuggling case and the evidence needed corroboration. The investigating team wanted to confront him with the evidence and statements elicited from other accused in the case, the submission said. More cellphones It also said Mr. Sivasankar had claimed that he had only one mobile phone. However, during interrogation it was found that he had two more mobile phone numbers, one of which was later identified. The phone was retrieved on November 29 and its content was being analysed. The department submitted that it was absolutely essential to have him in custody to gather further evidence and to find other accomplices in the case.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Suspicion about man-eater on the prowl||It disappeared again after villagers shouted and threw stones at it. More worrisome is another piece of information shared by another villager whose bullock cart was followed by the tiger for some distance on the road. “The villager reported that the bullocks panicked when they noticed the animal on their trail, following which the tiger vanished into the cotton crop which was standing six feet on the roadside. He had not noticed that there were people working in the field,” another official informed. Villagers also observed tiger movements on the road side after the incident, but it was said to be another native cat which had not been known to harm any human beings. For the villagers in Penchikalpet and Dahegaon mandals, tiger sightings are regular occurrences, hence spotting one seldom creates alarm. While Forest officials are steadfast on their claim that the tiger which had attacked Sidam Vignesh was different, and that it had moved to Maharashtra following the attack, no pug marks could be recovered from the area around the attack spot on Sunday. “It is a knee-jerk reaction to announce that the animal is not the same, without even obtaining the pug marks. The same animal might have returned from Maharashtra, or the attacker may be a native tiger. It is too early to say,” a wildlife expert opined. Two teams have been sent into the forest to trace the animal and two trap cages have been set up to capture it, informed officials. Already, camera traps have been deployed to capture images of the animal. Forest officials also have started alerting the surrounding villages about the presence of a tiger, and issuing the protocol to be followed while moving around.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Centre invites farmers’ unions for talks||Mr. Shah and Mr. Tomar met BJP President J.P. Nadda late on Sunday. Mr. Tomar was seen leaving Mr. Shah’s residence again on Monday afternoon. Speaking at a joint press conference of protest leaders at the Singhu border, Bharatiya Kisan Union-Dakaunda chief Jagmohan Singh slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s attitude. “We have been listening to him for many years; now it is time for him to listen to the mann ki baat of the farmers,” he said, in what seemed to be a response to the PM’s Sunday address to the nation defending the agricultural reforms and claiming that farmers have been misled. Mr. Modi repeated those statements at Varanasi this afternoon during his visit to his constituency on the occasion of Dev Diwali. Mr. Singh accused the government of “doublespeak”, and an “authoritarian and fascist” attitude, and warned that Mr. Modi would pay a heavy price if the farmers’ demands were ignored. Core agenda He urged the government to engage with the farmers on the core agenda of the three laws, and stop distracting them with other issues. Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav sought to dismiss several “lies” being propagated by the Centre and its supporters. He denied that the protest was driven by middle-men alone, that it has political motivations, that it was restricted to Punjabis alone, or has been infiltrated by Khalistani elements. “These are shameful lies,” said Mr. Yadav, slamming those who question the patriotism of protestors, some of whom have even lost family members in the defence of the country. He also accused the government of treating farmers with condescension, acting as though they are children who don’t understand the law or who are being misled by others. Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, head of another faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, also denied the allegation that only Punjab’s farmers were protesting. “Every day, more people are being mobilised in Haryana. The khap panchayats in each village have been meeting and decided to send more farmers to the capital. Wait and see how many more will come to oppose the law, which will only benefit corporates, not farmers,” he said.
01 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hyderabad airport sees rising passenger footfalls post lockdown||GMR Hyderabad International Airport saw the number of passengers in a single day touching a post-lockdown high of 37,000 for domestic operations in November as people seem to gain more confidence in air travel and relaxation of quarantine norms by the Central and the State governments. From about 3,000 domestic passengers daily in the first few weeks post recommencement of domestic operations from May 25 onwards, the passenger footfall has now increased to over 30,000 daily. In total, over three million domestic passengers were handled till November 23. December holiday month could see the numbers rise further, said an official spokesman on Monday. The Air Traffic Movement (ATM) from about 40 daily has jumped to over 260 domestic flights daily with over 35,000 domestic flights handled. Highest ATM has been 284 mark on a single day. Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) now handles up to 54 domestic destinations including new domestic destinations of Kozhikode, Imphal and Jagdalpur. International Air Transport Association (IATA), a global airline trade group representing 290 carriers in 120 countries came out with a report demonstrating the low incidence of inflight COVID-19 transmission. “Risk of a passenger contracting COVID-19 while onboard appears very low. With only 44 identified potential cases of flight-related transmission among 1.2 billion travellers, that’s one case for every 27 million travellers. Even if 90% of cases were unreported, it would be one case for every 2.7 million travellers. The vast majority of published cases occurred before the wearing of face coverings in flight became widespread,” claimed its medical advisor Dr. David Powell. Top 5 destinations Top five destinations during post-covid continue to be Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Mumbai. The city offers direct connections to Rajasthan, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and even the North East. Top three airlines also have no major change — IndiGo, SpiceJet and Air India. An onsite coronavirus testing laboratory run by Mapmygenome, an ICMR and NABL certified lab, is functional round the clock at the immigration level or Interim International Departures Terminal for passengers and airport personnel benefit. “E-boarding services to international flights had also become functional. With steady increase in traffic in line with the city’s economic resurgence, we are hopeful of reaching the pre-Covid level in terms of operations,” the spokesman added.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Will announce my decision as soon as possible: Rajinikanth||Tamil film superstar Rajinikanth on Monday said he would make his decision (on a political plunge) known to people as soon as possible. Mr. Rajinikanth made a statement to the media outside his Poes Garden home after meeting with district secretaries of the Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), an outfit that he started in early 2018 as a precursor to his political party. “I met with the district secretaries. They shared their point of view. I shared mine. They said they would be with me no matter what decision I take. I will take a decision as soon as possible,” he said. Earlier in the day, Mr. Rajinikanth reportedly discussed with the Rajini Makkal Mandram district functionaries, the activities of the outfit during the COVID-19 lockdown and the chances of a victory in the 2021 Assembly elections if he starts his political party. The meeting was held at his Raghavendra Kalyana Mandapam. Speaking to The Hindu , RMM office-bearers said Mr. Rajinikanth reportedly expressed displeasure with some senior office-bearers for not doing enough on the ground and trying to exploit his name for personal gain.  ‘His decision final’ Speaking to the media after the meeting, RMM office-bearers said they expected a decision from him by Tuesday morning. “What he says is final. We will abide by that. We discussed whether he should start a political party considering his health,” said the office-bearer from Thoothukudi district. They also added that the decision was likely to be made public by Tuesday morning. In 2017 In December 2017, the actor had declared that his political entry was a certainty. However, last month, Mr. Rajinikanth raised doubts over his much-awaited political plunge after confirming that doctors have advised him against meeting people and campaigning during the elections as it would increase the risk of contracting COVID-19.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Two-phase panchayat polls in Karnataka||The State Election Commission on Monday announced a two-phase poll to over 5,700 gram panchayats across 30 districts. While the first phase of polling will be held on December 22, the second phase will be held on December 27. The results are set to be announced on December 30. Announcing the schedule of polls, State Election Commissioner B. Basavaraju said that all the districts will have two-phase polling, and the decision was taken in the light of COVID-19. The model code of conduct for elections will come into force with immediate effect. HC direction The announcement comes in the light of the Karnataka High Court providing three weeks’ time to the SEC to announce dates for conducting gram panchayat polls. “Electronic voting machines will be used in Bidar district and ballot papers in the rest of the State. The SEC will notify the polls on Monday, and in turn the Deputy Commissioners will notify the first and second phase of polls on December 7 and 11, respectively,” he said. In all, 5,762 out of 6,004 gram panchayats will be going to polls in these two phases. The 2.96 crore electors will vote to elect 92,121 gram panchayat members in all. A total of 45,128 polling booths will be set up, and about 2.7 lakh polling officials will be deployed to oversee elections. Mr. Basavaraju said that those gram panchayats numbering 162 whose tenure will end after December 20 will not be going in for polls. Similarly, he said that 74 gram panchayats which have been upgraded or partially upgraded will also not go for polls along six gram panchayats that have litigation in court. According to the schedule, the last date for filing nomination will be December 11 and 17 for first and second phase, respectively. Dates for re-polling - if necessary- will be on December 24 and 29. Counting will commence on December 30 from 8 a.m. COVID-19 precautions In the light of COVID-19, adequate precautions have been put in place by the State Election Commission. While the number of voters from booth have been reduced from 1,500 to 1,000, for the first time angawadi and ASHA workers along with health officials are being drafted for poll duty. Hand sanitisers will be made available in polling booths. “COVID-19 positives and suspects will be allowed to vote in the last hour of polling, and this will be assisted by health officials,” Mr. Basavaraju said. The elections will be held between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. “A standard operating procedure has been put in place to conduct elections safely. Voters need not fear about the pandemic,” he added.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Opposition is misleading farmers, says Modi||If the farmers were apprehensive about the government’s policies, behind it was a long history of deceit they faced, he said. And it was the habit and compulsion of those who broke their promises and cheated farmers to spread lies and fear. He was confident that farmers who had doubts about the reform laws today would benefit from them and increase their income in the future. New trend Mr. Modi said that whenever a policy or law was introduced by the government, some would support it, but it was also natural that some questions would arise. However, he said, a new trend had emerged in recent times. Earlier, if a government decision was not welcome, there would be protests against it. But now, the opposition was not to the government decision itself, but based on apprehension and misconception that “something will happen in future,” Mr. Modi said. “ Ab prachar kiya jata hai ki faisla toh theek hai. Lekin pata nahi, iss se agay chalkar kya kya hoga aur phir kehte hai, aisa hoga [Now, the propaganda is, the decision is correct but who knows what will happen in the future? And then they say, [adverse] things will happen],” Mr. Modi said. “ Jo abhi hua hi nahi , jo kabhi hoga hi nahin, usko lekar samaj mein bramh failaya jata hai [Misconceptions are spread about things that have not happened and will never happen].
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Left parties urge cadre to join protesting farmers||In solidarity with the protests by several lakh farmers, who are camped around Delhi demanding the withdrawal of the recent farm laws, five Left parties have given a call to all their units to join the protest. In a statement signed by CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D. Raja, CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, AIFB general secretary Debabrata Biswas, and RSP general secretary Manoj Bhattacharya, the parties has urged the government to heed demands of the protesting farmers. Food security “The Left parties demand that the Prime Minister and the Central government accede to the demands of the protesting farmers for safeguarding Indian agriculture, our food security, [ensure] remunerative returns to kisans , prevent artificial food shortages and rise in prices of essential commodities,” the joint statement said. Reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat on Sunday, Mr. Yechury said Mr. Modi had on earlier occasions declared many policies “pro-people” which only resulted in destruction of the economy. “‘Pro-people!’ We have heard you, PM Modi, saying demonetisation, GST, national lockdown are all ‘pro-people’. Result: raging pandemic; economy destroyed; growing misery, unemployment, hunger, deprivation ....Do not destroy Indian agriculture and Kisans,” he tweeted.
01 December 2020||Staff Reporter Mumbai,||Urmila Matondkar set to join Shiv Sena||Actor Urmila Matondkar is all set to join the Shiv Sena, and the announcement is likely to be made on Tuesday. Ms. Matondkar contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from the North Mumbai constituency on Congress ticket. Though she lost the election to Gopal Shetty of the Bharatiya Janata Party, she was seen as an addition to the Mumbai Congress team. However, months after the election, Ms. Matondkar quit the Congress citing petty in-house politics in the party unit as the reason. She reportedly said, “My political and social sensibilities refuse to allow vested interests in the party to use me as a means to fight petty in-house politics instead of working on a bigger goal in Mumbai Congress.”  For days now, Ms. Matondkar’s name has been discussed as one of the 12 candidates to be suggested for the Maharashtra Council election as the Shiv Sena’s candidate. The list is at present pending with Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. According to Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP, Ms. Matondkar is likely to join his party on Tuesday in the presence of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackery. Ms. Matondkar will be holding a press conference at 4 p.m. on Tuesday to make an announcement about her political future.
01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hold polls where NOTA got most votes: petition||An advocate has moved the Supreme Court for a direction that fresh elections should be held in a constituency where NOTA (‘None of the above’ option) garnered the maximum number of votes. Besides, none of the candidates who lost to NOTA should be allowed to contest the fresh polls. Advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay said political parties chose candidates without consulting the voters, which was a “truly undemocratic” process. In turn, if the electorate has rejected these candidates by voting for NOTA, the parties should be barred from fielding them again in the fresh polls. The parties should accept that the voters have already made their discontent loud and clear. “Right to reject and elect new candidate will give power to the people to express their discontent ... Right to reject will check corruption, criminalisation, casteism, communalism ... parties would be forced to give tickets to honest and patriotic candidates,” Mr. Upadhyay reasoned. He contended that the ‘right to reject’ was first proposed by the Law Commission in 1999. “It also suggested that the candidates be declared elected only if they have obtained 50%+1 of the valid votes cast. Similarly, the Election Commission endorsed ‘Right to Reject’, first in 2001, under James Lyngdoh [the then CEC], and then in 2004 under T.S. Krishnamurthy [the then CEC], in its Proposed Electoral Reforms,” the petition said.  The ‘Background Paper on Electoral Reforms’, prepared by the Ministry of Law in 2010, had proposed that if certain percentage of the vote was negative, then election result should be nullified and new election held, the petition said.  Those who lost to NOTA should not be allowed to contest the fresh elections Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay Petitioner
01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Buddhist philosophy connects SCO nations’||A virtual exhibition on the shared Buddhist heritage of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) countries was launched by Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu during the meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government meeting held via video-conference on Monday. In a statement, the Culture Ministry said the exhibition, which is curated by the National Museum, Delhi and can be accessed at nmvirtual.in, used 3D scanning, virtual space utilisation and other state-of-the-art technologies. “Buddhist philosophy and art of Central Asia connects SCO countries to each other. This online international exhibition presents an excellent opportunity for visitors to access, appreciate and compare Buddhist art antiquities from SCO countries on a single platform and from the comfort of their home. Such a transnational online exhibition also has potential to connect, heal and rejuvenate communities in current pandemic times,” the Ministry said. The exhibition includes Buddhist treasures from India, including from the Gandhara and Mathura schools, Nalanda and Sarnath, in 3D format. Objects depicting the life of Gautam Buddha from Karachi, Lahore, Taxila, Islamabad, Swat and Peshawar museums are also included in the exhibition. Objects from the State Oriental Art Museum, Moscow and the Dunhuang Academy of China are also displayed.
01 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Sheetal Amte, social worker, found dead||Renowned social worker and CEO at Maharogi Sewa Samiti (Leprosy Services Committee) Sheetal Amte-Karajgi was found dead at ‘Anandwan’ in Chandrapur district’s Warora on Monday. She was found unconscious and was rushed to the Warora’s government hospital, where she was declared dead on arrival. It is suspected that she committed suicide by injecting herself with poison. She is survived by her husband and a son. Sheetal was a grand-daughter of internationally known human rights activist and Padma Vibhushan awardee, the late Baba Amte, who founded the Maharogi Sewa Samiti in 1949. The institutions has been a pioneer in medical treatment and rehabilitation of leprosy patients. Recent media reports had said that the Amte family was in the middle of dispute over how MSS was being run, and also over the appointment of new trustees. Earlier this week, Ms. Sheetal had put out a Facebook live video in which she reportedly raised allegations against some family members. The video was removed within hours from her profile. Later, the Amte family issued a statement that she was suffering from mental stress and depression. The family is yet to release any statement. Anandwan is administered by the MSS, in which Sheetal’s father Vikas Amte is one of the trustees. Sheetal became the CEO of the trust, a post specially created for her, three years ago. Sheetal, a medical doctor was a disability specialist and was known as an environmentalist, painter and photographer. One of her projects after becoming the CEO was to turn ‘Anandwan’ into a kind of ‘Smart Village’ by making it technologically efficient, economically productive and environmentally sensitive.   Those who require assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts may contact BMC mental health helpline 022-24131212 (24x7); Vandrevala Foundation: 18602662345/ 18002333330 (24x7); I Call: 022-25521111 (8 a.m. to 10 p.m., Monday to Saturday); The Samaritans Mumbai: 8422984528/ 8422984529/ 8422984530 (3 p.m.- 9 p.m. all days).
01 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Public unhappy with both govts: Chandy||Former Chief Minister and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Oommen Chandy has said that the growing discontent against both the Union and State governments will reflect on the local body polls. Lashing out at the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, the Congress veteran said the farmers’ agitation in New Delhi marked a landmark moment in the country’s history. He blamed the Centre for going ahead with the new agriculture laws by turning a blind eye towards the farmers’ woes. “The government would not have hesitated to initiate talks with the protesters had they intended their well-being. The new legislations are meant to cater to the interests of corporate companies,” he said. PSC rank lists The former Chief Minister criticised the LDF government for deciding against extending the period of Public Service Commission (PSC) rank lists beyond three years, even in the absence of fresh lists. “The previous United Democratic Front (UDF) government had extended the period of 11 rank lists to four-and-a-half years within the scope of PSC rules. The CPI(M) has been hell-bent on cancelling rank lists to appoint party loyalists in various posts,” he said. Mr. Chandy maintained that the LDF was to be blamed for the Palarivattom flyover fiasco. The Pinarayi Vijayan government was hasty in commissioning the flyover without obtaining proper certification and also failed to conduct the load test recommended by experts from IIT Madras.
01 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Chairman refutes allegations||Even as the controversy over a raid by the Vigilance on branches of the Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) continued to rage, its Chairman Peelipose Thomas on Monday said the raid had failed to unearth any major irregularities in its operations. “A verification of accounts in 36 random branches had shown that there were no major issues with the KSFE as alleged. Not even a single chitty had been opened without taking deposit while there were no such thing called blank chitty,” Mr. Thomas said. He said substitution was totally permissible under the Chit Funds Act while no ineligible candidate ever took part in auctioning. “The auction minutes are promptly prepared and submitted to the registrar. So there is no scope for any malpractice,” he added.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Depression puts southern T.N., Kerala on cyclone watch||Yellow alerts for isolated heavy rainfall are in place for Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam on Tuesday. On Wednesday, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki are on orange alert and Alappuzha, Ernakulam and Kottayam on yellow alert. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha are on orange alert on Friday and Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki on yellow alert. Orange alerts have been issued for Lakshadweep on Thursday and Friday. Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, S. Balachandran said, “The weather disturbance has to cross Sri Lankan land mass before reaching closer to TN coast. We are tracking whether it will emerge through the Gulf of Mannar or directly reach the Comorin region. Parts of north Tamil Nadu and Chennai too have prospects of rainfall.” Squally winds with speeds reaching 55-65 kmph gusting to 75 kmph are expected over Gulf of Mannar, off south Tamil Nadu and Kerala, Lakshadweep, Maldives and southeast Arabian Sea for two days from Thursday. The IMD has advised suspension of fishing in these regions till Friday.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Cross-border terror biggest challenge for SCO region’||Speaking at some length on the impact of the pandemic, Mr. Naidu said a “sustainable” economic recovery depended on more open trading practices and a compliance with “multilateral rules of trade”. He called for reform of global institutions, including the World Health Organisation. Mr. Naidu pointed out that more than 60% of the vaccines for the global immunisation programme were being manufactured in India, while at least three of 30 indigenously made vaccines were in the advanced stages of development. “This global vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all the countries in fighting this crisis,” he added. With the exception of India, all other SCO members, including Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Russia and Tajikistan, expressed their support for China’s ‘One Belt One Road’ initiative (OBOR/BRI), and the “joint implementation” of projects with the Eurasian Economic Union, in the joint communiqué. India refused to join the BRI in 2017, in protest against Chinese projects through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, and the lack of “transparency and sustainability” in the initiative. When asked if strained relations with Pakistan and China had cast a shadow over the SCO Heads of Government Council meeting, officials said bilateral issues were not raised at the meeting. “The SCO was created as a regional organisation to tackle peace and security, to tackle the challenges of terrorism, extremism and separatism, and to promote trade and cooperation and cultural partnerships,” said Vikas Swarup, Secretary (West), Ministry of External Affairs, while briefing the media.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||All set for GHMC polls||All polling stations have been sanitised a day before in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the statement said. A total of 52,500 police personnel have been deployed to ensure security and smooth polling at all locations. As per the schedule, the polling staff are required to be present in the polling stations by 5.30 a.m. on Tuesday, and the polling agents by 6 a.m. Between 6 a.m. and 6.15 a.m., mock polling would be conducted, and by 6.55 a.m., ballot boxes will be sealed. Starting at 7 a.m., the polling will be wound up by 6 p.m. While a total of 2,629 applications have been received for postal ballot, there would be special queue for COVID-19 patients to exercise franchise. Separate lines would be formed for the aged and the disabled too. Voters who do not have the EPIC Cards may produce other ID proofs.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka HC disqualifies Vishwanath||While holding that MLC A.H. Vishwanath is ex-facie disqualified for being appointed as a Minister, the Karnataka High Court has said that both the Chief Minister and the Governor will have to consider this aspect as per the Constitutional mandate if he is being considered to be inducted into the Council of Ministers.  However, the court said that no such disqualification is operating against two other MLCs — R. Shankar and N. Nagaraju (MTB) — for considering them for the post of Ministers as they were duly elected to the Legislative Council in the elections held from the Legislative Assembly in June 2020 subsequent to their disqualification under the anti-defection law in July 2018. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the interim order on separate PIL petitions, filed by Harisha A.S., a city-based advocate, G. Mohan Kumar, and S. Rukmangada, both residents of Bengaluru. “Honourable Chief Minister, while making recommendation to Honourable Governor on nominating Ministers will have to take into consideration the issue of disqualification incurred by Mr. Vishwanath. Similarly, even if recommendation is made by the Honourable CM, the Honourable Governor is bound to consider the disqualification incurred by him under Article 164 (1) (b) and the Article 361 B of the Constitution of India,” the court observed without issuing specific directions to them. Noticing that Mr. Vishwanath was nominated to the Council in July 2020 from the field of literature and was not elected as per constitutional provisions, the Bench said that he attracted disqualification from being considered for the post of Minister or politically remunerative post in July 2018 and the disqualification will operate till 2013, when the term of the Assembly ends. Pointing out that a disqualified member can again become eligible to be appointed as a Minister or hold politically remunerative post only after getting re-elected to either the Houses of the legislature or till the end of the term of the House, from which he was disqualified under the anti-defection law, the Bench said that “nomination” of a person to the legislature cannot be termed as “election” as per the constitutional provisions. The Advocate-General, while producing the original records of process of nominating Mr. Vishwanath, had pointed out that he was nominated from field of literature as he had written several books. On the other hand, the Bench said that “it is not prima facie established that Mr. Shankar and Mr. Nagaraju have been disqualified” from holding these posts as they were declared elected and prima facie their elections can be questioned only by way of election petition. Only interim order On oral request made on behalf of a petitioner to retrain Mr. Vishwanath from participating in the ensuing session of the legislature, the Bench orally said that it has only passed interim order on attraction of disqualification to hold post of Minister and yet adjudicated the issue of legality of his nomination to the Council. The petitions were filed after it was reported in newspapers that these three MLCs, who were disqualified amongst other MLAs from the Legislative Assembly in July 2018, are likely to be appointed as Minister. The petitioners had also questioned legality of election of Mr. Shankar and Mr. Nagaraju to the Council from the Legislative Assembly and the nomination of Mr. Vishwanath while alleging that it was a backdoor entry for them.
01 December 2020||Jammu,||Pak. shells forward posts in Poonch||The Pakistan Army on Monday violated ceasefire and resorted to heavy firing and mortar shelling targeting forward posts along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, drawing retaliation from Indian troops, officials said. “At about 1510 hours [3.10 p.m.] today [Monday], Pak army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Shahpur sector in district Poonch,” a Defence spokesperson said. The Line of Control (LoC) has witnessed heavy and intense firing and shelling in the last few months, resulting in several casualties and triggering fear psychosis among the people living along the India-Pakistan border in Jammu and Kashmir. Two Indian Army jawans — Naik Prem Bahadur Khatri and Rifleman Sukhbir Singh — were killed when the Pakistan Army resorted to heavy firing in the Sunderbani sector of Rajouri district last week.
01 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Farmers’ fight is just, says Punjab CM||Terming the farmers’ fight against the agriculture laws just, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday asked the Centre why it was being adamant on the issue and was not listening to the farmers. “It is the job of the government to listen to its people. If farmers are joining the agitation from so many States, then they must be really upset,” said the Chief Minister while interacting informally with journalists, during his visits to Sulatanpur Lodhi and Dera Baba Nanak. Capt. Singh said the minimum support price and arhtiya system was the backbone of Punjab’s successful agricultural model, with the farmers and arhtiyas (commission agents) sharing a very close bond. He questioned the government’s need to change the established system. “Will the corporates who will take the place of the commission agents ever care to help farmers in times of crisis,” he asked.
01 December 2020||Bhopal,||Dalit man beaten to death in M.P.||A 50-year-old Dalit man from Karod village in Guna district of Madhya Pradesh was reportedly thrashed to death by two youth after he said he did not have a matchbox to give them. The two accused have been arrested, the police said. Farm labourer Lalji Ram Ahirwar was resting on a platform at Karod village when Yash and Ankesh Yadav asked him for a matchbox to light cigarettes on Friday, T.S. Baghel, Additional Superintendent of Police, said. “When he said he didn’t have one, an argument ensued and the accused thrashed him with batons, leaving him with injuries,” he added. Ahirwar was admitted to the district government hospital, where he died of his injuries. The police have registered a case under the IPC and the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, while the government has approved assistance of Rs. 8.25 lakh to the family.
01 December 2020||Press Trust of India Mumbai,||Student loses IIT seat due to ‘wrong’ click||An 18-year-old student has lost his seat for a four-year electrical engineering course in the prestigious IIT Bombay after he “inadvertently” clicked on a “wrong” link which was meant to withdraw from the process. The student, Siddhant Batra who hails from Agra, has now approached the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the institution to admit him after the IIT said it cannot intervene at this stage as all the seats for the course were full and admission rules had to be followed. It said Mr. Batra could apply again next year for JEE (Advanced). The Bombay High Court had initially directed the IIT to consider Mr. Batra’s petition, after he approached it earlier this month. He had secured an All India Rank (AIR) of 270 in the JEE Advanced exams. On November 23, a Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni dismissed Mr. Batra’s petition noting that IIT had considered his representation and passed its order. Mr. Batra, who lives with his grandparents following the death of his parents, in the plea said he had worked hard against all odds to crack the exams.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||CISF jawan saves life of Delhi Metro passenger||A CISFconstable saved the life of a man, who fell unconscious at a Metro station in south Delhi, by performing CPR medical procedure on him, said officials on Monday. The incident took place at Ghitorni station. The daughter of the passenger, identified as Punjab resident Bharat Bhushan, informed the train driver that her father was not feeling well and that they required help.PTI
01 December 2020||GUNTUR,||Amaravati farmers try to block Jagan’s convoy||Tense moments were witnessed on Monday morning when several protesters, demanding that the Capital be located at Amaravati, tried to block the convoy of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. However, a heavy police bandobust ensured that the convoy sped past the protesters. The protest against the decision of the YSRCP government to have three capitals entered the 349th day.
01 December 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal BJP chief sends legal notice to Abhishek Banerjee||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh sent a legal notice to Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Monday. At a rally on Sunday, Mr. Banerjee called Mr. Ghosh a “goon” and “mafia”, and dared the BJP leadership to take legal action against him. Mr. Ghosh said Mr. Banerjee was second-in-command of the Trinamool, and was using such language against the State president of an Opposition party [the BJP].
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Our biggest weapons are masks & sanitisers: Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday reiterated that the most important principle to protect oneself and others against COVID-19 was to follow basic principles of hygiene and physical distancing. “In fight against COVID-19, our biggest weapons are the mask and the sanitiser,” he said, while distributing masks and soaps at the Old Delhi Railway Station. India had become self-reliant in the production of masks, PPE kits, ventilators etc. “More than 10 lakh PPE kits are being manufactured every day in India. And now, our scientists are instrumental in the research for the vaccine and it will be available on time.” He also urged people to follow ‘ Do gaj ki doori’ (six-feet distance). In the last 24 hours, 38,772 persons were found to be infected and 45,333 new recoveries reported in the country, data released by the Health Ministry on Monday said. 443 deaths in 24 hours Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh have reported highest decline in active cases in the past one month, while Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan are reporting a rise in the active caseload. The Ministry said 78.56% of the 443 case fatalities reported in the past 24 hours were from 10 States/Union Territories. Maharashtra reported 85 deaths, while Delhi saw a fatality count of 68 and West Bengal 54.
01 December 2020||Jaipur,||NDA constituent Rashtriya Loktantrik Party threatens to quit||The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, a constituent of the NDA from Rajasthan, on Monday expressed unhappiness over the new agriculture laws and said it would “reconsider its alliance” with the BJP if the laws were not withdrawn. In a letter addressed to Home Minister Amit Shah, RLP chief and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal drew attention to the farmers’ protest and said the laws were clearly not in the interest of the community.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Centre writes to States on fire safety in hospitals||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla has written to all the States and Union Territories to direct nursing homes and hospitals to recheck fire protection system on their premises to avoid a repeat of incidents that took place in Rajkot and Ahmedabad of Gujarat. Recently, six patients were killed in a fire in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of a hospital in Rajkot. Before this, in a similar incident in Ahmedabad, eight lives were lost. Mr. Bhalla’s letter said, “at such a crucial time, when the country is fighting against COVID-19 pandemic, utmost precaution needs to be taken to avoid such incidents in future”. ‘Re-check facilities’ “I would urge you to ensure compliance of above advisory and direct all concerned to immediately re-inspect/re-check all hospitals/nursing homes from the point of view of fire protection and means of escape to prevent recurrence of such fire incidences in future. Action taken report may kindly be shared with this ministry at the earliest,” the Home Secretary said. “Non-adherence of fire safety measures by authorities in their respective jurisdiction is a matter of concern,” the letter noted. Directorate General of Fire Services in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had been issuing advisories at regular intervals to the States, it said. Guidelines by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on hospital safety, laying down the provisions to establish the minimum requirements for a reasonable degree of safety from fire emergencies in hospitals, had also been shared with the States.
01 December 2020||Jaipur,||Rajasthan BJP MLA dies of COVID-19||Amid a spike in COVID-19 cases, the Rajasthan government has decided to impose lockdown in containment zones till December 31 and increase night curfew from 11 to 13 districts of the State. The government issued guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution for the period of December 1 to December 31. Night curfew has been imposed in Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagaur, Pali, Tonk, Sikara and Ganganagar.PTI
01 December 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal begins outreach for public services to the doorstep||In an attempt to speed up and take the delivery of public services to the doorstep of the people, the West Bengal government on Monday announced an outreach programme Duare Sarkar (government at the doorstep). “The stated designated objective of the scheme is maximum outreach through decentralisation and doorstep delivery,” Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said at a press conference at the State Secretariat. The Chief Secretary said that 20,000 camps will be set up across the State in four different phases, over which people will be enlisted in major flagship schemes of the State government. “There will be a real-time monitoring of the attendance at all the camps. We will also measure how much redressal is being done as per the grievances,” the Chief Secretary said, adding that the aim of the scheme was to “meet the goals of promise made by government to people [on] receipt of services”. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had announced the Duare Sarkar programme during a visit to Bankura earlier this month. The major outreach programme is being planned at a time when there are only months to go before the State goes to polls. State government officials said that the programme will provide an integrated window for all services of all the departments in extension and outreach mode on specified dates.
01 December 2020||Kanpur,||Minor girl abducted, raped in UP’s Kanpur; 4 held||A 14-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and raped for more than two days by four people in Chakeri town here, police said on Monday. The matter came to light on Sunday evening when the minor managed to escape after two days and reached her house, said Superintendent of Police (East) Raj Kumar Agarwal. Two accused were arrested while two suspects were detained, they said.PTI
01 December 2020||Jaipur,||Lockdown in COVID-19 containment zones in Rajasthan||Amid a spike in COVID-19 cases, the Rajasthan government has decided to impose lockdown in containment zones till December 31 and increase night curfew from 11 to 13 districts of the State. The government issued guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution for the period of December 1 to December 31. Night curfew has been imposed in Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagaur, Pali, Tonk, Sikara and Ganganagar.PTI
01 December 2020||B. Tilak ChandarMadurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks files on complaints against Anna University VC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed the State government to produce before the court all files pertaining to the government order and the complaint made against Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi directed the State to produce the documents on Wednesday while hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by S. Manithanigai Kumar from Kanniyakumari district. The petitioner said the allegations of financial and administrative irregularities levelled against Mr. Surappa was without any substance. The order was passed against the Vice-Chancellor only on the basis of four representations sent to the Chief Minister’s Special Cell. Without conducting a preliminary inquiry and without any prima facie evidence, the order was passed in haste. No explanation was sought from Mr. Surappa. Ordering an inquiry against the Vice-Chancellor had brought disrepute to the prestigious institution, he said. Mr. Surappa who assumed office in 2018 had taken various revolutionary and reformatory steps in the functioning of the University. He improved the quality of technical education in the State. Through financial reforms, he cut down unnecessary expenditure and ensured quality education. Mr. Surappa had not accommodated the views of politicians and avoided their interference, thus inviting their wrath, the petitioner said. It is learnt that A. Suresh from Tiruchi had sent a complaint to the Chief Minister’s Special Cell claiming that Mr. Surappa and Sakthinathan, the Deputy Director of the Centre for Constituent Colleges, were involved in the irregularities. The government should have properly verified the complaint before passing the order, the petitioner said and sought a stay on all proceedings on the order. During the course of the hearing, Advocate General Vijay Narayan submitted that retired High Court Judge Justice P. Kalaiyarasan was appointed as inquiry officer to look into the complaints alleging irregularities. The AG questioned the maintainability of the petition.  Allegations of financial and administrative irregularities levelled against Mr. Surappa was without any substance Petitioner
01 December 2020||B. Tilak ChandarMadurai,TAMIL NADU||Sattur woman gets two-wheeler||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday ordered the State to provide continuous counselling to the husband of the Sattur woman, who was transfused with HIV-infected blood at a government hospital in 2018. The woman informed a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi that her husband continued to avoid her and their children. The court had earlier ordered counselling to the woman’s husband and her neighbours. Taking into account the submission, the judges observed that the counselling which was already being provided to the woman’s husband by medical experts should continue for another two months and sought a response on providing an insurance cover to the woman. During the course of the hearing, Additional Advocate General K. Chellapandian informed the court that as per its order, a two-wheeler was provided to her and the minor construction work in the house built for the woman was almost complete. The judges took cognisance of the submission and sought to know if the benefits under the government’s two-wheeler for working women could be extended to needy women advocates. The court said that it will involve senior advocates, advocates, the Bar Associations at the High Court Bench and the District Court so as to ensure that the benefits were extended to the needy advocates. The case was adjourned to December 9.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘It is unsafe to leave boats at sea’||Fishermen say they have no space to park boats or keep nets safely as instructed by the State government in times of cyclones. During the monsoon, the sea advances inland, and in some places even enters coastal villages. S. Palayan, a fisherman of Ururkuppam, said fishermen had dragged boats onto the road in their village. “The sea is very close to our homes, and if we leave our boats on the beach, they will be washed away or buried in the sand and damaged,” he said. At Pulicat, where the brackish water lake is brimming with floodwater from various rivers, including the Arani, fishermen have pulled their boats further up the embankment. “There has not been much rain in our area but water from other places have flowed in here. Another round of opening of the dams upstream will only mean we will have to leave the boats on the main road. And it is not an easy task since the boats weigh a lot. The smallest boat weighs half-a-tonne. We need cranes to move most boats, and when fishing activities resume, the cranes have to be engaged again,” said A. Ganesh, a fisherman. “Sea erosion has eaten up space in many villages, and in some places, roads and beach beautification projects, too, come in the way. There is no designated space for keeping boats, nets and engines safely in our villages. The government must designate spaces for such a purpose,” said K. Bharathi of the South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association. He said that even during full moons and some months when the sea is rough, the waves wash away blocks of sand overnight. The government should construct shelters for engines and nets to be used by fishermen, he said.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No fresh case reported in two districts||As many as 1,410 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Monday, while 1,456 persons were discharged after treatment. The number of persons undergoing treatment stood at 10,997. Of the 37 districts, Perambalur and Ariyalur reported no fresh cases. Perambalur reported zero case for the second day in a row. Kallakurichi, Krishnagiri, Pudukottai, Ramanathapuram, Tenkasi, Theni, Tiruvannamalai, Tirunelveli and Virudhunagar recorded fresh cases in single digit. A total of 385 persons tested positive in Chennai, taking the city’s overall tally to 2,15,360. The city accounted for 3,749 active cases, while 2,07,761 persons were discharged and 3,850 have died so far. Coimbatore followed with 146 cases, while Chengalpattu reported 84 cases and Tiruppur 73 cases. Tiruvallur accounted for 69 cases, and Erode and Salem had 59 cases each. Kancheepuram had 55 cases. The fresh infections took the State’s overall tally to 7,81,915. So far, a total of 7,59,206 persons have been discharged after treatment. Nine more deaths were recorded in the State — three each in Chennai and Tiruvallur and one each in Coimbatore, Nilgiris and Virudhunagar — taking the toll to 11,712. All of them had co-morbid conditions. Two of them were aged in their 30s. A 35-year-old man from Virudhunagar with congenital kyphoscoliosis had tested positive on November 18. He was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever for five days and difficulty in breathing for three days on November 19. He died on November 28 owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 39-year-old man from Tiruvallur, who had asthma and was admitted to the Government Hospital, Pallipattu, died on the same day of admission on November 22, owing to COVID-19 pneumonia/sequelae. He had complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for three days. As many as 62,616 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. A total of 1,20,60,001 samples have been tested so far.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM visits flood-prone localities||As the first step towards chalking out a plan to prevent flooding and inundation in low-level areas in and around Chennai during monsoon, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday visited some of these localities to take stock of the situation. He visited areas at Pallikaranai, Okkiam Maduvu and Muttukadu, accompanied by Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, Revenue and Disaster Management Minister R.B. Udhayakumar and Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam. Speaking to reporters later, Mr. Palaniswami said a permanent solution would be found to flooding at Semmenchery, Perumbakkam, Madipakkam, Pallikaranai, Perungudi and Velachery. Surplus rainwater from Semmenchery, Perumbakkam, Pallikaranai, Perungudi and Velachery in south Chennai would drain into the mangrove land at Pallikaranai and then into the Buckingham Canal, he said, adding that new habitations had come up on 80% of the areas at Ram Nagar, Madipakkam and Velachery since 2004. He said steps were being taken to channelise the excess rainwater to the Buckingham Canal and a plan was being prepared to drain excess water from the areas at Velachery. “We have sought Rs. 581 crore from the Centre for new canals and we are hoping to get funds,” Mr. Palaniswami said. The government would also find a permanent solution to flooding at West Tambaram, Mudichur and Varadarajapuram in Chengalpattu. He recalled his having instructed officialson October 28 to implement a scheme with assistance from the World Bank. When it was pointed out that these areas were inundated in 2015 too, the Chief Minister said: “It was flooded even before. We are pumping out stagnant water. The government needs funds to remove water. Only with financial resources can we implement the scheme.” The government had sanctioned funds to drain excess rainwater, he said, and it was working on a long-term plan.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A new lake with island parks will come up in Chennai soon||Several waterbodies have come to life after the city’s southern suburbs received copious rain from Cyclone Nivar. Pallikaranai Anai Eri is one such lake. It is being developed on about 50 acres, with three island parks inside, at a cost of Rs. 11 crore. Before the cyclone, about 60% of the work was completed, and it is already serving its purpose as rainwater has filled it. During a visit last week, Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) Commissioner G. Prakash asked officials to strengthen the embankments of this lake with strong boulders, lay paver blocks on the roads formed, test the water inflow for any micro-organism and complete the work before January 2021. He was accompanied by A. Senthil Kumar, Project Officer, District Rural Development Agency, Chengalpattu District; Thirunavukkarasu and Purusothaman, executive engineers of GCC; and Rajavelu, executive engineer, Water Resources Department, Chengalpattu. Mr. Prakash advised the officials to plant native trees on the periphery of the lake, with beautification of islands, by getting technical inputs from S. Raja Mohamed, a retired Joint Director of the Horticulture Department and a resident of the area. The objective is to restore the waterbody to recharge the ground water table for nearby dwelling places, build ex-situ conservation of native tree species, develop a unique green cover with an aesthetic and therapeutic appeal, reduce the impact of air and noise pollution and dust and prevent soil erosion on the embankment slopes, Mr. Raja Mohamed said. Mountainous Miyawaki Near the lake, a unique ‘Mountainous Miyawaki Forest’ is being developed on the OSR land belonging to the Medavakkam panchayat. This forest will have plants of native habits, bird-attracting fruit trees, such as jamun, cherry and kodukkaipuli, and medicinal plants such as amla and fig and other avenue forest trees with life fencing on the periphery. Work on the formation of rainwater harvesting structure channels connecting to the existing drainage channels is being executed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act Silt, rich in organic nutrients, excavated from the nearby Anai Eri has been dumped on this site, Mr. Raja Mohamed said.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-Madras students get 182 pre-placement offers||The students of the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras received 182 pre-placement offers (PPO) as on November 28. Last year, 170 PPOs were made during the academic year. Mentors and placement advisers say the institution’s strengthening of internship drive helped. The institute will begin its first phase of placements on Tuesday. Since the country is under a lockdown due to COVID-19, the internship programme was conducted online, institute officials said. The internship drive began on August 30 and on the first day 17 companies participated virtually and made 140 offers. In 2019, 147 offers were made on Day 1. C.S. Shankar Ram, adviser (training and placement) at the institute, said the sustained rise in the number of PPOs was a reflection of the institution’s academic quality and its students. N.V. Ravi Kumar, adviser (internship), said ever since an internship office was created, the institute had observed a direct correlation between internships and PPOs. An internship allows a student to understand the work culture and expectations of the company. The companies also realise the potential of the students during the training period, he said, and added: “When interests and expectations of interns and companies match, it culminates in pre-placement offers.” During 2016-17, students received 73 PPOs. This academic year, 46% of the PPOs were from the information technology sector. Core sector jobs Core and research and development sector accounted for 29%, while 19% of the offers were from the analytics, consulting and finance sector. About 6% of the offers came from the FMCG sector. The most number of PPOs came from international companies such as Texas Instruments and Microsoft, each with 12 offers. Qualcomm made 10 offers while Goldman Sachs and American Express made nine offers each.  When interests and expectations of interns and companies match, it culminates in pre-placement offers
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Museum in a box launched||What is a watershed? How does water get into the ground? Where is it stored? What are wetlands? Museum in a box, a curated digital box, which had a virtual launch on Monday, provides pertinent details on basic principles of hydrology and water for schoolchildren. Designed for middle and high schoolchildren, the collaborative project of the U.S. Consulate General in Chennai and Care Earth Trust, a city-based biodiversity research organisation, would be a starting point for teachers to introduce students to concepts related to water. The bilingual digital box comprises interactive tools that explain technical terms such as drainage basins, watershed and aquifers related to water that regularly figure in three-dimensional animated videos. Downloadable flashcards and fact sheets elaborate on protecting aquatic species and rainwater harvesting. Children can try the do-it-yourself (DIY) experiments on rain gauges and measure rains or create a centrifugal pump. The compilation includes interactive games and puzzles. It would be hosted onwww.careearthtrust.orgstarting Tuesday for free access to learning material in Tamil and English on registration. At the virtual launch, Anne Seshadri, U.S. Consulate General Chennai Public Affairs Officer, said this digital curriculum would help students and educators explore challenges and solutions related to sustainable water management. The “Museum in a Box” is part of the U.S. Consulate General Chennai’s Water Matters initiative that included exhibitions on science and water management along with Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, Care Earth Trust and Science Gallery, Bengaluru. Jayshree Vencatesan of Care Earth Trust said the initiative provided a platform to reach out to a diverse set of people and communicate the messages of consciousness and conservation.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reservoirs ready for one more spell of rain||As the India Meteorological Department has predicted another possible cyclone with impact on some regions of Tamil Nadu, the Water Resources Department is getting ready for it. The WRD has continued discharge of water from the Chembarambakkam and Poondi reservoirs, expecting more rain this week. A gap of one or two feet is being maintained in the water bodies to receive inflow in the next rain spell. Officials said a minimum release of 175 cusecs is being maintained from Chembarambakkam and 760 cusecs from the Poondi reservoir. The Poondi reservoir receives both rainwater and Krishna water. A portion of Krishna water is being sent to the Thervoy Kandigai Kannankottai reservoir. “We are not draining water into the sea through Ennore Creek. So far, about 500 million cubic feet has been discharged. Water released from Poondi reaches the Cholavaram reservoir and recharges groundwater through seven check-dams downstream,” said an official. The department has cleared vegetation from the catchment areas and accumulated at the shutters of Chembarambakkam. In Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts, 511 of the 909 tanks were full on Monday.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reduced duration makes CAT tough||The Common Admission Test (CAT) was a bit difficult this year as the duration was reduced from three hours to two hours on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Indian Institute of Management-Indore conducted the test this year, for which over 2.27 lakh candidates had registered themselves.  The test comprises three sections — verbal ability and reading comprehension, data interpretation and logical reasoning and quantitative ability. For each section, candidates got 40 minutes to answer questions. They had to attempt fewer questions this time owing to the change in the duration. Instead of 100 questions, they had to attempt 76. In general, the test was of moderate difficulty, according to coaching centres. In the first slot, candidates found the verbal ability and reading comprehension section slightly more difficult than last year because the questions were of a higher level of difficulty and the time to answer them was reduced, said Arvind Mantry of Triumphant Institute of Management Education, a coaching centre. A candidate who took the test in the second slot from a centre at Avadi said he found the test difficult. “My computer crashed, and this led to a loss in continuity. They gave me extra time, but the flow was lost,” said the B. Tech graduate.  The test comprises three sections and for each section, candidates were given 40 minutes
01 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Chennai firm to validate bugs, software flaws||Cyber Security Works (CSW), a firm based out of the IIT-Madras Research Park, has been named a CVE Numbering Authority. This means CSW researchers can help validate any new bug, software flaw or misconfiguration discovered in a software product or language, device or operating system, assign a CVE (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures) ID to the bug and present it to MITRE, which will then feed into the National Vulnerability Database (NVD). “Maintaining a universal database of this sort helps software teams, developers and security experts refer to the vulnerability at one centralised place and saves significant time and costs,” said Ram Movva, president and co-founder of CSW. CSW is the second Indian company to be recognised as a CVE Numbering Authority. India has a vibrant ethical hacking community.  “We have a team of researchers and ethical hackers who have discovered 45-plus zero days (new bugs and vulnerabilities),” Mr. Movva said.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Select cardholders to get 5 kg of ‘chana’ free as COVID-19 relief||Ration cardholders belonging to weaker sections in Tamil Nadu will get 5 kg of ‘chana’ (whole) and the rest 1 kg of ‘tur dal’ free of cost in December as part of COVID-19 relief measures. The beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act (NFSA), as covered under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and the priority household (PHH) cards, totalling around one crore cards, will be given 5 kg of ‘chana’. Those who are part of the 97.9 lakh non-priority household (NPHH) cards will receive 1 kg of ‘tur dal’. The supply of ‘chana’ to the NFSA beneficiaries is being made possible under the Central government’s Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), while the provision of ‘tur dal’ is a State government initiative. The decision to provide 1 kg of ‘tur dal’ free of cost to NPHH cardholders has been taken to “maintain parity” with the NFSA beneficiaries, according to an order issued by the Food, Cooperation and Consumer Protection Department last week. The measure will cost the State government around Rs. 30 crore, according to an official of the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation. As the AAY and PHH cardholders will be receiving 5 kg of ‘chana’ free, they will not be able to get 1 kg of ‘tur dal’ this month at the rate of Rs. 30 a kg. The arrangement has resolved the issue over receiving ‘chana’. On July 1, CM Edappadi K. Palaniswami, in a letter to PM Narendra Modi, sought the provision of processed ‘tur dal’ instead of ‘chana’. The rationale behind this was that people of T.N. preferred the former. Later, the CM wrote to Mr. Modi, reiterating this position and requested allocation of ‘tur dal’ or raw ‘tur’. But the reply from then Union Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan was that due to limited availability of raw ‘tur’ under the Central Buffer Stock, the State was requested to accept “milled cleaned whole ‘chana’.” Again, when the State sought the Centre’s approval for distribution of the allotted quantity of 55,540 tonnes of ‘chana’ to all ration cardholders equitably as it did not want to discriminate between cardholders, the Centre said such a move won’t be in conformity with PMGKAY norms. This was why the State decided to supply 1 kg of ‘tur dal’ free to NPHH cardholders.  The supply of ‘chana’ to the NFSA beneficiaries is being made possible under the Central government’s Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||In online learning survey, students give the thumbs up to teacher support||As much as 74.1% of students said in a survey that they received good support from their teachers and 88.2% said teachers were prepared well for online classes. The survey was conducted by Auuro Educational Services among over 750 students of Classes 4 to 12 studying at private schools in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Dharmapuri, Hosur and Madurai. As much as 98% of the students who took the survey were from CBSE schools. Several CBSE schools across the State started online classes in June for the new academic year as institutions were closed in March owing to COVID-19. While the results indicated that a majority of the students were satisfied with the support from and preparation by their teachers, 18.5% said teachers could make online classes a lot more interesting by interacting more, and 15.7% asked for more videos during their lessons. “Even before the transition towards digital learning happened this year, many classrooms had the tendency to have less of an interaction between students and teachers, especially if the focus was on completing portions. This seems to have translated online in a few cases, and there are several interesting tools which can be used to make online learning engaging,” said K.R. Maalathi, founder, Auuro Educational Services. The survey, she said, was carried out to understand the impact of the changes that have been brought about in remote teaching and learning and to gauge its sustainability. “While a majority of the students have indicated that they would prefer to learn through regular schooling in classrooms once schools reopen, the last few months has made them more open to embracing change. Many students responded positively to the use of technology in their daily learning and have now adapted themselves comfortably to remote learning,” Ms. Maalathi added. Based on the outcome of the survey, Auuro Educational Services is working on addressing the new paradigm shift and how this can be incorporated into teacher training. As for the access to gadgets, around 25% of the respondents said they shared their gadgets with one other person at home. A large number — 80.4% of the respondents — said connectivity issues sometimes hampered their online classes.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Congress remains strong in T.N., says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said even though the national party had not been in power in Tamil Nadu for the last 50 years, it continued to remain a strong movement and it could further be strengthened by intensive field work by the party cadres. Interacting with leaders of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) via video, Mr. Gandhi called upon party functionaries to work “to provide relief to the people of Tamil Nadu, who have been affected by the AIADMK government”. He advised the Congress leaders to abide by the party’s stand and inner-party democracy while expressing their views in the public and during debates on television news channels. “Take action against those violating party discipline. Positive thinking among leaders is the need of the hour,” he said. Explaining the details of the meeting, TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said various issues, including the 2021 Assembly poll, the selection of constituencies and the strengthening of the Secular Progressive Alliance in the State, came up for discussion. “The meeting decided to highlight how the BJP government at the Centre is functioning against the interests of the people and is seeking to destroy the unique feature of the Tamil language. We will also explain to the people the problems caused by the introduction of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test and the three farm-related legislation,” Mr. Alagiri said. He said prospects were good for a DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance in the election and it was decided to seek the support of the people on the plank of the AIADMK government’s connivance with the BJP on its anti-people policies.The meeting was attended by AICC general secretaries K.C. Venugopal and Mukul Wasnik, in-charge of party affairs in T.N. Dinesh Gundu Rao and senior leaders P. Chidambaram, K.R. Ramasamy and Chellakumar.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||All beds set aside for COVID-19 patients to be retained||All beds allocated for COVID-19 patients at designated COVID-19 hospitals, health centres and care centres will be retained to meet any unexpected surge in cases, health officials have said. According to the data on bed availability, occupancy and vacancy released by the Health Department on Monday, nearly 90% of the beds at COVID-19 hospitals, health centres and care centres in Chennai were vacant. Among the COVID-19 hospitals, of the 4,833 beds available at government hospitals, 1,375 were occupied and the rest were vacant. A total of 2,967 beds were vacant out of the 3,853 beds available at private hospitals in the city. Only 190 of the 1,348 beds at government COVID-19 health centres were occupied, while 3,508 of the 3,779 beds available at private COVID-19 health centres were vacant. At COVID-19 care centres, 10,940 of the 11,076 beds available were vacant. “We will retain all beds at hospitals, health centres and care centres to meet any unexpected surge in cases. We will not take the risk of reducing the number of beds and will continue to be in a state of preparedness. For instance, if COVID-19 care centres with a 300-bed capacity have 20 patients each, we are trying to keep them at the same place so that we can minimise the number of staff — doctors and nurses — needed to manage the patients,” an official said.  We will retain all beds at hospitals, health centres and care centres to meet any unexpected surge in casesAn official
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||India must gear up to end HIV/AIDS by 2030: experts||Experts treating HIV/AIDS are worried that the COVID-19 pandemic has delayed the World Health Organization’s (WHO) target to improve the life of people living with HIV (PLHIV). The target date to ensure that 90% of the PLHIV are reached by 2020 has been delayed, they say. The theme of World AIDS Day this year, to be observed on December 1, is ‘Ending the HIV/AIDS epidemic: resilience and impact’. The method to achieve this by 2030 is to ensure life-saving anti-retroviral therapy (ART) reaches all those who are infected and that all persons living with HIV know their status. Also, the aim is to ensure that those on ART are viral suppressed so that infection is negligible. The aim of the WHO, to which India is a signatory, was to ensure that 90% of PLHIV know their status, 90% of them are on life-saving ART and 90% of those on ART are virally suppressed, before the end of 2020. By 2030, it aimed to make ART accessible to every PLHIV, which in turn reduces the viral load in their blood to undetectable levels. This would result in making negligible their risk of transmitting the HIV. Ishwar Gilada, president, AIDS Society of India (ASI), said India had 2.35 million people living with HIV. There were 69,220 new HIV infections and 58,960 AIDS-related deaths reported in India in 2019. “The 2020 global target is to achieve reduction in new HIV infections and AIDS deaths below 5,00,000 in a year. But in 2019, we had 17,00,000 newly-infected people with HIV and 6,90,000 AIDS deaths worldwide,” he said. “As per the UNAIDS Report 2020, Asia Pacific region saw a 12% decline in new HIV infections and a 29% decline in AIDS-related deaths over the last decade. But the maximum decline of 66% in new infections was in India,” said N. Kumarasamy, ASI secretary general. “In India, 79% of PLHIV were aware of their status and of this 71% were on ART, amounting to only 55% of all PLHIV,” Dr. Gilada said. “Everyone who tests positive for HIV should be on life-saving ART and viral suppressed,” said Dr. Kumarasamy. Although National AIDS Control Organisation stepped up uninterrupted supply of ART during the pandemic, HIV key populations, sex workers and LBGTIQ+ communities faced challenges, as HIV-related services were beyond their reach, the ASI said. The 2017 National Health Policy and the UN Sustainable Development Goals aim to end AIDS by 2030. With only 121 months to meet the target, “We need to achieve zero new transmission of HIV if we are to deliver on the promise of ending AIDS in the next 10 years,” Dr. Kumarasamy said. India adopted the test and treat strategy of the WHO as a national policy to achieve the target of 90:90:90 by 2020.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Music helps patients relax during cataract surgery||A study conducted by Aravind Eye Hospital has found that music therapy can help patients undergoing cataract surgery to relax. As many as 330 patients in the age group of 45-70, all undergoing cataract surgery for the first time were selected. While 165 patients were provided the music therapy, the others were not. Ophthalmologists at Aravind Eye Hospital decided to study if music provided relief from anxiety during the 10-12-minute procedure. “Cataract is a simple surgery but a lot of them become anxious and become uncooperative. They have a visual experience as the surgery progresses. As a result some of them experience increased heart beat and some people also have cardiac symptoms. For such people anti-sedatives are given. Some are even administered intravenous drugs,” said T. Venkatesh, one of the authors of the study. Though music has been used as therapy, this time the doctors decided to look at the results both objectively and subjectively. The patients were provided with a music player and headphones and asked to listen to music of their choice prior to, during and post-surgery. During the procedure their blood pressure, pulse rate and respiratory rate were measured every few minutes. Similarly, measurements were taken before and post-surgery. “We found that there was a significant difference between the control group and therapy group post-operatively. The latter seemed more calm and had a better experience during the surgery,” Dr. Venkatesh said. The patients were asked to rate their anxiety on the Likert anxiety scale. For the study, the hospital collaborated with music therapist Sumathy Sundar, attached to the Mahatma Gandhi Medical College. The study has been reported in the Journal of Cataract and Refractive Surgery, brought out under the aegis of the American Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgery.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Players in it for the long haul in the food and beverage industry remain’||“There has definitely been a clean-up in the F&B [food and beverage] space. Only the players in it for the long haul have remained. Anyone who thought that ‘restauranting’ was a fancy and glamorous profession has exited the business. The restaurant business, unlike popular perception, runs on very thin margins.” This observation by Japtej Ahluwalia, co-founder and executive director at Pricol Gourmet, set the tone for Monday’s panel discussion. The discussion titled ‘Leading Diners Through The Pandemic’, the fifth in the Coversations series under The Hindu Group’s ‘Tamil Nadu Smiling’ campaign, featured respected names from the State’s restaurant industry discussing their profession’s present and future with an optimistic outlook. The panel comprised Mr. Alhuwalia as well as Jegan S. Damodarasamy, executive director at Sree Annapoorna & Sree Gowrishankar Group in Coimbatore, and Chindi Varadarajulu, creative chef and founder of Pumpkin Tales and Zhouyu in Chennai, and chef at Latitude49 at the Grande Bay Resort and Spa in Mamallapuram. Each panellist, owing to the age and scale of their establishments, was able to provide a distinct insight into the situation. Mr. Damodarasamy explained the challenges of a chain that has been “doing things a certain way” for decades, to change their functioning and structures. He also pointed out how people were still willing to walk up to a trusted restaurant for a favourite dish. “I had expected deliveries to become a much larger part of our operations, but people are clearly more open to takeout: they are willing to patiently stand in lines with social distancing.” Each restaurateur agreed that the 50% seating capacity ceiling mandated was not profitable. “Unlike a restaurant like Annapoorna, when you go to a fine dining restaurant, you don’t expect to bump elbows with people. It already has spaced out seating, and fewer customers,” said Mr. Damodarasamy. “If restaurants don’t function at 80% to 85% capacity, they don’t even break even,” Mr. Alhuwalia added. Ms. Varadarajulu explained how diners in more spaced out restaurants such as Latitude 49 were more relaxed and tended to stay longer than those in city establishments. All three panellists, however, agreed that baked goods are seeing a spike in demand.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Switching quota categories not possible, NTA tells HC||Medical seat aspirants must be doubly careful at the time of filling up applications for National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). They cannot expect courts to condone their mistakes, such as a wrong mention about community status, after the publication of the rank list, the Madras High Court has said. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh said, “It is high time that the candidates be made to own up for the mistakes committed by them. It is true that it will have an adverse effect on their aspiration but somewhere the line has to be drawn by the courts.” The observation was made while dismissing a batch of cases. All the writ petitioners before the court stated that they had wrongly claimed to be falling under the Unreserved Category in their online applications though they should have been actually accommodated under the Other Backward Classes (OBC) category on the basis of community certificates in their possession and provided corresponding reservations in allotment of seats. However, the National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts NEET, told the court that the writ petitions should not be entertained since the candidates had been given as many as eight opportunities between January and September to make corrections, if any, to their applications. It complained that the petitioners had not utilised any of those opportunities. The NTA also accused the petitioners of suddenly trying to get reservations under OBC category after finding that they were lagging behind in the rank list published on October 16. Accepting the submissions made through its standing counsel G. Nagarajan, the judge said: “Courts cannot keep on condoning the mistakes year after year.”
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. leaders urge PM to hold talks with farmers||Leaders of the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance in Tamil Nadu on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow farmers to hold their protest in Jantar Mantar and make an announcement that the three farm-related laws would be withdrawn. DMK president M.K. Stalin, TNCC president K.S. Alagiri, CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan, CPI State secretary R. Mutharasan and others said the minimum support price was the backbone of agriculture and the three Acts sought to break it. “The government failed to hold a proper discussion on the Bills in Parliament,” they said. The leaders said instead of addressing the issues highlighted by the farmers, the government had taken an adamant stand that it would hold talks with them only if they moved to the Burari grounds. They alleged that the ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu not only supported the Acts but also enacted a similar legislation in the Tamil Nadu Assembly. “Both the BJP and the AIADMK have taken an anti-people stand,” they said.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro phase I extension project inauguration soon||Chennai Metro Rail Limited plans to start the 25kv power supply in the phase I extension project in north Chennai between Washermenpet and Wimco Nagar this week. While one track will be energised on Monday, the other will be done on Saturday. They are planning to conduct a trial run in two weeks as well. According to CMRL officials, they will monitor and check the line for any issues that emerge during this phase and resolve them in the next two months. Since CMRL plans to complete this 9 km stretch by the end of January 2021, it has to install and check the functioning of all important systems in the next month. “We want to carry out the trial run first by operating a locomotive engine by mid-December. Then, in a few weeks, we will operate a train as well,” an official said.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State establishes mechanism for administering COVID-19 vaccine||The Tamil Nadu government has ordered the formation of a co-ordination mechanism at the State and district levels for COVID-19 vaccination administration, in line with the suggestions made by the Centre, in view of the multiple vaccine candidates that are in various stages of development. The mechanism comprises a State steering committee, to be headed by the Chief Secretary; a State task force, to be led by the Health Secretary; and a district task force, to be chaired by the Collector concerned, according to a G.O. issued by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. Their terms of references would be as given by the Centre. The committee would take effective steps periodically to act on the terms of references and review the cold chain preparedness and the status of database compilation of healthcare workers. The Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine would issue appropriate instructions to undertake the structured review of the preparedness for the vaccine introduction on a priority basis. Besides senior officials of the government machinery in the State steering committee, the mechanism would have representatives from the National Cadet Corps, the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan, the National Service Scheme, the Railways, the Central paramilitary forces and defence establishments. ( The G.O. on the mechanism could be accessed in The Hindu portal at https://bit.ly/TNHealthMinistry )
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin does not know what the govt. is doing, says CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday countered criticism by DMK president M.K. Stalin about inundation in Chennai asking what the latter was doing when he held the posts of Deputy Chief Minister, Local Administration Minister and Mayor.  “I want to reply to Stalin’s question. Did Chennai come about only now? He was the Mayor. What was he doing? Was he asleep? He was the Minister for Local Administration? Was he asleep then too? We are implementing the schemes that he could not,” he told journalists after inspecting low-lying areas in and around the city. It would be better if Mr. Stalin did not criticise the government if he did not appreciate its efforts, he said. ‘Numerous awards’ Replying to Mr. Stalin’s accusation that nothing happened during the AIADMK rule, he said the State government was getting awards on various fronts. “Only if he sees the people, will he know what schemes we are implementing. He is interacting with his party workers through video conference. Even then, he is wearing gloves and wearing sunglasses while speaking. Such a leader would not know what the government is doing,” Mr. Palaniswami said.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two transgender persons held on extortion charge||The city police have arrested two transgender persons for allegedly extorting money from shopkeepers on Rajiv Gandhi Salai, in the garb of begging. The police said Vivekanandhan, 42, started a restaurant at the Nivetha Complex on Rajiv Gandhi Salai 10 days ago. On the inaugural day, a large number of customers thronged the restaurant. Two transgender persons came to the place and demanded money from him on the pretext of blessing and performing special prayers for good business. He first denied them money, however, after the duo abused him in the presence of new customers, he relented and gave them Rs. 5,000. The duo placed the money on the ground in front of the shop and were seen to be performing some prayers. They then demanded Rs. 5,000 more. Vivekanandan refused and tried to take back the money he had given to them. They prevented him from doing so, became abusive and even violent and forcibly took Rs. 5,000 from the cash box and the Rs. 5,000 they had first been given and left. Vivekanandhan complained to the Kannagi Nagar police. Crime inspector Kalaichelvi took up the matter for investigation and identified the suspects after scrutiny of CCTV footage. Police arrested the duo who were identified as Aswini, 22, and Chitra, 27. “This is quite regular — transwomen used to visit shops and commercial establishments on Fridays demanding money from the owners of shops on the pretext of blessing them to bring in more wealth. If denied, they become abusive and violent. Most victims are embarrassed by this and do not complain to the police,” said a senior police.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Revolving fund: govt. sanctions Rs. 16 crore||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday issued orders to sanction Rs. 16 crore for the creation of a revolving fund to enable the payment of all kinds of essential fees and hostel fees for students who have obtained admission under the 7.5% preferential allotment of seats in MBBS/BDS programmes, in line with the announcement made by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami earlier. The revolving fund will support students who obtain admission under this quota in government medical and dental colleges as well as self-financing medical and dental institutions. According to a G.O. issued in this regard by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, the fund would be managed by the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Limited. “Separate action will be initiated for the availing of benefits of eligible scholarship and educational assistance under various categories by eligible students from such categories, and the amount so received will be used to partly replenish the revolving fund from the departments concerned,” it said. The Director of Medical Education is authorised to draw and disburse the sanctioned amount, and is the estimating, reconciling and controlling authority for the fund. Access the G.O. here: https://bit.ly/TNRevolvingFund
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||381 govt. quota MBBS, BDS seats allotted||On the second day of counselling on Monday for the MBBS and BDS government quota, 381 seats were allotted. The Directorate of Medical Education had called 392 candidates of whom 381 were allotted seats in government medical colleges. At the end of the day, there were 2,059 seats in government medical colleges. On Tuesday, candidates with NEET score of 609 up to 592 have been called for counselling. As many as 451 candidates with general rank of 705 to 1,203 will participate in the counselling. Counselling opened on Monday with 2,440 seats in government and 1,060 seats in self-financing medical colleges. In dental colleges, there were 151 seats in government dental colleges and 985 in self-financing colleges. There are 176 vacancies in government quota seats in the Open Category; 711 in BC; 95 seats in BCM; 552 in MBC category; 417 in SC; 81 in SCA category; and 27 in ST category.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. directive to officials on COVID norms||Stressing the need for ‘COVID-19 appropriate behaviour’, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday instructed district administrations, police officers and local bodies across the State to implement precautionary measures and strictly enforce the standard operating procedures. “Enforcement of wearing of face masks, hand hygiene and physical distancing must be ensured. Wearing of face masks is an essential preventive measure. In order to enforce this core requirement, the district administration shall consider administrative actions, including the imposition of appropriate fines,” a G.O. said. Observance of physical distancing in crowded places were also critical for containing the spread of the infection. SOPs for regulating travel in airplanes, trains and metro rails were already in place and were to be enforced strictly.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for cheating car owners||The police arrested Arunkumar, 32, for allegedly cheating people by renting cars and running off with them. A few months ago, Arunkumar got a car from Akash Singh of Kottupuram for a monthly rent of Rs. 28,000. As the rent was paid on time for two months, Mr. Singh did not suspect anything. When Arunkumar went missing with the car, Akash lodged a complaint with the police.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bomb hoax at actor’s house||An anonymous call at the police control room was received, in which the called threatened to detonate a bomb at actor Vikram’s house. Police sources said the control room received the call on Monday morning. The staff of the control room immediately alerted higher officials and the Thiruvanmiyur police about the threatening call. Soon, a patrol team rushed to the actor’s house located in Besant Nagar and conducted inquiries. Personnel of the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) and a sniffer dog were pressed into service. After ensuring that there were no suspicious objects around the house, the BDDS declared the call a hoax, after which the control room was asked to trace the caller. Police found that the call was made from Marakkanam in Villupuram district. Police suspect the caller had earlier issued similar threats to the residences of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, and actors Vijay and Suriya.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized||A passenger from Dubai who concealed gold in various items — from toy race cars to nail cutters — has been detained. Totally, 286 g of gold worth Rs. 14.12 lakh were seized from him at the Chennai airport by Air Customs, according to a press release. On Monday, Syed Nadeem Ur Rehman, 33, who was rushing to the exit of the arrival hall was held on suspicion. When his bag was examined, officials saw five balm glass bottles, six cream boxes, three mini toy race cars and two nail cutters hidden inside. On looking further, they found 11 round gold cut pieces in the balm and cream bottles and three gold pieces in the cars, the release said. The nail cutters’ knife and bottle opening attachments were made of gold. The nail cutters on close examination were found to be multifunctional with a bottle opener and small knife attachments. Four knives and bottle openers were recovered and they were found to be made of gold. The passenger had hidden a gold cut bit in the pocket of his trousers. Further investigations are on.
01 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Madukkarai police bust car theft gang, arrest three||The Madukkarai police on Monday busted a six-member gang that was involved in stealing cars after hiring them from rental agencies. Police arrested three members of the gang namely M. Surendran (23) from Thoothukudi, M. Sakthi (22) from Eachanari and M. Vijayaraj (23) from Tirunelveli. The police are on the lookout for three others - Sadiq, Imran and Kishore. Based on instructions from the Coimbatore District (Rural) Superintendent of Police Ara. Arularasu, special vehicle checks were conducted under the supervision of the Deputy Superintendent of Police (Perur subdivision) R. Sreenivasalu and Madukkarai Inspector D. Murugesan on Sunday night. The team found a car without registration number parked near the Apple Garden at Arisipalayam around 12.30 a.m. Three out of the six men who were inside the car ran away after seeing the police. The police questioned the three youths in custody, following which they admitted that it was a stolen car. The accused told the police that they had stolen several cars belonging to car rental agencies after hiring them. They later removed the GPS devices to avoid tracking of location. According to the police, the accused used to bring stolen cars to a workshop run by Sadiq at Sundarapuram – Eachanari junction where they dismantled them to sell valuable parts. 11 cars recovered The police recovered 11 such stolen cars, including costly SUVs, from the workshop. Inspector General of Police (West Zone) K. Periaiah, and Deputy Inspector General of Coimbatore range K. S. Narenthiran Nayar lauded the police team.
01 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police conduct drills to check preparedness of the force||Coimbatore City Police on Monday conducted drills to check the preparedness of the force in situations such as unexpected mass protests and unlawful assemblies. The drills were conducted near the Textool bridge at Ganapathy, near the Gandhipuram bus stand and next to a fuel station at Kuniyamuthur. Based on instructions from the City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan, police personnel in plainclothes were kept standby as protesters at 20 locations. Of the 20 locations, the police control room received calls from three places. “The calls were treated as emergency situations. Assistant Commissioner of Police and the inspector of the each location were alerted about the situation. The police force in mufti who posed as protesters enacted a real life situation,” said G. Stalin, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order). Mock blockade At two locations, the protesters staged mock blockade. A mock clash between two groups was staged at another location. The drills were also aimed at instructing the police force on various proceedings that need to be followed while handling protesters or people who assemble unlawfully.
01 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Nadur wall collapse victim’s kin demands compensation||Mettupalayam Nadur resident K. Kamalammal on Monday petitioned the district administration demanding the compensation that the State Government had announced after the December 2, 2019 wall collapse that killed over 15 persons. In her petition, the 65-year-old said after the incident, when the Chief Minister had visited the area, he had promised Rs. 10 lakh solatium, alternative house and government job to the kin of each of the victims who had died. She lived with her daughter-in-law Nadhiya, grandson Gokulram and granddaughter Atchaya and the family had thus far not received any help or compensation from the Government, Ms. Kamalammal said. She urged the administration to take steps to immediately provide relief.   ‘Stop outside interference’ AIADMK worker and Naranapuram Panchayat member S. Rajamani on Monday sumitted a petition seeking help in stopping the interference of outsiders in the day-to-day affairs of the local body. The elected representative said taking advantage of the panchayat president’s lack of awareness on panchayat work, a few outsiders in collusion with the panchayat secretary interfered in the day-to-day affairs by taking files home, making illegal photocopies of documents and indulging in corruption in collusion with contractors. When the issue was discussed in gram sabha meeting on January 26 this year and a few months ago, CCTV cameras were fixed to only be damaged by the secretary and outsiders, Mr. Rajamani claimed and sought the administration’s indulgence to put an end to it.
01 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Steppe eagle, Tawny eagle spotted on dry lands of Kalangal||Kalangal near Sulur in Coimbatore district appears to be a favourite turf for birds that prefer open dry habitat. Birders recently spotted two large birds of prey namely Steppe eagle (Aquila nipalensis) and Tawny eagle (Aquila rapax) on dry lands of Kalangal. Photographic records of the presence of the two eagles in Coimbatore district were not available so far, according to them. C.V. Nishanth and G.V. Sathyanaarayan, members of the Coimbatore Nature Society (CNS) and The Nature and Butterfly Society, spotted a Steppe eagle on an open dry land at Kalangal on November 26. They also managed to photograph the raptor that was resting on the ground after a rain. According to Mr. Nishanth, Steppe eagle breeds across Eurasia, from Turkey to China. The migratory season has been observed from August to March and they return from April. “They feed on small mammals, birds, reptiles and insects. Immature birds have been noticed taking carcasses of these. They frequent open grasslands, scrubs and mountain forest. Its conservation status is ‘endangered’ in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species,” he said. G. Prakash of CNS said that it could possibly be the first photographic record of the large stocky brown bird of prey in Coimbatore district.  Earlier sighting  There are records of its sighting in the Nilgiris and Erode districts. M. Sakthi and Usha Raveendran from Coimbatore-based Western Ghats Wildlife Conservation Trust (WGWCT) spotted a Tawny eagle at Kalangal when they visited the place expecting to observe wintering birds on November 19. They initially spotted the eagle in its flight at Kannampalayam and traced it to Kalangal, a few km away. Though both Tawny eagle and Steppe eagle have broad baggy leggings, the former is paler than the latter. While the gape flange of Tawny eagle does not extend beyond the middle of the eye, Steppe eagle’s gape flange extends to the rear of the eye. According to N. Parthiparajan, president of WGWCT, its conservation status is ‘vulnerable’ in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Mr. Nishanth said the open dry lands at Kalangal attract a variety of cuckoos, pipits and birds of prey.
01 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Codissia calls for relaxations in defence procurement policy||The defence procurement policy should be relaxed so that more Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) can participate in the defence sector, said Coimbatore District Small Industries Association. This was one of the resolutions passed at the annual meeting of the Association held on Monday. According to a press release from the Association, it was also decided to appeal to the Central Government to treat MSMEs as priority sector and earmark a special budget provision for the sector. The government should constitute a committee to regulate the 25 % compulsory purchase obligations of Public Sector Undertakings, defence, and railways to MSMEs. The obligatory purchase from MSMEs should be increased to 40 %, it said. Further, the government should come out with a scheme to help MSME upgrade to better technologies. The accelerated depreciation for three years should be extended to all MSMEs that go for expansion or modernisation. An NSIC warehouse should be made available for MSME units here so that the finished goods could be stocked at a concessional rate. This will also enable the units sell the products on e-commerce portals. M. V. Ramesh Babu of Paramount Platers was elected president of the Association for 2020-22. V. Thirugnanam of Meridian Mediteck and PS Devaraj of Khayzen System India are the vice-presidents, M. Karthikeyan of Sukshma Dynamics is the secretary, R. Shasikumar of Metro Metal Finishers is the joint secretary and S. Soundararajan of Falcon Toolings in the treasurer.
01 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Northeast monsoon rainfall poor for second consecutive month’||Northeast monsoon rainfall for Coimbatore has been poor for the second consecutive month in November. The data shared by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University’s Agro Climate Research Centre showed that the district had received only 99mm rainfall. The rainfall had come in nine rainy days. A day with over 2.5mm precipitation is accounted for as a rainy day. The Centre’s head Prof. S.P. Ramanathan said the NE monsoon had been poor for the second consecutive month, as the district saw only 36mm rain in October. The average rainfall for October for Coimbatore was 146mm. The average rainfall for November was 118mm. The average rainfall for the entire NE monsoon season that started on October 1 and ended by December 31 was 305mm. The district could now reach the normal rainfall mark only if there were more rain in December and cyclone or depression formation in Bay of Bengal would play a crucial role, he added.
01 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Killing of Ammasai has a parallel in Kerala’s infamous Chacko murder||The main motive behind the murder of M. Ammasai (45) of Sivananda Colony in Coimbatore on December 11, 2011 was a conspiracy by advocate E.T. Rajavel to fake the death of his wife Mohana who faced cheating cases involving Rs. 12 crore in Odisha, according to investigators. The murder draws a parallel with the infamous murder of Chacko at Mavelikkara in Alappuzha district in January 1984 which was an attempt by Kerala’s longest wanted criminal Sukumara Kurup to fake his own death in a bid to claim an insurance amount of Rs. 8 lakh with the help of his brother and an aide. While Rajavel and his associates, Palanisamy and Ponraj alias Ponnarasu, and managed to obtain a death certificate in the name of Mohana and got Ammasai’s body cremated in a crematorium at Athupalam, Kurup and his aides had burnt the body of Chacko in the former’s car to make it appear like a death due to accident. First attempt flops “When Ammasai first visited Rajavel’s office near Coimbatore Collectorate on December 10, he gave her a cold drink mixed with a sedative when she was made to wait. The woman, however, was very healthy. She felt uneasy and returned home in an autorickshaw. The murder was executed the next day, a Sunday, after Rajavel telephoned Ammasai and asked her to come to his office,” recalls R. Adiganesan, who was at the forefront of an action council that put pressure to keep the case alive from 2011. In Chacko murder, Kurup and aides had searched for a man of matching physique. They finally identified Chacko as a match. They offered him a car ride and a spiked drink after which the murder was executed, according to the police. However, the autopsy revealed that the body was charred after a murder and the identity of the deceased was subsequently ascertained. Though Rajavel had managed to cremate Ammasai's body as that of Mohana on December 12 and later obtained a death certificate for his wife, the mystery of a murder came to light when the couple made moves to get a property registered in Mohana’s name. Officials found that a death certificate was already issued in her name.  “We found that Mohana was alive and confession from the accused involved in the forging of the certificate led us to unearthing Ammasai’s murder. This happened around two years after the murder and proving the murder was a big challenge as we did not have a body or post-mortem certificate,” recalls the then Podanur Inspector M. Kanagasabapathy. Later, Rathinapuri police altered the case registered in connection with Ammasai's missing to that of a murder. Subsequently, the police arrested all the accused. Sukumara Kurup, then an executive of a marine petroleum firm in Abu Dhabi, is still wanted and a motion picture inspired by the events titled ‘Kurup’ starring Dulquer Salmaan is expected for release soon.
01 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK-BJP alliance will be defeated: Tiruppur MP||The AIADMK-BJP alliance will be defeated in the upcoming Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu as in the Parliamentary elections, according to CPI leader and Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan. The CPI national executive committee member told journalists in Coimbatore that the Lok Sabha election results (in which the DMK-led SPA secured a landslide victory) will continue for the Assembly elections too. People will not vote for the AIADMK - BJP alliance even in the few seats that it had won (in the General elections and Assembly by-polls).” According to him, the BJP’s Vetrivel Yatra has a political agenda and is not being undertaken with devotion. The aim is to weaken the DMK, he said.  Mr. Subbarayan added that theprotest by farmers in Delhiwill only intensify as more farmers from the neighbouring States are marching towards New Delhi. The government had passed the farm bills in the Rajya Sabha by voice vote. The protest will continue till the government withdrew the three farm laws, he said.  BJP’s Vetrivel Yatra has a political agenda and is not being undertaken with devotion K. SubbarayanTiruppur MP
01 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two held for man’s murder||A 40-year-old man from Bihar was murdered by three of his co-workers near Cheran Ma Nagar here on Sunday. Police said that Lalith Kumar, a native of Darbhanga in Bihar, was murdered by A. Senthilkumar (32) from Namakkal district, P. Ramkishore (25) and L. Hanuman (22) from Rajasthan following a brawl on Sunday night. The four men worked in a granite showroom on Vilankurichi road at Cheran Ma Nagar and stayed on the showroom’s premises. According to police, Senthilkumar, Ramkishore and Hanuman assaulted Lalith Kumar late on Sunday, accusing him of stealing Rs. 500 from them. The three men went to sleep and in the morning they found Lalith Kumar dead. While Senthilkumar escaped fearing arrest on Monday morning, the other two informed the employer about the death. The Peelamedu police arrested the two workers. Search is on for Senthilkumar. Newborn found dead A newborn girl was found dead inside a toilet attached to the emergency section of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Monday. A conservancy worker who went to the toilet for cleaning found the body. CMCH Dean P. Kalidas said that an assistant resident medical officer has been tasked to inquire about the incident. Details of babies born at the hospital in the last few days and visuals from surveillance cameras will be checked to ascertain the child’s whereabouts, he said. The Race Course police have started investigation based on a complaint lodged by the CMCH administration.
01 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. Commissioner inspects model road work||Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian on Monday inspected the progress of model road work on D.B. Road and asked the sanitary wing officials to ensure that sewage did not stagnate in drains and rainwater in front of shops. He wanted them to spray larvicides and fog the streets to control mosquitoes, said a release from the civic body. Earlier, he inspected the Rs. 24.36-crore work that the Corporation had undertaken to lay model road by providing utility ducts for power and telecom cables, drinking water and sewer lines and improving pedestrian pathways on D.B. Road, right from the Sukhrawarpet Road Junction to Cowley Brown Road Junction. The release said the Commissioner also asked shopkeepers to not dump garbage or waste on road and instead hand it over only to conservancy workers in a segregated fashion.
01 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Truck owners demand relaxation in recent regulations||Members of the Coimbatore Lorry Owners’ Association petitioned the Transport Department officials demanding relaxation in the recent regulations for trucks here on Monday. The Association president K.S. Kaliyaperumal and secretary N. Murugesan, along with a few members, met the Joint Transport Commissioner for Coimbatore Zone K. Umasakthi and Regional Transport Officer (RTO) – Central J.K. Baskaran at the Regional Transport Office (Central) on Dr. Balasundaram Road and submitted the petitions. The three demands in the petition concerned with the mandatory installation of speed governors, reflective tapes and vehicle location tracking devices on trucks for renewal of fitness certificates. With the owners already reeling under economic slump due to COVID-19 pandemic, new regulations such as these have added to their financial burden, the petition claimed. The State government has said that the speed governors/speed limiting devices must be purchased only from 11 approved firms, reflective tapes from only two firms and vehicle location tracking devices from eight firms and these private firms sell these items at a higher cost, the petition alleged. Mr. Murugesan said that the Coimbatore Lorry Owners’ Association also submitted the petitions to the remaining three RTOs in the city namely S. Saravanan (South), K. Kumaravel (West) and T. Sivagurunathan (North) on Monday. With around 5,000 trucks plying on the roads in the city, the owners will go on strike if the demands are not met, he said.
01 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man killed in accident||A man from Pannimedu near Valparai died after the tractor he drove fell into a gorge on Monday. Police have identified the deceased as Kennedy (55). According to police, the incident happened on Monday morning when he was heading to an estate for work.
01 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Subway likely at Peelamedu: MP||Railway officials have promised that a subway would be constructed in Peelamedu-Thaneerpandal area for use by pedestrians, said Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan.  The MP visited Peelamedu and Thaneerpandal on Monday with officials from the Highways Department and the Railways. A flyover connecting these two areas was thrown open for public use recently. However, residents in the vicinity found it difficult to cross the railway line every day and hence demanded a subway for pedestrians and two-wheelers. The MP had taken up the demand with the Railway officials and they inspected the area on Monday. Officials have promised that they will construct a subway, the MP said.
01 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) to stage protests||Members of the CPI(M) will stage protests across Tiruppur district from December 1 to 4 to express their solidarity with the farmers protesting at Delhi borders, against the three farm laws. The party’s district secretary S. Muthukannan said in a release that the protests would be held outside Central government offices across the district. In Tiruppur town, the protests will be held outside the Head Post Office on Uthukuli Road.
01 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Micro-level planning helped minimise damage: Collector||Coordinated approach by all departments, including the police, and also micro level-planning besides targeted evacuation by the District Administration in Cuddalore, were chiefly responsible for minimising damage and saving the district from a major catastrophe during the recent Cyclone Nivar and torrential rain. Cuddalore district is a flood-prone region and would normally fall a prey to the fury of cyclone and heavy rains. But learning from past disasters, including the Thane Cyclone in 2011 and the 2015 floods, this time planning by all departments much in advance and identification of 271 vulnerable areas for focussed attention and intensive concentration kept the cyclone at bay. According to Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri, “Evacuation routes were finalised for all the 271 locations to bring people to the shelters. As many as 39 inter-departmental teams formed to keep close vigil on the fury of cyclone were also seized of the situation and rose to the occasion as effectively as they could." "Police personnel were stationed every 10 km to ensure that there was no room for any eruption of law and order problem and removal of fallen trees was also taken up expeditiously. The district did not witness any loss of human life due to the preparedness," he said. As many as 416 Disaster Response Guards (DRG), 210 personnel from the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and 3,240 First Responders were roped in to conduct a well-targeted evacuation plan, which had involved moving of 52,226 persons to Cyclone shelters. The Water Resources Organisation of the PWD personnel put in effective steps to prevent any situation arising out of torrential rains. Over 1.40 lakh sand bags were dumped to prevent flooding while another 60,000 empty bags were kept ready, he said. The inter-departmental zonal teams were also stationed at major waterbodies including Veeranam tank, Wellington lake and Perumal tank to monitor the rising water levels. The Collector ,said that planning much ahead of the occurrence of cyclone from August had seen its fruitful impact and there was no big damage. While the administration has the primary role to reduce risk of disasters, the responsibility was also shared with other authorities and stakeholders. NLC India Ltd was made part of the team to ensure that water from the Mines were not discharged as had occurred during the 2015 floods.
01 December 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Project-affected farmers stage sit-in protest||Farmers affected by the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited’s (BPCL) inter-State Irugur-Devangonthi pipeline project staged a sit-in protest near the Collectorate here on Monday demanding that the public sector undertaking should realign the project to spare farm lands. The farmers, organised as a collective opposing the BPCL’s multi-product petroleum pipeline project, have demanded that the government realign the pipeline that is designed to run through seven districts starting from Irugur (in Coimbatore) to Devangonthi (in Bengaluru). The 294-km petroleum pipeline project had seen opposition from farmers, who stand to lose with the laying of pipelines aligned to run through their cultivable lands. In its wake, farmers of Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts have raised objections to various caveats that will making farming difficult. According to the farmers, the pipeline project forbids cultivation of coconuts, mangoes, and forbids sinking of wells and construction of houses on the plots among others. Further, land owners will have to bear any damage to the pipeline running through their farms, it has been alleged. The protesting farmers have demanded that the BPCL realign the trajectory of the pipeline to enable its passage along the roads and highways and spare the farm lands that is feared to scuttle cultivation of crops of the farmers’ choice.
01 December 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘Juvenile justice system vital’||The juvenile justice system played a very important role in rehabilitating children involved in the crime, said District Judge M.K. Jamuna here on Monday. Speaking at a one-day orientation programme for child welfare and police officers here, she said that handling children figuring in crimes was very critical. “We should have utmost patience and the responsibility of turning them back into the mainstream,” the Judge said. Quoting Mahatma, the Judge said that if the country had to witness development and peace together, the children, who are considered as the future of the nation, had to be properly brought up. Hence, the officers had a multitask responsibility and challenges in their duty. DIG of Police (Dindigul Range) M.S. Muthusamy said that children who grew up amidst the family environment may have turned up into criminal activity. It may be due to very many reasons. There may be several factors. Hence, the police officers had the prime responsibility in handling such people. The investigating officers should don the role of the mothers while handling the children involved in crimes. This alone would help in preventing them from committing crimes again and also make them understand in the right perspective, Mr. Muthusamy said. The training programme had technical sessions where resource persons from various fields addressed the participants.
01 December 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||App to facilitate securing habitual offenders swiftly||Launching the facetagr App on Monday, the Dindigul District Police have moved one step forward as the technology will facilitate securing habitual offenders swiftly. Speaking at the inaugural session of the training programme for about 60 police officers and personnel from the district, Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya said that Dindigul was the first district in the south zone to launch such an App and second in Tamil Nadu next to Tiruvallur district police. She said that the App, designed to recognise a person's face, would be user friendly and the highlight was that all the beat officers, patrol teams, Sub-Inspectors, Inspectors and DSPs in the respective sub-divisions in Dindigul district can have the App on their mobile phones. The objective of the App, she said, was that it would facilitate the police to swiftly know about the history of a person, the moment the photo was uploaded on the App. For instance, if a patrol team intercepted a suspect under Thadicombu limits in the district, the officer can immediately take the picture of the person and upload it in the App. The App, she said, was designed in such a way that the software would reveal the number of cases against the person, the backlog particulars and among others. She hoped the law and order and crime wing police would make use of the opportunity and share particulars swiftly in public interest. Dindigul district, the SP said, had close to 8,000 CCTV cameras at vantage locations. This would aid in not only tracking a case with evidence from the beginning, but also helps the investigating teams understand the intention and among others with a larger perspective. The suspects cannot escape easily and it may help in getting conviction in the courts of law. Ms Ravali Priya lauded the functioning of the master control room in the district. Giving a few specific instances, she said that by closely monitoring the conversations transmitted at the control room, the personnel were able to give valuable inputs to the police in other districts. Three days ago, the personnel at the control room had intercepted an accused and a kidnap victim from another district, when the vehicle crossed the borders of Dindigul. She lauded the commendable work and with the aid of the technology, the police can produce results in a smart way.
01 December 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘Create a conducive environment for farmers’||Condemning the BJP government at the Centre and the AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu, the CPI(M) cadres appealed to the people to bring an end to the present rulers in 2021 general elections to the Legislative Assembly and teach a fitting lesson here on Monday. CPI(M) state executive committee member and former MLA Balabharathi, who led the protest demonstration to support the farmers who have been staging protests in New Delhi against the three Farm Laws brought in by the Union government, said that the Centre had conveniently neglected the farmers to accommodate their friends in the industry. Unfortunately, the Tamil Nadu government too had chosen to remain silent on this serious issue. When the farmers had come all the way from Punjab and other States to New Delhi to show their protests, the Prime Minister and his cabinet colleagues had not even listened to the grievances. The people of the nation were watching the cruel ways of the BJP government. Very soon, they would be taught a lesson, she warned. The CPI (M) leader further said that the Union government should immediately withdraw the laws and create a conducive environment for the farmers, who were already finding it tough to survive due to very many factors. When the CPI (M) cadre were demonstrating, the police attempted to arrest them as they had not obtained permission. Under such circumstances, a wordy altercation took place between some cadre and the police. When the police tried to physically lift the agitators, there was chaos for some time. They said that such pressure tactics would not make them run away from the crisis. The cadre also said that when the BJP was given a special treatment in their Vel Yatra, why was the police indifferent in their case, which too was in public interest. The elections would have the answer, they replied and courted arrest. Similar agitations were held in Palani where the CPI (M) cadres staged a demonstration in front of the State Bank of India led by the district secretary R Sachidanandam. In Ramanathapuram district, the cadre staged a demonstration in the district headquarters and in Rameswaram. After the police arrested them, they were detained in a marriage hall. In the evening, when the police issued summons to the arrested persons to appear before the officers at a later date, they agitated and threatened to stage a sit-in dharna.
01 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek permanent paddy procurement centre in Erode||Stating that paddy cultivated on 450 hectare is ready for harvesting, members of Uzhavan Magan Vivasayigal Sangam has urged the district administration to establish a permanent direct paddy procurement centre at B.P. Agraharam area here. In their petition submitted to Collector C. Kathiravan at his camp office on Monday, the members said paddy cultivated in Anainasuvampalayam, S.P. Agraharam, B.P. Agraharam, Nanjai Thalavaipalayam, Vairapalayam and Suriyampalayam was irrigated by Kalingarayan Canal. The crops were ready for harvesting, they said and sought the permanent procurement centre so that their produce could be sold to the government directly. Its president M. Madheswaran said since the newly formed cyclone was expected to bring rain in the coming days, establishing a centre would help farmers sell their produce immediately. He said any delay in procurement would result in the harvested paddy stored in field getting damaged in rain. “Before rain damages the paddy, the administration should immediately establish the centre,” he said. The farmers said the Collector had assured them to establish a centre at the earliest.
01 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Couple arrested for cheating bank||A couple, who submitted fake documents and obtained a car loan to the tune of Rs. 19 lakh from a nationalised bank branch, was arrested by the Erode District Crime Branch police. In her complaint to Superintendent of Police T. Thangadurai, D. Priyasre, manager of Canara Bank, said K. Radhika (38) of New Teachers Colony, an account holder in the bank branch at Thindal, on October 13 approached their branch at Villarasampatti claiming that she was a branch manager at a private insurance company in Erode and sought car loan. She had submitted salary certificate, copies of income tax returns, her identity card and other documents. The branch had sanctioned a loan of Rs. 19 lakh and handed her over a cheque in the name of an automobile showroom in Coimbatore. Since she did not submit the original invoice and related documents, the branch approached the showroom which said that the car was registered in the name of her husband Karthick (40) and the cheque was also encashed. The loan details were also not disclosed during the vehicle registration. The manager said the couple had submitted fake documents and cheated the branch. The couple was arrested and lodged in prison. The police said the couple had cheated three bank branches to the tune of Rs. 49 lakh.
01 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||CM not ready to take up people’s problems: Kanimozhi||DMK women’s wing leader M.K Kanimozhi on Monday charged that though the Chief Minister and ministers are meeting the Prime Minister and other Union Ministers regularly, they are not ready to take up the problems of the people and farmers with them for redressal. Addressing weavers during the ‘Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural’ (Stalin’s voice for a new dawn) campaign at Bhavani in Erode, she said the Goods and Services Tax (GST) was affecting the weavers of Bhavani Jamakkalam and their pending demand seeking exemption from the tax was not being heard. She said industrial effluents were affecting the environment and the people but the State government failed to take responsibility to resolve the issue. “The AIADMK had in its election manifesto said that it would resolve the problems relating to textile processing, but had not done it so far,” she added. The MP said many said as a fun, the Chief Minister created a record by laying foundation stones for more projects. “He only lays the foundation, but projects are not executed,” she said and added that he was not ready to fulfill the promises made to the people. Earlier, addressing tribal people and cadre at Bargur Hills, she said the AIADMK’s regime had been ravaging the State. At Anthiyur, she said people from all walks of life faced difficulties during the nearly decade-long AIADMK rule in Tamil Nadu and were ready to usher in a new government headed by DMK president M.K. Stalin.
01 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two-year-old boy found missing||A two-year-old boy, who was sleeping along the road near the bus stand at Gobichettipalayam, was found missing on Sunday night. Over 20 members of Narikuravar community were staying at the overbridge across Keeripallam Canal near the bus stand. On Sunday, Killi, son of Ammasai and Thilagavathi, along with other children were sleeping over the bridge and the couple left for an eatery. When they returned, they found Killi missing. The couple along with others searched for the child, but could not find him. Suspecting that their son was kidnapped, the couple lodged a complaint with the Gobichettipalayam police. The police are reviewing the footage from the surveillance cameras located in the area.
01 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea to shift Tasmac outlet from canal||Stating that the Tasmac outlet on Kurangan Odai is affecting farming activities, people from 13 villages in Modakurichi Taluk submitted a petition to the district administration on Monday demanding that the outlet be shifted. Their petition said there were over 2,000 families living in the villages and they were involved in farming activities for many generations. The Tasmac outlet (No: 3258) functioning on Erode – Palani Main Road was constructed on the odai, disrupting water flow. About 1,500 acre in the area was receiving water through the odai and due to encroachment, water was not reaching the farm lands. The Tasmac shop was also located near the Rattai Sutripalayam bus stop at Avalpoondurai where school children and workers boarded buses. The petition alleged that customers to the outlet were teasing people at the bus stop. Nine lives were lost in accidents near the shop in the past one year. The petition said that if the outlet was not removed, farming activity could not be carried out. Hence, the villagers demanded that the outlet be relocated.
01 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to underground cabling works in the Kasipalayam sub-station-Chennimalai Road electric line, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on December 1 at Karimedu, Stoney Bridge, EVN Road and Manal Medu.
01 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two held for hunting peacock||Two persons who hunted a peacock at Vilamundi Forest Range in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve were arrested. On Sunday, during patrol, forest personnel found two persons inside the forest area with a peacock and questioned them. They were identified as Venkatesh (22) and Karuppasamy (30) of Chinna Kallipatti in Mettupalayam in Coimbatore district. They said they had let a dog chase the peacock and captured it. The personnel seized a knife, the peacock and other items used for hunting from them. A case was registered. Both were produced in a court in Sathyamangalam and lodged at prison.
01 December 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Collector launches participatory growth plan||Collector V. Jaya Chandra Banu Reddy launched a participatory growth plan under the aegis of the Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project (TNRTP) in three blocks here on Monday. A participatory growth plan is an eight-day exercise launched in 102 panchayats as a road map to enabling participatory growth led by people of the village. This entails assessing the resources present in the village and the scope for enterprises. The data is captured through a mobile app named VALAM, which is the first ever enterprise survey. The survey outcome will be part of a plan to prepare an investment assessment for promotion of rural enterprises and job creation, according to the administration. The participatory growth plan is being implemented in Bargur, Kaveripattinam and Krishnagiri blocks. According to the administration, the TNRTP envisions promotion of rural enterprises, and creation of employment opportunities in rural areas. The growth plan envisions participation of a six-member team, each drawn from a self-help group, village poverty reduction committee, panchayat level federation, community professionals and entrepreneurs, who will collate data through survey and enter the data for the plan. The Collector said the team members were trained professionals and the data should be carefully collated and entered to ensure the PGP was driven to the growth of the village.
01 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High-level bridge to replace Obula Padithurai causeway||Following the recent rains, pedestrian and traffic movement has been restricted on Obula Padithurai causeway, which connects the southern and northern banks of the Vaigai, as the river water was slightly flowing over the causeway. Road users say traffic movement is restricted on the causeway whenever the flow of water in the river is high, causing inconvenience to them. To tackle this issue, Madurai Corporation has sent a proposal to the Directorate of Town and Country Planning for the construction of a high-level bridge across the Vaigai, replacing the existing Obula Padithurai causeway. The civic body is awaiting the administrative sanction and the allotment of funds to execute the project. “The proposal was sent around four months back during the COVID-19 pandemic. We are awaiting to get the administrative sanction for the project,” said a Corporation official. The civic body has sent a detailed project report for Rs. 27.50 crore for the construction of a two-lane high-level bridge which will have approach roads connecting Panagal Road on the northern side and Munichalai on the southern side of the bridge. Citing financial constraints faced by the Corporation, the civic body has requested a grant of Rs. 27.50 crore from Infrastructure and Amenities Development fund for constructing the bridge. It will be 200 metres long and have 12 spans. Hundreds of two-wheelers and light motor vehicles use the Obula Padithurai causeway, which serves as one of the main links to the southern and northern parts of the city. “Currently heavy vehicles are not allowed on the causeway. But once the high-level bridge is constructed, heavy vehicles can also use it,” said the Corporation official. The high-level bridge will also help reduce congestion on Albert Victor bridge and Yanaikkal bridge to some extent, he added. The Obula Padithurai causeway, which was constructed several years back, is riddled with potholes and craters. The railings along the causeway have been severely damaged in many places. “There have been incidents where pedestrians and vehicle users have accidentally fallen into the river in the absence of the railings,” said a police personnel who was deployed near the causeway on Monday. The Corporation official said the high-level bridge will also facilitate easier access to Government Rajaji Hospital. V.R. Pandi, a shopkeeper on the northern bank of the river, said road users had to endure hardship whenever the traffic movement on the causeway is restricted and welcomed the proposal to build the high-level bridge.  The bridge plan  The 200-metre-long bridge with two lanes will cost Rs. 27.50 crore The civic body is awaiting administrative sanction and allotment of funds
01 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘SHGs misused for poll work in favour of ruling party’||The Project Director of Mahalir Thittam, Madurai, had distributed forms to collect details about members of self-help groups so that they can undertake election-related work in favour of the ruling party, charged Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP Su. Venkatesan, here on Monday. Addressing mediapersons, the Madurai MP said the Project Director of Mahalir Thittam had convened a meeting with the authorities in charge of women self-help groups on Monday. “Forms were distributed for all the Assembly election constituencies in the district. The form required the names and contact numbers of 25 members of SHGs from each ward. There is officially no connection between election-related work and self-help groups,” Mr. Venkatesan said. This act shows that the government body was being misused to the favour of the ruling party. “It is shocking that the ruling party has begun such malpractices with many months left for the Assembly elections,” he added. The Collector must order an investigation regarding this complaint and take necessary action against the Project Director of Mahalir Thittam, he said. Mr. Venkatesan also said the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government imposed Hindi and Sanskrit upon citizens of the country. CPI(M) district secretary (urban) R. Vijayarajan spoke on the abysmal condition of roads in the city and urged Madurai Corporation to lay repair the roads. K. Kanagaraj, State executive committee member of the party, was present. Protest The day also saw Mr. Venkatesan leading an agitation with the party cadre at South Masi Street- West Masi Street junction in solidarity with hundreds of farmers protesting in New Delhi against the newly-enacted farm laws. The laws passed by the Union government will doom the lives of farmers, Mr. Venkatesan said. The protesters raised slogans against the BJP government. Farmers of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, belonging to over 60 farmer associations, were taking part in the protest. “The Union government took away their rights and handed them over to the Corporate giants in a short span of time,” he charged. The farm laws were against the interests of farmers as there was no mention of the dispute redressal mechanism if Corporates violated the norms, Mr. Venkatesan said.  There is officially no connection between election-related work and self-help groups Su. Venkatesan  Madurai MP
01 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court for inquiry into violation of circular||Taking a serious view over listing of matters in violation of a High Court circular, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed the Registrar General of the Madras High Court to conduct a detailed inquiry, including vigilance inquiry, regarding irregularities and illegalities committed by the Registry officials at the High Court Bench. Justice S.M. Subramaniam said appropriate action should be initiated, including disciplinary proceedings, against the erring officials. The judge took cognisance of the fact that a petitioner had filed a bail petition within nine days of the first petition being dismissed. The successive bail petitions were listed before different judges. It was found that no orders were obtained from the court concerned or the Chief Justice before the matter was listed before the other court. As per a High Court circular issued pursuant to a Supreme Court order, successive bail petitions filed should be posted before the same judge who refused the bail in the first instance, unless that judge is not available. The petitions for cancellation of bail should also be posted before the same judge who granted bail in the first instance, unless that judge is not available. These instructions are to be followed scrupulously and any deviation in this regard will be viewed very seriously, as per the circular. “It is a surprise how the successive Bail Petitions are listed by taking unilateral decision by the Registry officials, more specifically, at their choice and at their whims and fancies. In exceptional circumstances, an order is to be obtained either from the Judge concerned or the Chief Justice, for listing the matters before the other Court”, the judge said.  ‘Clear interference’  Such an action of the High Court Registry is a clear interference with the prerogative powers of the Chief Justice, in the matter of allotment of Roster. There is every reason to believe that such listing of matters in violation of the Supreme Court order as well as the High Court Circular are done mostly on extraneous considerations. The Registrar General of the Madras High Court is bound to act swiftly in order to prevent such illegal listing of cases. Bench-hunting and Forum shopping is criticised seriously by the Supreme Court and the High Court Registry cannot pave way for such illegal activities. The court was hearing a bail petition filed by R. Palanivelu of Pudukottai district, arrested and remanded in judicial custody in connection with a murder case. The petitioner’s first bail petition was dismissed on Novermber 10 and his second petition was filed on November 19, within nine days of the dismissal. The court dismissed the second bail petition.
01 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two more special trains from December 4||Southern Railway will run two more fully reserved special trains - Chennai Egmore-Tiruchendur-Chennai Egmore daily and Madurai-Punalur-Madurai daily Mail - from December 4. Train number 06105 Chennai Egmore-Tiruchendur daily special will leave Chennai Egmore at 4 p.m. and reach Tiruchendur at 8.05 a.m. the next day. Train number 06106 Tiruchendur-Chennai Egmore will leave Tiruchendur at 6.50 p.m. and reach Egmore at 10.45 a.m., the next day. They will stop at Tambaram, Chengalpattu, Melmaruvathur, Tindivanam, Villupuram, Panrutti, Tiruppadirippuliyur, Chidambaram, Sirkazhi, Mayiladuthurai, Aduthurai, Kumbakonam, Thanjavur, Tiruchi, Dindigul, Madurai, Virudhunagar, Sattur, Kovilpatti, Tirunelveli, Seydunganallur, Srivaikuntam, Nazareth, Kurumbur, Arumuganeri, Kayalpattinam and Tiruchendur. Train number 06105 will stop at Budalur also. Train No 06729 Madurai-Punalur will leave Madurai at 11.30 p.m. and reach Punalur at 10.20 a.m. Train Number 06730 Punalur-Madurai will leave Punalur at 5.20 p.m. and reach Madurai at 6.20 a.m. from December 5. The train will stop at Tirupparankundram, Tirumangalam, Virudhunagar, Maniyachchi, Tirunelveli, Valliyur, Nagercoil, Eraniel, Kuzhithurai, Parassala, Dhanuvachapuram, Neyyattinkara, Thiruvanathapuram Central, Thiruvananthapuram Petta, Kochuveli, Kazhakuttam, Kaniyapuram, Murukkampuzha, Chirayinkeezh, Kadakavur, Varkala, Edavai, Paravur, Mayyanad, Kollam, Kilikollur, Kundara, Ezhukone, Kottarakara, Auvaneswsarem and Punalur.
01 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Response sought on construction of law chambers||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed the State to file a response in the petition filed by advocate S.M. Ananthamurugan who sought a direction to the government to complete the construction of 84 additional law chambers on the High Court Bench premises. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi ordered notice to the State and also sought details on ‘vakalats’ filed by advocates and rent dues from advocates occupying the chambers. In January, a government order was passed to complete 84 additional law chambers on the HC Bench premises.
01 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Minor boy held for bid to rape old woman||A 17-year-old boy has been arrested on a charge of attempting to rape a 75-year-old woman in Kadupatti near Samayanallur on Sunday. Police said the boy, who was studying Plus Two in Erode, had come home during the lockdown. He has been attending online classes on his mobile phone. The woman was a neighbour, a widow living alone. On Saturday night, the boy had gone to her house and attempted to sexually assault her. After the woman raised an alarm, the boy fled the scene. After the woman lodged a complaint with the Kadupatti police, he was arrested.
01 December 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Police conduct drill in Namakkal||The Namakkal district police on Monday conducted a drill and parade on Park Road here to create awareness on COVID-19 safety protocols and disaster response. As instructed by Special DGP (Law and Order) Rajesh Das, Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan led the parade and drill. ADSPs, DSPs, and police personnel in other ranks, and Home Guards took part in the event. A release said they demonstrated measures taken by the police during law and order issues, and standard protocols taken as part of COVID-19 pandemic and disaster response.
01 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Medical colleges in Puducherry re-open today||All medical colleges in the Union Territory will re-open on Tuesday and resume classes in a phased manner, after a gap of nine months, in the first week of December after putting in place safety protocols as mandated by the National Medical Commission (NMC). The colleges remained closed ever since the nation-wide lockdown was imposed in March in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao, who held a meeting with officials on Monday, said it was decided that batches of students would be split into smaller groups to facilitate adequate distancing in classrooms while ensuring compliance with norms to wear masks and clean hands. “We have asked institutions to resume classes in a phased manner. Besides following protocols recommended by the NMC, medical colleges should have a back-up plan to quickly shut down in case of a second wave of infections,” Health Director S. Mohan Kumar said. In Puducherry, PIMS and MGMCRI have resumed classes and the rest of the institutions, including IGMCRI and Jipmer in the city and its offshore campus in Karaikal, would follow suit shortly. Under NMC guidelines, institutions should be ready with a plan to monitor disinfection measures, safety and health conditions, screen and detect the infected persons, and implement containment measures to prevent the spread of the infection. Day scholars should be let in only after their body temperature is checked, sanitisation of hands, wearing of face masks and gloves. Students would undergo a Rapid Antigen Test before classes commence while hostel students would be subjected to RT-PCR test. Symptomatic persons should not be permitted to enter the campus and should be advised to contact the nearest hospital for clinical assessment. Regular visits of a counsellor might be arranged so that students could share with the counsellor their anxiety, stress or fear. The NMC has stipulated that to avoid the risk of transmission, students, faculty and staff should be screened and symptomatic ones be advised to get clinically assessed before allowing them on the campus. Isolation and quarantine facilities should be arranged on campus or at a hospital or approved premises or as advised by the local authorities. Availability of food, water and healthcare should be ensured for those in quarantine and isolation facilities. For those who test positive, isolation facilities should be arranged, as advised by the local authorities. The NMC norms include physical distancing of at least 6 feet, mandatory use of face covers or masks, frequent hand washing with soap (for at least 40-60 seconds) even when hands are not visibly dirty, use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers (for at least 20 seconds) and adherence to respiratory etiquettes — the practice of covering one’s mouth and nose while coughing/sneezing with a tissue/handkerchief/flexed elbow and disposing of used tissues properly. The NMC advocates self-monitoring of health by all and reporting any illness at the earliest. Spitting is strictly prohibited and installation and use of Aarogya Setu app is advised wherever feasible. There should be no crowding at hostels and in the mess. Advisory to colleges Medical colleges have been advised to plan re-opening in phases in such a way that they ensure social distancing, use of face masks and other protective measures. Thereafter, for didactic lectures, students may be taught via online platforms. For all teaching hospitals, at least 30% beds should be allotted to teaching units and necessary precautions taken. Students should be instructed to visit their respective departments in small groups for consultation with the faculty members, after seeking prior appointments to avoid crowding while maintaining physical distancing norms and other safety protocols, the NMC said.
01 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory reports one death after nearly 10 days||The Union Territory reported a COVID-19 death after nearly 10 days on Monday. A 72-year-old woman with chronic kidney and coronary artery diseases and complaints of diabetes mellitus succumbed to the infection in Mahe Government Hospital. The death was recorded in Mahe taking the toll there to eight. The toll in Puducherry is 499, Karaikal 59 and Yanam 44. The Union Territory reported 33 new cases from 2,076 tests while 52 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. Puducherry saw 25 new cases, Mahe six and Karaikal two. Of the 460 active cases, 171 were in hospitals and 289 in home isolation. The cumulative total is 36,968 cases and 35,898 recovered patients. The test positivity rate was 1.58%, case fatality rate 1.65% and recovery rate 97.11%. Non-COVID services soon The COVID-19 designated IGMCRI hospital would shortly be opened up for more non-COVID services, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said on Monday. Addressing the press, Mr. Rao said there had been requests from several quarters, including legislators, to provide regular patient services as non-COVID patients were suffering. As a designated COVID hospital, the 600-bedded IGMCRI at present had only 63 positive cases undergoing treatment, the Minister said. “We are working out a plan to restore non-COVID services,” Mr. Rao said. Cuddalore tally A total of 24 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Monday. With this, the total number of cases touched 24,224. The Health Department said that 67 patients were under care at different treatment centres. With 32 persons getting discharged on Monday, the number of persons recovered from the disease touched 23,856. The district did not report any death due to COVID-19 on Monday. Villupuram district reported 15 fresh cases, taking the total to 14,623. A total of six persons tested positive in Kallakurichi district, taking the tally to 10,669.
01 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Bat Woman wins Silver Beaver Award||S. Balamurugan, who works as a production assistant in the Educational Multimedia Research Centre (EMRC), Pondicherry University, has received the prestigious Silver Beaver Award for the film Bat Woman ( The Night Warriors II ) at the recently-concluded 10th National Science Film Festival of India. The film won the award under the “interface category” at the festival organised by Vigyan Prasar, Department of Science and Technology and Tripura State Council for Science and Technology. The Silver Beaver Award includes a trophy, certificate and cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh. The festival was held online between November 24 and 27 and more than 350 films were submitted, of which 100 were nominated from all over the country for screening in different categories. Girish Kasaravalli, filmmaker, who was the jury chair, announced the awards in various categories. According to a press note from Pondicherry University, Mr. Balamurugan is a postgraduate in electronic media with 15 years of experience in film making and video production. During his 12 years at the EMRC, he has produced and assisted in many documentaries and educational films. He was previously a winner of the gold and bronze Beaver award at the festival in 2013 and 2014 respectively. He has also received Best Editing Award from the Consortium for Educational Communication, New Delhi in 2009.  Bat Woman narrates the research work of Dr. Juliet Vanitharani on conservation of bats, the habitats of the endangered forest bats and their roosting studies. The bats are found only in the Kalakad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve, located in the South Western Ghats.
01 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G orders continuation of special excise duty on liquor till January 31 next year||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi has ordered continuation of special excise duty on liquor till January 31 next year. “The COVID situation in Puducherry is just stabilising and we have got a series of festivals in the anvil namely, Christmas, New Year and Pongal. The COVID status of the Union Territory, vis -a -vis that of the neighbouring States of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, needs to get studied by the ICMR and their views be taken before tinkering with the existing arrangements,” Ms. Bedi said in her response to a government recommendation. The government had recommended withdrawal of special excise duty that was imposed on Indian Made Foreign Liquor during the peak spread of COVID-19 as a containment measure. The government had imposed a special excise duty on liquor brands to make prices on a par with neighbouring States to prevent influx of people from bordering districts to buy IMFL bottles after the partial lifting of lockdown in May. “The duty was imposed with a specific purpose. The new duty was for a period till November 30,” said a top official told The Hindu . Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, along with Minister for Public Works A. Namassivayam, on Sunday convened a high-level official meeting and decided to recommend for the withdrawal of the duty, specifically imposed during the lockdown. “The government wanted to withdraw the special excise duty and impose a minimum hike on IMFL bottles. The levy of additional duty had spiralled the rate of commonly available brands in the Union Territory and Tamil Nadu,” he said. The government wanted to impose a minimum 15% hike on Maximum Retail Price and also increase the licence fee so that there was no dip in revenue collection. The government, on an average, collected around Rs. 60 to Rs. 70 crore per month as excise duty, the official said. While in2017-18, the government netted an excise revenue of Rs. 769 crore, the figure has jumped to Rs. 850 crore in2018-19.  The COVID status of the U.T. needs to get studied by the ICMR before changing existing arrangements
01 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Implement 50% quota’||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi has instructed officials to implement the norm of earmarking 50% of MBBS seats in private medical colleges under the government quota. Noting that the draft Bill in this regard sent to Government of India had not been followed up, Ms. Bedi said she had sent a letter to the Ministry of Home Affairs to expedite approval. The Chief Secretary has been asked to pursue the matter, she said. When “essentiality certificate” is issued by the government to the private unaided medical college, it was stipulated that 50% of seats would be filled by the government. “This condition shall be enforced by the Health Department and CENTAC for admission without deviation, pending passing of a law by the Assembly”, Ms. Bedi said. “No one has a mandate to negotiate these seats with private medical colleges,” the Lt. Governor said.
01 December 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) protests against Centre||Cadre of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Monday laid a siege to a State Bank of India branch in Rajapalayam on Monday as a mark of protest against the the Centre in handling farmers protesting against amended Farm Acts in Delhi. The protest was led by the party district secretary K. Arjunan and party leaders Suganthi and B. Mariappan were among the participants. Mr. Arjunan said that CPI (M) has been vehemently opposing the amendments to the Farm Acts ever since it was introduced, both inside and outside the Parliament. “Besides protesting across the country, we also conduct signature campaign against them,” he added. Apart from the amendment to the Farm Acts, the Electricity (Amendment) Bill was also against the farmers and common man. “The Electricity (Amendment) Bill will hit the farmers, weavers and the poor, especially in a State like Tamil Nadu where subsidy has been given to different sectors in different scale,” he added.
01 December 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||BJP cadre resort to road blockade||For about two hours, vehicle movement on Madurai-Rameswaram national highways came to a halt in the noon after the members of the BJP resorted to a road blockade agitation here on Monday. The agitators said that last week the councillors of the Bogalur Panchayat Union near here had given a request to the officials to install the portrait of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the office. However, the officials had explained that they were not competent to take a decision, but maintained that they would take it up with higher-ups in the administration and take a call. Even as the discussions were on, the BJP councillors kept the portrait there and left, officials said. As there was no official correspondence or any GO, the officials removed it forthwith. Today, when the BJP members came to know that the portrait had been removed, they objected to the removal of the portrait of the PM and raised slogans in front of the office. As the wordy altercation snowballed into heated exchanges, the cadre said that they would go on a strike until the portrait was kept in the office. As the news spread, there were a few hundreds of men rushing to the NH road, where they squatted blocking the vehicle movement on the busy highway. The police and revenue officials held talks with the agitators. Only after they were given an assurance by the RDO that the issue would be taken up with the district administration and solved, the agitators dispersed. There were tense moments when a functionary identified as Lingapandian allegedly attempted to douse kerosene on him and set fire condemning the removal of the PM's portrait. Immediately, the cadre took him away from the spot. The BJP functionaries were led by district president Muraleedharan. The police said that they had not obtained permission.
01 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owners plan indefinite strike if demands are not met||Members of Salem District Lorry Owners Association petitioned transport officials here on Monday demanding relaxations in installing GPS devices, reflective tapes and speed regulators in their vehicles. The petitioners demanded that the State government and transport department should offer relaxations in the list of firms short-listed for fixing GPS system, speed regulators and reflective tapes. They alleged that the cost was high if the devices were procured from the government specified companies. The members alleged that despite an order by the Madurai bench of Madras High Court in this regard, the transport officials were not ready to offer relaxations. C. Dhanaraj, secretary of the organisation, said, “the transport department has issued order stating that to get fitness certificates, GPS system must be fixed from the manufacturers authorised by the government. The government has authorised only eight companies for procuring GPS and though many vehicles are fitted with GPS during production itself, truck owners are forced to replace them with devices from the authorised firms.” He added that similarly for speed regulators, the government had authorised only 11 companies and after a litigation at the Madurai bench, the Court granted permission to install the device from 44 companies. However, the officials had not made any changes, Mr. Dhanaraj said. He added that it cost truck owners about Rs. 6,000- Rs. 8,000 if reflective stickers were fitted from two of the government authorised companies. Mr. Dhanaraj said, “there are 11 companies approved by the organisations like ARAI and ICAT and the cost of fixing reflective stickers was cheaper there.” Except Tamil Nadu, no other state mandated fixing all three elements, he said. The association members said that the sector had been severely suffered due to the lockdown and other restrictions to contain COVID-19 pandemic and only 20% vehicles was being operated at the moment. The lorry owners said that they would go on an indefinite strike if their demands were not met.
01 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Eco-tourism spots to be reopened tomorrow||The Forest Department has decided to reopen eco-tourism spots in Yercaud and Attur ranges here for the public from Wednesday following weekly maintenance works on Tuesday. According to Forest officials, the Karadiyur view point, the eco park in Yercaud and Annavari muttal waterfalls in Attur will be made accessible to the public. Visitors to these places will have to strictly adhere to COVID-19 safety protocols. District Forest Officer R. Murugan said, “visitors will have to follow the COVID-19 safety measures like wearing masks, maintaining physical distance and ensuring hand sanitation. The public will be prevented from crowding at any place at these spots.” V.P. Subramaniyam, Forest Range Officer, Yercaud, said visitors would be allowed between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. and they were advised to follow safety protocols strictly. He said sanitisers would be placed at the entrance and steps were being taken to prevent gathering of the public at a point. The Yercaud eco park, also known as deer park, recently received tourist attractions such as decorative lights and lighting in the shape of butterflies, rose-shaped LED lights resembling flower bed among others. The department recently reopened Kurumbapatti zoological park to the public.
01 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Residents demand roads||Over 100 residents of Pachampatti Adi Dravidar Colony staged a road roko in front of the Collectorate here on Monday and urged authorities to lay roads in their locality. The residents complained that for the past several years, they were dependent on a path provided by private landowners to access Mettur main road. More than 400 families were residing in the area and lack of proper road was affecting them severely. The protesters alleged that despite earlier complaints with the local administration and the district authorities, no action had been taken so far. As a sign of protest, they tried to return their government identity cards with the district administration, but they were arrested and removed from the place.
01 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Medical aspirant keeps her fingers crossed||A girl student Kousalya, daughter of Saktivel and Chandra of Kurunthankulam near Tirupachethi, could not get into the government medical college even after she had received the call letter to participate in the counselling. Narrating the tale of the girl, her teacher told reporters here on Monday that the girl, a bright and hard working student, had secured 1111/1200 in the plus two examination. She had passed out from the Pazhayanoor Government Girls Higher Secondary School. With the dream of becoming a doctor, the girl had appeared for NEET not once, but twice. In the second attempt, she scored 252. As there was no news about getting a seat in any of the government medical colleges, Kousalya joined Thiagarajar College, Madurai. Hailing from an economically weaker section and her parents too were not educated, the girl had no mobile phone. As she started coming to the city college, through her friends, the girl opened a mail account, a few months ago, which she had intimated in the NEET application. After the Edappadi K Palaniswami government announced the 7.5 % horizontal reservation for the government school students to enter the medical colleges, Kousalya had the luck. The officials had sent her a mail intimating her to be present at the counselling on November 18 as she had 145th rank in the OC category and 46th rank in BC category. Since she had no access to the internet, Kousalya is said to have remained in the dark not knowing about the developments. Under such circumstances, when she came to know that some students who had scored less than her had obtained a seat in government medical colleges, she did check her mail and found one in the inbox. Not knowing whether she can knock on the doors of the government or the medical education authorities, Kousalya is keeping her fingers crossed for now, the teacher told.
01 December 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||‘Vetrivel Yatra’ dominates grievance meet||Opposing permission for conducting the BJP’s ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ in the district and demanding permission for the same, members of various groups submitted petition during the weekly grievances redressal meeting held here on Monday. While members of Confederation of Thoothukudi District Anti-Fascist Organisations submitted petition against allowing the yatra in the district, the Hindu Ilaignar Munnani demanded permission for the same. The confederation members, in their petition, said the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’, being organised from Tiruttani for “political reasons and getting political gains” should not be allowed in the district, which was known for its communal and religious harmony. “Speakers at this event were making ‘objectionable remarks’ which would drive a wedge among people following different faiths,” they said. Hence, the district administration should not give permission for ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ in Thoothukudi district, particularly for organising the concluding event at Tiruchendur, the confederation members said. The Hindu Ilaignar Munnani, however, said the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’, which was being organised following the derogatory remarks made by a few against ‘kanda sashti kavasam’ and Hindu deities, should be allowed as the ‘yatra’ was aimed at supporting the ‘kanda sashti kavasam’. Other requests A group of villagers from Kattaalankulam submitted petition demanding the cancellation of ‘patta’ given to an individual reportedly inside a temple in the hamlet. Though appropriate order had already been issued by the Collector for cancellation of the ‘patta’, the revenue officials had not executed the instruction. Hence, steps should be initiated for cancellation of the ‘patta’, the petitioners said. DMK area secretary Paulraj of Thangammalpuram submitted a petition seeking re-laying of roads and installation of street lights in the village.
01 December 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Collector petitioned to release 68-year-old blacksmith||Thoothukudi District Viswakarma Samuthaaya Mahajana Paeravai has appealed to the Chief Minister and the District Collector to discharge a 68-year-old blacksmith from a case pertaining to the fabrication and supply of “lethal weapons” to criminals. In the petition submitted during the weekly grievance redressal meet held at the Collectorate on Monday, members of Thoothukudi District Viswakarma Samuthaaya Mahajana Paeravai said a police team from Srivaikundam, who had come to the workshop of blacksmith S. Narayanan, 68, on November 23, had taken him to the Kurumbur police station after telling him that he had fabricated and supplied weapons to criminals. Even though Mr. Narayanan had told the police that he had supplied only farm implements based on the orders given by farmhands in the region, he had been assaulted by the police, alleged president of the Paeravai K. Murugesan. He also added that he has sent a petition to the Registrar of Madras High Court.
01 December 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Two transwomen become Home Guards||Two transwomen have been selected for the district’s Home Guards unit. Following the selection held here during the past few days, Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, who interviewed the final set of candidates, handed over the orders recognising Akshaya and Sreeja as ‘Home Guards’ along with 31 men and seven women on Monday. The SP said the services of Home Guards, who would receive a honorarium, would be utilised in traffic regulation and other bandobust arrangements. Mr. Jayakumar said 111 persons had been detained under the Goondas Act so far during this year including nine ganja peddlers. He also informed that steps have been taken to curb illicit sand quarrying and smuggling of ganja and other contrabands.
01 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Smart parking policy on the way||Tiruchi Corporation has begun work on a smart parking system in arterial roads in the city. The parking system, which will be app-based, would require the public to book a spot in advance and pay through the application, officials say. The smart parking policy is only functional in Chennai and helps unclog congested roads where parking is a serious problem, said an official of the civic body. “The Thillai Nagar Main Road is choc-a-bloc with traffic throughout the day and the traffic police personnel posted at the junction between Thillai Nagar Main road and Keezha Chathiram Road struggle to clear vehicles." To ensure smooth movement of traffic, and to also ensure that the parking space is not misused, a paid parking system is being introduced. “We began work at Thillai Nagar and will emulate the model at 22 other locations in the city,” the official said. Along Thillai Nagar Main Road, ropes have been used to earmark designated parking spots. Boards displaying the parking fee along with CCTV surveillance have also been installed. No-parking zones have also been identified. The paid parking fees per hour for a two-wheeler is Rs. 5 and for a car Rs. 20. A special mobile application is being developed such that the users may book slots in advance. However, until the app is developed, a fee collector will be stationed in parking areas. The civic body is also considering introduction of monthly passes for regular users. The paid parking system will be enforced in a phased manner from December, officials said.
01 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi farmers express solidarity with Delhi protest||Members of the Desiya Thennindiya Nadhigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam, led by P. Ayyakannu, staged a protest outside the Tiruchi District Collectorate expressing solidarity with farmers protesting in New Delhi against the three new farm laws. The protesters raised slogans and launched “paper rockets” with lists of their demands. The three farm laws were against the welfare of the farmers, the protesters contended and alleged that the local authorities were not allowing farmers to travel to New Delhi to join the protest there. “The Tamil Nadu police is not allowing us to go. We had booked 300 tickets to travel but they stopped us from going. We have sought permission, but until then, will show solidarity from here,” Mr. Ayyakannu said. The three laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 — will only favour major commercial players, they said. The protesters also said the new laws would lead to the end of the mandi system and procurement of farm produce at Minimum Support Price (MSP). “The Prime Minister had promised a sizeable increase in MSP but we have received none. We have not been given any relief from loans or any helping hand during these trying times,” Mr. Ayyakannu said. Around 100 protesters were later taken into custody by the Tiruchi police.
01 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||After six months, Gandhi Market traders resume business||Traders of Tiruchi Gandhi Market were allowed in to the premises following a cleaning drive undertaken by the corporation on Monday evening. The wholesale vendors, who were elated, resumed business from 9 p.m. Members of the Tiruchi Gandhi Market All Kinds of Wholesale and Retail Traders Association said that they were permitted to enter the premises at 6 am on Monday following which they began cleaning their shops which had been closed for over six months. The market was closed following imposition of lockdown in the wake of the pandemic. Subsequently, an interim directive on a public interest litigation filed by the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court against the reopening of market, was lifted recently. On Monday evening, a prayer meeting was organised at the entrance of the market and prayers were offered by Hindu, Christian and Muslim religious heads. “We want the blessings of all gods as we are ready to start business at our market,” said Ve. Govindarajulu, president, Tiruchi Gandhi Market All Kinds of Wholesale and Retail Traders Association. Tiruchi Corporation cleaned the entire premises as it had been locked up for many months. A total of 110 tonnes of garbage was cleared out, and stormwater drains were repaired and cleared. “We have made all preparations, now it is upto the vendors to keep it clean,” the civic body said. Mr. Govindarajulu said the association had decided that the wholesale vendors iould do business from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m., while retail vendors would keep their shops open from 5 a.m to 2 p.m. “From 2 p.m. to 9 p.m., sanitary workers will clean and disinfect the area.” Vehicles carrying produce to and from the shops must depart from the market premises by 5 a.m. Meanwhile, the civic body asked the vendors to ensure that customers wore masks and maintained personal distancing.
01 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IIIT Tiruchi to move to permanent campus by next academic year, says Director||Indian Institute of Information Technology-Tiruchi, in all probability, will start functioning out of its permanent campus at Sethurapatti by next academic year. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) is in the process of constructing three new buildings and is expected to hand over the completed structures to the institution well before commencement of the next academic year. IIIT Tiruchi signed a memorandum of understanding with CPWD last September to this effect, according to official sources. Construction of an administrative building with 4,000 metres of built-up space, two hostels — a 2,268 sq m structure for boys and a 982 sq m building for girls — and a dining hall measuring 1,473 sq m are progressing simultaneously. “By the start of next academic year, the campus will be ready for occupation,” IIIT Tiruchi Director NVSN Sarma said. The institution came into being in 2013 as one of the pet projects of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa when she represented Srirangam Assembly constituency. It was initially accommodated on BIT campus of Anna University, and subsequently moved to National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi premises. In July, it was shifted again to the campus of Oxford Engineering College since NIT-T had to expnd its building infrastructure due to implementation of EWS (Economically Weaker Section) quota in admissions. Internships Established under public-private partnership mode, IIIT Tiruchi is being funded by the Central government, State government and industry partners in the ratio of 50:35:15. Industry partners, including Tata Consultancy Services, Cognizant Technology Solutions, In costs, Ramco Systems, ELCOT and Navitas (TAKE Solutions), offer internships to students during their studies to enrich their programming skills and enable them to convert ideas into products. Though land was allotted early on, the process of creation of a permanent campus came to a standstill due to factors such as finalisation of boundaries and delayed sanction of funds by stakeholders. Two batches of students of B.Tech CSE and ECE branches have graduated from the institution even before it could have its own campus. The second convocation of the institution took place recently. The faculty hope that the third convocation will most likely be conducted on the permanent campus. Once its gets its own campus, the institute will be able to ramp up student strength by starting additional B.Tech programmes and PG programmes as well.
01 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Work on Kottarai dam nearing completion||Construction of Kottarai Dam across the Marudaiyar in Perambalur district has resumed and is nearing completion. The work was delayed due to COVID-19 lockdown, officials said. The project, announced in 2013 by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, was allocated Rs. 108 crore. The reservoir would have a capacity to hold 211.5 million cubic feet capacity. Work on the project began in 2016, but many impediments caused its suspension. From 2016 to 2019, 70% of the work was completed. “The project was supposed to have been completed in two years, but we still do not have a reservoir,” local farmers said. Nearly 500 acres of land was acquired from farmers in 2016 and Rs. 6 lakh per acre was given as compensation. “The money is spent and many of us are unemployed or working as labourers,” said Rajanandham, a maize farmer in Kottarai. “I married off my daughter with that money, while many men spent it on alcohol. If the land was still ours, we would have been able to grow crops and reap its benefits each year. Now, we have no income,” he rued. However, a senior official of the Public Works Department said work was nearing completion and would be inaugurated soon. “Minor works such as construction of a canal remains to be done.” "Due to monsoon, flowing water would weaken any construction. The work will be done in January, and by February, the reservoir will be opened,” the official added.
01 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||124 new positive cases||The central districts on Monday recorded a further dip in COVID-19 cases with 124 patients testing positive for the viral infection. No deaths were reported in the region according to the bulletin released by the State Health Department. Ariyalur and Perambalur reported no new cases on Monday. Thirty-three patients tested positive in Thanjavur, which reported the highest number of cases in the region. A slight increase in cases were reported, among which were primary contacts, local index cases and asymptomatic patients identified through fever camps. All the other seven districts in the region reported less than 30 fresh cases. In Tiruchi, 26 patients tested positive. They included primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. A total of 10 patients undergoing treatment atTiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged on Monday. Nagapattinam reported 23 fresh cases, while Karur reported a slight spike with 18 cases. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were residents of Thanthornimalai, Aravakurichi, Manmangalam. In Tiruvarur, 15 patients reported positive, while in Pudukottai nine tested positive. Patients in the district were primary contacts and local index cases with no history of travel or contacts. Patients suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses and Influenza-Like Illnesses tested positive. Ariyalur and Perambalur on Monday reported no new cases.
01 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cardiologist donates textbooks to new medical students||A group of students, who secured MBBS seats under the 7.5% reservation introduced by the State government this year for government school students, got dditional support with a city-based senior cardiologist providing them with medical text books free of cost, here on Monday. Senthilkumar Nallusamy, cardiologist, donated free medical textbooks and stethoscopes on behalf of his Senthil Prabha Trust to seven Government school students from Tiruchi district, who secured the seats under the new quota. After handing over the text books for their first year of study, Dr. Senthilkumar said parents of some of the students from Tiruchi, who secured MBBS course under the quota, were daily wage earners and faced difficulties in buying the books for their wards. “Hence we decided to donate medical books and stethoscopes to motivate the students and encourage the proud parents,” he said. He thanked the Government and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for implementing the quota which had helped several aspiring students to realise their ambition of becoming a doctor. One of the students, Hari, whose ambition was to become a cardiologist said t he was proud to receive the books from a cardiologist. Dr. Senthilkumararranged for free accommodation for some of the students who had come to Tiruchi to appear for the NEET examination, according to a press release.
01 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BDU signs MoU with institute||Bharathidasan University (BDU) on Monday signed a memorandum of understanding with The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) for enhancing knowledge of students and teachers through faculty development programmes, specialised trainings and joint research projects. The collaboration would reshape students as future nation-builders and leaders, Narendra Rao, vice-president, ICSI, said at the virtual ceremony. S. K. Jena, Director, Training and Placement, ICSI, and S. Kannan, chairman, ICSI, Southern Regional Council of India, said the MoU would benefit nearly five lakh students of ICSI and BDU. Asish Mohan, secretary, ICSI, New Delhi, delivered the virtual address on Vocal for Local: Impact on Indian Economy. Vocal for Local promotes global presence for local production. Taking part in a panel discussion on the topic, M. Selvam, Dean, Faculty of Management, BDU, observed that the Vocal for Local programme introduced by the Centre would tackle the demand and supply side shock of the outbreak of COVID-19.  P. Manisankar, Vice- Chancellor, said successful implementation of the New Education Policy would pave way for emphasis on skill, culture and heritage. Ashish Garg, President, ICSI, said the MOU would enable members of ICSI working in Fortune 500 companies to deliver practical sessions on Corporate Governance, Crisis Management in Corporate, and Career Awareness. G. Gopinath, Registrar, Bharathidasan University, spoke.
01 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Bid to impose Sanskrit’||The Tamizh Desiya Periyakkam has opposed the alleged fiat from Prasar Bharati to Regional News Bureau units of DD news channel to include Sanskrit bulletins in their programme list every day without fail. TDP general secretary K.Venkatraman termed the directive as nothing but an attempt to impose Sanskrit and demanded that the circular be withdrawn.
01 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Action sought against attackers of sanitary workers||Condemning the recent attacks on sanitary workers in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts, members of Aathi Thamizhar Peravai and a few more outfits submitted a petition during the online weekly grievances redressal meet held at the Collectorate on Monday. The petitioners, led by T. M. Thamizhvaanan of Aathi Thamizhar Peravai, said Valliyoor Town Panchayat sanitary worker Kumar of Gandhi Colony in Valliyoor was hacked by a person belonging to another community on November 28. The victim is undergoing treatment in the hospital with grievous cut injuries. In another incident on November 27, a sanitary supervisor in Srivaikundam taluk had verbally abused the sanitary workers by referring to their castes. “Hence, cases should be registered against them under SC / ST Act,” said Mr. Thamizhvaanan. Basic amenities Residents of Keezha Pillaiyarkulam submitted a petition for better basic amenities in their village. The villagers said regular supply of drinking water to their hamlet had not been ensured despite repeated appeal to the panchayat secretary. Two of the three pumps were out of service for the past several months, they added. No steps have been taken to drain stagnant rainwater in Dhanushkodi Nagar and Kurichi Nagar and drainage channels have not been desilted for the past several months. The road leading to the cremation ground should also be re-laid, the petitioners said. A group of residents from Kokkirakulam near the Collectorate submitted petition seeking regular supply of drinking water, which reportedly remains hit for the past two months. A group of villagers from Unnankulam near Nanguneri submitted petition seeking operation of mini buses from Moolaikkaaraipatti up to Nanguneri. They said their village, which is not connected by frequent bus services, was relying upon mini buses, which are operated from Moolaikkaraipatti to Therkku Singaneri via Unnankulam. The villagers, who have to go to Nanguneri have to get down at Therkku Singaneri and take another bus to reach Nanguneri. Since it is difficult for school children, senior citizens and pregnant women, the Collector should give permission for operating mini buses from Moolaikkaraipatti to Nanguneri, the petitioners said.
01 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Pay paddy insurance premium before Dec. 15’||Since the district is likely to receive heavy rains during this week, paddy farmers have been asked to pay the insurance premium before December 15. In a statement, Joint Director of Agriculture R. Gajendra Pandian said the Union Government had introduced crop insurance scheme to bailout farmers who had suffered crop loss due to nature’s fury or vagaries of monsoon. Farmers should pay in advance the prescribed premium before the deadline as they cannot avail compensation for the crop loss if they have not paid the premium on time. Since 320 revenue villages in Tirunelveli district have been notified as hamlets growing paddy, farmers from these places should pay the premium of Rs. 444 per acre to Agriculture Insurance Company of India before December 15 for insuring paddy for an insurance amount of Rs. 29,600 per acre. As per the agreement reached between Agriculture Insurance Company of India and the Government of India, the insurance benefit would be shared by both the parties. Farmers availing crop loan should insure the crop without fail, as mandated by the bank concerned. The insurance premium may be paid in the Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies, nationalised commercial banks or common service centres by submitting the application along with copies of first page of the bank passbook, chitta / patta and the adangal issued by the village administrative officer concerned. The farmers should receive the premium payment receipt without fail. For more information, the agriculturists may contact the extension centres and pay the insurance premium immediately as the district is likely to get heavy rains in the days to come, Mr. Gajendra Pandian said.
01 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||LIC employees stage demo in support of farmers protesting in New Delhi||Expressing solidarity with the farmers protesting against the farm laws in New Delhi, the Life Insurance Corporation employees staged a demonstration in front of their offices in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts on Monday. In the agitation organised in front of the LIC’s Divisional Office in Palayamkottai, LIC Employees’ Union office-bearers Muthukumarasamy, Madhupaul, Durairaj and others addressed. The speakers said the farm laws would only help the corporate companies instead of saving farmers, the primary producers. Even as farmers were struggling to stay afloat in the midst of financial meltdown and the pandemic, the Union Government’s move had landed a final blow on the farming sector. Besides wiping out the livelihood of agriculturists, the new laws would make the farmers, labourers of the corporate. “Since, farmers will be forced to sign contracts with these companies for selling their produce, the producers cannot fix the selling price. Instead, they will have to sell their produce at the price fixed by the buyers – the corporate firms –who will not even give the price fixed earlier citing a range of measly reasons. They may deny the assured price saying that the produce did not meet their standards or expectations. Over a period of time, small, marginal and even medium-level farmers will become farmhands,” Mr. Muthukumarasamy said.
01 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Train suffers detention as tree set on fire||The Kanniyakumari – Chennai Special Train had to be detained at Sengulam railway station near here for over 90 minutes on Monday evening as a tree close to the rail track near Tirunelveli Junction was set afire by miscreants. As unidentified persons set fire to a partly dead tree standing close to the rail track at Meenakshipuram near Tirunelveli Junction on Monday evening, the Kanniyakumari – Chennai Special Express Train with electric loco, which had to cross the point at 6.45 p.m., was stopped at Sengulam station. After the fire fighting operation got extended, a diesel loco was sent to Sengulam station to haul the train. The train was hauled after detaching the electric loco there. The train, with the diesel loco, arrived at Tirunelveli Railway Junction at 8.35 p.m. instead of the scheduled timing of 6.55 p.m. The train left Tirunelveli Railway Junction for its destination at 8.45 p.m.
01 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Reservoir lit up with 10,008 lamps to demand release of water||On Sunday, the Vattamalaikarai Odai reservoir in Tiruppur district was aglow with 10,008 lamps. Members of a farmers’ association, with the help of residents, had lit the lamps to draw the attention of the State government to release water for irrigation. President of the Vattamalaikarai Odai Farmers’ Welfare Association, K. Palanisamy, said on Monday that the reservoir, located in Uthamapalayam in Kangeyam taluk, had not received water since 2001, long before the formation of Tiruppur district in 2009. The 650-acre reservoir, which was inaugurated in 1980, had previously received water for irrigation from the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project in 1999 and 2001 and there has been no water release after that, he said. With over 6,000 acres of agricultural land in the area dependent on the reservoir, lack of water release and inadequate rains to fill the reservoir resulted in hundreds of small farmers taking up other occupations in the last two decades, he said. “Many have either gone to work in garment factories in Tiruppur or have been engaging in cattle rearing,” Mr. Palanisamy said. The Association had represented to various ministers and officials several times regarding the release of water through the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project, but no action had been taken so far, he claimed. To mark the Karthigai Deepam festival as well as to draw the attention of the State government to this issue, residents of Uthamapalayam and neighbouring villages volunteered to light 10,008 lamps on the Vattamalaikarai Odai reservoir on Sunday evening. “If the water is released, they [small farmers] might come back to take up farming,” Mr. Palanisamy said. Sources in the Public Works Department in Tiruppur district said that work to release the surplus water from Amaravathi dam to the Vattamalaikarai Odai reservoir was in the pipeline.
01 December 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Good public response to campaign’||DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin on Monday claimed that the public response to his election campaign was overwhelming. Addressing the media at Mannargudi on Monday, he said a large posse of police personnel were being posted at his campaign venues for the simple reason that people converged in large numbers at those places. Terming the public response to his campaign as an indicator for the “change in guard” in the State, Mr. Udhayanidhi said people did not like the imposition of Hindi and Sanskrit languages and as well as 'kulakalvi’ system that was sought to be promoted through the New Education Policy. The forthcoming elections to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly would be an election to usher in a change. After the change of guard, all issues of corruption including PM Kisan scheme scam would be probed, Mr. Udhayanidhi said.
01 December 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Good response to campaign: Udhayanidhi||DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin on Monday said the public response to his election campaign was overwhelming. He told presspersons in Mannargudi on Monday that large posse of police was posted at his campaign venues as people converged in large numbers. Terming it as an indicator for the “change in guard” in the State, he said people did not like the imposition of Hindi and Sanskrit and as well as “kulakalvi” system that was sought to be promoted through the New Education Policy.
01 December 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman, two daughters drown||A 30-year-old woman and her two daughters drowned in the Koundinya in Gudiyatham town police station limits on Monday evening. According to the police, people have been thronging the locality to see the river in spate. Close to 900 cusecs of water was flowing through the Koundinya in Gudiyatham. The police had warned the public not to stand on the river banks. The family of Yuvaraj, who works in a grocery shop at Bodipettai in Gudiyatham town police station limits, came to the river front to watch the flow. “He stays a few hundred meters from the river. On Monday evening, his wife Nadiya, 30, and daughters Ashwini, 8, and Nivedha, 11, went to see the river flowing. All of a sudden, Ashwini slipped and fell. Seeing this, the other two jumped into the water to save her. But all three drowned,” said a police officer. The others at the spot called the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS). “The fire service personnel managed to retrieve the bodies and sent them for post-mortem,” said the police officer. While Nadiya was a house wife, the two girls were students of a private school in the locality. “We have been warning people not to stand near the river, but many continue to do so despite our warnings,” said a police officer. Further investigation is on.  We have been warning people not to stand near the river, but many continue to do so despite our warnings Police officer
01 December 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||37 fresh cases, no deaths in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 19,354 with 37 new cases reported on November 30. For the third consecutive day, the district did not see any deaths due to the pandemic. While 18,844 patients have been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 179. The death toll is 331. “The number of deaths has remained the same for the past three days. We have been seeing a constant dip in the number of people who died due to COVID-19,” said an official from the health department in Vellore. In Ranipet district, 15 cases were reported positive taking the district’s tally to 15,603. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,246 with 14 new cases on Monday. In Tiruvannamalai district, eight new cases were reported, taking the number of cases to 18,605. Out of this, 18,223 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 107 .
01 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||16 injured as bus hits van||Sixteen persons were injured when a speeding omni-bus rammed a cargo van on Tirunelveli-Madurai highway near R.R. Nagar past Sunday midnight. They were admitted to government hospitals in Virudhunagar and Sattur. The police said that the van, carrying 10 persons, was proceeding from Ayyanar Oothu near Kayathar to Theni district for selling utensils. When the van was proceeding near the road overbridge (ROB) at R.R. Nagar, the driver, N. Shahul Hameed (30) had to slow down it for a diversion towards the opposite lane on the four-way highway. The driver of the speeding bus, proceeding towards Coimbatore from Thisayanvilai, could not control it and he hit the van at around 12.30 a.m. on Monday. After hitting the van, the bus jumped the road on the opposite lane towards the service road and knocked down the compound wall of a house along the highway. Six persons, including the driver of the bus, K. Sudalaimuthu (39), and 10 persons of the van were injured. National Highways Authority of India had diverted the vehicles on Tirunelveli-Madurai lane towards the opposite lane allowing two-way traffic after a portion of the ROB collapsed a few days back. Vachchakarapatti police are investigating.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 900 patients are under institutional care in Coimbatore||Salem district reported 59 cases, of which 26 were indigenous. According to health officials, 33 patients had returned from Chengalpet, Dharmapuri, Namakkal and Coimbatore. Of the 31 new cases reported in Namakkal district, six patients had returned from Salem, Kalakuruchi, Erode and Bengaluru. Erode district reported 59 new cases taking the district’s tally to 12,424. While 47 people were discharged, 391 people continued to be under treatment. Krishnagiri reported nine new cases, taking the number of active cases to 166 cases. Dharmapuri saw 11 cases and the number of active cases stood at 122. Coimbatore district reported 146 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the number of patients under institutional care to 939. A total of 132 people were discharged from treatment centres on Monday. According to the Health Department, the death of a 70-year-old patient at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Monday took the district’s toll to 613. Tiruppur district reported 73 fresh cases on Monday, taking its overall tally to 15,393 cases. The district did not report any deaths, according to the bulletin. Of the 15,393 cases, 14,617 have recovered and 568 were active. The district has reported 208 deaths so far. Eighty-two persons were discharged from various hospitals on Monday. In the Nilgiris, 38 people tested positive for the disease on Monday. The total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the Nilgiris stood at 7,423. The toll in the district increased from 41 to 42 on Monday. The district administration said that 174 people were under treatment.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||When the train arrived at the school||Students of Government High School at Lekkanapatti in Pudukottai district, perhaps, will not have any regret over missing out on their planned field trip by train to Rameswaram due to COVID-19 lockdown. When the students return to classes, they will have reason to rejoice as the walls are adorned with paintings of trains. The students were preparing for a train trip to Rameswaram during March, when the lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19 was imposed. Since then, they have not seen their school. “When we were talking to students, almost all of them said they had never travelled on a train before. So, we planned a trip to Rameswaram, which is a beautiful train ride away. Unfortunately, the lockdown was imposed and the children were robbed of the experience,” S. Antony, headmaster, said. In August, teachers began going to school to conduct online classes and prepare coursework when they chanced upon the idea. “We thought, why not paint our classes to look like a train so the students can be welcomed this way. It was a thoughtful way to show that we cared,” Mr. Antony said. The school has 236 students enrolled from class 6 to 12. The school art teacher, S. Rajendran, took up the task of drawing the train while the headmaster and the school clerk assisted in painting it. “We have included intricate details such as coach numbers, and emergency exits. Our train goes from Chennai to Kanyakumari, so that is written too,” Mr. Antony said. The train spans a length of around 70 feet across three classrooms. “So we have three compartments, which took nearly two months to complete,” he added. Since the teachers painted the trains, money was spent only on purchase of paints at Rs. 15,000, which was paid for by the headmaster. “This is not the only interactive learning equipment on campus. A large concrete globe, hand-painted by the art teacher, is on display at the entrance of the school. “The names of contries are written in Tamil for the students to see and learn,” Mr. Antony said.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Migrant worker arrested for murder||The Tiruppur South police arrested a migrant worker on charges of murdering a man who attempted to steal his mobile phone on Monday. Police said that Dinesh Kumar (21) from Uttar Pradesh was working in a garment company in Tiruppur for the last three years. At 12.30 a.m. on Monday, as he was walking in Thennampalayam with a relative, S. Srinivasan (32) waylaid the two and threatened Kumar with a knife to hand over his mobile phone. While the relative managed to escape from the spot, Kumar handed his mobile phone to Srinivasan. However, Kumar then snatched the knife from Srinivasan and stabbed him. Kumar left the spot after taking his phone back, leaving Srinivasan to bleed to death. Police said that Srinivasan was a native of Rasipuram in Namakkal district and was working as a daily wage labourer in Tiruppur. He had about five cases such as pocket-picking and possession of marijuana registered against him within Tiruppur City Police limits in the past four years. Dinesh Kumar was booked under Section 302 (Murder) of the Indian Penal Code and remanded in judicial custody on Monday evening.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Desilted 1.75-acre Venkakalpatti pond gets good inflow||Good inflow into the recently renovated Venkakalpatti pond near Karur town has brought cheer to the local community as it would help improve groundwater table in its vicinity. The pond, situated in Thanthoni Panchayat Union limits in the district, was desilted and its bunds were strengthened through the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) with public contributions at the behest of Transport Minister M.R.Vijayabhaskar. The pond, spread over about 1.75 acres, and its inlet channels silted up heavily and remained in a state of neglect for several years. Following a request from Mr.Vijayabhaskar, the Karur Earthmovers Association and the Karur District Textiles Association donated Rs. 2 lakhs each. The funds were utilised for removing the silt in the pond and its inlet channels. The bunds were also strengthened. Mr.Vijayabhaskar who inspected the works recently also launched a tree sapling plantation drive on the bunds. A team of officials from Jal Sakthi Abhiyan of the Union government, which also inspected the pond, expressed his appreciation, according to an official release from the district administration. Though the pond did not have any significant ayacut area, the storage in the water body, situated about 1.5 km from the District Collector’s Office, here would help improve the groundwater table, according to officials. Under the Kudimaramathu scheme, 484 tanks had been desilted through DRDA at an estimated cost of Rs. 6.87 crore. This apart, the Public Works Department had taken up 33 desilting works at a cost of Rs. 7 crore in the district, they added.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Medical colleges to reopen on Dec. 7||The existing e-registration system for persons coming to Tamil Nadu from other States — except those from Puducherry, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka — would continue. Social, political, recreational and religious meetings would be allowed in closed spaces with a 50% seating capacity, or a maximum of 200 persons, from December 1 to 31. “Prior permission from the District Collector concerned or the Chennai Police Commissioner, as may be the case, is mandatory,” the Chief Minister said. Depending on the spread of the pandemic, a decision would be taken on whether or not to allow such meetings in open spaces. The State government also allowed the reopening of exhibition halls but only for business-to-business purposes. Swimming pools are allowed to reopen but only for sports training. Tourist spots would also be allowed to function. The fresh relaxations would not be allowed in the containment zones. Only those domestic and international air traffic routes, permitted by the Union Home Ministry, would be allowed to operate. SOPs would be issued for all these activities. Mr. Palaniswami reiterated his appeal to people to wear face masks while stepping out, wash their hands at home as well as at workplaces, ensure physical distancing at public places and avoid going out unnecessarily. The CM said that thanks to the steps taken by his government, the spread of the pandemic in the State was limited to about 1,600 persons a day in the past 10 days. ( The G.O. on the extension of the lockdown could be accessed on The Hindu portal at https://bit.ly/TNGO-Nov30 )
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dangerous act||
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lawyer, wife get double life term||Apart from the two life terms, Rajavel was awarded five sets of seven years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) and a two years of RI for other offences including forgery and destruction of evidence. The court also awarded seven years of RI to Mohana and Palanisamy for two different offences. All the sentences will run concurrently. The judge slapped a total fine of Rs. 80,000 on Rajavel, Rs. 55,000 on Mohana and Rs. 30,000 on Palanisamy. Special Public Prosecutor U. Sankaranarayanan said the court also ordered that the legal heirs of the murdered woman be paid Rs. 1.2 lakh from the total penalty. Ammasai’s husband Marimuthu, son Rajendran and daughter Sagunthaladevi were present in the court when the verdict was pronounced. “We feel happy as the court has finally punished the guilty,” said Mr. Rajendran. Ponraj, who was an approver in the case in the initial stage, was not part of the trial as he later turned hostile. The prosecution has filed an application for a separate trial of Ponraj for his role in the murder.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Saplings to strengthen lake bund||The Tamizhaga Cauvery Farmers Association has taken up planting of tree saplings along the bund of Vellangiri lake in Okkanadu Melaiyur near Orathanadu. In 2018, the association took up a project to revive the 100-acre lake with support from City Union Bank. Apart from deepening the lake bed and strengthening the bund, around 45 acres that remained under encroachment was retrieved with the help of officials, according to TCFA general secretary P.R.Pandian. Mr. Pandian said support from villagers was mobilised and the programme to plant saplings along the bund was inaugurated in the presence of Balasubramanian, General Manager, CUB. Around 1,000 saplings would be planted along the bund.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SI dies in road accident||A Sub Inspector of Police died in a road accident in Ariyalur district on Monday. Police sources said A. Selvaraj, 57, an SI attached to Keezhapalur police station, was proceeding towards Ariyalur court on his two-wheeler when the occurred. A car rammed the two-wheeler at Ammakulam diversion road in the afternoon. The SI sustained injuries and died on the way to Ariyalur Government Hospital. The car driver, Manoj Kumar, 22, was arrested. Ariyalur Police have registered a case.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||coimbatore today||Jansons Institute of Technology: Alumni talk, 10 a.m.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shut down||In view of the proposed monthly maintenance works to be carried out at the Peedampalli sub-station on December 2 (Wednesday), there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the following areas: Kalangal, Peedampalli, Pattanam, Pappampatty, Akkanaickenpalayam, Pattanampudur, Pappampatti pirivu, Kannampalayam, part of Nadupalayam, Chinnakuili, Naickenpalayam and Pallapalayam.
01 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Goa has no reason to oppose Mahadayi water projects’||“Goa has no justified reason to oppose the Mahadayi river water projects. They are playing politics in the name of the river. The statement of the Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and others is nothing but political gimmicks,” Medium and Major Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said in Belagavi on Monday. According to him, the Supreme Court and the water dispute tribunals had cleared the way for Karnataka to start work on the diversion of the tributaries and nalas of the Mahadayi. “There is no need for the Chief Ministers of Karnataka and Goa to hold any meeting over the dispute. There is nothing to talk about it. We will start work soon. We should have started already, if not for the COVID-19 situation,” he said. The Minister lost his cool when asked to provide details of the approvals obtained by the State government from the agencies concerned. “Why do you need them? Are you experts in irrigation technology or are you IAS officers? Why are you concerned about such details. They make sense to me and my officers and that is enough,” he said. He said that journalists and media houses were involved in creating a sensation around the Mahadayi river dispute. “You are here only to create problems for us, not cooperate with us. You should not do such mistakes,” he advised them.
01 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||BJP will make sure all defectors are made Ministers: Ramesh Jarkiholi||Medium and Major Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has said that he would hold a meeting of his friends to express solidarity with A.H. Vishwanath, MLC, who has been barred by the High Court of Karnataka from becoming a Minister. “I don’t know in detail what the High Court order says. I will consult legal experts before commenting on it,” he told journalists. However, “I will hold a meeting of my friends, the 17 leaders who quit the Congress and Janata Dal(S) to join the BJP, on this,” he said. He also said that he was confident that the BJP would make sure all the 17 defectors would be made Ministers. “I am also sure that none of my friends would be dropped from the Cabinet,” he said. He said that it was wrong to say that he was lobbying only for C.P. Yogeshwar to be made a Minister. “I am in support of all my 17 friends,” he added. Reacting to a suggestion by MLA Renukacharya that he resign from the Cabinet to make way for his fellow defectors, Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi said that he would resign if it came to that. “There is nothing great about holding on to a Ministry,” he said.
01 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||BJP leader accuses MLA of manhandling wife||Nagesh Naik, BJP leader from Mahalingpur in Bagalkot district, has alleged that his wife and member of the Mahalingpur Town Muncipal Council (TMC) Chandani Naik, suffered a miscarriage after Siddu Savadi, MLA, pushed her from the steps of the TMC on November 9. The MLA pushed her, along with two fellow members of the TMC, to stop them from voting in the elections to the posts of president and vice-president, he said. He and his supporters had succeeded in stopping Godavari Bat from entering the hall, but Ms. Naik and Savita Hurakadli managed to vote, Mr. Naik said. A video of the incident had been shared widely on social media after two days. It showed that police officers stood within nudging distance of the MLA, but did not prevent him from pushing the women. Mr. Naik released a video in which he alleged that he would go to court against the attack on his wife. “My wife was three months pregnant,” he said. Mr. Savadi described the miscarriage as fake news. He said he would request Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to conduct an enquiry. Lokesh J., SP, said three cases had been filed.
01 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Foundation stone today||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai (in photo) will lay the foundation stone for a new building of the Police Commissioner’s office on Police Lines off the Military Camp area in Belagavi on Tuesday. District in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and other leaders will be present. Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood, Inspector-General of Police Raghavendra Suhas, Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan, Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi and other officers will attend the event, said a release.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Wide variations in symptomatic positivity rates in districts||In the past seven days, the asymptomatic positivity rate in all districts across Karnataka has remained below 2.3%. While the decline is a huge relief, especially when compared to the rate a few months ago, a closer look at the data shows that when it comes to the positivity rate among symptomatic COVID-19 patients, there is a huge variation across districts during thesame period. While one district, for instance, managed to keep the symptomatic positivity rate as low as 0.2%, in another it was as high as 22.5%. According to analysis the State COVID-19 war room as on Sunday, the symptomatic positivity rate over the past week in districts such as Bengaluru Rural and Bengaluru Urban was as high as 22.5% and 22%, respectively. On the other hand, districts such as Koppal and Bagalkot had a symptomatic positivity rate under 1%. Active surveillance Giridhar R. Babu, a member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said that the percentage of symptomatic cases was an index of how active the district’s surveillance system was. “In districts with a higher proportion of symptomatic cases, it indicates that the syndromic approach [for detecting cases] is implemented well,” he said. The syndromic approach involves active case seeking on the part of health workers by looking out for and identifying people with COVID-19 symptoms. “Districts having a lower proportion of symptomatic cases indicates that they aren’t actively finding more people with symptoms,” Mr. Babu said. He also pointed out that in districts with a higher proportion of asymptomatic cases, one would expect them to have higher cases with symptoms as well. “But the health administration has not detected those with symptoms.” According to a doctor at a public health centre in Bengaluru, the number of tests conducted on symptomatic patients remains far lower than those conducted on asymptomatic patients, which had resulted in wide variations. “Many districts need to improve their outreach programmes and ensure that they test more people with symptoms. This will help in ensuring that the symptomatic positivity rate is low,” the doctor added. However, C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, who is also partof the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said the wide variation in symptomatic positivity rate could be the result of statistical error if the number of tests conducted among symptomatic persons is very low.  Many districts need to improve their outreach programmes and ensure that they test more people with symptoms. This will help in ensuring that the symptomatic positivity rate is low public health centre doctor
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NEP: Task force submits report||A task force, headed by former Chief Secretary S.V. Ranganath, on the implementation of the National Education Policy (2020) has recommended establishment of special educational zones and creation of a single platform for all education scholarships, including physically-challenged. The report recommended restructuring of the Department of State Education Research and Training (DSERT) and ensuring separation and monitoring of the Karnataka State School Education Council (KSSEC) and State School Standards Authority (SSSA) schools. The task force submitted its report to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in the presence of Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar. The report is expected to be placed before the Cabinet. The task force recommended steps for attracting the funds under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) of various companies. With regard to higher education, it stressed the need for creation of a new Karnataka State Universities (KSU) Act and establishment of Karnataka Higher Education Commission by enacting a separate legislation for the purpose. It strongly recommended bringing all scholarships applicable to all students eligible for economic and socially deprived groups under one platform. It suggested impetus to the graded empowerment of affiliated and autonomous colleges. Earlier, Mr Yediyurappa launched the learning management system (LMS) for the comprehensive improvement of higher education in the state. LMS provided greater emphasis on digital learning. The LMS undertaken by the Higher Education Department of the State would benefit 4.5 lakh students of 430 colleges and 87 government polytechnics and 14 government engineering colleges. Besides improving standards of learning, it would ensure evaluation of 24,000 teaching faculty. The LMS is being implemented at a cost of Rs. 34.11 crore. Mr. Narayan said LMS has been prepared to provide the best quality education by utilizing the technological advances. It enables students to obtain lessons both in online and off-line modes from any place at any time. It also provides the details of the evaluation of each student.  Major recommendations    Creating single platform for all scholarships  Ensuring separation of the control and operation of the KSSEC and SSSA schools  Restructuring of DSERT  Attracting corporate social responsibility funds   Implementing the new Karnataka State Universities (KSU) Act  Creating Karnataka Higher Education Commission   Giving impetus to graded empowerment of affiliated and autonomous colleges
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Farmers protest in solidarity with Delhi counterparts||Multiple farmers’ organisations, outraged by the “shabby treatment” meted out to protesting farmers in Delhi, have now threatenedto go on a series of strikes in the State from Tuesday. Aikya Horata, a coalition of farmers, workers and Dalit groups, staged a protest in the city on Monday, expressing solidarity with the farmers in Delhi. The All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) will organise protests at all district centres of the State on Tuesday, for which a host of farmer and labour unions have announced support. Meanwhile, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) and Hasiru Sene has threatened to block all highways in the State for the next five days and gherao the Vidhana Soudha on December 7, the day the Assembly session begins, demanding that the recent farm reforms Acts be scrapped both at the Centre and the State. The recent amendments to Karnataka Land Revenue Act, 1961, and Karnataka APMC Act, 1966, promulgated as Ordinances, are expected to be tabled in the legislature. “In my 40 years of public life, I have never seen any government that has ill-treated farmers like enemies of the State, deploying paramilitary forces and not allowing us to enter our capital. The use of force and water cannons in a cold wave is inhuman,” said G.C. Bayyareddy, convener of AIKSCC in the State.  HDK’s plea Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy urged the Centre to hold talks with farmers and allay their suspicion over the new agricultural legislation. “Otherwise, suspicion among the farmers and people will continue to grow further,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said in a tweet. “My sincere suggestion is to hear the grievances of farmers at the place where they are presently located or at a place of their choice.”
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC orders issue of notice on plea on pvt. hospital selection||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition seeking inquiry into the alleged irregularities in selection and exclusion of private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients and the withdrawal of the June 2020 order on allowing private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar passed the order on a petition filed by Riyaz Basha, a medical practitioner from Shivamogga. Alleging that private hospitals were selected without following any sort of guidelines, the petitioner said some of the hospitals were selected as they belonged to relatives of Ministers, MLAs, and politicians. The petitioner also alleged that “influences and money transactions” had taken place in the matter of selection and dropping of hospitals from the list of designated COVD-19 hospitals and care and isolation centres. He claimed that in some cities and town, only hi-tech hospitalswere selected, leaving out the smaller hospitals having all the basic facilities to treat COVID-19 patients. In some places, hospitals having no proper facilities and staff were chosen instead of the ones with good facilities to provide treatment, the petitioner alleged. Food supply The Bench, hearing other PIL petitions related to issues that have cropped up because of COVID-19 restrictions, directed the government to submit comprehensive details on the supply of nutritional food through anganwadi centres across the State. It sought data from the start of the lockdown in March to November 30. The Bench also asked S.R. Umashankar, Principal Secretary, Primary and Secondary Education, to be present in court through videoconference hearing on December 8 as the State government had not complied with the advice of the Centre on the transfer of cooking cost in the form of nutritional pulses and other products, along with foodgrains, to the children covered under the midday meal scheme.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||4.69 lakh healthcare workers registered for vaccine||Around 4.69 lakh healthcare workers, including those in government and private sectors, have registered for the COVID-19 vaccination. However, many healthcare workers are yet to register and the list will be updated soon. The Cabinet Secretary, Government of India, conducted a videoconference meeting with Chief Secretaries of various States and Union Territories on Monday. Across the State, Deputy Commissioners have held task force meetings to review cold-chain preparedness. Data collection on healthcare workers is also under way, a press release from the Department of Health and Family Welfare stated. The State has also identified more than 30,000 vaccination sites and the process for identification of vaccinators from private facilities has been initiated. It has also provided a list of cold storage and dry storage facilities available and requested the Centre for more equipment. “The State has proposed three new regional vaccine stores in the districts of Bengaluru Urban, Shivamogga, and Ballari, and to have a better distribution network, vaccine vans and refrigerated vaccine vans have been requested,” the release stated.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Testing for HIV and STDs declines sharply owing to pandemic||The number of people tested for HIV and sexually transmitted infections in Karnataka has declined sharply this year. This is an impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The centres designated to conduct these tests failed to meet the required targets as many of the centres were not functioning fully during the pandemic. Moreover, the out-patient departments in all district hospitals saw very few patients during the pandemic. According to data provided by the Karnataka State Aids Prevention Society (KSAPS), only 26.42 % of the total targeted 26.34 lakh people have been tested in 2020-2021. The data collected is up to October, 2020. Out of the total 6.96 lakh people tested in 2020-2021, as many as 4682 were found positive for HIV. In the 2019-2020 year, 97.85 % of the testing target was met. In addition to these, the number of tests conducted to detect sexually transmitted infections (STI) and reproductive tract infections (RTI) too dipped drastically. Only a total of 18.5 % of the targeted 4.28 lakh people were tested for STI/RTI. KSAPS tests people for STI or RTI as a person who is detected with this is two to nine times prone to get HIV. T. Govindaraju, Deputy Director of KSAPS, admitted that the number of tests conducted for HIV as well as other sexually transmitted diseases had been affected due to the pandemic. He however said that in the coming months, they would try to increase the number of tests conducted amidst precautionary measures by deputing more mobile vans across the State. He also said that they wanted to focus particularly on high-risk groups, which include sex workers, homosexuals, truck drivers, migrants, and transgenders.  Blood collection During the pandemic, blood collection too has taken a severe toll and several blood banks across the State are facing a shortage of blood. While the targeted units of blood that was supposed to be collected in 2020-2021 was supposed to be 8.08 lakh, only 3.22 lakh units of blood have been collected. Of these, 2.65 lakh units of blood were through voluntary blood donations. Chethan M. Gowda, founder, KHOON – a non-governmental organisation that promotes blood donations, said that the blood donations took a severe hit during the lockdown in March as blood donation camps could not be conducted and voluntary walk in donations also declined because of fear of transmission of COVID-19 and restricted movement of public.
01 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ministerial expansion may turn elusive again||Though Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday expressed confidence that he would be able to undertake ministerial expansion in two to three days, the announcement of dates for the gram panchayat polls appears to have put off the expansion process at least till December-end. “It’s not the model code of conduct that has turned out to be an obstacle. The problem is the fear of dissidence and heartburns among the disappointed aspirants who would not make it into the ministry. Any dissidence is bound to affect the prospects of party-backed candidates in the panchayat polls,” observed a BJP State unit strategist. According to him, the party leadership is expected to stay away from expansion/reshuffle till the completion of the panchayat polls, which are being held on December 22 and 27. The proposed Cabinet expansion has already turned out to be a complex exercise with the division between the party old timers and new comers on the one hand and the party central leadership’s reported inclination towards effecting a change of guard on the other. The possibility of postponement of ministerial expansion has also triggered speculations on whether the BJP high command would first take up the much-speculated leadership change instead of ministerial expansion. Longer wait Meanwhile, Urban Development Minister B.A. Basavaraj said ministerial aspirants may have to wait for some more time as the expansion exercise may not be possible during the run-up to the panchayat polls. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said a suitable decision would be taken by examining legal implications in the wake of enforcement of model code of conduct.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Under 1,000 COVID-19 cases reported in State||Less than 1,000 cases of COVID-19 were reported in the State on Monday. With 998 new cases, the total number of positive cases in Karnataka stood at 8.84 lakh. However, the number of tests conducted on Sunday was also comparatively lower at 81,333. The positivity rate for the day stood at 1.22%, while the case fatality rate stood at 1.3%. Meanwhile, out of 998 cases, 444 cases were reported in Bengaluru Urban. As many as 2,209 patients were discharged, taking the total number of discharges to 8.49 lakh. Deaths As many as 13 positive patientswere reported dead, taking the total number of deaths in Karnataka to 11,778. Out of the total 23,279 active cases in the State, 349 patients are in ICUs across different hospitals.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HAL delivers cryogenic propellant tank to ISRO||HAL has delivered the biggest cryogenic propellant tank (C32 LH2) ever fabricated by the company to ISRO much ahead of the contractual schedule at a programme recently. The C32-LH2 tank is a developmental cryogenic propellant tank of aluminium alloy designed for improving the payload capability of GSLV MK-III launching vehicle, said a release from HAL. The propellant tank was handed over by M.S. Velpari, Director (Operations), HAL, to V. Narayanan, Director (LPSC), ISRO. S. Somanath, Director, VSSC, ISRO, appreciated HAL’s capability in absorbing any technological advancements and developments in productionizing any types of space hardware and structures for the space launch vehicle. He highlighted HAL’s role in developing eco-system by sharing the knowledge among private players towards strengthening the supply chain. Mr. Velpari explained HAL’s preparedness to venture into complete realization of PSLV & GSLV launch vehicles progressively from raw material stage to launch stage including managing the entire supply chain of ISRO. The 4-metre diametric tank is of 8-metre length to load 5,755 kg propellant in the 89 cubic metre volume. The total length of weld carried out in the tank was 115 metres at different stages to the quality requirement of 100% tests on radiography, die penetrant check and leak-proof. HAL has mastered the skills and technologies required for fabricating welded propellant tank of aluminium ally to such stringent quality requirement, added the release.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Study benefits of traditional medicine: Ravi Shankar||Art of Living founder Sri Sri Ravi Shankar on Monday batted for the need to explore the benefits of traditional systems of medicine. At a press conference on Monday, he said the usefulness of traditional systems of medicine is often neglected. He appealed to doctors and researchers to take up more research into the feasibility of using AYUSH medicine in treatments for COVID-19. “We need to scientifically explore the benefits of these systems forwider acceptance across the globe. Not too many people outside Tamil Nadu know about the Siddha medicine, but herbal formulations based on Siddha are now being studied by German researchers,” he said. Art of Living has given Kabasura Kudineer tablets medicines for 10,000 people from Sri Sri Tattva to the AYUSH Department, New Delhi.The medicines will be distributed free of cost and a study will be undertaken.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five arrested for stabbing welder to death||The Chandra Layout police have arrested five people for allegedly stabbing a 22-year-old welder to death in Gangondanahalli on Saturday. According to the police, the accused are Arafath Pasha, his brother Arbaz Pasha and their friends Salman, Saif and Altaf K. “Arafath and Arbaz own a goods autorickshaw. They claim that the victim, Abdul Sahil, would harass and often humiliate them,” said a police officer. According to the police, Sahil was named in a robbery case. He was arrested by Byatarayanapura police a few months ago, and had come out on bail.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Red Sanders smuggling racket busted||The police on Sunday arrested three people, including an elderly couple, who are allegedly part of an inter-State red sanders smuggling racket. Over 500 kg of Red Sanders logs were seized while the gang was shifting them from a goods vehicle to their house in HMT Layout, R.T. Nagar around 1 a.m. on Monday. Residents alerted the police about suspicious activity in the house. The accused have been identified as Abdul Basheer, 67, his wife Aneesa Fatima, 57 and their associate Suhail Khan, 22. “Our investigation so far has revealed that the racket is run by the couple’s son Junaid,” said Inspector Mithun Shilpi. A special team has been formed to track down the accused who are on the run,” said Dharmendra Kumar Meena, DCP, North division.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Time limit extended||The Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) has extended the time limit for regularising unauthorised water and sanitary connections till December 31. BWSSB, in a release, urged its consumers to regularise water and sanitary connections immediately and avoid penalties.
01 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HDK’s plea||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Monday urged the Centre to hold talks with farmers, whose protests in Delhi entered fifth day, to allay their suspicion over the new agricultural legislation. “Otherwise, suspicion among the farmers and people will continue to grow further. The Centre has appealed to protesting farmers to move to Burari Park if they want to hear their problems. But farmers have not accepted this as they view it as a precondition to initiate talks,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said in a tweet. “My sincere suggestion is to hear the grievances of farmers at the place where they are presently located or at a place of their choice.” In yet another tweet, he said that the issue should be resolved at the earliest in the interest of the health of the farmers, given the harsh Delhi winter and the COVID-19 pandemic.
01 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||V-P announces translations of 10 works||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, during the virtual SCO summit on Monday, announced the completion of translation of 10 titles of modern Indian literature into Russian and Chinese. Among them is a work in Kannada by writer S.L. Bhyrappa. According to a release from the Sahitya Akademi, announcing the completion of translation, Mr. Naidu said translation of these Indian regional texts into Chinese and Russian was bound to encourage a wider interest in India’s cultural heritage.
01 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Prajwal hits out at Hassan MLA||Hassan Lok Sabha member Prajwal Revanna has alleged that Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda of the BJP was claiming credit for the works that former Minister H.D. Revana got sanctioned for the district. Speaking after participating in ground digging ceremony for road work at Tejuru in Hassan taluk on Monday, Mr. Prajwal Revanna said the Hassan MLA had engaged in launching the programmes sanctioned by others. Reacting to Mr. Preetham Gowda’s recent remarks that the Lok Sabha member was doing politics in the name of his grandfather and former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, PMr. rajwal Revanna said he would continue to take the name of his grandfather as the latter had been his guiding force. “I have no hesitation to state that I won because of my grandfather’s name. He had worked for the people of the district for decades and I follow his principles in politics. But, the MLA is surrounded by people who have been into liquor sale, gambling and other illegal activities”, he alleged. Further, he said the MLA should concentrate on serving the public instead of making comments on others.
01 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Over 10 lakh to vote in Hassan GP polls||The elections to 245 gram panchayats of Hassan district will be held in two phases. Of the total 267 gram panchayats in the district, the term of 12 panchayats has not yet completed. And the localities of 10 panchayats have been merged with nearest urban local bodies. Hence, the elections will be held for 3,352 seats in 245 gram panchayats, said Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, in a press release issued here on Monday. The notification for the first phase will be issued on December 7 and the elections will be held on December 22. For the second phase, the notification will be issued on December 11 and the elections will be held on December 27. The counting of votes will be done on December 30. In the district, 10,70,545 voters will be exercising their franchise in the elections. The district administration has placed a cap of 1,000 voters per booth. They have to wear masks and maintain social distance at the time of voting. The Deputy Commissioner said 245 returning officers and an equal number of assistant returning officers have been appointed. Besides them, 8,850 polling staff would be involved.
01 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Siddalinga Pattanashetti has broadened the story tradition’||“Siddalinga Pattanashetti captures emotions effectively in the North Karnataka dialect and he belongs to that category of writers who have broadened the ‘Kannada story tradition’ by haunting readers and making them think,” writer Basu Bevinagidad has said. He was speaking at a book release ceremony organised by Ananya Prakashana in Dharwad recently. Five books (including reprints) of Prof. Pattanashetti and one book of Hema Pattanashetti were released on the occasion. Speaking on the book ‘Agamya’ and play ‘Vidisha Prahasana’, Mr. Bevinagidad said that the stories of Prof. Pattanashetti had effective social insights and recorded rural culture. Young writer T.S. Gorawar termed Prof. Pattanashetti as a model for young writers as he continued to write and experiment despite his age. Speakingon ‘Chintamani’ and ‘Krishna Sakhi’ collection of poems, Mr. Gorawar said that experimentation was a speciality of the poet, who had “created his own model of poetry”. Theatre artist Shirish Joshi released Prof. Hema’s ‘Ranga Vruttanta’ and said that at a time when there was a dearth of writings on theatre, it was a positive development that Prof. Hema had come up with a collection of critical essays on theatre, through which she has dealt with the contribution of women to the field of theatre. Prof. Hema has also documented the struggle and the fight of women against the odds in theatre, including criticism from own family members, in order to bring about social transformation, he said. Prof. Siddalinga Pattanashetti said that indifference in literary circles was really a dangerous trend as it would remain forever as a record. He said that while it was easy to proceed further ignoring indifference in other fields, it was difficult in the literary field. He also said that every writer should write for the solace of his or her inner self.
01 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Inspector who investigated Goudar murder case gets anticipatory bail||Police Inspector Chennakeshav Tingarikar, who has been summoned by the CBI for questioning in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar, received some respite on Monday with the High Court of Karnataka, Dharwad Bench, granting anticipatory bail to him. Mr. Tingarikar was the investigation officer in the murder case and he too has been summoned by the CBI for questioning. Fearing arrest, Mr. Tingarikar had applied for anticipatory bail in the Third Additional District and Sessions Court earlier, which however, had rejected his plea. Subsequently, he had gone on leave citing health problems and had moved the High Court through his counsel seeking anticipatory bail. Although he had filed his anticipatory bail plea on November 9, the case was deferred twice and came up for hearing on Monday. Counsel for the inspector communicated to the court that their client would cooperate in the investigation, according to sources.
01 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Attempts to kill Opposition are bad for democracy’||Terming the present political scenario in the State and in the country as “disgusting”, senior Janata Dal (United) leader and former MLC M.P. Nadagouda on Monday said attempts to demolish the Opposition was a bad trend in a democracy. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad, he said that a strong Opposition was essential for the smooth functioning of a democracy. He said that in the changed political scenario at present, major political parties were indulging in vendetta politics. “What is even worse is that they have stooped to new lows while making allegations against eachother,” he said. Mr. Nadagouda also said that as bad practices in politics were hogging the limelight, real issues were being neglected and the people left to suffer. He said that because of the apathy of the ruling dispositions, unemployment had risen and the economy of theboth the State and the country was in doldrums. “It is high time both the State and Union governments came up with plans to boost the economy.”
01 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||BJP to launch gram panchayat poll campaign in Bidar today||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which appears to have taken the gram panchayat elections very seriously this time has planned to launch its poll campaign for Kalyana Karnataka region in a big way from Bidar and Kalaburagi on December 1 and 2, respectively. The party has also planned to rope in a majority of its leaders to participate in the poll campaign to ensure the victory of party-supported candidates in the elections which have been termed as an “election of party workers”. Addressing a media conference at a party office here on Monday, party’s district presidents for Kalaburagi Rural and Urban units Shivaraj Patil Raddewadagi and Siddaji Patil, respectively, and a former legislator and party in-charge of gram panchayat elections in Kalaburagi district Amarnath Patil and other leaders said that the poll campaign would be launched with rallies of party workers. “At a recent meeting in Bengaluru, BJP national general secretary B.L. Santhosh and party State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel have said that the gram panchayat elections were the ‘election of party workers’. They said that the party workers had worked hard to ensure the victories of party candidates in Assembly and Lok Sabha elections and put the party into power in the State and the Centre and it was the time for the party to ensure that the hard-working party workers assumed power in the gram panchayats,” Mr. Raddewadagi said.
01 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Inclusion of Molakalmur in Ballari may defeat purpose of Article 371(J)’||Bharatiya Janata Party leader from Kalaburagi and former Legislative Council member Amarnath Patil has opposed the idea of including Molakalmur taluk in Ballari district from Chitradurga district. At a press conference in Kalaburagi on Monday, when asked about his stand on the demand for the inclusion of Molakalmur in Ballari district and Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu’s support for it, Mr. Patil said that the inclusion of an area outside it in Kalyana Karnataka region would essentially defeat the purpose of Article 371(J) of the Constitution. “In fact, the entire Ballari district was not part of the original Hyderabad Karnataka region as itwas part of the Madras Presidency during the British rule. Considering its backwardness, it was later included in the Hyderabad Karnataka (now Kalyana Karnataka) region. The Union government later accorded Special Status to the region through a Constitutional amendment by inserting Article 371(J) as a means to fight backwardness,” he said. “Harapanahalli taluk, which was originally part of Ballari district and later included inDavangere district, was carved out of Davangere district and included in Ballari district so as that it too could get the benefits of Article 371(J). This was acceptable. But adding any more taluks or districts to the region would essentially defeat the purpose of Special Status under Article 371(J),” he said.
01 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||154 GPs in Udupi to go to the polls in two phases||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Monday that 154 gram panchayats will go to the polls in Udupi district in two phases. Addressing presspersons in Udupi, he said that elections will be held to 67 gram panchayats in four taluks on December 22. The remaining 87 gram panchayats in three taluks will go to the polls on December 27. Counting of votes will be taken up on December 30. The model code of conduct which has come into effect immediately will be in force only in the jurisdiction of gram panchayats till December 31, he said and added that the model code of conduct will not be in force in the jurisdiction of urban local bodies, covering city municipalities, town municipalities and town panchayats. There will be 890 polling booths for the elections and 7,95,681 voters — 4,12,887 women and 3,82,785 men — are eligible to cast their votes. The notification for the first phase of elections will be issued on December 7. And, for the second phase of elections, it will be issued on December 11. The Deputy Commissioner said that ballot papers will be used for the elections in the district. Electronic voting machines will not be used. A maximum of 1,000 voters will exercise their franchise in each polling booth.
01 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fish processing plant planned at Kulai||Newly nominated chairman of Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation (KFDC), Mangaluru, Nitin Kumar said on Monday that the corporation has plans to set up a mega fish processing and freezing plant at Kulai in the city. Mr. Kumar who will take charge here on Thursday has been nominated as the chairman of the corporation for the second time. He was the chairman of the corporation earlier in 2010 under the then State government led by B.S. Yediyurappa. He told The Hindu that the KFDC has about 2.3 acres of own land at Kulai. The corporation has mooted a proposal to set up a 30-tonnes daily processing capacity plant on that land. As per a preliminary estimate, the plant should have 1,000 tonnes of storing capacity and it might cost Rs. 25 crore. The chairman said that as the government has proposed to build a fisheries harbour in Kulai, setting up of a fish processing and freezing plant in the same area will be apt for the development of the fisheries sector. Mr. Kumar said that the corporation has renovated and upgraded an old fish processing and freezing plant at Tadadi in Uttara Kannada at an estimated cost of Rs. 10 crore. It has the storing capacity of 750 tonnes. It will be commissioned after a month. Referring to the government’s proposal to set up sea food parks in Dakshina Kannada, he said that about 88 acres of government land is available near Moodbidri. Of this, the park might require 50 acres. The corporation is of the view that the park could come up there. The KFDC will create infrastructure required for the park. The chairman said that the KFDC has plans to market pan-Karnataka fish chips launched in Bengaluru sometime ago. Mr. Kumar, who is also the president of Mangaluru Trawl Boat Owners Association, said that the marine catch of Rani fish has come down alarmingly this year. Market demands this particular variety of fish for its meat. With no option, the fish processors are using Ribbon fish for the purpose of meat, he said.
01 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Month-long active TB case detection drive from today||A month-long active tuberculosis detection drive will be taken up across Dakshina Kannada and other parts of the State from Tuesday. District Tuberculosis Officer Bhadruddin told reporters on Monday that active TB detection drives are held in January and June every year. Because of COVID-19 and related restrictions, the drive could not be held in June this year. It is being taken up now. Dr. Bhadruddin said the objective of the exercise was to identify tuberculosis among the vulnerable sections of the population, which includes those who have tested positive for TB previously. Officials will test people with co-morbidities, namely HIV and diabetes, the malnourished, and alcoholics. Tribal people, who are susceptible to TB infection, will also be tested. As many as 1,398 health workers, including ASHAs and ANMs, will be involved in the exercise. Two health workers will form a team that will screen 500 people. As many as 699 teams have been formed, he said. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Ramachandra Bairy said those found positive for TB during the drive would be given treatment for a week at the District TB Centre on the Government Wenlock Hospital premises. Arrangements will be made for the continuation of treatment at the primary health centre closest to the house of the patient. An amount of Rs. 500 will be credited to the victim or his family member’s bank account every month for a period of six months, and this will cover the cost of providing nutritious food to the patient, he said. The number of active TB cases in the district was 3,500 in 2018 and 3,240 in 2019. So far, the count is at 2,000 this year, Dr. Bhadruddin said.
01 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi Krishnapura Mutt performs Baale Muhurta for the next Paryaya||The Krishnapura Mutt performed the Baale Muhurta, the first of the four major preliminaries before the next Paryaya festival, in Udupi on Monday. Seer of the mutt Vidyasagara Tirtha will take over the Paryaya on January 18, 2022. During the Baale Muhurta, plantain saplings were planted on the premises of the mutt. This is done to ensure plentiful supply of plantain leaves, which are used for “Anna Dana” (mass feeding) at the Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple.  Elaborate rituals marked the Baale Muhurta on Monday. After offering prayers at the Krishnapura Mutt, a group of devotees, scholars and priests offered prayers at the Sri Chandramouleshwara Temple, Sri Ananteshwara Temple and Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple. They then carried the plantain, tulsi and sugarcane saplings in a procession on Car Street. The saplings were planted amid the chanting of mantras on the premises of Krishnapura Mutt later. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat and Member of Parliament from Udupi-Chikkamagaluru Shobha Karandlaje were among those who attended the event. Vidyasagara Tirtha is the senior-most seer among the Asta Mutt seers now. He will ascend the Paryaya for the fourth time. His first Paryaya was in 1974 and the second in 1990. He ascended the Paryaya Peetha for the third time in 2006. During his last Paryaya, he had offered diamond kavacha to Sri Mukhyaprana at Udupi. The second preliminary before the next Paryaya will be Akki Muhurtha, the third Kattige Muhurtha and last will be the Bhatta Murtha.
01 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Car Street to be re-opened for two-wheelers today||The busy Car Street in the city which had been closed for traffic for the last two months for road development and associated works will be opened for two-wheelers on Tuesday, according to Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath. Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. has taken up the road development project between the Venkataramana Temple Square and Balaji Junction at an estimated cost of Rs. 17 crore under the Smart City Mission. The project comprises replacing 1.8 km-long old underground drainage pipeline, upgrading the tar road as a concrete road, construction of storm-water drains, footpaths and provision for laying utility lines and beautification works. Speaking to media persons after inspecting the project works on Monday, the MLA said that except the storm-water drain, footpath, electricity-related and beautification works, the carriage way (where vehicles operate) works have been completed. Hence, the road will be opened only for two-wheelers on December 1. It is for the convenience of people in general and traders. Thanking people for their cooperation during the implementation of the works, he said that the pending works would be completed at the earliest to ensure that all types of vehicles are allowed on the upgraded road within the next one week.
01 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Release student scholarships’||Campus Front of India (CFI) took out a procession from AB Shetty Circle to Maulana Azad Bhavan in the city on Monday urging the government to release scholarships for students. In a protest staged later, State committee member of CFI Imran P.J. said that the government has enough funds to give to the recently constituted Maratha Development Authority and Veerashaiva Lingayat Development Corporation, but not for granting scholarships to students. Many educational institutions which have been offering online classes are demanding tuition fees at one-go which has landed students in trouble. Students have been waiting for scholarships for long, he said. Vice-president of the State unit of CFI Mufeeda Rahman, district unit president of CFI Hasan Siraj and secretary Muneer Bajal were present.
01 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two killed in road accident||The Belthangady police have booked the driver of a pickup vehicle for culpable homicide (Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code) following an accident that resulted in the death of two people in Karaya village of Belthangady taluk on Sunday night. The victims have been identified as Jayaram and Krishnaprasad. The police said Jayaram was riding a motorcycle with Krishnaprasad on the pillion. The pickup vehicle driver came on a wrong side and hit the motorcycle. Jayaram and Krishnaprasad died on the spot. People caught the pickup vehicle driver, Harish, near Killari Janata Colony and handed him over to the police. According to the police, the 29-year-old Harish, of Koyyur village, was driving in an inebriated state. Rider dies Prajna, 25, the rider of a two-wheeler that was hit by a sports utility vehicle in Chitraprady village on Saturday, died on Sunday. Prajna was riding the scooter with Shreya Shanbhag, 24, from Kundapura to Udupi. The SUV hit the scooter and sped away. Shreya died on Saturday evening itself.
01 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Taluk status for Kushalnagar?||After Ponnampet officially got the taluk status, thus increasing the number of taluks in Kodagu from three to four, the demand for announcing Kushalnagar as a taluk has now gained momentum. People in Kushalnagar, a commercial centre, had been demanding it since many years. The locals have now stepped up the demand. Responding to the demand, Minister for Revenue R. Ashok, who was in Ponnampet on Sunday in connection with the inauguration of the new taluk and the taluk office in the town, said that the announcement of Kushalnagar taluk had been delayed for some technical reasons. Like Ponnampet, Kushalnagar too will get that status soon, he promised. MLA and former Speaker K.G. Bopaiah said the government has responded favourably since this was a long-pending demand. He said all necessary facilities should be accorded to Ponnampet taluk at the earliest. Madikeri MLA Appachu Ranjansaid Kushalnagar will soon become a taluk since the government had given priority for the development of Kodagu district. Continued struggle led to the announcement of Ponnampet taluk, fulfilling the aspirations of the people. Ponnampet taluk comprises Srimangala, Hudikeri and Balele hoblis with a population of 1,01,157. The new taluk will have 21 gram panchayats consisting of 49 villages. Parts of the Rajiv Gandhi National Park and temples of Rameshwara, Mruthyunjaya and Kunda Betta are now part of the newly-constituted taluk. Mr. Ashok, after launching the taluk, said the government has responded to the people’s aspirations and funds will be released for making the taluk office fully functional. Already, 12 new posts had been created with an immediate release of Rs. 25 lakh towards the arrangements, he said, adding that funds for the construction of mini Vidhana Soudhas at Madikeri and Virajpet had been released.
01 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. event cancelled following spat between Mysuru DC and MLAs||A programme launched by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri in Mysuru now stands cancelled in the wake of a spat between her and a section of the MLAs in the district. Revenue Minister R. Ashok, who was in Mysuru on Monday, told reporters that he had instructed the Deputy Commissioner to cancel the programme Spandana, which had been launched to bring the administration closer to the people in rural areas of Mysuru district. After the inaugural event of Spandana was held in Nanjangud last Thursday, Ms. Sindhuri had planned a series of such programmes in different taluk headquarters of the district to redress the grievances of the public. After receiving a call from Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar on the stand-off between the Deputy Commissioner and the MLAs, Mr. Ashok said he held a discussion with Ms. Sindhuri on Sunday. “I have told Ms. Sindhuri how to conduct herself with the MLAs and how the MLAs should respect the Deputy Commissioner,” he said. Emphasising the need for the Deputy Commissioner to elicit the support of MLAs while conducting programmes, Mr. Ashok said it was improper to hold ‘Spandana’ without inviting the MLAs. He said programmes should be arranged keeping in mind the convenience of the MLAs and they should be given their due as per protocol. Even though the MLAs need not be present when the officials attend to the individual grievances pertaining to khatha, podi, old age pension etc. during the progamme, Mr. Ashok said the MLAs should be invited for the inaugural programmes. Ms. Sindhuri and H.P. Manjunath, Hunsur MLA, were engaged in a war of words after the latter complained of alleged breach of protocol. After Ms. Sindhuri replied to the charges through a letter released to the media, Mr. Manjunath said he would explore legal options for redressal of “breach of privilege” of an elected representative. JD(S) MLA representing K.R. Nagar, S.R. Mahesh, who had earlier joined other MLAs in criticising Ms. Sindhuri for not consulting them while fixing the date for Spandana programmes in their respective taluks, had questioned her appointment as DC in September this year even before her predecessor B. Sharat could complete a month in the post.
01 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||AAP flays move to hike water tariff||The Mysuru City Corporation’s reported move to go for a hike in water tariff has come under flak with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)questioning the rationale behind the proposed hike when it was unable to provide efficient service to the consumers with the promise of 24 x 7 distribution remaining unfulfilled since over a decade. When water tariff was doubled during the JNNURM project (2007-2012), citizens were promised 24 x 7 water supply. This did not become a reality and citizens never got 24-hour water supply even for one day in the last decade. Moreover, the MCC added a 30 percent UGD cess to the tariff, said AAP Mysuru president Malavika Gubbivani. The AAP has raised several questions and sought answers to them from the MCC. They include: Will the MCC promise to provide 24x7 distribution in all areas, promising quality water supply? Is the MCC serious about stopping water thefts? How much bulk water does the MCC draw from Kabini, Cauvery and other sources and how much of it is actually billed to users? Will the MCC disclose how many illegal connections still existed and how many had been disconnected? Instead of going for a hike, the MCC should focus on recovering the water bill dues from the consumers. The poor tax collection should not become a burden on those who promptly pay their taxes, she argued. Ms. Malavika said that Delhi AAP government is giving 20,000 litres of water per month free for every household. Any usage above 20,000 litres attracts fee for the entire amount of water consumed. This has resulted in people conserving water.
01 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru division gets new freight customers||As per the directives of Railway Board and in a bid to give boost to the freight traffic by Railways, Business Development Units (BDUs) have been set up in Zonal and Divisional levels consisting of functionaries from all departments concerned. The Mysuru division has been striving to increase its freight volume as well as its share in freight transport. The Divisional Railway Manager of Mysuru division, Rahul Agarwal, initiated the move to form BDUs at sub-divisional level to give a push to freight traffic and to enable ease of doing business. As a result of the sustained marketing efforts of BDU, the division was able to reinstate old traffic of maize and added new freight customers in sugar loading. For the first time, the division loaded sugar consignment from Mylar Sugar Companies which loaded 1,320 tonnes of sugar from Shree Mahadevappa Mailara Railway Station, Haveri, to Navkar Corp Ltd, Panvel of Central Railway covering a total distance of 760 km and generating around Rs. 13 lakh revenue to the division. Adding to the achievement of BDU and in addition to transporting sugar the division after a gap of two years transported, 1,330 tonnes of maize from Ranebennur to Rudrapur of North Eastern Railway covering a distance of 2,303 km and generating around Rs. 32 lakh revenue, a release said here. “Railways have emerged as the most convenient, safe and faster way of freight transportation. Due to the immense efforts and initiatives of marketing team, the division was able to generate additional revenue of Rs. 45 lakh during this month. Regular customer meets were conducted to explain freight schemes and to build confidence in them to choose railway as their preferred mode of transportation,” the release added. For any queries regarding freight booking and transportation, parties can contact the Business Development Unit, Mysuru division or can download SWIFT application (Single Window Interface for Freight Transportation) from playstore which acts as one point destination for goods and parcel booking.
01 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Vokkaliga Development Corporation will be reality during BSY tenure’||Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Monday said the Vokkaliga Development Corporation will become a reality during the tenure of B.S. Yediyurappa as Chief Minister. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Mr. Ashok, who belongs to the Vokkaliga community, said he had discussed the matter relating to setting up the Vokkaliga Development Board with Mr. Yediyurappa. Mr. Ashok said he was in touch with the community leaders, pontiffs and organisations and added that he was committed to setting up the corporation. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also a Vokkaliga, has assured that the government was committed to setting up the corporation. The demand for setting up the entity has gained momentum after the State government set up development corporations for Veerashaiva-Lingayats and Marathas. ‘Sacrifices by leaders’ Fielding queries on the proposed expansion of Ministry, Mr. Ashok said Muniratna, who recently won the bypolls from Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituency, would be inducted into the Ministry along with N. Nagaraju (MTB) and Shankar. He said the BJP government had come to power in the State because of the sacrifices made by these leaders. “It is our duty to make them Ministers,” he said. Mr. Yediyurappa has taken a decision and the party was awaiting directions from the High Command, Mr. Ashok said. Ruling out the possibility of replacing Mr. Yediyurappa as Chief Minister, Mr. Ashok said there was no such proposal before the BJP’s Central leadership.
01 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kodagu: 9,000 farmers got crop relief||At least 9,000 farmers in Kodagu had received compensation for the crop loss they suffered in the floods and landslides. The first and second stage relief had been released. Minister for Revenue R. Ashok said in Ponnampet on Sunday that Rs. 5 crore was released to the district from the department for immediate handling of the flood situation this year. In the Deputy Commissioner’s PD account, there is a sum of Rs. 67 crore for any immediate relief, he said, adding that a sum of Rs. 50 lakh had been released separately for distributing relief to those who lost their household goods in the landslides and floods.
01 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Week-long Sakala awareness campaign launched in Yadgir||A week-long awareness campaign on Sakala was launched in Yadgir on Monday. After inaugurating the campaign, Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya said that the intention is to create awareness among the general public about Sakala and dispose of pending applications immediately. The campaign will be held in Revenue, Urban Development, Food and Civil Supplies and Transport departments between till December 7, she said. From December 7 to December 11, it will be continued in the rest of the government departments, she added. Officers have been appointed to supervise the implementation of the campaign. Additional Deputy Commissioner Prakash Rajput, Assistant Commissioner of Yadgir Sub Division Shankargowda Somanal and Commissioner of Yadgir CMC Bakkappa were present.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Payment only for garbage transport vehicles with trackers from December 1||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has earned the ignominy in the past for clearing bills for works not executed, for paying garbage contractors despite there being fewer vehicles on ground, etc. This is despite its large spend on civic works and solid waste management in the city. To put an end to this, the civic body, from December 1, will clear collection and transportation bills of garbage contractors only based on radio-frequency identification and GPS data. When the civic body proposed installation of GPS trackers and RFID chips on all vehicles engaged in door-to-door collection and transportation of municipal solid waste, there was much resistance from the garbage contractors. Consequently, several deadlines have been missed. Now, the civic body has decided to clear the collection and transportation bills of the contractors only based on RFID and GPS data, and integration of the same with the BBMP’s central vehicle tracking portal. As per the new deadline set by civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad, the RFID chips have to be installed on all primary and secondary collection and transportation vehicles, apart from GPS trackers on all operational vehicles in wards with new tenders, by the end of this month. In wards where the new tenders are still not in place, garbage vehicles will have till December to install the trackers. Mr. Prasad has directed assistant executive engineers and superintending engineers to ensure the new deadlines are adhered to, while making it clear that no further extension would be permitted. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep said, “In cases where the RFID attendance is not available, junior health inspectors should take geo-stamped photos, or ward marshals can record the attendance manually,” he said. Status of garbage tenders Tenders have been cleared and work orders have been issued for 79 of the 198 wards in the city. Work has already been taken up by the new contractors in 38 wards while demonstration has been completed in 12 wards. In the remaining 29 wards, demonstration has not been completed by the contractors who have been given work orders. “We will issue notices to them. If they don’t respond to the notices, the work order will be cancelled and the contractor will be blacklisted,” Mr. Randeep said.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Congress to form committees at booth and panchayat level||In order to galvanise the party cadre ahead of the just-announced elections to the rural local bodies, senior State Congress leaders on Monday turned their attention on organisational issues and the strategy to be adopted for strengthening the party at the booth and gram panchayat level. Under the leadership of KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, about 40 leaders, including former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, huddled at a private resort on the outskirts of the city for a whole day and introspected on reasons for the party’s defeat in the recent Legislative Assembly byelections. Local candidates A committee has been constituted to identify suitable local candidates for next elections. After the meeting, Mr. Shivakumar told mediapersons that the party welcomed the announcement of dates for the gram panchayat elections and had decided to form a nine-member committee for campaigning in the elections to be held in two phases. All leaders, irrespective of seniority, have been told to visit each district for campaigning. Legislators have been told to campaign in their neighbouring segments also. ‘Praja pratinidhis’ In order to transform the Congress into a cadre-based party, the party has decided to form committees at the booth and panchayat level. The committees will compose of local leaders from all communities and they would be named “Praja Pratinidhis”. To rope in people from diverse backgrounds into the party-fold, cultural, drivers and cooperation units of the party will be formed at at all level. The party has extended its support to the farmer’s agitation in north India and demanded the Centre to withdraw all three major new farm laws passed in the last Parliament session. On manhandling of a woman councillor of Mahalingapur Town Municipal Council by BJP MLA Siddu Savadi, which allegedly led to a miscarriage, Mr. Shivakumar said the party would stage a protest and seek immediate arrest of the MLA. Senior leaders Mallikarjun Kharge, AICC representative Yashomati Thakur, and KPCC office-bearers were among the others present in the meeting.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Come out with action plan for public toilets’||The Karnataka High Court on Monday directed the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to come out with an action plan or scheme to assess how many public toilets are required for the city. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed by city-based Letzkit Foundation. The bench said that the action plan should contain how cleanliness and hygiene in the public toilets would be maintained while stating that once the BBMP comes out with a proper action plan, the same can be extended to other local bodies in the State. It was pointed out in the petition that Bengaluru has a large floating population, but lacks sufficient number of public toilets. The BBMP has failed to set up the required number of public toilets besides failing to maintain cleanliness of toilets as per Section 245 of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act. Further hearing has been adjourned till January 12, 2021. Mosque’s loudspeaker In another PIL, the bench pulled up the Chairman of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) for not following its February direction to initiate action as per the law against a mosque in Govindarajanagar for illegal use of loudspeaker. The KSPCB had failed to adhere to the court’s direction to nominate an officer to randomly visit the place where the loudspeaker is installed by the mosque and to record the decibel readings. Also, the court questioned the lack of response from the government to its query on how the jurisdiction police could issue a licence, that too in perpetuity, sans authority under the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000. Petitioner Sumangala A. Swamy, a 64-year-old advocate, had complained about illegal use of loudspeaker.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Relief for motorists: SWR sanctions Carmelaram RoB||In what will be a huge relief to motorists, South Western Railways (SWR) has come out with a plan to build a Railway over Bridge (RoB) at Carmelaram level crossing. For years, motorists have been asking for an RoB to help ease traffic in the congested area. The Carmelaram level crossing (gate number 132) is one of the busiest, and an RoB will go a long way in reducing travel time as it eliminates the wait time at the spot. Prior to the lockdown, over 70 trains were operated on this line every day. Currently, the level crossing is used by motorists to reach Sarjapur Road, Outer Ring Road, Varthur and Gunjur. The project is estimated to cost Rs. 40.3 crore and Railways will bear Rs. 11.26 crore through Rashtriya Rail Sanraksha Kosh. According to Chief PRO of SWR E. Vijaya, the Railway Board communicated to SWR that tenders for the project shall be invited only after the pre-requisite conditions are met. This includes consent of the State government for closure of level crossing, design and complete land acquisition. “It is crucial to make sure that land required for the project is made available prior to taking up the project. In the city, land acquisition issues delayed RoB projects at Baiyappanahalli. There were land acquisition problems even at Kodigehalli. We will take up the issue with the authorities concerned prior to taking up the project,” the official said. Member of Parliament (Bengaluru Central) P.C. Mohan told The Hindu that measures will be taken to ensure that the project does not face land acquisition hurdles. “Construction of the RoB will ease traffic congestion in the area. The State government is pro-actively supporting railway projects. The BBMP will make sure that the project gets completed as early as possible,” he said. While welcoming the move, Jagadish Reddy of Varthur Raising, said, “Gunjur, Sarjapura Road, Varthur and surrounding areas are rapidly developing. At this juncture, the bridge, which is a long-standing demand, will absolutely be necessary,” he said. He added that congested and small railway bridges in and around the area should be widened, especially the one on Panathur-Belagere Road.  It is crucial that land required for the project is made available prior to taking up the project. In the city, land acquisition issues delayed RoB projects at Baiyappanahalli E. Vijaya, Chief PRO, SWR   Gunjur, Sarjapura Road, Varthur and surrounding areas are rapidly developing. At this juncture, the bridge, which is a long-standing demand, will absolutely be necessary Jagadish Reddy, Varthur Raising
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Dispelling myths||
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Up in arms||
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Vishwanath disqualified for being appointed Minister: HC||Pointing out that a disqualified member can again become eligible to be appointed as a Minister or hold politically remunerative post only after getting re-elected to either the Houses of the legislature or till the end of the term of the House, from which he was disqualified under the anti-defection law, the Bench said that “nomination” of a person to the legislature cannot be termed as “election” as per the constitutional provisions. The Advocate-General, while producing the original records of process of nominating Mr. Vishwanath, had pointed out that he was nominated from field of literature as he had written several books. On the other hand, the Bench said that “it is not prima facie established that Mr. Shankar and Mr. Nagaraju have been disqualified” from holding these posts as they were declared elected and prima facie their elections can be questioned only by way of election petition. On oral request made on behalf of a petitioner to retrain Mr. Vishwanath from participating in the ensuing session of the legislature, the Bench orally said that it has only passed interim order on attraction of disqualification to hold post of Minister and yet adjudicated the issue of legality of his nomination to the Council. The petitions were filed after it was reported in newspapers that the three MLCs are likely to be appointed as Minister. The petitioners had also questioned legality of election of Mr. Shankar and Mr. Nagaraju to the Council while alleging that it was a backdoor entry for them.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Festive spirit||
01 December 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Three-pronged poll battle in Cherthala||With the local body polls only a week away, the Cherthala Municipality is bracing for a three-cornered electoral battle. The ruling United Democratic Front (UDF) is eyeing a hat-trick of victories after it came top in the 2010 and 2015 elections. The Left Democratic Front (LDF), which was last voted to power in Cherthala in 2005, is making an all-out effort to stop the UDF juggernaut and wrest the civic body. Giving both fronts a run for their money is the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The NDA, which drew a blank in 2015, made their presence felt in the outgoing municipal council by winning two seats in byelections held in recent years. From local development issues to controversies including gold smuggling case are all major poll planks in Cherthala. The UDF is highlighting achievements of the last five years in its bid to retain the municipality. Three chairmen The civic body had three chairmen in the last five years as per an earlier agreement in the UDF. Isaac Madavana and P. Unni Krishnan, both Congress members, shared the post of chairman for a period of two-and-a-half years and one-and-a-half years respectively. In the final year, V.T. Joseph of the Kerala Congress (M) became the head. In the final days of the council, Mr. Joseph, an ally of Jose K. Mani, shifted his allegiance after the KC (M) led by Mani joined the LDF. The UDF leaders say the KC (M) Mani faction quitting the front would not impact its poll prospects. They exude confidence the UDF will not only retain power but will do it by improving their 2015 tally of 19 seats. The LDF, on the other hand, seems upbeat about it returning to power after a gap of 10 years. The LDF is seeking votes by underscoring the good works of the State government and emphasizing the failures of the UDF-led council in the municipality. The LDF, which won 13 seats in the last election, hopes that the anti-incumbency factor will help it romp to victory with a comfortable majority this term. The NDA, which came second in seven seats in 2015, before winning two byelections, is aiming to improve its tally considerably. The presence of rebels and independents is expected to influence elections in a number of seats.
01 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Rainfall: Alappuzha put on red alert on December 3||The district has been put on alert after the prediction of heavy rainfall in the coming days as a result of the formation of a depression over the southeast Bay of Bengal. The weather agency has declared a red alert for Alappuzha on December 3. Depression It also declared yellow and orange alerts for the district on December 2 and 4 respectively. According to the Meteorological Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, the depression is very likely to intensify into a deep depression and further into a cyclonic storm. District Collector A. Alexander, who convened a meeting of various departments on Monday, reviewed the situation. Official direction Mr. Alexander directed officials to remain cautious and prepared to meet any eventuality. Coastal police and respective tahsildars have been asked to initiate measures to shift people from coastal areas to safe places if needed. Arrangements will be made for the opening of shutters of Thottappally and Andhakaranazhi spillways and Thanneermukkom bund to prevent flooding, in case of an exigency. Warning to fishermen Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea until further notice. Inland fishing has been banned during the night. 24x7 control rooms have been opened in all taluk offices.
01 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||275 new cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 275 COVID-19 cases and 765 recoveries on Monday. The new cases include 258 patients who contracted the virus through local transmission, while the source of infection of 17 other people remains unknown. The district also recorded two COVID-19 related deaths. Of the 275 cases, 39 were reported from Alappuzha, 31 from Panavally and 21 from Palamel. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 5,654.
01 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Kolukkumala ready to welcome visitors||After eight months, permission has been given for the entry of visitors to Kolukkumala, one of the highest peaks in Munnar surrounded by tea gardens. Though steps were taken earlier to open other tourism centres in the district, a decision on entry to Kolukkumala, on the border with Tamil Nadu, was pending. Visitors reach Kolukkumala early in the morning to witness the sunrise. Famous for trekking The mist-covered mountains are also known for trekking. A large number of taxi jeeps operate from Suryanelly to ferry tourists over the 12-km-stretch to reach Kolukkumalai. The jeep drivers whose livelihood was affected were on a strike demanding the opening of Kolukkumala. The Suryanelly town depends on the tourism sector for sustenance and the merchants there had gheraoed the Chinnakanal grama panchyat demanding the opening of Kolukkumala for tourists. A memorandum was also given to Devikulam Subcollector. The entry of visitors to Kolukkumala is allowed on a condition that only five travellers will be allowed in a jeep. Also, every traveller should have sanitiser and should wear face mask.  The entry of visitors is allowed on a condition that only five travellers will be allowed in a jeep
01 December 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Two youths drown||Two youths, who were part of a group visiting the Thooval waterfall, drowned in its downstream area on Monday. According to the Nedumkandam police, the victims were identified as Murickassery residents Sojomon, 21, and Soni Sajan, 16. They were part of an eight-member group who reached Thooval waterfall in the afternoon. Three of them, including the victims, were taking bath in the downfall area and were accidentally caught in the undercurrents. One of them was rescued, while two were swept away in the waters. The Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Nedumkandam conducted a search and the bodies were fished out. The bodies were taken to the Nedumkandam taluk hospital for COVID-19 test, said the police. The autopsy would be conducted on Tuesday. Sajomon completed a degree course and Soni was a Class 10 student at St Mary’s Higher Secondary School, Murickassery.
01 December 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||At Sulthan Bathery Municipality, spotlight on town beautification||Anyone who visits the Sulthan Bathery town will agree that the town is a ‘sultan’ in the State in cleanliness. Various species of flower plants such as melastoma, lantana, ground orchids, bougainvillea, hibiscus, roses, honeysuckle and ball aralia arranged in more than 9,000 pots on both sides of streets add more charm to the town. Nobody can find even a single pile of garbage on any small street of the hill town. While the Left Democratic Front (LDF), the ruling front in the Sulthan Bathery Municipality, is highlighting the core change they made to the municipality in its campaign for the civic body polls, the United Democratic Front is alleging that the beautification was done only in the city, and not in other areas of the municipality. A traditional stronghold of the Congress, the civic body was captured by the LDF in the first municipal election in 2015 with the support of the Kerala Congress (M) after 30 years. Of the 35 seats, both the fronts won 17 seats each and the BJP won one seat. “We are approaching voters highlighting development projects implemented in the municipality apart from the town beautification, and making it the first non-spitting zone in the State,” says C.K. Sahadevan , the first chairman of the civic body. However, N.M. Vijayan, former Sulthan Bathery grama panchayat president and municipal councillor, claims that the developments, including the town beatification, was materialised with the fund provided by the UDF MLA. The basic infrastructure for the developments was made by the UDF during its tenure, Mr. Vijayan says adding that development was confined to only the beautification of the town. “The CPI(M)-led council did nothing to improve basic infrastructure in rural areas. It also failed to launch the multi-crore solid waste treatment plant in the municipality and construct overbridges for pedestrians,” he says. The UDF hopes that the anti-incumbency factor may turn the tide in their favour. However, the CPI(M) remains confident of retaining power. “The BJP was in second position in four divisions in the last poll,” says Prasanth Malavayal, district general secretary of the party. The party has fielded 20 candidates in the polls this time.
01 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Probation fortnight observance||The District Probation office, Wayanad, in association with PRAYAS, a field action project of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, and All India Probation Officers’ Forum, is organising a national webinar on “Probation in India: scope and challenges,” on Wednesday to mark Probation Fortnight observance. Biju Prabhakar, Secretary, Department of Social Justice, Women and Child Development, will inaugurate the programme at 4 p.m. on the day through Google meet. Sheeba George, Director, Dept. of Social Justice, will preside over the function. Mithilesh Mishra, IG, Prisons, and Correctional Services, Bihar, will deliver the keynote address and K.Sathyan, Director, Kerala Judicial Academy, will be the chief guest.
01 December 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||MVD officials, court staff entangled in legal battle||Employees of various courts and officials of the Motor Vehicle Department in Kasaragod have got into a legal fight after an incident where the vehicle in which the employees were travelling was stopped by MVD officials. The MVD and a section of staff in courts filed cases against each other recently under Sections of the IPC and SC and ST Act. For the past few months, the court staff used to travel from places such as Payyanur in a contract carriage used for tourist travel due to the lack of public transport. According to an official in the Regional Transport Office, KSRTC officials had filed complaint with the District Collector and the transport department about the issue. The vehicle was stopped by MVD officials stating that its operation was illegal. However, this did not go down well with the court staff, who allegedly got into a confrontation with the MVD officials. Cases were registered against 18 court employees on a complaint filed by MVD officials alleging obstruction of duty during the inspection. Following this, 60 court employees filed 20 complaints at the Kasaragod police station against four RTO officials alleging negligent driving likely to cause danger to other road users and disrespectful treatment of people, including women. The police registered non-bailable cases against the employees of the Regional Transport Office under Section 3 of the Scheduled Caste and Tribes Act after the court staff accused the RTO officials of calling out members by mentioning their caste. The case has now been handed over to Assistant Superintendent of Police K.Vivek Kumar of the Special Mobile Squad. The plaintiffs are employees of various courts, including the District Court, the CJM Court, the Munsiff Court, the Additional District Court, and the First Class District Magistrate’s Court. Earlier, the district administration had arranged KSRTC buses for the employees of the courts and the collectorate to reach their places of work. However, stating that the bus rates were high and that the KSRTC’s facilities were inadequate, the employees of the court engaged the contract carriage. The KSRTC officials, however, lodged a complaint against this. The MVD alleged that the court staff in the contract carriage had picked up a passenger on the way. However, the court staff said that only those who had booked seats in the bus earlier had boarded the vehicle on the way.
01 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Driver killed, 30 injured in accident||The driver of a Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) super deluxe bus was instantly killed and 30-odd passengers were injured, two of them seriously, when the bus rammed a tree on the median near Chakkaraparambu along the Palarivattom bypass around 4.15 a.m. on Monday. The deceased was identified as Arun Sukumar, 45, of Pazhayakada, Thiruvananthapuram. The seriously injured were bus conductor Suresh Raj, 50, of Kanjiramkulam, and Rajitha U.K., 35, of Thiruvananthapuram. While Suresh Raj has a fracture at the back of his head, Rajitha, who also suffered head injury, has been diagnosed with internal bleeding. Both are in intensive care unit, according to sources at a private hospital near Palarivattom. Out of the 26 passengers rushed to the hospital, three remain admitted. Police inference The Palarivattom police suspect that the driver had dozed off leading to the accident. The bus belonging to the Thiruvananthapuram depot had left for Kozhikode at 11.45 p.m. on Sunday. The tree was uprooted and the front portion of the bus was reduced to rubble in the impact of the collision. Retrieving the driver from the bus proved to be a tough task. Though he was rushed to a hospital at Vyttila, he was declared brought dead.
01 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||VACB questions ex-Minister in hospital||A team of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB), which is probing allegations of corruption in the construction of the Palarivattom flyover, interrogated V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, MLA, who was Minister for Public Works when the contract to construct the structure was awarded, at Lakeshore Hospital on Monday. “We got leads that will help probe the case further and reach a conclusion. We may seek his further interrogation, if needed,” official sources said. The team arrived at the hospital at 9 a.m. and questioned him up to 12 noon, with breaks in between, considering Mr. Kunju’s health condition. The interrogation went on till evening. Mr. Kunju visited the hospital a day before the VACB was to arrest him a fortnight ago, and had been admitted there ever since. His arrest was recorded on November 17. A medical board comprising government doctors was subsequently constituted to assess his health, since he had been undergoing treatment for cancer.
01 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Left front seeks to make inroads into UDF bastion||Known as the gateway to the High Ranges of Kerala, Kothamangalam, which thrives on tourism and trade in rubber and spices, has always been an example of resilience. However, the spread of COVID-19 has made things difficult as the municipality goes to polls once again. After the rule by the United Democratic Front (UDF), which enjoyed a brute majority in the municipal council, people were seeking change, said CPI(M) leader K.A. Noushad, who was councillor from ward 1 (Thankalam) and is now contesting from ward 31 (Town). He claimed that the past five years of the UDF rule was a failure because it had not met the aspirations of the people. However, the outgoing vice chairman, George Varghese of the Congress, said the past five years had seen several projects being completed in record time. The drinking water problem in Kothamangalam municipality had mostly been solved. About 90% of the households had regular water supply at present, he said. The municipality had set an example in solving the waste management problem, said Mr. Varghese. “We were able to sell about 50 tonnes of organic manure processed from waste generated in the municipal area,” he said. What the municipality needed most at present was a public crematorium, a town hall and a new market complex. The new facilities would help the municipality achieve better living quality, he said. Mr. Noushad claimed that despite its promises, the UDF rule was unable to realise the dream of setting up a crematorium, a town hall as well as a stadium of international standards. Kothamangalama was the only municipality in the State without its own town hall, he claimed and pointed out that land was acquired for the project long ago, but it had been delayed. But, Mr. Varghese said that the COVID-19 lockdown and diversion of funds for healthcare had created a lot of difficulties in completing projects planned earlier.  Drinking water problem in Kothamangalam has mostly been solved. About 90% of households have regular water supply now George Varghese Municipal vice chairman
01 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A crowd-funded electoral battle in Kunnathunadu||It will not be far off from truth to regard the electoral contest of 47-year-old T.A. Abdul Jaleel, an Independent candidate from Pinarmunda ward of Kunnathunadu panchayat, as crowd-funded. For, the eighth standard dropout took a community route to raise his electoral deposit, collecting donations mostly in coins from 350-odd households in his ward. Since it was not a big drain on their resources and the candidate being a local face, most families did donate as well. For Mr. Jaleel, better known in the neighbourhood as ‘Anthili’, it helped fell more than two birds with a single shot. For one, it was an easy way to draw attention for someone who otherwise hardly had the resources to splurge on publicity. “It helped the twin purpose of raising a deposit and an initial round of door-to-door campaign at one go. I could also convince them about the transparency of my fundraising,” said Mr. Jaleel. While the ploy made perfect sense for him, suffice to say that the electoral officer in Pallikkara panchayat who received his nomination along with the deposit was less than impressed, left as he was with counting all those coins. After the deposit of Rs. 1,000, Mr. Jaleel was left with Rs. 283, which he offered in equal lots of Rs. 94 in a temple, mosque, and a church. Mr. Jaleel, by his own account, had been a self-confessed Left fellow traveller since his early teens as a school dropout before he decided to change track over the alleged neglect. Contesting as an Independent from the ward where the LDF has fielded a candidate seems to be his way of making a point. A casual worker out of job at the moment, he has little means to fight a costly electoral battle. But that did not stop him from bringing out a 27-point manifesto featuring promises ranging from planting trees on roadsides to fighting climate change to eviction of illegal encroachments.
01 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Call of service takes him to poll front||Three decades after he was ordained a priest, Fr. Mathew Kandotharackal had another calling, listening to which he now finds himself in the hustle and bustle of the campaign for local body elections. Fielded as the Left Democratic Front-backed candidate by the Scaria Thomas faction of the Kerala Congress in the Iringole North ward of the Rayamangalam panchayat, Fr. Kandotharackal has taken three months’ leave from his duties as a priest and plunged full time into electioneering. Not new to politics Though this is his maiden contest, politics is nothing new to the priest. He started off as a Kerala Student Union activist before moving on to Democratic Indira Congress (Karunakaran) before joining the Kerala Congress. Fr. Kandotharackal feels that crossing over from the Congress to the Left camp does not make him ideologically suspect or give him tough time convincing the electorate during campaigning. “Being loyal to the cause is all that matters,” he said. He said that the urge to contribute to society was what prompted him to take the plunge into electoral politics. “Every social being has a duty to intervene in societal issues for facilitating social justice and politics offers the best way to strive towards that end. The Left with its pro-poor and secular outlook seems ideal for fighting for the cause of the people,” said Fr. Kandotharackal. Being a priest brings to his campaign table the advantage of already knowing a good section of the electorate. Fr. Kandotharackal is confident of juggling his roles as a priest and a people’s representative in the event of a victory. Fr. Kandotharackal was serving as the vicar of Keezhilam Basilos Church when he took a break.
01 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||IIT-Madras to conduct load test on Kundannoor flyover||Doubly cautious following the Palarivattom flyover fiasco, the Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala (RBDCK) has requested structural engineering experts from IIT-Madras to conduct a load test on the six-lane Kundannoor flyover which, along with the Vyttila flyover, is slated for commissioning in mid-December. The condition that a load test should be done if RBDCK insisted, had been mentioned in the agreement with the construction company that built the Kundannoor flyover, said Jafar Malik, Managing Director, RBDCK. “Bituminous concreting work will get over in two days, following which load test will be done over a two-day period. Its report will be ready in around a week,” he added. Defects, if any, will have to be rectified by the builder company at its own expense. RBDCK will foot the approximately Rs. 3 lakh expense of the load test, if everything is good, he said. Load test is considered the final procedure to verify a flyover’s structural integrity. Furthermore, RBDCK has requested the government to constitute a committee comprising three chief engineers from the Public Works Department (PWD), to inspect the structure and give a report, it is learnt. Vyttila flyover The PWD (NH Wing), which built the Vyttila flyover, had been entrusted with the supervision of the Kundannoor flyover work. Sources in the PWD (NH Wing) said that painting of road markings on Vyttila flyover and roads at the junction would get over in a few days. This will be followed by erection of direction boards. A load test will be done, if instructed by the Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB), which funded the project, they added. Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) has already completed a major portion of traffic signal installation work at Kundannoor Junction, while it will pick up the pace at Vyttila Junction, where five roads converge, in the coming days. The undulating service roads at Kundannoor will be repaired once the flyover is commissioned, to prevent traffic hold-ups, the sources said. Palarivattom flyover Meanwhile, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has completed 95% of work to dismantle girders and pier caps of the damaged Palarivattom flyover, two months since the work to rebuild the structure began. The debris of the dismantled structure comprising concrete and the black-topped portion was used to fill approaches within the retention walls of bridges that are under construction. Girders retained The girders of the central span have been retained, since they were built using pre-stressed technology, unlike the RCC girders that were dismantled. Work to strengthen pillars using concrete jacketing is under way. A few pier caps too were launched. Pier caps and girders are under different stages of completion at the DMRC yard at Kalamassery.
01 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Smart app to redress public grievances||The Smart Kochi Web Portal and Mobile Application of Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) will be live from Tuesday, helping the public engage with government departments the smart way. The portal will be available through www.smartkochi.in, and users can download the ‘smartkochi’ mobile application from Google Play Store. People can easily figure out ward-wise details, nearby police stations, Akshaya centres, hospitals, ambulances, metro stations, and railway stations through the GIS portal. The application also lists details of public services like blood banks, schools, and employment service centres. Citizens can register in a Central Grievance Management System, which in turn will be delegated to the respective departments. They can upload images / documents / video with the grievance. A grievance ID will be provided to them. Updates on the status of grievances will be notified back to them through SMS. The history of grievances and action taken by the departments too will be available. As a first step, grievances related to services offered by the Kochi Municipal Corporation, Kerala Water Authority, Kerala State Electricity Board, and the Public Works Department will be addressed. Citizens can report grievances related to potholes, waste management, drainage and water supply issues, waterlogging / stagnation, street lights, and dog menace. CSML is initiating the web application through the Integrated Command Control and Communication Centre (IC-4 project) as part of the Centre’s Smart Cities Mission.  The portal will be available through www.smartkochi.in
01 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Boat owners seek waiver of licence fee||The All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators’ Association has appealed to the State government to give them relief from paying this year’s licence fee in view of the disruption in operation caused largely by the COVID-19 pandemic. In a letter sent to Chief Minister Pinarayai Vijayan, the general secretary of the association, Joseph Xavier Kalapurakkal, said that the fishing sector was facing a big crisis-like situation. There is a shortage of catch largely because of the changes in climatic conditions. Besides, he said, the COVID-19 restrictions had resulted in the loss of fishing days during the year, he said. At the same time, the restrictions imposed on the deployment of fishers from Tamil Nadu had affected deep sea fishing in a big way, he said. The number of fishing days had been curtailed because of the bad weather conditions. Though the ban on large boat operations on account of the trawling ban was to end on August 1, the operations were restricted by the bad weather warnings. While fishing operations resumed in the second week of August this year, large fishing boats were within the weather warning system, which did not allow them to venture out, he said. The association said that the licence fees for the fishing boats in Kerala ranged between Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 25,000 and that around two lakh people worked in the sector, making it one of the biggest job opportunities in the State.
01 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Basin trials of aircraft carrier successful||The basin trials of the maiden indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) were successfully conducted at Cochin Shipyard Limited on Monday. The Navy said that the carrier would now be taken out to the sea in the first half of 2021 for extensive trials before induction. The basin trials were aimed at proving the main propulsion plant of the ship in harbour. On board the carrier, which will be named Vikrant upon commissioning, trials of all four LM2500 gas turbines, main gear boxes, shafting and controllable pitch propellers, along with their integrated control systems, were conducted and proven. All equipment In addition, major auxiliary equipment and systems such as steering gear, air conditioning plants, compressors, centrifuges, all 60 critical pumps, power generation and distribution system, major machinery of fire-fighting and de-flooding systems, all deck machinery as well as entire internal communication equipment were proven during the harbour phase trials, the Navy said in a communication. Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command, and Madhu S. Nair, Chairman and Managing Director, Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL), which has built the carrier, were present on the occasion. The Navy said that the restrictions imposed by COVID-19 notwithstanding, the shipyard and the Navy worked closely together to ensure timely completion of all essential tasks leading up to the basin trials. N.V. Suresh Babu, Director, Operations, of CSL; Commodore Ishan Tandon, Director, Carrier Acceptance Trial Team (CATT); Commodore Sameer Aggarwal, Chief Staff Officer (Technical), Southern Naval Command; Commodore Cyril Thomas, Warship Production Superintendent (WPS), and Commodore Vivek Dahiya, Commanding Officer (Designated), also witnessed the event. Sourced The aircraft carrier has close to 75% of the material and equipment, indigenously sourced.
01 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Cops to rekindle youngsters’ hopes||Sumith Saju, a student from Manikyamangalam near Kalady, had failed in two subjects in last year’s SSLC exams and was looking forward to appear for SSLC SAY (Save A Year) exams when the pandemic dashed his hopes. That’s when the Ernakulam Rural police rekindled his hopes with Project Hope, an initiative of the Kerala Police to help revive aspirations of youngsters who have either failed or dropped out of SSLC and Plus Two, and integrate them into mainstream society. Sumith is among the 12 youngsters who have signed up for another crack at SSLC under the project that was inaugurated by the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) here on Monday. Similarly, 106 students are trying to clear the hurdle of Plus Two under the project. Nima John, one of the participants who failed in three subjects last year came to know about the project through media. “I had to skip the first class owing to poor internet connectivity, to overcome which we are planning to take a broadband connection,” she said. The Rural police have been forced to restrict classes under the project online owing to the prevailing COVID protocol. To begin with, both SSLC and Plus Two students will be imparted an online class each everyday during the weekdays. SSLC classes are being handled by the Maths Department of St. Teresa’s College and Plus Two classes by teachers from various places. “Potential beneficiaries are being reached out through five resource persons we have identified for the project. Last year, we held classes in different centres depending on the student turnout unlike the year before when we held centralised classes in the District Police Headquarters in Aluva, which posed hardship for beneficiaries as they had to travel from far corners of the vast Rural police limits,” said Suresh E.N., Additional Superintendent and district nodal officer for Project Hope. He said that classes under the project during this time will most likely have to be restricted online considering the logistical issues of effecting changes midway through. The police also ensure that participants have online connectivity and in one case arranged for a smartphone for a Class 10 student. Last year, 20 persons from the district cleared SSLC under the project. Since its roll-out in all districts last year, 465 out of 522 and 76 out of 199 have cleared SSLC and Plus Two exams respectively.
01 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Probe sought into MLA’s foreign trip||A writ petition was filed on Monday in the High Court seeking a CBI probe into allegations of Paravur MLA V.D. Satheesan receiving money from persons in the U.K. under the pretext of constructing houses for those who lost houses in the 2018 floods in his constituency. The petition was filed by Jaison Panikulangara of Kochi. The allegation was that the MLA had gone to U.K. and received donations in the name of Punarjani, an organisation formed by him with a political purpose. He sought contributions from NRIs for constructing houses for the flood-affected in North Paravur. He had collected foreign contributions in the name of natural calamity. It was illegal.
01 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Collector issues weather warning||District Collector S. Suhas has issued instructions for extreme caution in the light of the low pressure area building up in the Bay of Bengal. The weather authorities have warned that the next 24 hours would be crucial and that the low pressure could cross the Sri Lakan sea and cross the land in Kanyakumari by December 3. The district authorities have issued an orange alert for December 3 and yellow alert for December 2 and 4, said a press release here. The Collector has banned fishing activities in the light of the extreme climatic conditions. He has also said that all fishing activities should be suspended until further notice.
01 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||317 new infections, 518 recoveries in district||A total of 317 people were confirmed positive for SARS-CoV2 on Monday, while 518 patients recovered. Of the new patients, the source of infection of 66 remained unknown. There were two health workers among the newly infected. Thripunithura topped the areas with fresh cases, adding 14 more cases, while Kuttampuzha and Thuravur recorded 13 cases each and Vyttila 12. The district had 8,118 COVID-19 cases as on Monday. New admissions to FLTCs/hospitals were 111 while 1,806 were added to the list of people under disease surveillance. As many as 6,367 of the patients were recuperating at home. A fresh lot of 3,478 samples were sent from the district for testing on the day.
01 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Crew change in inter-State services||The KSRTC will effect crew change in all inter-State services from Tuesday, said Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran. Mr. Saseendran said the danger of operating long-distance services with unchanged crew had been flagged even before. “So, we decided to effect a crew change immediately from Tuesday in all inter-State services. Either the crew will be changed along the route or a conductor-cum-driver will be deployed. In no case will a driver be made to drive for more than eight hours at a stretch,” the Minister told The Hindu after visiting the accident site.
01 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam reports 238 new cases||The district reported 238 new COVID-19 cases and 633 recoveries on Monday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 235 contact cases, one NRI, one person with no known source, and one health worker, who is a 34-year-old Kalluvathukkal resident. The case with no known source was reported from Kottarakara. The district has 16,236 persons under observation. The Health Department has traced 1,15,741 primary and 9,935 secondary contacts of the positive cases.
01 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Rebel menace haunts UDF, LDF in Kottayam||As the campaign for the upcoming local body election enters the last lap, a common thread that runs through the two leading coalitions in Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts is the spectre of rebel menace in different locations. While the parties have initiated stringent action including the expulsion of rebels, these are mostly seen in political circles as a routine exercise to send across a terse message. As most of these rebels are contesting from their respective area of influence, these messages are often lost on the voters. Among the two fronts, UDF accounts the highest number of rebel candidates when the two districts are taken together. In UDF For instance, the coalition is facing rebels in as many as seven wards in Thiruvalla and six wards in Erattupetta municipalities. This is in addition to the threats from rebels in a few wards across the various other local bodies including Kottayam, Changanassery, Adoor, Pathanamthitta, Ettumanur, Vaikom, among others. Infighting The most notable case of infighting, however, has been reported from the Athirampuzha division of the Kottayam district panchayat where the official UDF candidate Rosamma Sony is facing two UDF rebels Moly Louis, a former Mahila Congress leader, and Saly George of the KC(M) Joseph group. As if the threat posed by the rebels is not enough, there are also a few friendly contests taking place within the coalition, especially between the Congress and the Joseph group in a handful of wards, mostly in Pathanamthitta. “It is a fact that the coalition has not been able to placate all dissidents and the troubles arising out of it can make some difference in some seats. There is a real chance of the rebels and friendly fights splitting the votes in favour of the party though the issue is limited to only a handful of wards,” said Victor Thomas, chairman of the UDF District Committee, Pathanamthitta. In LDF The LDF, meanwhile, also faces threat from rebels, although at a much lesser degree. The front has rebels in a couple of wards across the Erattupetta, Pala and Vaikom municipalities and in a handful of Panchayats including Kadanad, Uzhavoor , Erumeli and Kuravilangadu panchayats. “The LDF has been able to settle the rebel menace in the district and block panchayat levels while the issues in a couple of wards at the panchayats may not have much of an impact on the overall outcome,” said V.N. Vasavan, LDF leader and CPI(M) Kottayam district secretary. The threat of intra-coalition fighting in the left, however, appears to be most intense in the Kozhencherry panchayat in Pathanamthitta, where the CPI remains officially out of the LDF framework and has fielded candidates against the left coalition in four wards. The NDA, meanwhile, is relatively free from the threats posed by rebels in both districts.
01 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||243 cases in Kottayam||As many as 243 persons in Kottayam tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday. Of the fresh cases, all but three contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 28 children and 35 persons aged above 60 years. With 46 cases, Kottayam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Changanassery with 21 cases. Ettumanur municipality and Mundakkayam panchayat reported 16 and 12 new cases each. With 156 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,496 active cases while 13,123 persons are under observation.
01 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Special postal voting to begin||The special postal voting for the COVID-19 patients and those in quarantine in Kottayam district will begin on Tuesday. A total of 168 teams, including a special polling officer, a special polling assistant and a police officer, have been deployed for carrying out the process. The officials carrying postal ballot papers and related forms will approach the voters at their place of stay. After casting the votes, the ballot paper may be returned to the officials or submitted to the Returning Officer by post. These postal votes will be kept in the office of the respective Returning Officer.
01 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode sees 481 new cases||The Health Department on Monday confirmed 481 more COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district. With this, the total number of patients undergoing treatment for the viral infection touched 6,340. Of the newly confirmed cases, 458 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The source of infection remained unknown in 13 cases. There were 11 health workers and three gulf returnees among the infected. As per the updated list of primary and secondary contacts, 869 more persons were added to the list of people under observation. With this, the total number of people under observation touched 23,463. At the same time, 913 persons who were undergoing treatment in various hospitals were discharged on Monday. According to Health Department officials, 4,445 more samples were sent for lab tests on Monday. Till date, 78,3181 samples were collected, of which 7, 12,151 test results were found negative. Health Department officials said the test positivity rate was 10.82 per cent. On Monday, the highest number of local transmission cases was reported within the Kozhikode Corporation limits. Health Department officials said 120 such cases were confirmed within the corporation. They said the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital had the highest number of patients (273) undergoing treatment for the disease. In Wayanad As many as 90 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Monday. Of the new cases, 86 patients, including two health workers, were infected through local contact. The district has so far reported 10,745 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 8,997 have recovered from the disease, including 116 persons who recovered on Monday. The total number of active cases is 1,319. As many as 8,244 persons are under observation. Major centre The Anjarakandy COVID first-line treatment centre in Kannur, which played a key role in COVID treatment in the district, has been shut down. The centre was closed on Monday after the last patient, a 65-year-old Iritty resident, returned home after recovering from the disease. The District Disaster Management Authority, headed by District Collector T.V. Subhash, took over the Kannur Medical College, Anjarakandy, on March 27 and converted it into a special COVID treatment centre. In Malappuram Malappuram district registered 611 new COVID-19 cases and 507 recoveries on Monday. While 578 of the new cases contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons, there were 25 cases whose source of infection could not be traced. Among the new cases were six persons who came from across the border and two health workers. District officials said that 7,786 people were currently being treated for COVID-19 in Malappuram. Most of them were under observation at their respective homes. As many as 551 of them were undergoing treatment in COVID-19 hospitals, 346 were in first-line treatment centres and 341 in second-line treatment centres. More than 85,000 people were quarantined across Malappuram. The official death figures due to COVID-19 stood at 344 on Monday.  (With inputs from Wayanad, Kannur, and Malappuram bureaus)
01 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pandemic triggers fears of low turnout||Even as COVID-19 appears to be subsiding, concerns of a further spread have triggered a fear factor among the electorate in the State. This could lead to a low voter turnout, theoretically. A high disease burden will be a worrying sign for all coalitions, especially the Congress-led United Democratic Front as many believe that the traditional voters of the coalition are lethargic and may stay away from booths. But this postulation has in many ways proved wrong in the past elections. As for the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front, its leaders are not unsure about a dent in its vote base in the current situation. Roughly 15% of the voters are above 60 years of age and even if 5% of them fail to exercise their franchise, it will hugely impact all parties either way. At the same time, parties have been sucked into intense and interminable factional feuds as well.  Youth power However, one emerging factor is the probable voting pattern of the young and fresh voters. Electoral statistics showed that new voters found favour with the Left parties in the post-Emergency period. Nevertheless the political flavour has changed with the BJP emerging as a major player in the politics of the State. Now the biggest challenge for poll mangers is to devise a strategy to attract the new voters. It remains to be seen how the leadership of the coalitions play their cards. Of course, the candidate profile will get an advantage. With 21,905 seats up for grabs in grama panchayats, block panchayats, district panchayats, municipalities and Corporations, almost all fronts have put up new and young faces. Like in sports, in politics too, only the winners matter. Thus political parties have stepped up their campaign to prevent a low voter turnout. The voter turnout in the previous local body polls are — 1995 ( 73.5 % ); 2000 (66.1 %); 2005 (70.3 %); 2010 (76.3 %) ; 2015 ( 77.7 %). Election officials have already started making preparations to mitigate the COVID-19 fears among the electorate.  The pandemic had forced them to postpone the elections which will now be held in three phases beginning December 8. The first phase will cover Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki districts. The elections will be held in Kottayam, Erankulam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad on December 10 and the final phase will cover Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod districts on December 14.
01 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||ED carries out inquiry at Uralungal coop society||The Enforcement Directorate carried out an informal inquiry at the head office of the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society Limited (ULCCS) at Vadakara in Kozhikode district on Monday. Sources said the inquiry was conducted as part of an ongoing probe over a money laundering case. It also assumed significance in the context of the ED summoning C.M. Raveendran, Additional Private Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, for questioning in the case. The inquiry, carried out by officers from the Kochi zonal office and Kozhikode sub-zonal office, began at 9 a.m. and concluded around 11.45 a.m. Primarily, they wanted to ascertain whether the ULCCS had any links with Mr. Raveendran. The ULCCS, said to be one of the largest workers’ cooperatives in Asia, is in the construction and infrastructure development sector and has secured several government projects. In the last two decades it has diversified into ITES and rural skill development, among others. Not raids: chairperson Meanwhile, ULCCS chairperson Remeshan Paleri rubbished reports that appeared in a section of the media that raids had been carried out at the headquarters. It was true that two ED officials reached the office and one of them had inquired if those involved in the money laundering cases being investigated by the Central agency had any links with the society. The officials were informed that none had any association with the society. They also examined the income tax statement of the society. They were satisfied with the response and left, Mr. Paleri said. Previously the ED had carried out inquiries at six commercial establishments, including showrooms of home appliances, electronic and textiles, in Vadakara town in connection with the probe into the smuggling of gold through the diplomatic channel at Thiruvananthapuram airport. Sources said that the inquires had been conducted to ascertain the source of funding of these business enterprises.
01 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cong., IUML initiate action against rebels||The Indian National Congress (INC) and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) have started initiating stringent disciplinary actions against those who challenged their leadership and emerged as rebel candidates to contest the elections in various local bodies. Those who stood by such candidates defying official decisions are also likely to be suspended. In Kodiyathur grama panchayat alone, five local leaders of the INC have been suspended from the primary membership. The District Congress Committee is seemingly quick in action against those who refused to cooperate with conciliatory talks and hesitated to withdraw nomination papers on time. The IUML district leadership is also in action mode against ‘disloyal’ rebel candidates who were not ready to accept the official list of candidates declared by the United Democratic Front. Till date, about 10 persons, including some of the panchayat-level leaders and youth organisation office-bearers, have been suspended. “Though the rebel challenge is comparatively less in this election, we are moving very strictly against the dissenters. The rebels in Kayakkodi and Omassery panchayats are now out of the party,” said IUML district general secretary M.A. Razak. He also said more such persons who opposed the district leadership in Kunnamangalam panchayat would be suspended in the coming days. UDF leaders feel that stringent action against rebels by its allies will send a strong message to workers at the grass-roots level and help them take on rivals in the fray. The entry of rebels challenging the official leadership was even a campaign thread for many opponents which had even troubled official candidates, they pointed out. As usual, youth organisations of the INC and the IUML are not happy over the percentage of seats allotted to them in the local body elections. It has also doused their spirits to actively participate in election campaigns. For the Muslim Youth League, no candidates are there to represent city corporation and district panchayat divisions. However, they hope to get a reasonable representation in the upcoming Assembly elections.
01 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Block panchayat elections hinge on political choices||Just like the district panchayat, the campaigning for the block panchayat polls are generally confined to party politics in Kozhikode district. The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF), the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) have fielded their candidates and stepped up campaigning for the polls. A total of 557 candidates are in the fray in 12 block panchayats. The 12 block panchayats — Balusseri, Chelannur, Koduvally, Kozhikode, Kunnamangalam, Kunnummal, Melady, Panthalayani, Perambra, Thodannur, Thuneri and Vadakara — are spread over four taluks (Kozhikode, Vadakara, Koyilandy and Thamarassery) in the district. Incidentally, the block panchayats do not cover the areas of the Kozhikode Corporation, and Koyilandy, Vadakara, Payyoli, Mukkom, Koduvally, Ramanattukara and Feroke municipalities. The LDF seems to have an upper hand as electioneering picks up. One of the reasons has been attributed to the systematic campaign work of the coalition and the inclusion of the Loktantrik Janata Dal and the Indian National League in the Left coalition. However, the UDF has been putting up a brave front highlighting failures the State government. In the 2015 local body polls, the LDF won 10 out of the 12 block panchayats. This was similar to the 2005 polls when it bagged all the 12 block panchayats. However, in the 2010 polls, when the overall performance of the UDF was comparatively better, the Left coalition won only four block panchayats. Now, the political situation appears to be heading to a tri-cornered contest in some areas with the BJP giving a big push to its campaigning. The party has been gaining ground in regions after the its vote share in the Assembly and the Lok Sabha polls showed a remarkable improvement.
01 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||A battle for environment||At Chengottumala where people have been on an indefinite agitation against a proposed granite quarry project, the battle is for environment. After losing their faith in all political fronts, Chengottumala Samrakshana Samiti is finally trying its luck in the upcoming local body elections by fielding its own candidate. “We are short of funds for public campaigns, but we are trying our level best to make a change this time and give a fitting reply to those who cheated us with fake promises. We do not trust any political fronts as they have failed to understand local sentiments against the project and the environmental challenges it create,” said K. Biju, one of the functionaries of the Samiti. Samiti leaders said their candidate, Joby Cholakkal, had been an active participant in the local agitations against the quarry project. They also accused rival campaigners of running smear campaign against him for political advantage.
01 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Webinar||The Kerala State AIDS Control Society, in association with the KMCT Medical College, will organise a webinar on “Ending HIV Epidemic: Challenges and Directors” as part of World AIDS Day observance on Tuesday. District Police Chief (Kozhikode city) A.V. George will open the online sessions at 10 a.m. Digital poster competitions and panel discussions will also be held.
01 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Fan’s admiration finds expression on a leaf||When football legend Diego Maradona died on November 25, an artist here could not sleep a wink that night. Rajendran Vadakkepadath, who runs R.J. School of Arts here, sat up the whole night praying for his icon. His restlessness continued throughout the next day until he gave vent to his creativity on a banyan tree leaf. Using an artistic genre called ‘leaf cutting art,’ Mr. Rajendran etched the face of Maradona on the leaf. If the leaf is held against the sky or against light, Maradona’s smiling face will be visible on it. Mr. Rajendran has already carved a lofty place for himself in the art of leaf painting. His paintings on dried banana leaves have earned him international fame. “I chose a single banyan tree leaf (leaf of ‘peraal’) because I wanted to pay homage to him in a manner nobody else has done. The elliptical banyan tree leaf is thick, large, glossy, and will last longer than other leaves,” he said. Four hours Using a special blade, Mr. Rajendran carved Maradona’s face on a leaf that measured 18 cm long and 10 cm wide. He took about four hours to finish the work. He is planning to conserve the art work by framing it. “It will last years,” Mr. Rajendran said. He uses certain methods to season the leaves before working on them. His banana leaf art works now enjoy enviable positions on walls around the world. Mr. Rajendran treats green banana leaves using milk before working on them. He says they will last centuries if kept under a glass frame. Mr. Rajendran has begun to try a hand in creating ‘name art’ of celebrities. He has drawn figures of several celebrities using their own names, thousands of times. Film actor Tovino Thomas is among the young celebrities he drew during the lockdown period.
01 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||242 cases in Palakkad||While Palakkad registered 242 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, the district saw 482 patients recovering from the disease. District health officials heaved a sigh of relief as the recoveries outnumbered the fresh cases on Monday. However, they had reasons for worry as they could not trace the source of infection in 136 of the new cases detected. As many as 104 cases had contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons. Health worker Among the new cases were a health worker and a person who came from across the border.
01 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Probe ULCCS contracts: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded that an inquiry into all government contracts given to Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS). BJP State secretary K. Surendran said here on Monday that the ULCCS was a shield for the CPI(M) and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for transaction of black money. He said the ULCCS was given unfettered freedom and it lacked transparency.
01 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||91 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 91 persons tested positive in Pathanamthitta on Monday, of which 85 were contact cases. The source of 26 persons are yet to be ascertained. Meanwhile, two more COVID-19 patients in the district died due to co-morbidity.
01 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RITES to respond on SilverLine||Rail India Technical and Economic Service Limited (RITES), an engineering consultancy specialising in the field of transport infrastructure under the Ministry of Railways, has been tasked with responding to the National Institution for Transforming India’s (NITI Aayog) queries on the proposed SilverLine semi-high-speed rail in the State. RITES was roped in to give a detailed reply to the queries raised by NITI Aayog after the government gave a 17-page reply regarding the 529.45-km project from Kochuveli to Kasaragod, estimated to cost Rs. 63,941 crore. RITES has commenced the work to prepare the reply as the project that will be executed on public private partnership (PPP) mode and is awaiting clearance of the Union government, official sources told The Hindu . Low cost estimate NITI Aayog had pointed out to the government that the project cost estimate was ‘quite visibly on the lower side.’ After assessing the land rates in 50 villages in nine districts coming under the project, it was pointed out that the cost of land acquisition in the detailed project report prepared by Paris-based Systra and approved by the State was ‘underestimated.’ Technical inconsistencies such as design criteria for structures, standard span, lack of maintenance walkway, service road, selection of at-grade structures, ballast track, track spacing, vertical clearance for RUBs, shifting of existing rail lines, and clarity on construction methodology were also pointed out by NITI Aayog. Innovative revenue mechanisms to tap traffic, value added services, private sector participation and efficient exploitation of infrastructure and real estate had been mooted. Even as RITES is preparing the response, the government is gearing up to acquire the land needed for laying the third and fourth railway lines by issuing official notification and to mobilise funds from financial institutions such as Asian Development Bank (ADB) and Japan International Cooperation Agency. A meeting of the screening committee of Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) held on August 18 had rejected the assistance sought from ADB of Rs. 33,699.8 crore. A new application reducing the assistance sought would be submitted by the State through the DEA, sources said. Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd., the joint venture formed between Kerala and Railways to execute the project, is going ahead with the groundwork hoping that the approval will come through.
01 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Livelihood the main concern in coastal wards||Poonthura was a hive of activity on Monday evening, with the pleasant sunlight completing an almost perfect picture, a world away from the tense scenes and the faces writ with fear and anger, visible from behind the barricades early in July, when the coastal village became the centre of focus as a COVID-19 hotspot. Four months hence, the virus does not even dominate the local body election conversations in the capital’s coastal regions. “Almost all the candidates are intimately known to us. So it is hard to make a choice. I might be the supporter of one party, but the opposing candidate might be a family member. For most of us, these elections are not about political issues. But, livelihood issues are still a concern for the fishing community,” says Kunjappan, a fisherman from Poonthura. The food kits distributed by the government and the city Corporation after the COVID-19 outbreak, during which they could not go fishing for several weeks did help to an extent, the fishers say, but without income from fishing, life had almost come to a standstill. Lost beaches The local fishing community was on Monday evening organising a meeting regarding the continued erosion of the shore. This was an issue that had resonance across most fishing hamlets, nowhere more so than in Shanghumughom, where the entire stretch of the beach and the adjacent road were swept away last year. Till a couple of years ago, the fishers here used to stretch out the traditional ‘Kamba vala’ (gill nets) on the beach to dry it after the day’s fishing. Now, with the coast receding, they have to make do with a small stretch at the edge where the waves could come in at any time. “We have been raising this issue for sometime, but none of the political parties have paid attention. There is hardly any space on the beach even to keep the boats. Our fortunes have not changed much in all these years,” 61-year old Ponipass. The wounds inflicted by Cyclone Ockhi, which hit these regions exactly three years ago, are yet to heal. Several lives were lost and some are still missing. Though the government had provided compensation and jobs in a net making factory to the wives of the dead fishermen, there is still a feeling that some of those lives could have been saved. It is a testimony to the fact that Ockhi is still an emotive issue that the United Democratic Front (UDF) on Monday evening organised an Ockhi remembrance meet near the Vizhinjam harbour. “Since Ockhi, fear has been a constant in the fishing community. After each warning, we stay back on the shore, which affects our livelihood. Now, another warning has been issued for this week and so all of us are here,” says Justin Joseph, while playing cards with his friends on the shore near Vizhinjam. The coastal wards have always been a stronghold of the UDF, but the Left Democratic Front (LDF) gave them a run for their money in 2010 local body elections, scooping up several wards for the first time. Yet, in 2015, even when it failed to make a mark in much of the city, it was the 10 wins in coastal wards which gave the UDF a respectable total of 21 seats. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has never fancied its chances in the coast, won a seat for the first time in Vellar in 2015. Rebel menace The presence of rebels in the coast, which spoiled the party to an extent for the UDF in the past two elections, is a problem this time too. The smaller parties, including the SDPI, PDP, AAP, TVM and even some of the Independents, who all have pockets of influence, could lead to the results swinging either way in tight contests.
01 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State’s caseload comes down in November||The cumulative case burden in Kerala crossed the six-lakh mark to touch 6,02,982 cases when 3,382 new cases were reported on Monday, when 34,689 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The dip in testing on Sunday resulted in the slump in the new cases. However, test positivity rate remained in the same 9-11% range, at 9.75%. The State reported 6,055 recoveries on the day. The active case pool dropped to 61,894 cases. It was in October that the State reported the maximum number of new cases, at 2,35,889 cases. The number of COVID deaths in October alone was 741. The November figures show that the caseload has indeed gone down by some 73,037 cases, when compared to October’s figures, and stand at 1,62,852 cases. While the cases have down between October and November, the number of deaths, if one goes by the official figures, does not show a significant decrease. The State had 732 COVID deaths in November against the figure of 741 in October. The epidemic curve in the State is on a plateau, with low level of disease transmission remaining steady. However, in districts like Idukki, Wayanad, Kottayam and Malappuram, cases are again on the rise. Threat from polls Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that while the new cases seem to be coming down, the recovery rate had not shown a matching increase. With local body election campaigning on in full swing, the disease curve is almost certain to rise again. On Monday, 21 more deaths were added to the official list of COVID deaths, taking the State’s cumulative COVID toll to 2,244. Six of these deaths were reported from Thrissur, four from Thiruvananthapuram, three from Kottayam and two each from Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Malappuram andd Kozhikode. Of the 3,382 new cases reported on Monday, 3,318 are locally acquired infections while 64 cases have been linked to a travel history outside the State. The source of infection remained untraced in 405 cases. The number of healthcare workers who contracted the infection among this is 33.
01 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||334 recoveries, 234 cases||The district registered 234 COVID-19 cases and 334 recoveries as the number of active cases fell to 4,180 on Monday. The toll also increased with four more recent deaths being attributed to the disease. The deceased included a 75-year-old woman from Pappanamcode, a 52-year-old man from Thampanoor, an 86-year-old man from Varkala and a 60-year-old man from Kallara. The pandemic has claimed 550 lives in the district, around twice the second-highest death toll of 245 in Thrissur. Almost all the freshly reported cases have been attributed to local transmission of the infection. Six health-care workers are also among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on the day. The district administration placed 1,930 persons under quarantine, taking the number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms in Thiruvananthapuram to 29,527 in houses and 112 in various institutions. Vaccine Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that according to the Centre, the COVID-19 vaccine should be expected to be made available to States at least in limited quantities by the beginning of next year. Briefing media here on Monday, he said that the Centre had intimated that health-care workers would be the first in line to receive the vaccine, before it is administered to other special groups in the community. Make in Kerala plans Vaccine manufacturing is mostly concentrated among a few multinational companies, which made vaccine production and distribution a business activity, he said. Given the State’s experience with Chikungunya, dengue, Nipah and now COVID-19, the State is planning to look at vaccine manufacture within the State in the long term. A committee has been set up to look into the prospects of vaccine manufacture and production in the State, utilising the facilities in the new Institute of Advanced Virology in the capital, under a committee chaired by renowned virologist T. Jacob John, Mr. Vijayan said.
01 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ballots for COVID patients from Dec. 2||The distribution of special postal ballot papers to active COVID-19 and quarantined voters in the five districts included in the first phase of the local body elections will begin on December 2, the State Election Commission (SEC) has said. The initial certified list prepared for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki on Sunday contained 24,621 special voters. This included 8,568 active COVID-19 patients and 16,053 electors currently in quarantine, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran said. The certified lists will continue to be prepared on a daily basis till 3 p.m. on December 7. The five districts that go to polls on December 8 have 88,26,620 voters in all, including 70 transgender voters, Mr. Bhaskaran said. The polling officials would intimate the voter beforehand of their proposed visit. The candidates also will be informed, Mr. Bhaskaran said. The ballot papers will be distributed by teams consisting of one Special Polling Officer (SPO), one Special Polling Assistant (SPA) and a police officer. In the three-tier grama panchayats, the voters will be issued three sets of ballot papers (grama panchayat, block panchayat and district panchayat) and three declaration forms that have to be attested by the SPO. However, a single application would suffice for all three ballots, Mr. Bhaskaran said. Second category In the case of the second category of special voters — voters who test positive or go into quarantine after 3 p.m. on December 7 and till the end of voting — can visit the polling booths directly to cast their vote. They have to report between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. but will be allowed to enter the booths only after all other voters, including those issued tokens, have voted. Special voters are, however, required to arrive before 6 p.m. at the polling station. Precautions Mr. Bhaskaran said that safeguards, including PPE kits, will be taken to ensure the safety of polling officials during the visit of active COVID-19 voters.
01 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||People told to remain vigilant||The district administration has advised the public to remain vigilant over the next four days in view of the pre-cyclone watch issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) over southern Kerala. According to the IMD, strong winds and isolated heavy to extremely heavy rainfall are expected to lash the district this week. Yellow alert today The district has been put on red alert on Thursday, orange alerts on Wednesday and Friday and yellow alert on Tuesday. District Collector Navjot Khosa said government departments had been instructed to scale up arrangements. The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) was fully prepared to tackle emergencies, Ms. Khosa said. As a red alert has been sounded for Thursday, the DDMA will meet on Tuesday morning to assess the situation and review the arrangements. The meeting will also be attended by representatives of the Army, Air Force and Coast Guard, Deputy Collectors, tahsildars, coastal police officers, and representatives of other government departments. The District Collector had issued orders on Sunday itself suspending fishing activities from Monday till further notice. Travel curbs Quarry and mining operations and travel to the hilly areas, including Ponmudi, have also been prohibited. Control rooms which will function round the clock are being opened in the taluks. The police and the Fisheries officials have been directed to make sure that fishers do not set out to sea, given the possibility of rough seas and strong winds along the coast. The police have also been directed to make announcements in this regard along the coast. The Kerala Water Authority and the Irrigation Department have been directed to keep a close watch on the water levels in the dams in the district.  Red alert in district on Thursday  Orange alerts on Wednesday and Friday Strong winds, heavy rainfall forecast this week.
01 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||TVM promises job schemes, development||The election manifesto of the Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam (TVM), a newly formed apolitical group which promises overall development of the State capital, has promised a separate department and Minister for the capital and separate allocation in the budget. The TVM has said that it will take steps to establish a High Court Bench in the capital and to bring back institutions that have been shifted from here over the years. The manifesto also promises comprehensive health and accident insurance to all, job for at least one in a family, comprehensive labour policy, corruption-free administration, 50% of city Corporation budget for productive sector and converting all wards into export-oriented production units. Development of the Thiruvananthapuram airport and timely completion of the Vizhinjam seaport also figure in its manifesto. TVM president S.N. Raghuchandran Nair, general secretary M.S. Venugopal and actor Maniyan Pillai Raju released the manifesto on Monday by handing over the first copy to Pooyam Tirunal Gouri Parvathi Bayi and Aswathi Tirunal Gowri Lakshmi Bayi, members of the royal family of erstwhile Travancore. TVM has fielded 14 candidates in the elections to the city Corporation.
01 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Managing campaign, career hand in hand||Ajesh Lalu is in the thick of campaigning at Kunnathukal in the capital district’s rural suburbs when he receives an urgent call from someone in Parassala. A snake has been found inside a well and his services as a snake catcher are urgently needed so that the residents could use the well. 36-year-old Lalu, who has been a snake-catcher for close to two decades, is the United Democratic Front (UDF)’s candidate in the Kunnathukal division of the Perumkadavila block panchayat for the upcoming local body elections. Over the course of daily campaigning, he receives numerous such calls. Despite his political commitments, he had taken breaks from campaigning to honour his professional commitments too. “Most of us snake catchers are in touch with each other. So, whenever I get calls, I take up the work if it is close to where I am. If it is at some other far-off corner of the district, I redirect it to someone else who is near that area. Even during the campaigning, I constantly get calls from various parts of the district. I have rescued around 15 snakes during this campaigning,” says Mr. Lalu. After the murder of a woman near Anchal allegedly by her husband using a poisonous snake early this year, the Forest Department had announced a licensing system for snake catchers. Mr. Lalu was one of the snake catchers who underwent the training provided by the department recently and is awaiting his licence. From school days “I was still in school when I caught the first snake. Since then, it has been my wish to protect these creatures in whatever way I can. In recent years, I have worked as a daily wager at the Government Snake Park, Poojappura, as well as at Parassinikadavu. Over these 20 years, I have received two serious bites, one from a cobra and another from a viper. But I have survived,” he says. His first stint with politics came as a college student, when he became a member of the Kerala Students Union. Although he has not been an active political worker due to his commitments as a snake catcher, he has made his presence felt in the Congress’s activities at times. His familiarity with the people also made the party approach him to be a candidate. He is making an all-out effort to capture the division currently held by the LDF.
01 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Excise drive to check illegal liquor sale||The Excise Department has intensified enforcement activities to prevent spirit smuggling and illegal manufacturing, transportation and sale of spurious liquor during the upcoming local body elections and the Christmas-New Year festivities. According to Deputy Excise Commissioner P.V. Aleyas, the special enforcement drive will continue till January 2. The public has been encouraged to report any such suspicious activities by contacting the district control room (0471-2473149, toll free number - 18004251727), Thiruvananthapuram excise special squad (0471-2470418), Attingal excise circle office (0470-2622386), Varkala excise circle office (0470-2692212), Amaravila excise check- post (0471-2221776).
01 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Engg. rank list||The Commissioner for Entrance Examinations published a supplementary engineering rank list on Monday for admissions to vacant seats in government controlled and private self-financing colleges. The list has been uploaded onwww.cee.kerala.gov.in. Those interested in securing admissions are advised to do so by December 5.
01 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sivankutty flays Minister’s remarks||CPI(M) leader and former MLA V. Sivankutty has criticised Union Minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs V. Muraleedharan for his comments that the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation lacked basic amenities. In a statement, Mr. Sivankutty, who is also the secretary of the Left Democratic Front (LDF)’s Thiruvananthapuram Corporation election committee, said that the statements were unbecoming of a Union Minister. Several projects Pointing out that the Corporation ranked first among 38 others that competed for selection to the Smart City Mission, Mr. Sivankutty said work worth Rs. 1,538 crore was being undertaken in the city. Besides, projects worth Rs. 600 crore were being implemented under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) with 30% fund allocation by the Centre. Besides, the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation was ranked second for governance by the Central government. Countering Mr. Muraleedharan’s criticism that the local body made no progress in handling the garbage menace, Mr. Sivankutty said the previous council managed to set a new model for effective waste management that garnered them seven global and national awards, including one instituted by the Centre.
01 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||DCC expels rebels||The District Congress Committee (DCC) on Monday expelled a host of leaders and members across different local bodies for fielding themselves as rebel candidates in opposition to the official candidates for the upcoming local body elections. The expelled leaders are Lalan, who is contesting as a rebel in the Muttada ward of the city Corporation; K. Premadas, rebel in the 6th ward of the Vettoor panchayat; Arunbabu and S. Sunilkumar rebels in the 8th ward in the same panchayat; Rajan G. in the 9th ward of the Chemmaruthy panchayat; V. Ajayakumar of the Koythoorkonam ward in the Andoorkonam panchayat; P.M. Shaji in the Parambilpalam ward, Afsal in the Palachira ward, Saji in the Pallichevidu ward, S. Biju, D. Shibu, Sreekumaran and V. Jaison in the Chenkal panchayat; N. Dharmaraj, N. Russelraj, P. Nesamani, M. John and S. Leela in Karode panchayat; A. John Bosco in the Kulathoor panchayat; Selvaraj Virali, Anilkumar, N. Sunithakumari, A.K. Sreekandan, Joy Philip and N. Radhakrishnan in the Kulathoor panchayat; Ushakumari in the Kottukal panchayat; Valiyarathala Gopan and A. Prasannakumar in the Malayinkeezh panchayat; Pulanthara Manikandan in the Koliyakkode block division; S. Madhu, Chilambil Suresh, B. Manoharan and V.S. Janakalatha in the Azhoor panchayat; Sajikumar in the Kunnathukal panchayat; Girija, Ramachandran, Shalini, Vijayakumar, Susheela and Leela in the Parassala panchayat; Thottavaaram Sanal, Binu, Marayamuttom Rajesh, Kakkanam Madhu, Santosh Thathiyoor, V. Manikandan and Mini Prasad in the Perunkadavila panchayat. The DCC had in the past week too expelled several leaders and workers for either contesting as rebels or campaigning for rebels.
01 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Names, symbols to be set on EVMs on Friday||The names and symbols of the candidates contesting in the December 8 local body polls in the district will be set on the electronic voting machines (EVM) on Friday. The ‘candidate setting’ will be carried out in the presence of the candidates and their representatives in the offices of the returning officers. The EVMs will be distributed to returning officers for this purpose on Tuesday and Wednesday, the district administration said. Multi-post EVMs with one control unit and three ballot units will be used for the polls in the three-tier panchayats. The colours of the ballot labels will be white for grama panchayats, pink for block panchayats and sky blue for the district panchayat. EVMs for the municipalities and the Corporation will have one ballot unit plus a control unit. Mock poll After the ‘candidate setting’ exercise, a mock poll will be carried out on a few machines. The results will be displayed to the candidates and the EVMs would be sealed with pink paper. Once the names and symbols are set on the machines, they would be transferred to the strong rooms under the supervision of the returning officers. The EVMs and other polling materials would be distributed to the polling officials on December 7.
01 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No ground for disqualification, clarifies SEC||The presence of BJP district president V.V. Rajesh’s name in multiple electoral rolls does not offer sufficient grounds for his disqualification from contesting in the local body polls, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran has said. At a press conference here on Monday, Mr. Bhaskaran was commenting on a complaint filed by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) that the name of Mr. Rajesh, who is a candidate in the Poojappura ward of Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation for the upcoming polls, figured in the rolls of more than one ward. “We have received a complaint in this regard. But this alone does not provide grounds for disqualifying Mr. Rajesh,” he said. The Commission would examine whether any lapse had occurred on the part of officials in ensuring the deletion of Mr. Rajesh’s name from any of the rolls , Mr. Bhaskaran said.
01 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSRTC reduces fare of AC low-floor buses||The 25% cut in fares for KSRTC superclass services has been extended to AC low-floor buses too from December 1. The reduced fare will be applicable on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays. The Thiruvananthapuram-Ernakulam fare will come down to Rs. 346.
01 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Book released||Filmmaker Mohan released the book ‘Malayalam Cinemayile Adukkala’ written by A. Chandrasekhar by handing over a copy to actor Sreelekshmi. The book has been published by the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy. The book is an outcome of the fellowships provided by the academy to promote film research.
01 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New president for AHPI Kerala chapter||M.I. Sahadulla, Group CMD, KIMSHEALTH, has assumed position as the new president of the Kerala chapter of the Association of Healthcare Providers India (AHPI). Rajesh P.B., Additional Medical Superintendent, Amrita Hospital, Ernakulam, is the new general secretary.
01 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||250 test positive in Thrissur, 659 recover||A total of 250 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Thrissur on Monday and 659 patients recovered from the disease. There are 6,356 active cases in the district while 81 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far 59,082 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 52,296 people have recovered from it. According to the official statistics, 244 people, including two health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Monday. They include 30 patients above the age of 60 and 20 children below the age of 10. In all, 4,481 people are under home observation. As many as 152 people were admitted in hospitals for treatment of the disease. In all 3,293 samples were collected for the test on Monday. So far 4,73,479 samples have been tested in the district.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Christmas gift||
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Catching up||
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||The remnant||
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||‘Give me a chance’||
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Bringing it back to life||
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lessons in democracy||
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In all shades||
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Awareness on AIDS||
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Behind that glitter||
01 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shortage of teaching staff the major problem being faced by SKU, says Vice-Chancellor||Sri Krishnadeveraya University is preparing itself for the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) recertification in early 2021, according to newly appointed full-time Vice-Chancellor M. Rama Krishna Reddy. However, shortage of teaching staff is haunting the university with only 70 of the 200 sanctioned posts filled. Currently, the university is ranked B++, but, with not much focus on research and lack of professors, it will be in a disadvantageous position, while eyeing for A+ certification. During his interaction with the media here on Monday after assuming office on November 26, Prof. Rama Krishna Reddy said out of the 70 professors, 14 would retire next year putting the university in a precarious position as far as academics is concerned. Two court cases were pending on roster point fixing on the recruitment process for the permanent staff and for the temporary ‘teaching assistants’ or ‘academic consultants’, he pointed out. “The APPSC has conducted an examination for the recruitment of assistant professors and we expect some posts to be filled through that, he said. As many as 161 students of the engineering college got placement during this academic year.
01 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nivar deals a blow to farmers in Guntur||Farmers in the Krishna Western Delta suffered a blow with Cyclone Nivar dashing all their hopes of a bountiful harvest. The kharif season began on a bright note with copious rains, but successive cyclones in November had dealt a blow to the prospects of a good crop.  Excess rain Farmers have invested up to Rs. 1 lakh on an average for paddy and up to Rs. 2 lakh for cotton. Agricultural officials have reported that the paddy sheaths have bent in most fields. On an average 32% increase in rainfall has been reported and brimming tanks have kindled hopes among farmers. As against the average of 783.3 mm during June-November, an excess of 966.6 mm has been recorded. But the excess rain during November has dashed all hopes. In Bapatla and Repalle constituencies, 32,000 acres have been submerged due to incessant rain. In Nizampatnam, 104 mm of rain has been reported. In the district, it is estimated that crops in 1.25 lakh acres have been damaged, according to preliminary estimates. The rain has also affected the prospects of a good harvest of cotton and chilli and these crops in 50,000 acres have been damaged. Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar has asked farmers to bring cotton to procurement centres at the Agricultural Market Yards stating that the government would offer them good prices.The cyclone also damaged horticultural crops in lanka lands.
01 December 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mason who attacked Minister sent to custody||The Chilakalapudi police have registered a case of attempt to murder against Badugu Nageswara Rao, a mason, who was arrested on charge of attacking Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) on Sunday. The mason, who allegedly entered the Minister’s house at around 11.30 a.m. and tried to stab Mr. Nani on his stomach with a trowel. But, the tool hit the belt buckle. Again, he tried to attack the Minister for the second time. But, the Minister pushed him away. The security personnel and the Minister’s followers caught hold of Negeswara Rao and handed over him to the police on the bandobust duty. “We have registered a case against the mason under Section 307 IPC (attempt to murder). The police have recovered the trowel,” said Krishna Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. ‘Motive not clear’ During questioning, the accused told the police that he attacked the Minister as he could not find any work and lost livelihood due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, the motive behind the attack was not clear, the police said. The Chilakalapudi police produced Nageswara Rao before the court on Monday, which remanded him to judicial custody for 15 days. He has been shifted to jail, the SP said. “The police will file a petition in the court, seeking custody of the accused. The investigation officers will question Nageswara Rao thoroughly,” the SP added.  Criminal history Meanwhile, the police are verifying whether Nageswara Rao had any criminal history. Investigation officers clarified that the accused was not under the influence of alcohol when he attacked the Minister. Machilipatnam Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) M. Ramesh Reddy is investigating the case, Mr. Ravindranath Babu added.
01 December 2020||NANDIGAMA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||120 kg of ganja seized, four arrested||The police arrested four suspected ganja smugglers, including a woman, and recovered 120 kg of the contraband from their possession. Acting on a tip-off, a team led by Nandigama Rural Circle Inspector K. Satish seized the contraband from the accused when they were shifting the stock from one vehicle to the other, said Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. The contraband was allegedly being smuggled from Narsipatnam to Mumbai. A few more suspects have to be arrested in the case, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Nandigama, G. Nageswara Reddy told the media here on Monday. The accused have been identified as Komali Ramakrishna and K. Swaroopa alias Hima Bindu of Rajamehendravaram, Agyaram Ramlakhan Vimal of Uttar Pradesh and Abdul Razzak, a native of Mumbai, the SP said. “Efforts are on to arrest two more persons each from East Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts,” Mr. Ravindranath Babu said. Transit points The gang arranged transit points at different places, including Rajamahendravaram. Police are investigating the origin and destination of the contraband. Kanchikacherla SI Ranganath and Chandarlapadu SI Manikumar along with their staff participated in the raid, the added Ravindranath Babu.
01 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||NRIs seek Prakasam police help during ‘Spandana’||A Non-Resident Indian living in Ohio in the U.S. on Monday sought the intervention of Prakasam police for restoration of money transferred by her to an unintended bank account, thanks to Internet-based Spandana programme. The worried woman, Adusumalli Harshini hailing from Markapur, complained to Superintendent of Police(SP) Siddharth Kaushal online that she had mistakenly transferred $3,000 to an unintended bank account and pleaded with him to get the money back to her. The SP directed the Markapur police to swiftly act and do justice to her. Another NRI Viparla Ramanjaneyam living in Denmark thanked the Prakasam police for registering a case against a woman, who had allegedly married several persons, including himself, after taking his complaint on file in absentia. Mr. Kaushal assured him of investigating the case thoroughly. They were among the 79 petitioners who complained to the Prakasam police during “Spanadana” held adhering to COVID-19 norms on Monday. The complainants from all subdivisions (Ongole-39, Chirala-7, Darsi- 9, Markapuram-16, Kandukur-08) poured out their woes to the SP directly. Mr. Siddharth Kaushal later directed the police officers concerned to resolve the cases expeditiously.
01 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Samudra Snanam’ highlight of Karthika Pournami fete||Wearing masks, hundreds of devotees thronged Siva temples across Prakasam district to offer special prayers to mark Karthika Pournami on Monday. A heavy rush of pilgrims was witnessed right from dawn at the picturesque beaches in the district, including Kothapatnam, Madanuru, Voderavu and Ramayapatnam, to perform ‘Samudra Snanam’ on the occasion. They also made Sivalingams with the sand and offered prayers to Lord and sought his blessings for health, wealth and prosperity. Devotees also performed puja to Tulasi plant(holy Basil) after lighting earthen oil lamps in their homes. Many pilgrims also visited Bhairavakona, a protected monument of the Archaeological Survey of India, to offer prayers to Lord Shiva in eight forms and the mother goddess Trimukha Durga after enjoying the water falls, which had a good flow in the wake of Nivar-induced rains. Devotees also made a beeline to Tripurantakam, the eastern gateway to Srisailam seeking the blessings of Lord Tripurantakeswara.
01 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Living with the ‘new normal’||Prakasam district registered zero cases in May when the last set of the COVID-19 positive persons who had returned from New Delhi after attending a religious congregation, returned home on recovery. But the infections rose again gradually and active cases remained at 15,000-plus on each day by September. Thanks to the relentless efforts of health professionals, the district with four million population registered a smart 98.32% recovery rate and a death rate of 0.92% in the week that ended giving confidence to people to resume their normal activities without fear, hoping for better days. Reports over development of a vaccine with up to 90% effectiveness added to their optimism over return of normalcy. "The next three months may see an increase in fresh cases. We may have to live with COVID-19 for months or even years," Government General Hospital Superintendent Dr. D. Sriramulu tells The Hindu. Situation eased But the health situation has witnessed a change for the better now enabling the health administrators to de-reserve over 500 beds allocated for treating coronavirus cases earlier, to treat patients suffering from other diseases. The occupancy has now declined to less than 200 patients in the 11 designated COVID-19 hospitals. Hence the district administration has decided to denotify four private hospitals roped in for COVID care, explains District Collector P. Bhaskar. A vaccine may not be available to the general public immediately and immunity may not last forever too. People will have to learn to live with the ‘new normal’. says Indian Medical Association State general secretary Dr. P. Phanidhar.
01 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||SKOCH award for Prakasam police||Project TATA (Trainings and Activities for Technology Adoption) of Prakasam police has bagged the prestigious SKOCH Silver national award. The award was presented virtually to Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal on Monday. Under TATA, police personnel up to the level of Home Guard were made technology savvy to crack cases more efficiently and provide improved services to people. “The award has put more responsibility on us and we will strive to win more awards in future,” Mr. Siddharth Kaushal said.
01 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delicate surgery performed on infant||Doctors at Ramesh Sangamitra Hospital here performed a delicate surgery on a three-day-old baby suffering from congenital spinal problem. Coming out of the operation theatre, neurosurgeon Boddapati Rajasekhar said the baby was suffering from “Lumbar Myelomeningocele”, a case where the spinal cord of a baby is not developed properly. This surgery was a first-of-its-kind in Prakasam district as it is performed mostly in bigger cities like Chennai, Hyderabad. The problem is very rare, as it can be seen in only 10-15 births per lakh population and may be a result of consanguineous marriages, mother not using Folic acid tablets regularly and infections during pregnancy, according to Dr. Rajasekhar. Hospital Managing Director D. Tirumla Reddy patted the team of doctors for the successful surgery, a hospital release said on Monday.
01 December 2020||Special Correspondent Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD website crashes as ticket sales open||The TTD’s decision to provide Vaikunta Dwara darshanam for 10 days from December 25 has received an overwhelming response from the devout. This was evident from the sudden server crash suffered within minutes after the administration released the monthly quota of Rs. 300 special darshan tickets for December. Sources said that the server had registered more than one and a half lakh hits against its normal capacity of 20,000 customer requests. Disappointment Though the server was restored by evening, devotees were subjected to disappointment with the computers displaying a message that the online quota of tickets from December 24 was not yet released. The TTD in a release said that the online darshan tickets for Vaikunta Dwara darshanam from December 25 to January 3 would be made available from 11 a.m. on Tuesday.
01 December 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land soon for Vedic varsity in Srikakulam||Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas on Monday assured Tridandi Chinna Jeeyar Swamy of handing over a site for construction of a Vedic university at Tarlikonda of Kotabommali mandal in the district. He said that 209.84 acres of land would be physically handed over to the university authorities very soon after a survey. Along with Chinna Jeeyar Swamy, he reviewed the issues in the identification and allocation of land. Earlier, BJP Tekkali in charge Hanumanthu Udaybhaskar and other local leaders accorded a traditional welcome to Chinna Jeeyar Swamy. Mr. Udaybhaskar said that the construction of the university was the need of the hour to protect Indian culture and tradition. Chinna Jeeyar Swamy told the officials and leaders that the construction of the university would be completed in a couple of years
01 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth’s murder assumes political overtones ahead of bypoll||The murder of an Intermediate second year student Bharat Yadav on Sunday night has assumed political overtones, with the victim and the accused reportedly belonging to rival political outfits TDP and YSR Congress Party respectively. As the incident happened in the run-up to the byelection to Tirupati parliamentary constituency, it surcharged the city’s political atmosphere. Bharat Yadav was all set to join his undergraduate programme, when the murder shattered his family’s hopes. Though the case details are unclear, the boy was reportedly roughed up by youth belonging to the same Lakshmipuram locality for refusing to provide the contact details of a friend. When the boy took his relatives and accosted the accused, the latter reportedly stabbed him. The victim was a distant nephew of TUDA’s former chairman G. Narasimha Yadav, who incidentally is the TDP’s in-charge for Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency. As the photo of the accused along with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy made rounds in the social media, the TDP was quick to point it out as his ‘political allegiance’. Telugu Desam Party president and Opposition leader N. Chandrababu Naidu dubbed it as a ‘political murder’ and called it the fifth in the series to happen in the temple city during the YSRCP regime.
01 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mobile phones worth Rs. 40 lakh recovered||Chittoor police recovered stolen mobile phones worth Rs. 40 lakh in a staggered operation lasting a month. Superintendent of Police (Chittoor) S. Senthil Kumar told the media at Chittoor on Monday that the technical analysis wing busted the crime on October 6, which led to the recovery of 277 mobile phones. The wing was formed with 20 constables having engineering background to handle highly-specialised crimes. The members underwent intensive training in the domain after which they pursued the case. Though stolen from Chittoor, the mobiles had been recovered from different places in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala. Mr. Senthil Kumar cautioned the public not to ignore such thefts and lodge a complaint at their police station, as the victims could land in troubles of varying proportions if the perpetrators used their mobile and the number for illegal purposes. The SP announced reward to DSP (Special Branch) Sudhakar Reddy and the IT core team for busting the crime.
01 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 held, stolen bikes recovered in Tirupati||The Tirupati Urban police nabbed three persons and recovered 17 motorcycles allegedly stolen from various localities in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. During a regular vehicular check near the NTR Housing Colony under Tiruchanur police limits, police rounded up a person wandering suspiciously and arrested two more persons. The suspects, Ramamurthy Suresh of Vellore (Tamil Nadu), Masatan of Puttur and Manikanta of Bhakarapeta, were allegedly notorious for stealing two-wheelers and cargo auto rickshaws. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Tirupati East division) T. Murali Krishna told reporters on Monday that the police team raided the locality and found 22 bikes and one cargo auto rickshaw, which had been allegedly stolen from Tirupati, Puttur, Nagari and Tiruthani (Tamil Nadu) areas.
01 December 2020||UPPADA (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Treasure hunters strike it rich on Uppada coast||Mystery shrouds the source of gold ornaments being found by local fisherfolk on a 500 m stretch of coastline at Uppada in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. The phenomenon, which has been happening for some years now mainly during cyclones, was noticed again during the recent Cyclone Nivar. On November 27, a few local people rushed to Mangala Dibba on the Uppada coast even as the cyclone was eroding the beach to try their luck and a few of them are learnt to have indeed struck it rich. Surada Nageswara Rao, a fishermen community elder, told The Hindu, “There were many instances when gold pieces were found in the beach sand on the half kilometre stretch at the existing temple point in Uppada village. Local people throng the area in search of gold during every cyclone. They get very optimistic whenever huge tides remove the top layer of the sand.” ‘No clue about source’ “Only gold ornaments are found and we do not have any clue about their source. The area is now protected by the geo-tube from sea erosion,” said Mr. Nageswara Rao. Over the past two decades, nearly a 4 kilometre stretch suffered erosion on the Uppada coast, including the Matsya Lingeswara Swamy temple. Another fisherman, Ummidi Govind, observed, “The gold ornaments being found in the beach sand might have been those lost by devotees who took a holy dip in the sea earlier when the Matsya Linga temple existed.” Thousands of devotees from across the Uppada coastal belt used to take a holy dip at the Matsya Linga temple until it was gobbled up by the tides. However, there is no scientific explanation on the source of the gold being found.
01 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Faced suspension from House for sake of farmers: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, who, along with 12 party MLAs, was suspended from the Assembly for a day on the first day of the winter session on Monday, said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his party colleagues had no respect for the House or the Leader of the Opposition. The former Chief Minister faced suspension after he and his party MLAs staged a sit-in in front of the Speaker’s podium alleging that they were not being allowed to speak. “No Chief Minister ever dared to mete out such humiliation and disrespect to the Leader of Opposition,” said Mr. Naidu while addressing the media on Monday. “For the first time in my long political career, I faced suspension. I never thought that I would rush to the Speaker’s podium. But, I endured the humiliation and suspension for the sake of the farmers who suffered heavy losses owing to the rain caused by Cyclone Nivar,” he said. The TDP chief said the farmers had suffered crop losses in over 20 lakh to 25 lakh acres in the past one and a half years. “The inefficient Chief Minister is making empty promises in the Assembly. But, no concrete steps have been taken so far to help the farmers,” alleged Mr. Naidu. Launching a scathing attack on the ruling YSR Congress Party, Mr. Naidu alleged that the State government had thrown all traditions of the Assembly to the winds and did not even care to take up a meaningful debate on the woes of the cyclone-hit farmers. “The Leader of Opposition was not given a chance to speak in the Assembly. The first time MLAs of the ruling party and the police also behaved in a hysterical manner,” he alleged. ‘House waits for none’ Mr. Naidu further said that the Assembly, a Constitutional institution, was also forced to wait for the Chief Minister. “The session of the House did not start until he arrived. Neither does the Assembly nor the Parliament wait for any leader as these citadels of democracy are above individuals and have a sanctity of their own. Even that is under attack under the YSRCP regime. It looked as though the Chief Minister would even abolish the courts just like he had decided to abolish the Council,” said Mr. Naidu. The TDP president said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy might have got 151 MLAs, but the difference in vote share between the YSRCP and the TDP was just 10 %. “Just because the ruling party have got a huge majority, it can not continue their atrocities against the BCs, SCs, STs and Minorities in the State,” added Mr. Naidu.
01 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramesh Babu grilled in COVID care centre fire case||The Vijayawada City Police grilled P. Ramesh Babu, managing director of Ramesh Cardiac and Multi Speciality Hospitals, on the fire accident at the private COVID-19 Care Centre on August 9, that claimed the lives of 10 patients. Investigation officers interrogated Dr. Ramesh Babu for about six hours on Monday. About 31 patients were undergoing treatment in Hotel Swarna Palace-turned-COVID Care Centre here when the accident occurred. The hotel management and Ramesh Hospitals had reportedly entered into an agreement and turned the hotel into the private COVID-19 Care Centre. Fire broke out in the first and second floors of the hotel. A few patients died after jumping from the windows to escape from the flames. As per the directions of the High Court, the police team led by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Addl. DCP-Law and Order) Ch. Lakshmipathi questioned Dr. Ramesh Babu. The police had already arrested Ramesh Hospitals chief operating officer Kodali Rajagopala Rao, general manager (administration) Kurapati Sudharshan and public relations officer Pallpothu Venkatesh in the case.
01 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discoms put aggregate revenue requirement at Rs. 44,030 crore||The Aggregate Revenue Requirement (ARR) of the three power distribution companies (APEPDCL, APCPDCL and APSPDCL) in the State for the financial year 2021-22 is Rs. 44,030 crore. The discoms submitted the ARRs and proposed tariff and retail supply business for the financial year 2021-22 to the AP Electricity Regulatory Commission on Monday. In terms of retail tariffs, the discoms do not propose any new additional categories, want removal of the existing fixed charges of Rs. 100/KW/month for function halls to discourage use of diesel generators and want shifting of poultry hatcheries and poultry feed mixing plants, aqua hatcheries and aqua feed mixing plants from Agriculture Category (LT-V(C) and HT-V (C) to industry category (LT-III (A) and HT-III (A). They are in favour of inclusion of all group housing societies, apartment complexes/buildings (townships, colonies, gated communities, villas and bungalows) under HT 1 category with energy charges of Rs. 5.95 ps/unit. Change of morning peak TOD (Time of the Day) timings from 6 a.m.-10 a.m. and 4 a.m-8 a.m. in line with the incidence of farm loads. Accordingly, new off-peak timings will be 10 p.m. to 4 a.m. It is another proposal besides discontinuation of the existing load factor incentive for HT-III industrial category and inclusion of Merchant Plants/PPs which do not have PPA with discoms under start-up category.
01 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panchayat Raj Bill passed by voice vote||The Legislative Assembly passed the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Bill 2020 by voice vote, on the first day of the winter session on Monday. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy intervened when the Opposition leaders tried to raise objection while Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy was tabling the Bill and explaining its salient features. “The Bill was earlier passed by this House and was sent to the Council which returned it with some amendments. This is the second time the Bill is being tabled in the House and it is just a formality to get it passed. There is no reasoning on part of the Opposition to make it an issue,” said the Chief Minister. He further said that there was no scope for negating the Bill again. “What was decided by this House by the majority of 151 members will prevail. The Bill in its original form is before the House for consideration and its passing is a formality. The lead Opposition party is acting as if the Bill has been just introduced and is unaware of it,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Salient features The Bill has the provisions to check the malpractice in elections, including the use of money power, and reducing the election process by expediting the schedule, besides allowing action to be taken even after the election results are announced. “As the Legislative Council had sent it back, we are passing it in the Assembly for the second time,” said teh CHief Minister. The Panchayat Raj Minister explained the features and the House passed the Bill with a voice vote. “The amendments proposed by the Council were rejected by the House and the Bill was passed in the same format as it was introduced earlier,” said Mr. Ramachandra Reddy.  This is the second time the Bill is being tabled in the House and it is just a formality to get it passed. There is no reason for the Opposition to make it an issue. Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Chief Minister
01 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports lowest single-day tally in last five months||The State reported 381 new COVID infections, the lowest single-day tally in over five months, and four new deaths in 24 hours ending Monday morning. The lowest number of infections could be attributed to the decreasing positivity rate and also decreasing the number of tests per day. In the past day, only 40,728 tests, which is close to half of the State's testing capacity, were conducted. Their positivity rate was, however, the lowest in the past six months at 0.94. The overall positivity rate also slightly came down to 8.63%. The infection tally stands at 8,68,064 and the death toll was 6,992. The number of active cases came down to 7,840 as 934 patients recovered in the past day. The overall recoveries stand at  8,53,232 and the recovery rate was 98.29%.  New cases Anantapur, Krishna, Chittoor and Visakhpatnam reported one new death each while the remaining districts saw no new deaths. All the districts reported less than 100 new infections. The district-wise new infections are as follows: West Godavari (74), Krishna (70), East Godavari (45), Guntur (35), Chittoor (31), Kadapa (26), Anantapur (21), Vizianagaram (20), Nellore (19), Kurnool (12), Visakhpatnam (11), Srikakulam (10) and Prakasam (7). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,22,291), West Godavari (92,442), Chittoor (83,674), Guntur (72,882), Anantapur (66,691), Prakasam (61,453), Nellore (61,424), Kurnool (60,235), Visakhapatnam (58,163), Kadapa (54,352), Srikakulam (45,461), Krishna (45,412) and Vizianagaram (40,689).
01 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||House pays tributes to former legislators||The Assembly paid tributes to its former members and distinguished personalities who passed away recently by observing a silence for a few minutes as the winter session of the House began at Velagapudi on Monday. Speaker Thammineni Seetharam and the members placed on record their deep sense of condolence at the demise of former President of India Pranab Mukherjee and legendary singer, compose and actor S.P. Balasubrahmanyam. They also offered condolences to the families of 15 former MLAs who died recently. The former members include P. Manikyala Rao, Janardhan Thatraj, Dr. Raavi Ravindranath, K. Venkata Chandramohan Rao, Dirisala Rajagopal Reddy, P. Ammiraju, B. Narayanaswamy, K. Veeraraghavendra Rao, Balli Durgaprasada Rao, Pudi Mangapathi Rao, D. Srinivasa Rao, M. Johar, K. Sivananda Reddy, Y.T. Raja and D.A. Satya Prabha.
01 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu decries murder of Telugu Desam activist in Tirupati||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Monday condemned the alleged murder of Bharat Yadav, a relative of TDP Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency president Narasimha Yadav. Mr. Naidu expressed grief over the death of Bharat Yadav who was allegedly attacked by YSRCP leaders. He succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment at a hospital. In a statement on Monday, the TDP chief conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family members. “Ever since the YSRCP came to power, five murders have taken place in the temple town of Tirupati. A centre of devotional fervour has now turned into a place of political vengeance and murders,” said Mr. Naidu. “A peaceful city like Tirupati is being converted into a seat of faction violence by the YSRCP leaders. The murder of Bharat Yadav is yet another indication of the total collapse of the law and order situation in the State. The culprits of this murder should be brought to book,” he added.
01 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM launches Mahila Commission programme brochure||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy released the brochure of a 100-day programme designed by the Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission on Monday. The commission planned a series of programmes up to March 8, on women’s empowerment, legal awareness camps, rallies, debates and discussions across the State, said its Chairperson Vasireddy Padma. The programmes would begin in Krishna district with a rally, which would begin from the Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation (IGMC) Stadium on December 2. Ministers and officials of various departments would participate in the awareness rally, she said.  Preparedness meetings Preparedness meetings were conducted with Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) officers in East Godavari, Chittoor and other districts on Monday, Ms. Padma said. WD&CW Minister Taneti Vanitha, Principal Secretary A.R. Anuradha and Mahila Commission Director R. Suez were among those who released the brochures.
01 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Acquire land for ESI hospital, officials told||Minister for Labour, Employment and Training Gummanur Jayaram on Monday asked the officials concerned to complete at the earliest the task of acquiring land for the proposed 500-bed ESI super-speciality hospital at Sheelanagar in Visakhapatnam. Reviewing the functioning of ESI hospitals and dispensaries across the State with the department officials, he said the hospitals and dispensaries should be equipped with adequate stocks of medicines and transparency and accountability should be maintained at every stage. He also wanted them to recruit doctors and other staff in the 16 newly-sanctioned ESI dispensaries and also for the existing ones that face shortage of staff. The idea was to ensure that the patients were not put to any kind of inconvenience and the medical needs of the employees were well taken care of, he said. Principal Secretary Udaya Lakshmi, IMS Director Kumar Lakshmi Setty, Joint Collectors Gandhi and Chandrasekhar and other department officials were present.
01 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP seeks Rs. 10,000 aid for cyclone-hit poor families||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) MLAs and MLCs led by their party president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu took out a rally to the State Assembly on Monday, demanding that the State government take necessary steps to pay compensation to the farmers who suffered heavy losses owing to Cyclone Nivar. They wanted the government to disburse compensation immediately so that it would help the farmers undertake rabi crops without difficulty. The TDP MLAs and MLCs carried damaged paddy plants during the rally to highlight the plights of the farmers. Holding placards, they raised slogans, seeking sought Rs. 10,000 as cyclone relief assistance to each poor family in the affected areas. “The government must pay compensation without delay, considering the loss of livelihoods in view of the cyclone,” they said. The TDP criticised the YSRCP government for ‘not allowing the farmers to pay crop insurance premium.’ The government has promised to pay the premium for the farmers, but it did not honour its promise. Thus, the YSRCP has betrayed the farmers, they alleged. Input subsidy The TDP leaders alleged that farmers were not getting the micro-irrigation subsidy. “Input subsidy and disaster compensation are also not being paid. Benefits of Rs. 20,000 crore are yet to be given to farmers under the Rythu Bharosa scheme. The Annadata Sukhibhava scheme was cancelled,” they said. “By not clearing the loan waiver dues, the government has cheated farmers. The Opposition will not keep silence if the meters are fixed on the farm pumpsets,” the TDP leaders said.
01 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rally held against usage of drugs||District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz flagged off an awareness rally against usge of drugs in the city on Monday. The rally was organised by Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. Nasha Mukth Bharat Abhayas Prachara Committee, Krishna district, coordinated with the Government of India, in enlightening the public against usage of drugs. Joint Collector L. Shiva Shankar, Joint Collector-II Mohan, psychologist Garre Sankara Rao and others participated in the rally.
01 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bill to amend Gaming Act tabled in Assembly||Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita tabled the A.P. Gaming (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 in the Assembly on Monday. It brings “cyber space” and online games the proceeds of which are electronically transferred, and holding MDs under the preview of AP Gaming Act, 1974 and holds MDs, directors and others responsible for the online gaming companies, liable for punishment. Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana introduced A.P. Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 aimed at streamlining the enforcement of laws related to buildings and various municipal taxes. Animal Husbandry Minister S. Appalaraju introduced the A.P. Aquaculture Seed (Quality Control) (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 and A.P. Fisheries University Ordinance, 2020 for setting up a fisheries university in West Godavari district.
01 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two new streets to come up in six months||Vijayawada Central MLA Malladi Vishnu along with Vijayawada Municipal Corporation officials laid the foundation stone for the ‘Pedestrian street’ and ‘Food street’ projects taken up by the civic body in the city on Monday. The civic body is developing food court road beside Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation Stadium into a ‘Food street’ with all facilities at a cost of Rs. 1.4 crore. It is also developing Besant Road into ‘Pedestrian street’ at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. Speaking on the occasion Mr. Vishnu said the 700-meter-long Besant Road would be developed into pedestrian-friendly street without causing any trouble to vendors and shop owners. He said both works would be completed within six months. VMC Executive Engineer A.S.N. Prasad and other officials were present.
01 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police rescue three persons confined in a house in city||Three persons who were allegedly kidnapped and confined in a house in Visakhapatnam, were rescued by a city police team. Four persons have been arrested in this connection. According to the police, the three victims were from Amalapuram area in East Godavari and were known to the accused - about 10 persons - from Kakinada in East Godavari. It is learnt that the victims were into some financial dealings with the accused. It involved some dealings in cars and the victims reportedly illegally mortgaged cars without informing the accused from whom finance was taken. They also reportedly were not paying the instalments for quite sometime. Financial dispute Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Aishwariya Rashtogi said that since the victims and the accused were known to each other, the victims had gone to the house located in Sagar Nagar in Visakhapatnam on an invitation from the accused. And that was where they were confined and physically assaulted. “Based on a complaint from the victims’ families and following up an MLC (medico-legal case) report from a hospital, where the victims were taken for treatment after being beaten up, we busted the kidnap location and rescued the persons,” he said. They were in confinement since November 28 and the police rescued them on November 29, and arrested two persons and sent them in remand. On Monday, another two persons were arrested. “Investigation is on and the remaining five or six persons will be arrested soon,” said the DCP. The police have booked cases under the relevant sections of kidnapping and illegal confinement and assault.
01 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SIT receives over 150 suggestions from public||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by the State government to probe the alleged land scams in Visakhapatnam district has received over 150 suggestions from the public. For the first time a SIT in the district has sought public suggestions or opinions on various issues pertaining to land grabbing, and widely advertised the idea. In response to it, the SIT has received over 150 mails from the public suggesting various measures and opinions on how to curb land scams in the city and in the district. The SIT’s probe is complete and shortly it will be handing over its report to the government. Along with the findings, the SIT, headed by former bureaucrat Vijay Kumar, will also give a document containing suggestions, which if implemented can root out the factors leading to land grabbing and illegal encroachment.  Various views It is learnt that many people have suggested the permanent establishment of a SIT in the city. The incidents of land grabbing and encroachment are on the rise and people have suggested that if a permanent SIT is set up, then it can deal with the issue. This will also reduce the load on revenue and police, who are now handling such matters. It is also understood that many people have suggested that judicial powers be given to the SIT, so that it can act as an enforcement agency. People have also suggested criminal prosecution of corrupt government officials who have connived with private persons to grab or encroach valuable government and private land. It is learnt that in some of the responses, people have suggested that SIT’s observation be regarded as final and binding. Some respondents have indicated that to deter land grabbers and encroachers, the government should collect three times the market value, if the encroachers intend to regularise the occupied land. People have also suggested that a law for fixing public accountability should be enacted, to bring in transparency and give equal opportunity to all. Almost all respondents have asked for making the report public at the earliest. The SIT began its investigation in October last year and it received close to 1,400 petitions. The work was suspended from March to October this year due to the COVID pandemic, and now the report is ready for submission. The previous TDP government had also constituted a SIT for the same reason, but the report was not made public.
01 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 duty nurses seek regularisation of services||Nurses appointed on contract basis for COVID-19 duties at various government and private hospitals in the city staged a protest at the Gandhi statue near GVMC on Monday demanding regularisation of their services. They appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to consider their services during the pandemic time, ignoring the threat to their lives and regularise their jobs. They said that they were appointed three months back and the joining order given to them mentioned they were being appointed on contract basis for six months. Some of the nurses appointed were sent for duties at government hospitals, while others were sent to private hospitals, offering COVID-19 services.
01 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IndiGo flight to Vijayawada, Tirupati||IndiGo has announced daily flights on the Bengaluru-Tirupati-Vijayawada- Visakhapatnam sectors with effect from December 1. Flight No. 6E7282 Bengaluru – Tirupati will leave Bengaluru at 10.40 a.m. and reach Tirupati at 11.40 a.m, 6E7293 Tirupati – Vijayawada will leave Tirupati at 12.05 p.m. and reach Vijayawada at 1.20 p.m., 6E7172 Vijayawada – Visakhapatnam will leave Vijayawada at 1.45 p.m. and land in Visakhapatnam at 2.50 p.m. No. 6E7167 will take off from Visakhapatnam at 3.15 p.m. and reach Vijayawada at 4.25 p.m., 6E7247 will leave Vijayawada at 4.50 p.m. and reach Tirupati at 6.20 p.m. Flight No. 7317 Tirupati – Bengaluru will leave Tirupati at 6.45 p.m. and reach Bengaluru at 7.45 p.m.
01 December 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guru Nanak Jayanti a low-key affair||Guru Nanak Jayanti is celebrated in a low key this year due to the pandemic. Prakash Gurpurab of Sri Gurunanak Dev was celebrated by Gurudwara Sadh Sangat, Visakhapatnam. As decided by the Managing Committee Samapthi of Sehaj path was held at 4 a.m. followed by Kirtan Divan from 4.30 a.m. to 7 a.m. The evening Kirtan Divan was held from 10 p.m. to 11.30 p.m. maintaining social distancing and Guru ka langar was packed and distributed.
01 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rights organisations stage protest in Vizag||Various human rights organisations in the city jointly staged a protest at the Gandhi Statue near the GVMC office, here on Monday, demanding the repeal of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and immediate quashing of FIRs against the rights activists. Speaking to The Hindu , K. Sudha of HRF said that UAPA was a clone of earlier dreaded laws such as POTA and TADA. The rights group took up the protest demanding that the FIRs against rights activists such as V.S. Krishna, K.S. Chalam, Balakrishna, Padma, Sreeramurthy and Annapurna, all belonging to various rights organisations in the city such as HRF, CMS and APCLC, be quashed. FIRs were filed by the police against them, after two persons with alleged connections with the banned CPI (Maoists) have reportedly named them in the FIRs. It may be remembered that one Pangi Naganna and Kambhampati Chaitanya were arrested at Munchingput in Visakha Agency and Piduguralla in Guntur, recently. Based on their confession, the FIRs were filed against the rights activists by the police, without any shred of evidence, said Padma of Mahila Chetana. Most importantly, in the case of V.S. Krishna of HRF, the FIR states that he had given shelter and food to the witnesses of the Vakapalli gang-rape case. “The police should remember that Mr. Krishna had given shelter to the victims and witness of a gang-rape case, which actually is the responsibility of the State, and he had not provided shelter to any accused, which can be termed as unlawful. So how does he attract an Act such as UAPA?,” questioned Ms. Padma. They submitted a memorandum to the Collector.
01 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State urged to intervene in border dispute with Odisha||The people of neighbouring Odisha have occupied lands and forests in Similiguda, Sirosguda, Bodlamamidi, Nittamamidi, Dekkaparu, Kollaput, Baliaguda and Bitraganda villages on the Andhra side of the border, Girijana Sangam, Andhra Border Land Protection Committee, has alleged. The Girijana Sangham leaders and Kollaput Panchayat committee leaders staged a protest at the Collectorate here on Monday, demanding justice to the tribal people living on the Andhra side of the Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) in the district. “Kollaput panchayat is in Dumbriguda mandal in Paderu Agency. The lands, which are in a scheduled area, are being occupied by the people and Government of Odisha. During the past two months, the people of Odisha are occupying the lands and axing coffee plantations apart from attacking people of Andhra,” alleged the leaders. The sangam demanded immediate intervention of the Government of AP, demarcation of the boundary and initiating measures to protect tribal people on the AP side of the border. The forests and lands occupied by Odisha should be taken back and pattas issued to Andhra tribals. Girijan Sangam State leader K. Surendra, State Committee members T. Suryanarayana and P. Satyanarayana and Kollaput committee leaders G. Simhachalam, G. Govardhan, G. Ramu, S. Sanjeeva Rao and G. Narsing were among those who participated in the protest.
01 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 11 new COVID cases, 1 death||The district recorded the lowest number COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, since July, here on Monday. The number of cases as on Monday were 11, taking the total count to 58,675 and active cases to 788.  The district also recorded one death, taking the total death count to 510, since the outbreak of the pandemic in the last week of March. The number of persons discharged or recovered from the virus on Monday was 103, taking the total number of discharges to 57,377.
01 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Centre trying to suppress struggle of farmers’||The All India Insurance Employees’ Association (AIIEA) has condemned the manner in which the Central government and the Haryana government are trying to suppress the struggle of the farmers. In a press statement released here on Monday, AIIEA stated that all the major associations of the farmers in this country decided to organise a ‘Delhi Chalo’ programme on November 26 and 27, in protest against the three Farm Bills passed in the last session of Parliament. The Haryana government used tear gas shells, water cannons and other methods to prevent the farmers from Punjab and Haryana to reach Delhi.
01 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VPT handles large vessel||Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) for the first time handled a vessel with 38 mts beam and 229.20 mts length. In a press release from VPT, here on Monday, vessel MV W. Oslo piloted by captain Vijay Prakash and captain R.C. Sarma, entered the inner harbour to discharge South African steam coal for Sharda Metals and Alloys and Sharda Energy and Minerals. The vessel is berthed at east quay-7 and is carrying 87,529 mt of steam coal.
01 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies in road accident||A man died and his father sustained serious injuries when the two-wheeler they were riding hit a trailer at Venkojipalem Junction on Monday. According to the police, Naga Udaya Bhaskar, who was pillion riding, died on the spot. His father Venkata Subbayya was shifted to hospital. The trailer was going from Hanumanthawaka to Isuka Thota Junction. The police shifted the body to KGH for post-mortem. A case was registered and investigation is on.
01 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t lower your guard, Collector urges people||Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal urged people to continue following all COVID protocols religiously as any kind of lackadaisical attitude may prove costlier what with the threat of a second wave looming in the country. Addressing a media conference here, he said that a 50-day campaign had been designed to raise awareness among the public about the importance of protocols. Green zone “As many as 37 departments are being involved in awareness programmes which would continue till January 15, 2021. Our aim is to make Vizianagaram a green zone. Zero positivity is possible by the end of December as new cases have come down, and death rate has also come down significantly as only five persons died in the district in the month of November,” said Dr. Hari Jawaharlal. The Collector urged the political parties and other organisations to avoid big gatherings since it might lead to spread of the infection within no time. Senior medical officers Rammohana Rao and Bala Muralikrishna were present in the media conference.
01 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Gurajada’s works continue to inspire people’||Former MP Botcha Jhansi Lakshmi on Monday said Mahakavi Gurajada’s literary contribution would continue to inspire future generations since the ideas propagated through his works such as Kanyasulkam, Sarangadhara and Mutyalasaralu were relevant and had a priceless value. After garlanding his statue in the poet’s house, which is converted into a museum by the State government, the former MP said his works were being translated into English and other regional languages for a wider reach, and struck a cord with readers across the country. She released the book ‘Gurujadala Gurajada’ written by noted writer by A.Gopala Rao on his death anniversary on Monday. Gurajada Samskritika Samakhya general secretary Kapuganti Prakash urged the government to give a facelift to the museum, at par with other famous museums. Joint Collector J.Venkata Rao said a meeting would be held very soon to discuss the proposals mooted by various organisations. Loksatta Party State executive president Bhisetti Babji, YSR Congress Party leader Kolagatla Sravani participated in the rally to mark the occasion.
01 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Contract nurses, ANMs stage protest||Nurses and ANMs, working on a temporary basis, urged the government to regularise their services since they had worked to save lives of patients in COVID-19 hospitals. They staged a protest at the Collector’s office here on Monday seeking the immediate payment of pending salaries for the last six months and confirmation of their jobs. They said that the government had issued orders for their termination with the drop in new cases in the last two months. The Collector told the media that the payments would be done very soon for all the nurses and ANMS. He said that the government’s guidelines would be followed in continuation of their services.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arch of fire||
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remembering Guru Nanak||
01 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSEC braces for live streaming, webcasting of poll proceedings||As the stage is set for the conduct of election to 150 divisions of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation on Tuesday, the State election authority, the Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC), has made adequate arrangements for webcasting of the elections from important polling stations, including several sensitive ones. The TSEC has decided to enable live recording and webcasting of the proceedings from close to 2,300 polling stations, more than one fourth of the total 9,101 polling stations, across the GHMC limits. Student volunteers As many as 3,000 student volunteers have been roped in for the purpose and have been given extensive training in this direction. These volunteers will be positioned in the polling stations along with dongles and laptops equipped with web cameras for live streaming and live recording of the proceedings in the polling stations allotted to them. Systems have been put in place in the TSEC’s office from where the officials could monitor the proceedings in these polling stations live from time to time to check for any interruptions. The video-recorded proceedings will be recorded on the pen drives and would be handed over to the election authorities along with other election material the same day for preserving the record. The live recording, according to officials, would act as deterrent against people trying to indulge in violation of the norms and would enable conduct of the polls in a smooth way. “We have enrolled 5,800 student volunteers of whom, 3,000 attended the training sessions. We have surplus volunteers to meet the requirements and carrying out seamless recording of the proceedings,” a senior official told The Hindu . The election authority embarked upon webcasting of the proceedings after a similar equipment proved successful in the previous Assembly and Lok Sabha elections. Facial recognition Though it was initially planned to introduce facial recognition software for identifying the voters through the database available with the Commission, the idea was given up for the time bring due to technical/logistical reasons. The Telangana State Technology Services had developed facial technology Mobile application. But the image processing server was reportedly taking huge time while transferring the over 1.2 lakh records of electoral roll voter images. The TSTS informed that it was able to transfer only 2,500 records of the total records till Sunday as the server was not responding properly. Since the process has been taken up for the first time involving huge records, several challenges were faced while testing the application. “Due to non-availability of sufficient time, the TSTS informed the GHMC Commissioner that they are unable to provide facial recognition technology in the current election,” a senior official said.
01 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police take protesting BJP activists into custody||The attempt of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders to stage a protest before the State Election Commission (SEC) alleging “kowtowing to the ruling Telangana Rastra Samiti (TRS) during the just concluded GHMC polls campaign at the expense of the opposition parties’ was foiled by the police on Monday morning. Party leaders led by N. Indrasena Reddy, MLC N. Ramchander Rao, MLA M. Raghunandan Rao and others reached the SEC office at Masab Tank but before they could take up any protest, the police swooped them into different vehicles and later dropped them at the party office in Nampally. “The TRS government has totally misused the official machinery during the campaign and the SEC did not act on a single complaint filed by us whether it was on denying the opposition parties a chance to put up hoardings and signboards or taking of action against the officials and police for favouring the ruling party,” they complained at a press conference later. “The BJP was denied permission for hoisting giant publicity balloons but the TRS was allowed to do so. Despite electioneering ending last evening, TRS hoardings continue to be on Metro Rail pillars whereas those belonging to the opposition were torn or removed,” claimed Mr. Reddy. He accused the TRS of indulging in largescale distribution of money and liquor to influence voters even as the police personnel have been focusing on checking activists of other parties. “Our party activists are being summoned to the police stations for no reason. Our complaints to the SEC have not led to any action,” he lamented. Mr. Rao questioned the SEC/government action in preventing teachers from election work and denying them postal ballots too. “The TRS wants to win this election by hook or crook and has been resorting the same undemocratic and unethical means employed during the Dubbak bypoll. We will stand up to these illegal actions. We are confident of winning as people are with us,” he added. Defamation notice Former Member of Parliament G. Vivek Venkataswamy said defamation notices to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and City Police Commissioner Ashwini Kumar have been sent through his lawyer for making false allegations against his company when Rs. 1 crore was recovered during the recent Dubbak bypolls. “The police commissioner succumbing to the pressure from Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced that the money belongs to my firm - Visakha Industries, without even filing a FIR or an investigation. The city was not even under the model code of conduct then. If they do not reply to the notice, we will file a criminal case and Rs. 100 crore defamation charge will be filed,” he said.
01 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS lodges complaint with SEC against regional news channel||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has lodged a complaint with the State Election Commission (SEC) against a regional language news channel (Raj News) alleging that it has been intentionally and deliberately telecasting wrong and fabricated news against Telangana government and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. A delegation comprising party’s general secretaries M. Srinivas Reddy and S. Bharath Kumar and party’s legal cell functionaries Ch. Kalyan Rao and Ramu met State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathi and submitted the complaint. ‘Fabricated news’ They explained in the complaint that the news channel “having conspired with BJP” was bent upon spreading false, fabricated and distorted views in the name of news and indulged in defaming the State government, the Chief Minister and the TRS. Besides, the news channel had also deliberately and intentionally ignored to take the version either of the State government, GHMC or the TRS and had put the blame on the TRS and the State government for the recent natural calamity of rains and floods. ‘Initiate action’ The TRS leaders have requested the SEC to initiate just and necessary action against the news channel and prevent it from spreading wrong and fabricated news against TRS and the State government. Meanwhile, the party has also lodged a complaint with the cyber crimes police seeking immediate action against “unknown offenders” indulging in morphing the pictures and videos defaming the Chief Minister in several social media platforms and websites. The party has also submitted copies of morphed images consisting of defamatory quotes and morphed videos.
01 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Launch of SCCL solar plant takes capacity to 55 MW||As part of its plans to establish solar power plants with 300 megawatt renewable energy (RE) capacity in the coal belt area, Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has inaugurated a 15 MW plant in the Ramagundam-3 area on Friday for captive consumption. Director (Electrical & Mechanical) of SCCL D. Satyanrayana Rao switched on the plant and integrated it with the 132 KV sub-station there. The 15 MW plant in the area has been established as part of the 50 MW plants planned there. According to the company officials, establishment of a total of 129 MW solar plants would be completed by December-end this year. As part of the first phase plants of 129 MW capacity, in Manuguru, Illendu, Ramagundam-3 and thermal power plant sites, 10 MW plant on the premises of the thermal power plant was launched on February 10 this year followed by 30 MW plants at Manuguru on July 30. With the launch of the 15 MW plant in the Ramagundam-3 area on Friday, the capacity of solar plants launched by SCCL so far has gone up to 55 MW. The Ramagundam-3 area would have another plant with 35 MW capacity and another 39 MW capacity plants in Illendu area were in the final stages of establishment/construction. Stating that phase-two would have solar plants with 90 MW capacity and third-phase would have 81 MW capacity plants, the SCCL officials said the entire planned capacity of 300 MW would be completed by December-end next year. Contracts for establishment of the second and third phase plants have already been handed over to two agencies. On the significance of the 15 MW capacity plant launched in Ramagundam-3 area on Friday, the officials said it would save Rs. 17 crore to the company every year by supplying 220 million units of energy to the nearby residential quarters of the company. The company was purchasing energy from the Northern Discom for the purpose now at Rs. 5.65 per unit but the cost of energy from the captive solar plant with 15 MW capacity would be Rs. 3.54 per unit only. The 40 MW plants launched in February and July this year had already saved Rs. 2.97 crore by generating 14.26 million units of energy from the thermal power plant (10 MW) and Manuguru area (30 MW) solar plants, the company officials said adding that SCCL was purchasing 700 million units of energy from the Discom every year and the completion of 300 MW plants would help meet 500 million units of the total requirement.
01 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Be prepared with vaccine distribution strategy: Centre||The Central government has asked States to gear up with necessary arrangements to distribute the vaccine for COVID-19. The instructions follow the progress made in the development of vaccine by different agencies which have reached the final stages of clinical trials. Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the facilities of pharma majors engaged in the development of COVID-19 vaccine a couple of days ago. Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba conducted a video conference with Chief Secretaries of States and Union Territories as follow up of the visit on Monday. Mr. Gauba asked the Chief Secretaries to convene the meetings of State-level steering committees before December 5 besides ensuring that the task force meetings at district, state and block levels were held around the same time. There was emphasis on strengthening the infrastructure like cold chains and transportation of vaccine for which there was need to ensure multi-sectoral coordination. There was also need to ensure that the communication on vaccination about the various priority groups was transparent. Active cases in the country were less than 4.5 lakh at present and fatalities were also on the decline, but an effective containment strategy and adequate testing facilities for early detection of COVID-19 was imperative to minimize the spread of the virus in the community. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy and senior officials attended the video conference.
01 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four held for duping 2,500 of Rs. 7 crore||Four youngsters who duped over 2,500 investors by promising high daily interest to their money were arrested by the Cyberabad Cyber Crime police here on Monday. The accused - Nanda Kishore from Narsipatnam, Chittam Reddy Anand, Bhumireddy Avinash and Tulluri Srinivas Rao, all from Visakhapatnam, floated an online investment company, Stemcor Max Hedge, with its headquarters in London, and collected more than Rs. 7 crore from gullible people. They developed the website and an app to attract innocent people. Based on a complaint lodged by a victim, who is an Assistant Engineer with TSSPDCL, the Cyberabad police registered a case and arrested the accused from whose possession four mobile phones, a laptop, a SIM card, two four-wheelers and documents pertaining to 387 yards land valued at Rs. 58 lakh were seized, Commissioner of Police VC Sajjanar said. The victim noticed an advertisement about the firm on a search engine and contacted the mobile numbers +44-1474770338, +44-13222522443 who briefed about the app for online marketing where customer invests the amount and on his investment, the company will refund 5% of money as commission everyday up to 60 working days. In case the customer joins others in the scheme, he would get a commission of 10% on the investment. “On believing their words, the complainant invested Rs. 1.6 lakh between September 6 and September 14, and received Rs. 15,320 as commission and the remaining amount and profits were defrauded by the culprits as promised by them,” Mr. Sajjanar said, adding that later, the accused gang members failed to respond. The accused took the virtual phone numbers from a telecom service provider in the United Kingdom.  “The website was designed in such a way that it looked as a foreign marketing entity, so that people would believe in it and invest. One cannot call the virtual numbers as they were taken to misguide the customers as if the company belongs to the United Kingdom and the investments were also shown in terms of pounds and dollars,” he said. Each customer has to register himself as a member before investing and they have to indispensably give the referral ID and referral name (who is introducing him/her to the company) while registering themselves. Once the process is completed, they will get an SMS with user ID and password for their online account. “As the word spread like wildfire in the society, more and more people started investing their money in it and by seeing the overwhelming response, the gang deleted the website, as they were unable to handle such large amounts,” Mr.Sajjanar said. Further, explaining the firms investment plans, the Commissioner said that a customer can invest as per his financial capacity anywhere between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 1 lakh and everyday they would get 5% of his investment up to 60 working days. For instance, if a person invests Rs. 1 lakh, he would get Rs.5,000 as commission for 60 days, which makes a total of Rs.3 lakh. Mr. Sajjanar appealed to people not to believe in easy earning money advertisements and check the antecedents of the company before investing the hard-earned money.  Do not to believe in easy earning money advertisements. VC Sajjanar, Commissioner of Police.
01 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A civic body polls that made trade, industry take note||Few civic body polls perhaps have generated as much interest among trade and industry as the GHMC elections scheduled to be held on Tuesday. A segment focused on growth and one that seemingly prefers to maintain distance from aspects not directly concerning business, it appears to have reasons to sit up this time. The high-decibel campaign, intensive canvassing by ruling TRS and national level BJP leaders wooing voters of the 150 wards of GHMC apart, the trade and industry view the polls as an opportunity to amplify its issues, both existing and more recent. Figuring in the list are issues such as payment of pending incentives to industries as well as relief packages for businesses, in the form of waivers, to help soften the blow dealt by a raging pandemic. But it is not just about resolutions of issues beyond the purview of GHMC, but also those directly concerning the civic body. Setting up of multi-level parking on government land, facilities for pedestrians as well as removal of encroachments and ensuring green corridor on key roads with coordinated traffic signals are some issues Telangana State Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Traders president Prakash Ammanabolu listed. An umbrella body of trade associations, the Federation is demanding waiver of municipal tax on commercial properties as also the electricity minimum charges for the period when businesses remained shut on account of the lockdown. The TRS has promised, in its manifesto, waiver of minimum demand energy charges to commercial and industrial power consumers for the COVID lockdown period, and exemption from motor vehicle tax for the first two quarters of 2019-20 to all transport vehicles. Andhra Pradesh Automobile Dealers Association president Bhadresh C.Baldev said user friendly infrastructure, especially good roads, and a peaceful environment to conduct business are what ultimately matter to the trade. He said this pointing out how it took months for the road from Moazzam Jahi Market to Afzalgunj to be repaired. Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry president Ramakant Inani underscored the need for a reduction in Trade Licence Fee and the government clearing pending incentives due to industries. Such local body elections should be fought on an agenda of development, infrastructure, roads, stability and law and order, said K.Sudhir Reddy, Telangana Industrialists Federation president. These are main issues, he said, adding “as an industrialist I prefer it should be a safe city where my investment and workers are safe, and customers come to Hyderabad without any problem.”
01 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police seek legal opinion to book Bandi for his comments||The Cyberabad police on Monday referred BJP State president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay’s ‘comments’ on Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy to legal opinion before registering a case. On Sunday evening at Kukatpally, Mr.Sanjay, while making allegations against TRS supremo and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of using police against BJP activists, accused the DGP of biased attitude. He was speaking to reporters after calling on BJP Medchal Malkajgiri president P. Harish Reddy, who was allegedly manhandled by the Cyberabad police. “The State DGP is agreeing to what all the Chief Minister is saying. First, DGP should be transferred,” the BJP chief said. Charging that the Chief Minister is using police to disburse money among voters, Mr. Sanjay said that he had told 100 times to the DGP to act like a police officer. He said that law and order problems would arise if the DGP acts like TRS agent and eventually the latter would become scapegoat. “Are you a police officer or TRS agent. At least, don’t you have guts to take independent decisions. For whose sake are you discharging duties? Is it for postings you are working,” Mr. Sanjay said. He sought to know what instructions the State police chief had given to his subordinates. Did the DGP direct policemen to beat up BJP workers and allow TRS workers to distribute money. “I will come to your DGP office. Don’t give me an opportunity to storm into your chamber. You cannot do your duty. You have become a puppet in CM’s hands,” the BJP president said observing that once he thought the DGP was a hero only to realise he was a zero. Referring to the remarks that law and order problems would arise if the the DGP continues to act in that manner, Cyberabad Commissioner of Police VC Sajjanar said that they sought legal opinion to know if they can initiate legal action against Mr. Sanjay for the “derogatory comments.” Explaining the security arrangements for the GHMC polls on Tuesday, Mr. Sajjanar said that over 13,500 police personnel from various wings, including 3,000 from the Armed Reserve, will be deployed in their jurisdiction for smooth and peaceful conduct of elections. “They have already undergone three rounds of training on sequence of events and as per the guidelines of the State Election Commission, we have made fool-proof security arrangements for the polls,” he said. He said that the deployment includes 38 teams of Striking Force, 11 Special Striking Force, nine CP reserved teams, 11 flying squad and 11 Static Surveillance Teams. According to him, there are 2,437 polling stations in Cyberabad Police Commissionerate, of which 766 are earmarked as normal, while 150 are hypersensitive. “As many as 177 mobile parities would monitor the situation round-the-clock and have set up 73 pickets in the hyper-sensitive area,” the Commissioner said. Further he said that 587 private persons have deposited their licensed firearms and police have so far bound over 369 history sheeters. They seized 3,500 litres of liquor worth Rs. 15 lakh.
01 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Guru Nanak jayanti celebrated on a grand note||The 551th Prakash Utsav (birthday celebrations) of Guru Nanak, the first Sikh Guru and founder of Sikhism, concluded on Monday with large number of Sikh devotees and other community faiths celebrating it with religious fervour, gaiety and devotion by offering prayers at various gurudwaras across the State. The major attraction of the concluding event was organised under the aegis of Prabhandak Committee Gurudwara Saheb Secunderabad, where large number of Sikh devotees and members of other faiths participated in the ‘Vishaal Deewan’ (mass congregation) by offering prayers to Guru Granth Sahib Ji (holy scripture of Sikhs). Prabhandak Committee president Sardar Baldev Singh Bagga and secretary Sardar Avtar Singh said that the mass congregation began at Gurudwara Saheb, Secunderabad, in the morning, and continued till 3 p.m. “It was marked by the recitations of Gurubani Keertans and Kathas (holy hymns) by renowned and reputed Ragi Jathas (Sikh preachers),” they said. Bhai Amarjit Singhji (Patiala), Bhai Bhupinder Singh (Sri Darbar Sahib, Golden Temple, Amritsar), Giani Jagdev Singh (GSS, head priest) and Bhai Harpreet Singh Hazuri Ragi Jatha and other reputed Ragi Jathas, who were invited from various parts of the country for the important occasion, recited Shabad Keertans that stressed on imbibing the higher values of life and communal harmony for which Guru Nanak strived. They also have thrown light on the teachings of Sikh Gurus who stood for national integration, peace, brotherhood and communal harmony. They asked devotees to follow the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev which are very relevant these days. After the culmination of the congregation, the traditional Guru-Ka-Langar (free community kitchen) was served to all the devotees where they sat in the same row with discipline - promoting the feelings of togetherness, fraternity and concern for fellow human beings.
01 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Democracy put in peril in GHMC polls by TRS, police, SEC’||Spokesperson of All India Congress Committee D. Sravan has accused the State Election Commission (SEC) of conducting the GHMC elections in a most fraudulent way by violating every rule of the Constitution. Although an IAS officer is supposed to be the custodian of the Constitution and democracy, State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathi, however, is letting it die in the hands of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) party, Mr. Sravan alleged “The SEC is simply acting like a slave of KCR and following the instructions of his king,” he remarked. Speaking to newspersons here on Monday, along with former MP Madhu Yaskhi, Mr. Sravan said the SEC and the Police department had colluded with the ruling party openly. Police had become a mute spectator while huge money, looted from flood relief funds, was being distributed to voters in GHMC by the TRS leaders. Ever since the announcement of the GHMC elections, the SEC was conducting the exercise in fraudulent ways instead of fair and transparent manner. “We were wondering why Naxalites used to boycott the elections by terming them fake and dubious. As strong believers in democracy, we thought that they should have faith in democracy. But, going by the current circumstances and the process being followed in GHMC elections, we are now thinking that they might be right,” Mr. Sravan and Mr. Madhu Yaskhi observed. The Congress leaders also played a few video footages to the media in which “TRS leaders and activists” were seen distributing money to voters. Meanwhile, speaking separately, working president of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) Ponnam Prabhakar criticised the Centre for using force against the farming community that was on a march to the national capital to stage a protest against three anti-farmer laws passed by Parliament earlier this year. Condemning the caning of farmers, he accused the BJP of trying to handover the agriculture sector to corporate companies rendering millions of farmers and farm workers jobless in the country. On Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s statement that the Centre would take action against illegal residents in Hyderabad such as Rohingyas from Myanmar if Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi writes to the Centre on it, he sought to know what was the meaning of such words.
01 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kin hurt by attempts to tarnish Nizams’ name||The kin of seventh and last Nizam, Mir Osman Ali Khan, have expressed anguish at the attempts by political parties to tarnish the name of Nizams in the GHMC election campaigning for political gains. In a statement issued on Monday, a grandson of the last Nizam, Nawab Najaf Ali Khan said, “Whenever elections are held, my grandfather late Nawab Mir Osman Ali Khan Bahadur Nizam VII’s name is criticised and his immense services towards his subjects are blatantly disregarded”. Political parties and their leaders could attract voters by project welfare and development initiatives of their governments (or what they did when in power) and by working for the people rather than spewing unnecessary negative narrative on the Nizam VII., Mr. Najaf Ali Khan said. “Renaming the city or promising freeing our State of the Nizam culture is nothing more than a gimmick to attract attention but the politicians cannot change the Ganga-Jamuni ‘tahzeeb’ which has been a part of Hyderabadis’ lives for centuries”, he noted. He further stated that his grandfather respected all religions and united them during his regime. In the 1940s Hyderabad was better off than most western countries and the seventh Nizam’s massive donations were unmatched by those of any other ruler in history, he said. Calling a ruler who built NIMS Hospital from his private purse a “looter” is sacrilege and an attempt to damage the image of Seventh Nizam. “If my grandfather was a fascist, why was he appointed Raj Pramukh (Governor) by the Union Government even after he had surrendered his Government and why did the Government of India accept 5 tonnes of gold towards National Defence Fund in 1965,” he asked. Alleging that many parties and their leaders would only use caste and religion to divide people for votes and not for love towards people, he said, “It is disheartening to see that the reigns of our country are in the hands of leaders who try to change facts and history according to their wishes.”
01 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC stays government move on temple non-hereditary trust boards||Justice A. Rajasekhar Reddy of Telangana High Court on Monday passed interim direction staying all further proceedings related to constitution of non-hereditary trust boards to temples in the State. The order was passed after admitting a writ petition filed by Telangana State Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions Founder Trustees Association. It would apply to temples within the annual income range of Rs. 25 lakh to Rs. 1 crore. The State government issued GO No. 227 on this September 9, inviting applications for forming non-hereditary trust boards to temples in the State. This was against constitutional provisions. It was also contradictory to the Supreme Court verdict delivered in 1996 in Pannalal Bansilal Pitti and others vs State of Andhra Pradesh, the petitioner said. Petitioner’s cousnel Deepak Misra said the power to make such appointment is vested with Dharmik Parishad under the Endowments Act. The State government cannot take away the said power. He argued that only Dharmik Parishad had the power to constitute any bodies under the Act.
01 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||593 COVID cases in TS, only 33K samples tested||Telangana recorded 593 COVID-19 cases on Sunday as only 33,040 samples were examined. Results of 364 individuals are awaited. On weekdays, usually, 40,000 to 42,000 samples are tested on a daily basis. The new 593 cases include 119 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 61 from Rangareddy, 55 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 40 from Karimnagar. No case was recorded in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri and Kumaram Bheem Asifabad districts, and one each from Wanaparthy, Vikarabad, Nirmal and Narayanpet. Three more COVID patients succumbed on Sunday, pushing up the death toll to 1,458. From March 2 to November 29, a total of 54,53,461 samples were examined and 2,69,816 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 10,022 were active, and 2,58,336 have recovered. In the 61 government hospitals, 4,850 oxygen beds and 1,526 ICU beds were available on Sunday. In the 220 private hospitals, 2,701 oxygen beds and 2,718 ICU beds were vacant.
01 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IJU dismayed by Press Council advisory||The Indian Journalists Union has expressed dismay at an advisory issued by the Press Council of India (PCI) to newspapers in the country in which the council has opined that unregulated circulation of foreign content in Indian newspapers is not desirable. In a statement issued here on Monday, K. Srinivas Reddy and Balwinder Singh Jammu, president and secretary general respectively of IJU, said the advisory was an unnecessary meddling in the functioning of news media which is a sacred domain of editors. That the editors were responsible for the content published in the newspapers irrespective of the source was known to all and the PCI taking pains to remind editors and publishers about this well established moral and legal principle was surprising to say the least, the IJU leaders said. ‘Putting scare’ They added that the advisory was silent on the specific cause of action from the PCI. This amounted to putting scare of muzzling action from the establishment into print media publications.
01 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Booked for circulating KCR’s morphed photo||The Hyderabad Cyber Crime police took suo-motu cognisance on allegedly morphed photo of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao sporting a BJP scarf and appealing people to vote for the party in the GHMC elections. “After spotting the morphed photo of the Chief Minister, we have registered a suo-moto case and a probe is on to identify and nab the miscreants,” Cyber Crime Assistant Commissioner of Police KVM Prasad said. Meanwhile, Telangana Rashtra Samithi general secretary and MLC M Sreenivas Reddy lodged a complaint with the Cyber Crime police asking them to take action against those who are morphing the pictures and creating fake videos of Mr. Rao. The miscreants are circulating the fake images and videos to defame the image and reputation of the Chief Minister, he said. “For the last two weeks, some unknown people, who are acting upon the instructions of other political parties with a malafide intention to defame the image of Mr. Rao are circulating those videos and photos on social media, which are objectionable and defamatory,” Mr. Reddy stated in his complaint copy. He said that the miscreants wanted to defame the Chief Minister for electoral gains in the ensuing elections of GHMC.  ATM offenders nabbed Meanwhile, two persons who broke open a ATM in Vanasthalipuram two weeks ago, were arrested by the sleuths of Rachkaonda Central Crime Station (LB Nagar) “The accused are professional ATM theft offenders,” Commissioner of Police Mahesh M. Bhagwat said. He said that they recovered Rs. 30,000 cash, four cars, a scooter, two gas cylinders used for cutting the machines, and a gas cutter with pipes, all worth Rs. 35 lakh from the possession of the accused. The accused are Mohammed Amir (22) and Mohammed Afridi (19), both residents of Amberpet. Six others of the gang are still at large. On the intervening night of Novermber 15 and 16, the gang members broke open an ATM of the State Bank of India in Vanasthalipuram’s Sahara Road and made away with Rs. 6.5 lakh in cash.
01 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Virtual meetings on AIDS Day||World AIDS Day programmes in Telangana will be scaled down this year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and GHMC elections on Tuesday. Usually, rallies and large scale programmes are held on December 1 every year. However, officials from Telangana State AIDS Control Society said only virtual meetings will be held this year with NGO partners detailing the yearly report. They said that government officials would not speak at the meetings because of the model code of conduct.
01 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 3 Police checks continued in old city||Till a few hours before elections to the GHMC, police continued to check vehicles in old city on Monday evening. Not just four wheelers, even two-wheelers, especially scooters with storage space, were stopped for checks at busy intersections and in arterial roads.  Activity at polling stations in some parts of old city was almost negligible till early evening as ballot boxes did not arrive. Police said that the boxes are expected to arrive between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m.
01 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||CPI (M) activists take out bike rally in support of farmers||Expressing solidarity with the agitating farmers, who are camping along the border of New Delhi demanding repeal of the Centre’s three new farm laws, the CPI (M) activists took out a bike rally in the town on Monday in support of the protesting farmers. The rally started at Pavilion Grounds and made its way through the busy localities of the town before ending at the ZP centre. The party State secretariat member P Sudarshan Rao, state committee members P Venkateshwara Rao and Y Srikanth, district committee secretary N Nageswara Rao, district committee members M Ramesh and N Manohar, among a host of others took part in the rally. The participants of the rally held a demonstration at Ambedkar statue near the ZP Centre later in the day. Addressing the demonstration, the CPI (M) and the Telangana Rythu Sangham leaders came down heavily on the BJP regime at the Centre accusing it of unleashing repressive measures against the agitating farmers on the national capital’s border. Stating that the farmers were continuing their stir undeterred by the bone-chilling cold wave conditions near Delhi, they demanded that the farm laws be immediately repealed to prevent what they called imminent irreparable damage to the farm sector. They alleged that the BJP dispensation at the Centre was trying to muzzle the voice of protesting farmers in a dictatorial manner.
01 December 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Police Act promulgated||Police Act 30 and 30 (A) were promulgated in Medak district for a period of one month from December 1 to December 31. According to Superintendent of Police Chandana Deepti, during the period no rallies and processions will be allowed without prior permission. She said that serious action will be initiated against those who violate the regulations. Leaders of political parties and organisations were requested to cooperate with the public and law enforcing authorities.
01 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Travel by RTC can be rewarding to the lucky passenger every Monday||The Nalgonda region of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC), one of the largest in the State, has taken up distribution of surprise gifts to deliver a message. Making a concerted attempt to get passengers to return to patronise the public transport service especially during the pandemic situation, TSRTC-Nalgonda has decided to give away surprise gifts on randomly selected routes, depot-wise, on every Monday. The underlying message of the effort is to get general public to see and acknowledge: “TSRTC-Nalgonda is following all COVID-19 preventive measures; all its routes are operational; and passenger safety is its top priority.”  Across depots The region has launched the initiative on Monday at all its seven depots, and passengers were taken by surprise when buses were randomly stopped by officials and their tickets collected. Instead of ticket checking, in such random and usual stops by flying squads, tickets of all the passengers were collected and a lucky draw conducted to pick out two tickets. In some other cases, like in Suryapet, the draw was conducted right at the bus station in a service on the Miryalaguda-Kodad route. In the case of non-deluxe services, which do not have a printed seat number on the ticket, officials said the passenger details were noted on the back of the ticket.  Gradual rise Speaking to The Hindu , Nalgonda Divisional Manager P. Shyamala said nearly 90% of the fleet was operational by mid-November, and the other vehicles which were undergoing service-overhaul have also joined the routes with gradual rise in demand for inter-State services. Nalgonda region with depots at Yadagirigutta, Devarakonda, Miryalaguda, Nalgonda, Narketpally, Suryapet and Kodad has a fleet of 739 buses, including hired ones, under various categories. On the first day of the initiative, officials of the transport corporation gave away packs of sanitisers, masks and sets of pens as gifts to passengers.
01 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Nalgonda temples teem with devotees on Karthika Pournami||Karthika Pournami or Dev Deepavali, the full moon day of the Karthika month, filled the many ancient temples in Nalgonda with brilliance. Devotees thronged Shaivite temples such as the Sri Chaya Someswara Swamy and Sri Pachala Someswara Swamy temples at Panagal, even before sunrise, to light lamps and offer special prayers. The temple management of the popular Pillalamarri Sri Erakeswara Swamy temple in Suryapet, one of the oldest in the district, decorated the temple, and an illuminated impression of the Shiv linga on its premises drew special attention of the devotees. Long queues of devotees were seen at the Sri Agastheswara Swamy temple at Wadapally, at the confluence of the rivers Krishna and Musi or Sangam for the prayers and holy dip. Closest to Hyderabad, the Sri Laxmi Narasimha Swamy temple on Yadagirgutta also witnessed heavy devotee footfall on the special day.
01 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Police silent as parties distribute money to voters||During the byelection for Dubbak assembly, police on ‘credible information,’ on October 26, raided the house of a relative of BJP candidate M. Raghunandan Rao and seized about Rs. 18.67 lakh cash at Siddipet town and stated that the money was meant for distribution during elections. A high drama took place and it was alleged that the BJP workers snatched away the money. Five of them were arrested and lodged in Sangareddy district jail. They were released on bail after Mr. Raghunandan Rao was elected MLA. Four days after that and two days ahead of polling on November 1, the police again ‘found’ Rs. 1 crore being transported in a vehicle. The money was seized and police said the money was meant for Dubbak byelection. Prior to these two incidents also police seized some amount from Mr. Raghunandan Rao’s personal assistant and another person on the grounds that it was meant for distribution among voters in the Dubbak Assembly constituency. No seizure yet Surprisingly, so far no reports have been made by the police of money being seized in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), spread across 24 Assembly constituency limits, including Patancheru in Sangareddy district, even though the campaign is over and polling is scheduled to be held on Tuesday. “Every party is distributing money to voters to buy votes and it is an open secret. The payment ranges between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 3,000, depending on the locality and number of votes the particular party needs in that division. Somehow, police have not bothered about distribution of money to voters, unlike in the case of Dubbak, where they were hyper-active,” said a leader of a political party on condition of anonymity. It was learnt that a party has distributed money among a section of voters not to vote for a particular party as part of its electoral calculations. On the other hand, the voters too are also expecting money to be distributed. “We will take money from any of the political parties that is handing it out, but will vote for whoever we wish,” said some youth at Bandlaguda in Patancheru area.
01 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Do not trust fake videos, Harish tells party cadre||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao called upon voters not to trust fake videos being circulated on social media that some Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leaders are joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Frustration is touching the peak in the BJP rank and file as the results in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Elections (GHMC) will be adverse despite campaign by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Dharna held by the BJP leaders before the office of State Election Commission (SEC) is nothing but a drama,” Mr. Rao told reporters at Patancheru on Monday. “We have credible information that using different logos of different channels, the party is going to release videos in social media claiming that some TRS leaders are going to join the BJP. During Dubbak byelection, a fake campaign was taken up on social media that the Congress candidate was joining the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi by using logos of some news channels. Do not trust them,” the TRS leader urged voters and party activists.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Not an uncommon sight||
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Centre of attraction||
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Reader’s Mail||The Telangana government developed a mobile app to help retired employees furnish their annual life certificate. However, it is seen that apart from other details, the voter ID card EPIC is made compulsory and unless it is tallied, one can not complete the process of submission of life certificate. Neither the pension paying officer nor bank have voter card details of the pensioner. Pension office has details of PAN card and pensioner ID allotted by PPO and bank account. At no place in the pensioners’ record do voter card details find a place, so the government may give a thought to this and suitably modify enabling multiple options K.V.P.Rao, Hyderabad    There are all kinds of cables wrung around electric and other poles criss-crossing the city skyline and buildings. Can a policy or some guidelines be put in place for the unsightly rolls of cables hanging on streetlights or traffic light posts? Service providers like ACT/JIO and other ISP should also take the responsibility of providing and routing their network cables in a more aesthetic way. Moreover, loose hanging cables on the roadside are dangerous for commuters. K.V.R. Rao, Hyderabad    A narrow road linking between Doveton Bazaar in Cantonment area and Alwal municipal area under the railway bridge is in a precarious condition for decades. Both sides of the roads are well laid as and when roads get damaged, but this linking road is left unattended since it belongs to Railways. I brought this matter to SCR’s notice and requested them to carry out the repairs as there is heavy waterlogging during monsoon and it is also prone to accidents but to no avail. Thousands of people move on this road daily, so I request the authorities to do the needful. N.S.R. Murthy, Macha Bolarum    The number of stray dogs in West Venkatapuram in Alwal has been increasing by the day and the residents are finding it extremely difficult to tackle them. The dogs follow passersby in packs. Many morning walkers, especially senior citizens, feel threatened by their presence, as do newspaper boys and delivery boys. I request the authorities to kindly look into the matter and suitably rehabilitate the dogs. B. Pavani, West Venkatapuram    I am a resident of Sreenivasa Village Apartments located opposite to Mahmood function hall in Yousufguda Checkpost. Our apartment is directly opposite metro pillar C1514. Currently, there is no pedestrian crossing between the pillars C1509 and C1522, which is a distance of almost 600 metres without any gap for people to cross the street. Because of this, one has to go all the way to the metro station at C1522. There is an urgent need to provide a pedestrian crossing somewhere between Yousufguda Basti and checkpost, or at least a gap wide enough for a person to cross. K. Ramachandruni, Yousufguda  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. T   hey can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu.co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. cuts price of RT-PCR test to Rs. 800; city sees 3,726 cases||Delhi witnessed 3,726 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 5,70,374, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. Moreover, 108 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 9,174. Of the total cases, 5,28,315 have recovered and there are 32,885 active cases. The total number of tests conducted in the past 24 hours was 50,670, which is fewer than several days last week. The number of tests is usually low on bulletins on Mondays as it reflects tests done on Sunday. RT-PCR tests The Delhi government has reduced the maximum rate that can be charged for RT- PCR tests for COVID-19 in private facilities, according to an official order. The maximum rate for one RT-PCR has been fixed at Rs. 800, when the sample is collected at a facility and Rs. 1,200 when it is collected from a person’s home. The rate before Mondays order was Rs. 2,400 per test, which was higher than many other States. “I have directed that the rates of RT-PCR tests be reduced in Delhi. Whereas tests are being conducted free of cost in govt. establishments, this will help those who get their tests done in private labs,” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet. Also, out of the total 18,694 beds available for COVID-19 treatment, 56.6% were vacant, as per the bulletin. About 77.01% of ICU beds with ventilators for COVID-19 treatment and 66.9% of the ICU beds without ventilators were occupied by Monday night, as per Delhi government data. The positivity rate on Monday was 7.35% and the overall positivity till now is 9.07%, the bulletin says. The number of containment zones is 5,552. Rai out of hospital Senior AAP leader and Delhi Minister Gopal Rai, who was tested positive for COVID-19 last week, has been discharged from the hospital, according to the Minister’s office. His condition is stable and he will be under home isolation and treatment will continue, but he is yet to test negative for the virus, an AAP source said.
01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||From a teen to an elderly in debt, all unified in stir||A 15-year-old boy taking online classes, a 21-year-old farmer, an 80-year-old man with a debt of Rs. 4 lakh, and a 45-year-old woman — who says she has come at her own will and “not for Rs. 100/day” — are just some of the protestors who visited the Singhu border — one of the main places where agitators have been gathering. Arshdeep Singh Saini, a Class 10 student of a government school, was at the protest site with his cousins and elders of his village on November 26. He came with his books and notebooks. He also owns a smartphone, which comes in handy for his online classes. “I have brought my school bag here and have my classes are from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. every day except Sunday,” he said. He keeps checking a WhatsApp group called — Class 10 boys — where his teachers post the work that he needs to do and have links to worksheets. Arshdeep said not only did he want to be a part of the protest but also his parents sent him willingly. His teachers have also supported his decision. “My parents asked me to come back only when our demands are met. My teachers know I am here and I keep posting stories on WhatsApp. They say I can stay here as much as I need to and continue to do my classwork from here,” he said. Arshdeep has an idea about why the farmers are protesting. We want the government to ensure that we get a minimum price on our produce, he said. After classes, the 15-year-old spends his day walking the stretch and recording videos on his phone. There are a handful like Arshdeep at the protest site. Another protestor is a 21-year-old BA graduate from Kurukshetra University and resident of Haryana’s Karnal — Gurjant Singh — whose family owns 10-acre farmland. He said he does not want a job at a private firm because “we were taught when we were toddlers not to be slaves to anyone”. Singh said the new farm laws will take away all the rights of produce, yield and price from the farmers and be given to the corporates. “I am here because I am a farmer and I can’t let myself and my father be exploited. For instance, I produced corn on two acres of land and sold 38 quintals for Rs. 1,100 to a firm and now it’s being sold for Rs. 22/kg in the market. That is what the corporates will do to us,” he said. Gurjant said: “I can earn as a farmer. My grandfather, Kartar Singh, was a freedom fighter,” he said. Among the protestors was a 45-year-old woman, Mahinder Kaur, who has come with her group of seven-eight women from Punjab’s Sangrur district. She lost her husband seven years ago due to a cardiac arrest. She now lives with her son, daughter-in-law and grandson. “There are people who say that women are called here at such protests for Rs. 100-Rs. 500/ day. I want to tell them that we are for our rights,” she said, adding that she will stay at the site till her health permits. The women’s group said there are not many women at the protest site as going to the toilet is a major issue. “We manage in the open or visit local houses,” they said. The 80-year-old protester, Gurdeep Singh Nihang from Patiala, said he has a loan of Rs. 4 lakh. “At this age, I am willing to stay here for as long as it’s required,” he said. His family of four daughters, a son and a wife support his decision but stay in touch with him over phone calls.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Protest affecting vegetable supply’||Farmers protesting at three major borders in the Capital have affected the supply of essential items like vegetables, oxygen cylinders, fruits and other articles to the city from neighboring States. Delhi receives supply of consumable items from neighboring States such as U.P., Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir majorly through the Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri borders — all three blocked due to the ongoing farmers’ protest. According to Adil Khan, chairman of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) at the Azadpur Mandi, which is considered the largest wholesale market in Asia, the arrival of both vegetables and fruits has reduced by half due to the closed borders. The trucks have been reduced from daily 2,500 to 1,000.  APMC member Anil Malhotra said the supply of apples from Kashmir had been most impacted since the fruits need to be transported in relatively larger carriers, which were too big to use the alternative routes that are being taken by trucks now. Hike in prices Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor urged the Delhi government to step in and ensure the availability of vegetables and fruits at “affordable” prices. He said common kitchen staples such as onions and potatoes were being sold at hiked prices across city markets due to shut routes. “The supplies are arriving in the city from other alternative routes —Badarpur and Saharanpur — resulting in long queues of trucks on these borders and a delay. On Sunday and Monday, there were around 40% fewer trucks at Azadpur Mandi,” said Sushil Kumar, a wholesale vegetable seller. He added that if the situation remains the same for the next few days then there will be an impact on retail prices of vegetables, fruits and grains. There are several perishable items that need to reach on time in Delhi or else, its has to be dumped. Manoj Sharma, a wholesaler of flowers in Ghazipur phool mandi, said due to protest at borders, the flowers supply to the market has been severely affected as it is the wedding season. “The market has already suffered losses due to lockdown and limitation of guests at weddings. Everyday hundreds of trucks from Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and U.P. arrive in the market. Flower comes under highly perishable item and it can’t he hold even for a day otherwise it will be of no use,” said Mr. Sharma.
01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Water cannons, 3,000 policemen to stop farmers||Delhi Police has fortified Tigri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders by deploying around 3,000 security personnel, water cannons, putting up concrete jersey barriers, and fencing police barricades with barbed wires to stop farmers from entering the city. A senior officer said they have got an input that protesters might attempt to enter Delhi via other routes. “We have ordered strict checking at key points in the city. All districts have been alerted and ordered to intensify checking of random vehicles,” the officer said. At Tigri border, there are around 540 police personnel deployed under the supervision of three DCP-rank officers. Also, two DCPs are deployed during night. At Singhu border, more security personnel are deployed under the supervision of Joint CP-rank officer. There are around 1,800 police personnel along with three DCP-rank officers and one Joint CP-rank officer. At Nirankari ground in Burari, there are around 120 police personnel along with two DCP-rank police officers. Personnel in civil dress “Apart from regular security, we have also deployed police personnel in civil dress to keep watch on any anti-social elements. We are working in coordination with intelligence agencies. The situation is peaceful till now,” added the officer. He said several companies of paramilitary forces are also deployed at borders. “We are constantly requesting farmers to shift to Burari [Nirankari ground] and not indulge in any kind of violence. We are also focusing on Delhi-Noida and Delhi-Gurugram border to ensure smooth traffic flow,” added the officer. On Monday morning, a minor scuffle broke out between the farmers and the police at Ghazipur border after a group of protesters tried to push the barricades. They were later pacified by their leaders.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||All AAP volunteers, leaders serving farmers: Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)chief Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that all party leaders and volunteers were serving farmers protesting on the Delhi borders and he has directed them to provide the farmers with food, water, medical facilities, toilets, and ensure all their requirements are fulfilled. “The farmers of our nation are in distress and they are sitting on the borders of Delhi-Haryana and Delhi-Uttar Pradesh, and are waiting for the Centre to address their concerns for the last five-six days. How are our farmers surviving and sleeping at night under such severe cold conditions when we have to stay in our homes due to cold weather? They are going through a lot of trouble. I hope the Centre will soon talk to the farmers and resolve their issues,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “All the AAP volunteers, MLAs and leaders are serving the farmers. I have directed them to support the farmers and provide them food, water, medical facilities, toilets, and fulfill their requirements,” he added. Earlier in the day, AAP leader and Delhi Jal Board vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha inspected the protest site at the Singhu border and distributed blankets to farmers, the party said. Portable toilets “The Delhi government has installed portable toilets for protesters and is ensuring food for all. The government is also deploying ambulances with blood pressure kits and first-aid facilities. Oximeters will also be available,” Mr. Chadha said, adding that the Delhi Jal Board is ensuring availability of drinking water for farmers protesting at the Singhu border.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal using farmers’ protest for political gain, alleges BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday attacked the Delhi government in general and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in particular and accused both of seeking to utilise the farmers’ agitation as an opportunity to “burn down Delhi”. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) countered that the BJP was “clueless” about handling the nationwide protest and was trying to divert public attention. National in-charge of the BJP’s IT department, Amit Malviya, fired the first salvo by sharing the gazette notification of the new Farm Acts and accusing Mr. Kejriwal and the Delhi government of siding with “Khalistanis and Maoists”. ‘Khalistanis and Maoists’ “Arvind Kejriwal led Delhi government has already notified the new Farm Laws on 23 Nov20 and had started implementing them. But now that the Khalistanis and Maoists have stepped in to oppose, and he sees an opportunity to burn down Delhi. It was never about farmers. Just politics [sic],” Mr. Malviya tweeted  The AAP, in a statement, alleged that the BJP was clueless about handling the issue and was “hopelessly” attempting to divert public attention. The notification by the Delhi government allowed farmers to sell their crop anywhere including outside mandis and the selling of fruits and vegetables was already de-regulated in Delhi many years ago, the AAP pointed out. “This holds for grains too. We have not dismantled mandis and they are continuing. Farmers are not against that. Farmers’ demand is that they should get MSP whether inside or outside mandi. We support that demand,” AAP stated.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Plea to maintain data on transgender prisoners||A petition before the Delhi High Court has sought a direction to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) to recognise and classify transgenders as a separate third gender in their annual publication of Prison Statistics India. The petition has sought direction to the prison authorities and departments to maintain data on transgender prisoners or inmates in each and every document or report required to be maintained by them. The plea filed by law graduate Karan Tripathi has claimed that NCRB continued to fail to include the third gender or transgenders in the sex-wise statistics of the prison inmates all over India in its annual Prison Statistics India since the past seven years. The petition filed through advocates Yash Mishra, Akhil Hasija and Manyaa Chandok has argued that unless NCRB does not assign a proper sex to the prison inmates who may be transgenders, there cannot be a proper guarantee of their civil rights, constitutional rights and even basic human rights. Harassment prevention This, the plea, said was necessary to prevent harassment of transgenders in prisons and in jails, by staff and inmates. The plea has urged the court to give direction to the authorities to make requisite policy and format amendment to include the data on transgender prisoners either in the latest Prison Statistics Report, 2019, or in the subsequent reports. It also pointed out that other official reports such as Crimes in India 2018 and Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India 2018, has recognised the transgenders as a third gender.  “However, in complete violation of Article 14 of the Constitution, respondent no.1 [NCRB] has arbitrarily and without any reasonable classification, wilfully abstained from including the third gender in the sex-wise classification of Prison Statistics India,” the plea, which is likely to be heard on Tuesday, said.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||10 transport unions pledge support||A section of transport unions on Monday said they have pledged support to farmers protesting against three agriculture laws. Ten associations, including the Delhi Goods Transport Association and All Delhi Auto Taxi Transport Congress Union were among the organisations that have lent support to the stir. Most of the outfits are affiliated to the Indian National Congress, as per their counterparts in similar unions currently active in Delhi. “We have pledged support and provided five vehicles to the leaders of the agitation for any emergency, and to cater to their transportation needs in the city,” said Kishan Verma, president of All Delhi Auto Taxi Transport Congress Union. “Not only are we with the farmers, we are also trying to galvanise support from other unions like ours in other States,” he added.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||CISF jawan saves life of Delhi Metro passenger||A CISF constable saved the life of a man, who fell unconscious at a metro station in south Delhi, by performing CPR medical procedure on him, said officials on Monday. The CPR is an emergency lifesaving procedure that is performed when the heart stops beating. The incident took place at Ghitorni station. The daughter of the passenger, identified as Punjab resident Bharat Bhushan, informed the train driver that her father was not feeling well and that they required help. The message was sent to the Ghitorni station controller who subsequently informed CISF in-charge Sub-Inspector S.K. Yadav about the emergency call, they said. The passenger was taken out of the train but he fell unconscious on the platform. CISF constable Ratan Prasad Gupta immediately performed the CPR medical procedure on the passenger following which he came back to his senses, he said. He was then taken to a hospital in Saket.
01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Group of protesters clean stir spot at Singhu border||With hundreds of people protesting at the Singhu border and cooking and eating there, garbage is bound to pile up, but while protestors are careful themselves, a group of 10 persons are trying to ensure cleanliness.  The group, led by Dinesh Chadha, an advocate-cum-lawyer from Anandpur Sahib’s Roop Nagar, picks up garbage such as disposables, banana peels, plastic and glass bottles, vegetable waste among other things, while asking people to keep their surroundings clean. “People here are very concerned and aware. They keep polybags outside their tractors and trollies, and throw all the garbage in it but there are places that still need cleaning,” said Mr. Chadha. No arrangements made The group said they are disappointed with how the Haryana government has not made any arrangements for garbage. “The garbage thrown on Haryana side is not being picked up, but on the Delhi side, it is being picked up by authorities,” he said. Farmers also said locals living near the Haryana border have proved to be very helpful as they allow protesters to use their washrooms.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Air quality in November worse than last year||The air quality of Delhi in November this year was worse than in 2019, as per an analysis of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. This year had more days in the ‘severe’ category compared to the last two years, CPCB’s studies observed. In November this year, there were nine days when the air quality was in the ‘severe’ category, but the same was only seven days in 2019 and five days in 2018. There were two days when the air quality was in the ‘moderate’ category in the same period this year, but there were three such days in 2019. Also, there was one day when the air quality was satisfactory in November 2019, but there was no such day this year during the same period. Besides, the average daily AQI (Air Quality Index) of November this year was higher than 2019, though lower than 2018, the data shows. Vivek Chattopadhyaya, senior programme manager at Centre for Science and Environment, Delhi said that Deepavali being in November this year and higher number of farm fires in the end of October in neighbouring States and low temperature are the possible reasons for the high pollution in 2020 compared to 2019. “There was higher number of farm fires towards the end of October and the effect of farm fires stays in Delhi for a few days after it gets transported from other States,” he said. AQI ‘very poor’ The air quality of Delhi and Noida was in the ‘very poor’ category and that of Gurugram’s was in the ‘poor’ category on Monday, as per CPCB data. It is expected to further deteriorate and stay in the ‘very poor’ category on Tuesday. “Air quality is likely to worsen in north India due to cold waves and low temperatures. The AQI is forecast to deteriorate to the middle-end of the very poor category for the next two days,” said a statement by the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Undertrial prisoner killed in Tihar jail||A 23-year-old undertrial prisoner was killed after he was allegedly attacked with a sharp object by three other inmates in Tihar jail on Monday morning, officials said. The deceased has been identified as Dilsher Singh. He was lodged in Tihar jail’s central jail number three in connection with three different cases including murder, they said. All those concerned have been informed and further legal action is being taken, said Sandeep Goel, DG (Delhi Prisons).
01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||FIR registered against farmers for hurting officers, rioting||Delhi Police has lodged a case against farmers staging a protest at the Singhu border for allegedly damaging public property, rioting, and hurting on-duty policemen during a recent incident of violence, a senior officer said on Monday. He added that on November 27, during theDelhi Chalomarch, several farmers indulged in violence at the Singhu border protest site. “We have registered an FIR under Indian Penal Code Sections 186, 353, 332, 323, 147, 148, 149, 279, 337, 188, 269, and Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984, at Alipur police station,” the senior officer added. CCTV footage He said they have obtained CCTV footage, drone images and other technical evidence to identify the accused.
01 December 2020||Noida (UP),||3 held for ‘cruelly’ ferrying over 3 dozen cattle on truck in UP||Over three dozen cattle being ferried in a truck were rescued and three people arrested for alleged cruelty against animals in Greater Noida on Monday, the police said. The truck was intercepted at the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in the Ecotech 1 police station area.
01 December 2020||Ahmedabad,||ACB books 29 employees of Gujarat govt.||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has registered cases of possessing disproportionate assets (DA) against 29 employees of the Gujarat government in the last 11 months. Three are class-1 officers, eight class-2 officers, and 18 are class-3 employees. The market value of the alleged DA, including land and residential properties, is Rs. 40.47 crore, the ACB said, adding that it has launched a special drive to unearth benami and ill-gotten properties. The ACB on Monday also booked Kalubhai Ram, a retired class-3 engineer of Irrigation Department, for allegedly possessing disproportionate assets worth Rs. 1.38 crore.
01 December 2020||Mumbai,||Inhuman to use water cannons on farmers amid cold wave: Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday slammed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government over the treatment meted out to protesting farmers and warned the party that it was playing with fire by terming the farmers ‘Khalistanis’. The Sena added it was inhuman to use water cannons on farmers amid the cold wave sweeping parts of north India. The farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders for the past five days against the contentious new farm laws. They have refused to accept any conditional dialogue and threatened to block all five entry points to the national capital. Referring to the giant Statue of Unity of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel “erected by PM Narendra Modi and Amit Shah” in Gujarat, the editorial said Patel was also a leader of farmers and led many farmers’ agitation against the British. “Sardar Patel would have cried had he seen the treatment meted out to farmers protesting on Delhi’s border. The farmers were beaten, showered with cold water, and tear gassed. Using water cannon during the cold is inhuman,” said an editorial in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana . “Our farmers are being treated as terrorists and attacked on Delhi’s borders while terrorists are killing our soldiers on the border in Kashmir,” it said. The Sena singled out Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for claiming a Khalistani link to the protests. “BJP wants to create anarchy. Khalistan is a closed chapter for which Indira Gandhi and General Arunkumar Vaidya laid down their lives. The BJP is not only mentioning Khalistan but also wants to push its own politics in Punjab,” the editorial said. The Sena added that once the BJP runs out of issues to raise, then it digs up the Hindustan-Pakistan issue. “The party had claimed pro-Pakistan and azaadi slogans were raised in Jawaharlal Nehru University. All the evidence proved that these claims were fake. They placed their own men on the campus in disguise to create such incidents,” said the editorial. “The government is using all its might to crush political opponents, but why is this determination not seen while dealing with the country’s enemies?” it asked.
01 December 2020||Mumbai,||HC dismisses plea challenging order of Wardha Collector||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court has dismissed a petition challenging an order by the District Collector of Wardha granting permission to hold a large gathering. The court warned the Collector to exercise caution and observed he had not realised his mistake as his previous order violated the government’s guidelines. A Division Bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote was hearing a petition filed by Rajendra Sharma, a 60-year-old social worker. The Bench directed the Collector to ensure that not more than 50 people attend the gathering and keep a list of their names in his office “to avoid future complications”. In a previous hearing, the court had noted that the Collector’s order granting permission to Serva Sewa Sangh to hold a gathering of 100 people was in violation of the State government’s orders dated September 30 and October 29, but he deserved to be granted liberty to introspect. However, the Collector simply revised the order and permitted a gathering of not more than 50 people. ‘Not clearly defined’ The court said the government’s orders did not define ‘large public gatherings’ and prescribed a limit on attendees only for gatherings related to marriages and funerals. “We do not think such a ceiling can be applied to a public gathering, so as to distinguish between a small and large one,” the court said. The court added, “We are, therefore, of the view that what could be a small or large public gathering would have to be decided on the basis of facts and circumstances of each case and there cannot be any exhaustive illustration of all the facts and circumstances which could be considered as determinative factors. Such factors as the availability of space at the proposed venue, the capacity of the organisers to ensure compliance with the standard operating procedure, the ambience at the proposed venue, situation of the proposed venue, accessibility to the proposed venue, and so on and so forth.”
01 December 2020||Mumbai,||Recoveries outpace cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Monday reported 3,837 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the total case tally to 18,23,896, the State Health Department said. With 80 more patients succumbing to the viral infection, including 35 fatalities in the last 48 hours, the overall death toll has mounted to 47,151. A total of 4,196 patients were discharged during the day, taking the count of recoveries to 16,85,122. The State is now left with 90,557 active cases after conducting 1,08,56,384 tests so far. The recovery rate now stands at 92.39% and the fatality rate is 2.59%. 646 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 646 fresh cases and 19 deaths, taking the case load to 2,83,467 and death toll to 10,884. The number of new cases has been dropping over the last five days, with the city recording 940 infections on Sunday, after adding more than 1,000 cases for four days in a row between November 25 and 28. With 19 more patients succumbing to the viral infection in the last 24 hours, the cumulative death toll has mounted to 10,810. A total of 775 patients were discharged from hospitals in the day, taking the tally of recoveries to 2,56,635, the the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. The BMC said 2,200 duplicate and outstation cases were removed from the tally of active cases during the reconciliation process. Over 18.96 lakh samples have been tested so far in the city.  Doubling rate improves Mumbai’s average doubling rate of COVID-19 cases has crossed the 200-day mark to 207 days, while the average growth rate fell below 0.35%, the BMC said. Last week, the average doubling rate of cases had fallen to 195 days, while the average growth rose to 0.35%. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region, including Mumbai, added 1,263 new cases and 26 deaths, taking the overall tally to 6,32,660 and death toll to 18,522. Nashik city reported 170 new cases, Pune city 179, Pimpri-Chinchwad 159, andNagpur city 178 infections, the Health Department said.
01 December 2020||Mumbai,||Row erupts over azaan competition||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has questioned the Shiv Sena’s commitment to its Hindutva ideology after a party leader extended best wishes for conducting an azaan competition. Pandurang Sakpal, the Sena’s south Mumbai zonal head, said on Monday that the members of Foundation For You from Mumbadevi constituency met him to seek permission to hold an open-air azaan competition. “Owing to COVID-19 restrictions, I objected and suggested that they conduct an online contest. I also extended my good wishes for organising the competition. Nobody should indulge in politics over this,” Mr. Sakpal said. Pravin Darekar, Leader of Opposition in the Council, said this was a clear deviation from the party’s Hindutva ideology. “The Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray had taken a stern position over speakers being installed in mosques. Now, the Sena wants to organise an azaan competition,” he said.
01 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Police rescue woman who fell into Vashi creek||The Vashi police saved the life of a 45-year-old woman who accidentally fell into Vashi creek while throwing flowers into it at 12.30 p.m. on Sunday. Passers-by who noticed the woman fall into the creek informed the Navi Mumbai Police’s control room about the incident. A team of personnel from the Vashi police patrolling near the bridge heard the cries for help and reached the spot within 15 minutes. The team was also alerted by the control room. The patrolling team then alerted local fishermen Mahesh Sutar and Babu Sutar, who jumped into the creek with the float to rescue the woman. The float was tied with a rope to a boat in which the police team, comprising constables Sunil Gurav, Milind Waghmare and Hemant Devidas Bari, and the staff from the coastal security were present. After the team rescued Hiben Laxmidas Katarmal Bhanushali, a resident of Ghatkopar, she said she was going in an autorickshaw to her daughter’s house in Koparkhairne, but stopped at the bridge to drop flowers into the creek. “She told us that she felt dizzy and fell,” senior police inspector Sanjeev Dhumal said. Ms. Bhanushali’s family was contacted and she was taken to Airoli hospital. After treatment, her husband and son took her home, the Vashi police said. The police had initially thought it was a case of attempted suicide.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi government reduces price of RT-PCR test to Rs. 800||The Arvind Kejriwal-led government in Delhi on Monday ordered all private laboratories to reduce the price of RT-PCR tests in the Capital from Rs. 2,400 to Rs. 800. According to an order issued by the Health Department, private laboratories have been asked to charge Rs. 800 for testing samples collected by government teams or collected from designated sites by private labs. The testing of samples collected through home visit will cost Rs. 1,200. All labs and hospitals have been asked to display the revised rates at a prominent place within 24 hours. The private laboratories have also been asked to process samples, share the reports with the client (government or individual) and update all reports on the Indian Council of Medical Research portal within 24 hours of sample collection. Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said that labs are finding it difficult to release results of tests within a day. Earlier in the day, the Chief Minister had tweeted: “I have directed that the rates of RT-PCR tests be reduced in Delhi. Whereas tests are being conducted free of cost in govt establishments, however this will help those who get their tests done in pvt labs.[sic]”  Private laboratories said they fully support the step. “In this hour of crisis, every step to facilitate citizens in the fight against COVID-19 is welcome. We fully support this step and are working closely with all stakeholders to provide best diagnostics care, Dr Lal PathLabs said.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Plea seeks redress over Delhi govt.’s failure to prevent Feb. riots||The Delhi High Court has taken cognisance of a petition by a Muslim family seeking compensation from the Delhi government for its failure to prevent the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February. Justice Navin Chawla issued notice to the Delhi government and directed it to submits its counter affidavits within four weeks. Md. Shahabaj, his wife Angoori Khatoon, and their son Md. Abu Talha in their joint petition said they were living in Khajoori Khas when communal violence erupted in north-east Delhi. Their plea said that on February 25, a mob of around hundred people attacked their rented house and set it on fire. The plea said their jewellery and other items of livelihood and documents including rent agreement, Aadhaar cards, and certificates of children were either stolen or burnt down with the house. Severe distress Mr. Shahabaj said he, his wife, son Talha and four other minor children had to immediately abandon their house in severe distress as the mob had gathered around their house downstairs with bricks, petrol bombs, hockey sticks, iron rods and firearms. Narrating their ordeal, Mr. Shahabaj said he was sleeping in the house when commotion started outside their house in the morning. His wife Khatoon was praying when one of the rioters threw a stone at them. Two of his children, who were studying in Madarasa at Fatima Masjid, had to jump from the first floor of the building, which was attacked with stones and set on fire by the mob. The petition claimed that the “complete collapse of the rule of law” reflected the inefficiency of Delhi Police and the government. It contended that “Delhi Police failed to take control of the heinous mobs and at some places, actively supported the members of the mob”. “Mobs comprising hundreds of people were actively looking for Muslim houses, properties and means of livelihood to loot, burn and destroy. The petitioners’ house also fell victim to this lawlessness, chaos and utter destruction,” the plea said. Less compensation Advocate Kawalpreet Kaur, representing the family, stated that Delhi government’s assistance scheme for the victims of communal violence is arbitrary and discriminatory. “The amount of compensation is too little and inadequate when assessed on the basis of the financial losses and trauma suffered by the victims of the communal violence,” the plea said. “In the case of petitioners, the policy if followed, allows only Rs. 1 lakh to be paid to the petitioners and their family as the house they were staying was a rented accommodation,” it added. The petition has sought directions to the authorities to immediately release interim amount of Rs. 10 lakh as compensation to the family members and Rs. 50 lakh as total compensation.
01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Many in the Capital forced to sleep on an empty stomach||Scores of people living in the national capital complained of having to go without a proper meal for days together and being dependent on neighbours for basic sustenance as they do not have a ration card. During an online public meeting organised by the Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan (DRRAA) on Monday, the homeless, those living in shelter homes, and people who lost their jobs during the lockdown, said access to foodgrains remained difficult as there were too many hurdles to get a ration card. Some said they were forced to beg for money and food. Babli, a resident of Jagadamba camp, said: “I lost my job during the lockdown and there was a point when I was unable to pay rent for around five months. The children get Rs. 74 per month from the government, but how is that enough to last one whole month? Where do we get the money from? We cannot even afford to buy milk to have a cup of tea.” DUSIB chief engineer S.K. Mahajan, who was present at the meeting, said the grievances would be conveyed to the Food Commissioner. “As for the homeless, we will soon start providing breakfast at night shelters where occupants already get cooked mean twice a day,” he added. Heavy debt Many rued they were under heavy debt. Yashoda, a domestic help who lost her job during the lockdown, said: “I have not been able to pay rent for the last two months as my husband also lost his job. We have three children to look after, they are not even getting their mid-day meals these days. Currently, we have a debt of nearly Rs. 50,000 and we do not know where to go.” “During the lockdown period, we got ration just twice. It is not even possible for us to return to our village. We would not have come here [Delhi] in the first place if we had enough opportunities back home,” she added. Several people also recounted how children have been forced to take up odd jobs to sustain families. Rani, another resident of Jagadamba camp, said: “Both my husband and son have passed away and my daughter-in-law left us, leaving her two children behind. With no ration card, I am now dependent on neighbours for basic sustenance. Some days we have to go to bed hungry. My 13-year-old grandson started collecting scrap from garbage so that he could sell them and bring home some money. With the e-coupons, we got ration once during the lockdown, but nothing since then.” A resident of a shelter home near Connaught Place pointed out how they were asked to provide witnesses and electricity bills to support their application for ration cards. Anjali Bharadwaj of the DRRAA demanded that temporary ration cards be provided to those not included under the public distribution system.  We have three kids to look after, they are not even getting their mid-day meals these days Yashoda Domestic help
01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhiites brave chill as Capital records coldest Nov. in 71 years||With a mean minimum temperature of 10.2 degrees Celsius, this November has been the coldest in 71 years, according to data available with the India Meteorological Department. The month finished off on a cold note with the minimum temperature on Monday settling at 6.9 degrees Celsius, which was three degrees below average for the season. Apart from one day on November 16, the minimum temperature has stayed colder than normal with cold wave-like conditions on November 2, 20, 23 and 24.  Mean minimum The average mean minimum temperature for November is 12.9 degrees Celsius. Last year, the mean minimum temperature in November was 15 degrees Celsius last year and the year before that it was 13.4 degrees Celsius. Delhi last recorded a mean minimum temperature of 10.2 degrees Celsius in November 1949 and the other cold Novembers have been in 1938 when it was 9.6 degrees Celsius; in 1931, when it was 9 degrees Celsius; and in 1930 when it was 8.9 degrees Celsius. The cold November follows the coldest October in 58 years which had a mean minimum temperature of 17.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest since 1962, when it was 16.9 degrees Celsius.  Delhi last recorded a mean minimum temperature of 10.2 degrees Celsius in November 1949 India Meteorological Department
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Faecal coliform levels 660 times desirable level in the Yamuna||The level of faecal coliform (microbes from human and animal excreta) is above the desirable limit at all points tested in Yamuna in Delhi, except for Palla where the river enters the city, as per a Delhi government report. For bathing in a river, the desirable level of faecal coliform is 500 MPN/100 ml or lesser, as per the Central Pollution Control Board. Near ITO Bridge the level was 3,30,000 MPN/100 ml, which is 660 times the desirable level. In eight of the nine locations, the level was higher than the safe limit. The report is a ‘Monthly Progress Report’ submitted by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee to the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti on cleaning Yamuna. The report also said that levels of different pollutants are above permissible limits in ground water samples from different points near the four landfills in Delhi. The report further said that in September no sewer lines were laid and notified in unauthorised colonies, work that is part of the effort to clean the Yamuna. The report also pointed out that the New Delhi Municipal Council processed all 272 Tonnes Per Day (TPD) of solid waste generated in its area and none of the waste goes to landfills in the city. However, around 2,100 TPD of waste from the North Corporation finds its way to the landfills; 2,000 TPD of waste from East Corporation; and 1,750 TPD of waste from the South Corporation. Ground water samples from four different points near Ghazipur landfill showed that the hardness of water was higher than the desirable limit of 300 mg/l. The levels of chlorine and calcium were also above the desirable limit in all four samples. The level of sulfate was higher than the desirable limit of 200 mg/l in three of the four samples. Data from the other three landfills showed similar trends. “All the landfills in Delhi are overcapacity. They were not built as scientific landfills and are just dumping grounds. The waste ends up polluting both the surface and the groundwater,” said Suresh Kumar Rohilla, director of water programme, Centre for Science and Environment. “This results in higher than permissible levels of pollution in nearby areas,” he said, but added scientific interventions were made to resolve some issues.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s air quality turns ‘very poor’, may worsen||Delhi’s air quality turned very poor on Monday and is predicted to deteriorate further with calm winds and low temperature allowing accumulation of pollutants. The city’s air quality index (AQI) was 307. The 24-hour average AQI was 268 on Sunday. It was 231 on Saturday, 137 on Friday, 302 on Thursday and 413 on Wednesday. The winds were calm at night time. During the day, the maximum wind speed is expected to be 10 kmph, according to the India Meteorological Department. Winds are predicted to slow down further. Therefore, Delhi’s air quality is likely to deteriorate further and remain in the poor to very poor category over the next two days, it had said earlier. The minimum temperature was 6.9 degrees Celsius on Sunday and the maximum is expected to settle around 26 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. The Central government’s Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the city’s ventilation index — a product of mixing depth and average wind speed — will be around 2,500 m2/s on Monday and is likely to be 2,000 m2/s on Tuesday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. The share of stubble burning in Delhi’s pollution has reduced as the harvesting season has ended. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring Sates to Delhi’s PM2.5 levels was 6% on Sunday, 4% on Saturday, 2% on Friday and just 1% on Thursday, according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR.
01 December 2020||Thane/Palghar,||No renting properties in MBVV without police nod||Prohibitory orders against renting out of properties have been imposed in the Mira-Bhayander Vasai-Virar (MBVV) police commissionerate limits in Maharashtra, officials said on Monday. The objective of the orders is that the police can rush to help people when required, and nab offenders in case of a crime. People in large numbers from across Maharashtra, other parts of the country and abroad come to stay and indulge in business activities in MBVV, which is a fast-growing city, and their details are required to be with the police, the officials said. Hence, prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) have been imposed in the MBVV area with effect from November 27, a release issued by the commissionerate said. As per the order, those who give or take a property on rent, including agents, should provide their information to the police within 24 hours of the deal or agreement. Those who have already rented their properties should also give their details to the police immediately, the release said. The MBVV commissionerate, carved out of Thane and Palghar districts, began its operations from October 1 this year. Before its formation, Mira-Bhayander fell under the Thane (rural) district police, while Vasai-Virar was under the jurisdiction of the Palghar police.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Resplendent||
01 December 2020||Tehran,||‘Israel, exiled opposition killed scientist in complex operation’||Iran said Israel and an exiled opposition group used new and “complex” methods to assassinate its leading nuclear scientist, as it buried him on Monday in a funeral befitting a top “martyr”. As it laid Mohsen Fakhrizadeh — seen by Israel as the “father” of Iran’s nuclear weapons programme — to rest, the Islamic republic also vowed to redouble his work. Fakhrizadeh died on Friday after his car and bodyguards were targeted in a bomb and gun attack on a major road outside the capital, heightening tensions once more between Tehran and its foes. Iran’s top security official, Rear-Admiral Ali Shamkhani of the Supreme National Security Council, said the “operation was very complex, using electronic equipment and no one was present at the scene”. The People’s Mujahedeen of Iran (MEK) were “certainly” involved, along with “the Zionist regime and the Mossad”, he said, referring to the Israeli government and its spy agency. ‘Remote-controlled’ The top official’s comments came in video interviews broadcast by state television and the Fars news agency. Without citing sources, Fars itself reported the attack had been carried out with the help of “a remote-controlled automatic machinegun” mounted on a pickup truck. Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani had on Saturday accused Israel of acting as a “mercenary” for the United States by carrying out the assassination. Fakhrizadeh’s funeral was attended by several high-ranking officials, including Defence Minister Amir Hatami and Revolutionary Guards commander Hossein Salami. As the funeral got underway, a religious singer praised Fakhrizadeh and alluded to the martyrdom of Imam Hossein, the revered 7th century holy figure from whom Shiite Muslims draw inspiration. “If our enemies had not committed this heinous crime and spilled our dear martyr’s blood, he might have remained unknown,” Mr. Hatami said in a speech. The assassination has led to demands for a strong response from Iran’s leadership and calls by some conservative lawmakers to avoid entering potential negotiations with the U.S., even as the hawkish presidency of Donald Trump draws to a close. Mr. Rouhani has accused Israel of acting as a U.S. “mercenary”, blaming it for the killing of Fakhrizadeh, and Supreme Leader Khamenei has called for the perpetrators to be punished. Parliament on Sunday demanded a halt to international inspections of nuclear site, a step that could prove a fatal blow to the nuclear deal Iran agreed with world powers in 2015.
01 December 2020||Sydney,||Foreign students arrive in Australia||International students have arrived in Australia for the first time since the country shut its borders to curb coronavirus in March, with a charter flight touching down in Darwin on Monday. Australian universities have been leaking cash due to the country’s indefinite border closure. A plane chartered by Charles Darwin University (CDU) carrying 63 international students arrived in the northern city of Darwin as part of a pilot programme aimed at kickstarting the higher education industry. The students — from mainland China, Hong Kong, Japan, Vietnam and Indonesia — travelled to Singapore to catch the flight. They will now spend 14 days in a government quarantine facility. The mix of new and continuing students are enrolled across a range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses including law, nursing and engineering. In a statement, CDU said it was “an important first step in the recovery of the international education sector in Australia”. Education is listed as Australia’s fourth-largest export — behind iron ore, coal and natural gas — with more than 5,00,000 international students enrolled last year, bringing about Australian $37 billion into the economy.
01 December 2020||Kabul,||Taliban mastermind of Army base attack killed in air strike||Afghan forces have killed the Taliban mastermind of a suicide car bomb attack that left 31 security personnel dead, officials said on Monday. Hamza Waziristani was killed in an air strike overnight in the eastern province of Ghazni, where the bomber struck an Afghan military base on Sunday. “The mastermind behind yesterday’s terrorist attack on the (Ghazni) base was killed along with seven other terrorists,” the Defence Ministry said in a statement. Ministry spokesman Fawad Aman told AFP that Waziristani was a Taliban militant from the Pakistani border region of Waziristan. The attack was one of the deadliest in months targeting government forces in Afghanistan, where violence has surged since the start of peace talks between President Ashraf Ghani’s administration and the Taliban in Qatar. The Taliban often do not comment on deadly attacks. The insurgents have launched near daily attacks against Afghan forces, primarily in rural areas, since signing a deal with Washington in February that paved the way for the withdrawal of foreign troops by May 2021.
01 December 2020||Washington,||‘Biden intends to nominate Neera Tanden as OMB chief’||U.S. President-elect Joe Biden intends to nominate Indian-American Neera Tanden as the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, a top position inside the White House responsible for managing the administration’s budget, according to media reports. If confirmed by the U.S. Senate, 50-year-old Ms. Tanden would be the first woman of colour to head the influential office at the White House. Ms. Tanden is currently the chief executive of the Centre for American Progress, a public policy research and advocacy organisation. Ms. Tanden’s nomination is a part of Mr. Biden plan to build a team of liberal and centrist economic advisers to serve alongside planned Treasury Secretary nominee Janet Yellen, The Wall Street Journal reported on Sunday. Nomination of Ms. Tanden and others are expected to be announced soon, multiple news reports said. According to The Washington Post , Ms. Tanden will be under pressure from conservatives to rein in government spending but will probably play an instrumental role in crafting the Biden administration’s response to the current economic downturn. She was a close ally of Hillary Clinton, the former Secretary of State and the 2016 Democratic presidential candidate, and helped pass the Affordable Care Act under President then Barack Obama, it said. “Another proud day for Indian Americans to see Neera Tanden be nominated for a Cabinet level position in the next administration,” said M.R. Rangaswami, founder of non-profit organisation Indiaspora. Cecilia Rouse, a Princeton University labour economist, is likely to be named the chairwoman of Council of Economic Advisers. Mr. Biden named former State Department spokesperson Jen Psaki as the White House Press Secretary as he announced an all-women communications team for his administration. Kate Bedingfield has been named as the White House Communications Director; Karine Jean Pierre as the Principal Deputy Press Secretary, and Symone Sanders as the Senior Adviser and Chief Spokesperson for the Vice-President. Elizabeth E. Alexander has been named the Communications Director for the First Lady, Pili Tobar the Deputy White House Communications Director, and Ashley Etienne the Communications Director for the Vice-President.
01 December 2020||Colombo,||Gunfire at Sri Lanka jail as riot toll rises to eight||Intermittent gunfire rang out on Monday at a Sri Lankan prison where a riot by inmates over a surge of coronavirus infections left at least eight dead and 55 wounded, police said. Hundreds of police surrounded the Mahara prison just outside the capital Colombo as prison guards sought to end the unrest. Inmates fought with guards on Sunday and into the night after setting fire to the kitchens and briefly took two warders hostage, residents and police said. “The two officers have been rescued and hospitalised,” police spokesman Ajith Rohana said. “The situation is under control.” Six hundred officers, including 200 police commandos, were deployed around the perimeter, he added. Prison authorities would not say, however, whether they had taken back the whole Mahara complex. The bodies of eight inmates were taken to the nearby hospital, sources said.
01 December 2020||London,||U.K. mercenaries’ role in Sri Lanka war under lens||London police said on Monday they have launched an investigation into alleged war crimes by British mercenaries who trained a security force accused of brutalising Tamil people during Sri Lanka's civil war. The war crimes unit of the Metropolitan Police said it was acting on a referral received in March “concerning war crimes alleged to have been committed by British mercenaries in Sri Lanka during the 1980s”. “Following receipt of the referral, the War Crimes Team began a scoping exercise into the matter and have subsequently launched an investigation,” it said, declining to comment further while the probe is ongoing. The investigation concerns Keenie Meenie Services (KMS), a now-defunct private security company that trained an elite unit of the Sri Lankan police called the Special Task Force (STF)in the 1980s to fight Tamil separatists, according to the BBC. The STF has been accused of summary executions of alleged Tamil Tiger rebels and killings of Tamil civilians. Book on KMS The probe follows the publication in January of a book by investigative journalist Phil Miller called “ Keenie Meenie: The British Mercenaries Who Got Away with War Crimes ”. “A lot of Tamil people became refugees in the 1980s, that's when KMS were there,” Mr. Miller told the BBC. “People remember being attacked by helicopter gunships so I think people are quite shocked to learn that in many of those cases helicopters were flown by British mercenaries,” he said. KMS was founded in the 1970s by former officers of Britain's elite Special Air Service, including David Walker. It ceased trading in the 1990s and Walker, 78, is now listed as one of the directors of another London-based company, Saladin Security. Charges denied The BBC quoted a representative of Walker as saying: “The allegations that David Walker or staff of KMS Limited were complicit in war crimes in Sri Lanka in the mid-1980s is categorically denied.” The police unit “has not yet asked for assistance from Saladin or Mr Walker, but they will be happy to cooperate if asked”, the representative added. Sri Lanka's Tamil separatist war ended in 2009. More than 100,000 people lost their lives, according to United Nations estimates. The United Nations has accused the Sri Lankan forces of killing at least 40,000 Tamil civilians in its military campaign, an allegation denied by successive governments.
01 December 2020||Washington,||Janet Yellen to head Treasury department||U.S. President-elect Joe Biden on Monday named former Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen as his choice for Treasury Secretary. “Janet Yellen is nominated to serve as Secretary of the Treasury. If confirmed, she will be the first woman to lead the Treasury Department in its 231-year history,” Mr. Biden’s transition team said in a statement. The 74-year-old previously broke barriers as the first female Fed chief. “As we get to work to control the virus, this is the team that will deliver immediate economic relief for the American people during this economic crisis,” Mr. Biden said.
01 December 2020||Islamabad,||Islamabad, Nov 30, 2020 (AFP) -||At least 13 people were killed when a passenger van and a bus collided and caught fire in Pakistan’s central Punjab province on Monday, police said. The vehicles were consumed by flames when a gas cylinder fitted in one of the vehicles exploded in the accident in Narang Mandi city, north of Lahore.AFP
01 December 2020||Washington,||Washington, Nov 30, 2020 (AFP) -||U.S. president-elect Joe Biden has a foot fracture and will likely wear a medical boot, his team said on Sunday after he was taken to the doctor because he slipped while playing with his dog. Mr. Biden suffered the injury on Saturday with Major, one of his two German shepherds.AFP
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Is a person’s address public information?||Recently, in a case involving activist Saket Gokhale, the Bombay High Court ordered the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to remove Mr. Gokhale’s contact details from its website. His address was revealed to the general public when the Right to Information application filed by him was displayed on the Ministry’s website. According to Mr. Gokhale, once his phone number and address were displayed, he began receiving threats on the phone. A mob gathered outside his house chanting slogans against him because of his activism against the ruling party. What happened to Mr. Gokhale is unacceptable and the state must take all possible steps to prosecute those who threatened him and his family. The larger question here is whether a person’s address is public or private information. The answer to this will have significant implications for transparency in governance and the fight against corruption in India. Addresses in public records The instinctive reaction of most people is to consider their address private information and this is entirely understandable. However, it is also important to note that the address of people’s residence or office has never been considered private under Indian law. Back in the day, government telecom service providers used to supply telephone directories to everyone containing the names, telephone numbers and addresses of every subscriber in the city. Similarly, electoral voter lists include the addresses of all voters in each and every ward. These lists are now available online in a digital format on the website of the Election Commission. Land records, containing details of ownership, are open for public inspection across the country and play a crucial part in ensuring confidence in the volatile land markets in India. Similarly, all FIRs in cognisable cases must be displayed on the website, according to a Supreme Court judgment. These would display the names and addresses of the complainants and the accused. Ironically, even the courts, including in Mr. Gokhale’s case, disclose the addresses of litigants in their judgments as a regular practice. Many of the new transparency initiatives such as the Jan Soochna Portal in Rajasthan make available the details of all beneficiaries of all welfare schemes administered by the State government. The rationale for such disclosures is quite simple. As has been demonstrated repeatedly by grassroots activists working on the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and the Public Distribution Scheme, access to information about beneficiaries, including addresses, is critical to weeding out ‘ghost beneficiaries’ created by officials looking to pilfer funds or rations. In all of these cases, the disclosure of addresses of citizens in the public domain plays a crucial role in boosting public confidence in governance systems and ensuring efficiency while also combating corruption in its various forms. Privacy and information Questions such as privacy, which involve fundamental rights, must be dealt with not just on the basis of the consequences that may follow from the disclosure of their addresses but also first principles of the law and this is where the judgment of the Bombay High Court is on thin ice. In its order in Mr. Gokhale’s case, the Bombay High Court relies heavily on a brief order of the Calcutta High Court in the case of Avishek Goenka v. Asish Kumar Roy (2013). In the Goenka case, an RTI activist wanted to provide a P.O. Box number as his address while filing a RTI application in order to not disclose his residential address and thereby protect himself from possible reprisals. However, the public authority insisted that he disclose his residential address. The Calcutta High Court ruled in favour of the RTI applicant because the RTI Act does not require information seekers to disclose personal details except those which may be required for contacting him. At the same time, the Calcutta High Court, confoundingly, also permitted authorities to disallow P.O. boxes and insist on personal details in cases where the Public Information Officers faced “difficulty”. This was followed with the caveat that in all such cases, personal details should be hidden by the government from public disclosure in order to prevent harassment of the RTI activist. This part of the Calcutta High Court’s order formed the basis of the Bombay High Court’s order in Mr. Gokhale’s case. Both the Calcutta High Court and the Bombay High Court followed a consequential line of reasoning i.e., the information in question should be treated as private because its disclosure may lead to threats against the RTI applicant. With all due respect to the honourable High Courts, this is the wrong approach and will lead to inconsistent outcomes as visible in Mr. Gokhale’s case, where the government was upbraided for disclosing his address while the High Court did not think twice about disclosing his address in its own judgment that is published on the Internet for all to access. RTI v. Privacy Thus, the correct question to ask in such cases is, which law or principle of law prevents the state from disclosing such information about the addresses of citizens? The RTI Act clearly lays down that all information held by the government must be shared with citizens unless it is exempted under Section 8 or 9 of the Act. The exemption relating to privacy is given under Section 8 (1)(j) which exempts “information which relates to personal information the disclosure of which has no relationship to any public activity or interest, or which would cause unwarranted invasion of the privacy of the individual unless the Central Public Information Officer or the State Public Information Officer or the appellate authority, as the case may be, is satisfied that the larger public interest justifies the disclosure of such information: Provided that the information, which cannot be denied to the Parliament or a State Legislature shall not be denied to any person.” While this provision protects the privacy of citizens, it requires disclosure of information bearing a nexus to public activity. Generally, most of the information in public records arises from a public activity. Applications for a government job, ration card, caste certificates are some examples of public activity. However, there may be some personal information which may be with public authorities which is not a consequence of a public activity, e.g. medical records, or transactions with a public sector bank. Similarly, a public authority may come into possession of some information during a raid or seizure which may have no relationship to any public activity. These would be exempt. Everything else should be published in the public domain. In the meanwhile, RTI activists looking to protect themselves should be urged to use P.O. boxes as a means to preserve the anonymity of their addresses. Shailesh Gandhi was a former Central Information Commissioner and Prashant Reddy T. is a lawyer
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The perils of deregulated imperfect agrimarkets||The eruption of massive farmers’ protests across India against the Farm Acts has shocked those in the seat of power in Delhi. According to the government, many private markets will be established, middlemen would disappear, farmers would be free to sell to any buyer and farmgate prices would rise. But the protesting farmers do not accept these claims. They believe that farmgate prices would fall with the intensification of a corporate presence in agricultural markets. They also believe that the government, ultimately, wants to phase out the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system. Let us look at the major claims and their merits. Due to space constraints, the focus here will only be on the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 (FPTC Act). More mandis needed An important assumption behind the FPTC Act is that mandis controlled by Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) are monopsonies in rural areas. This assumption itself is specious. First, official data show that even for paddy and wheat, respectively, only 29% and 44% of the harvest is sold in a mandi , while 49% and 36% is sold to either a local private trader or an input dealer. In other words, de facto , a large proportion of Indian harvest is not directly sold in a mandi . Farmers are forced to sell outside the mandis for two reasons. The first is that there are not enough mandis . In 1976, there were 4,145 large markets in India, with the average area served at 775 km2. The National Commission on Agriculture (NCA) had recommended that every Indian farmer should be able to reach a mandi in one hour by a cart. . Thus, the average area served by a mandi was to be reduced to 80 km2. For this, the number of mandis was to increase to at least 41,000. But there were only 6,630 mandis in 2019 with an average area served of 463 km2. Using another set of criteria, a government committee in 2017 had recommended that India should have at least 10,130 mandis . So, by all counts, India needs not less but more mandis . The second reason is that most small and marginal farmers, given their small marketable surplus, do not find it economical to bear the transport costs to take their harvests to mandis . Thus, they end up selling their harvest to a village trader even if at a lower price. Even if private markets replace mandis , small and marginal farmers will continue to sell to traders in the village itself. The situation will change only if economies of scale rise substantially at the farm-level. Second, de jure too, the freedom to sell outside mandis already exists in many States. Already, 18 States have allowed the establishment of private markets outside the APMC; 19 States have allowed the direct purchase of agricultural produce from farmers; and 13 States have allowed the establishment of farmer’s markets outside the APMC. Despite such legislative changes, no significant private investment has flowed in to establish private markets in these States. Private markets have emerged in some pockets for some crops, but these are by no means widespread. The reason for poor private investment in markets is the presence of high transaction costs in produce collection and aggregation. When private players try to take over the role of mandis and the village trader, they incur considerable costs in opening collection centres and for salaries, grading, storage and transport. The more the number of small and marginal farmers are, the higher will these costs be. Corporate retail chains face additional costs in urban sales and storage, as well as the risk of perishability. This is why many retail chains prefer purchasing bulk quantities of fruits and vegetables from mandis rather than directly from farmers. Transaction costs Even if private markets emerge, the size of transaction costs are likely to offset any decline in mandi taxes. As a result, there is no assurance that farmers would receive a higher price in private markets. In the existing private markets too, there is no evidence of farmers receiving higher prices than in the mandis . In fact, if transaction costs exceed mandi taxes, the costs would be transferred to the farmers as a lower price. This, then, would imply a stronger squeeze on the farmer than at present Many commentaries treat taxes in mandis as wasteful. This assertion is not fully true. First, much of the mandi taxes are reinvested by APMCs to improve market infrastructure. A fall in mandi taxes would reduce the surplus available with APMCs for such investment. Second, in States such as Punjab, the government charges a market committee fee and a rural development fee. The Punjab Mandi Board uses these revenues to construct rural roads, run medical and veterinary dispensaries, supply drinking water, improve sanitation, expand rural electrification and provide relief to farmers during calamities. Such rural investments will also be adversely affected if mandis are weakened. The fate of MSPs Without doubt, MSPs would continue to survive on paper as the government will have to procure to maintain a minimum buffer stock. However, many policy signals point to a strategic design to weaken the MSPs. First, input and labour costs are rising sharply in agriculture. This necessitates a regular upward revision of MSPs to keep pace with costs of living. However, MSPs are rising at a far slower rate over the past five to six years than in the past. Second, the government has not yet agreed to fix MSPs at 50% above the C2 cost of production. As a result, farmers continue to suffer a price loss of Rs. 200 to Rs. 500 per quintal in many crops. Third, the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) has been recommending to the government that open-ended procurement of food grains should end. These policy stances have set alarm bells ringing among farmers. In Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, most crop sales are at the MSP through procurement centres including the mandis . The farmers in these regions legitimately feel that they have been dealt a double whammy. If mandis weaken and private markets with no commitment to MSPs expand, they fear a gradual erosion of their entitlement to a remunerative price. If mandis weaken and private markets do not sufficiently replace them, they fear that the void would be filled by unscrupulous and unregulated traders. As Barbara Harriss-White, a scholar of India’s agricultural markets once observed, “deregulated imperfect markets may become more, not less, imperfect than regulated imperfect markets”. Steps to be taken Discussions between the government and the farmers can be structured using a broad framework based on two focus points. First, India needs an increase in the density of mandis , expansion of investment in mandi infrastructure and a spread of the MSP system to more regions and crops. This should happen hand-in-hand with a universalisation of the Public Distribution System as an affordable source of food for the poor. Second, we need not just more mandis , but also better mandis . APMCs need internal reform to ease the entry of new players, reduce trader collusion and link them up with national e-trading platforms. The introduction of unified national licences for traders and a single point levy of market fees are also steps in the right direction. However, if we go by the Union Finance Minister’s statement in November 2019, the government thinks that the APMC system has “served its purpose” and the States should “reject” and “dismantle” mandis . Such statements betray the real intent of the government, which has not missed the attention of the protesting farmers. Further, the branding of protesters as “anti-national” and “Khalistanis” has only helped to further alienate the farmers from the government. The government’s legislative adventurism with the Farm Bills was misplaced to begin with. . But it is never too late to rethink. Unconditional talks with farmers would be an appropriate starting point. R. Ramakumar is a Professor at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A misguided policy that cuts deep into patient safety||The basic requirement of medical practice is the safety of the patient. Surgery is a branch of medicine in which poor training can have dramatic and disastrous results. This is the strongest argument against the ill-advised move of the government of India to allow graduates in Ayurveda to practise surgery. Apprenticeship is key Surgery in the present era is an interdisciplinary endeavour. A well-trained anaesthesiologist keeps the patient free of pain. Other specialist doctors address any other illnesses that the patient has before surgery can be safely performed. The well-trained surgeon must have a good knowledge of the structure of the human body in health and disease. This is one branch of medicine where knowledge can only be acquired through apprenticeship — that is, the learner needs to be guided by an expert. It takes many years and much exposure before a graduate in medicine can safely perform surgery. It is an aphorism in modern medicine that a surgeon needs to know not only how to perform surgery, but when. Importantly, the surgeon needs to know when not to perform surgery, a skill commonly called clinical judgement. These skills are difficult to teach and difficult to master. Errors in surgery can be devastating. Data from the United States suggests that up to 4,000 surgical errors occur each year despite well-considered controls on who can perform surgery. Efforts to reduce this rate focus on better training. Besides professional codes, legal mechanisms have been developed to ensure safe medical practice. In India, the Consumer Protection Act serves as an incentive to modern medical practitioners to provide high quality health care. Even this legal mechanism is not accessible to the poor. It is quite clear that there is no shortcut to safe surgical outcomes. One simply cannot get away from it — safe surgery requires years of training. The idea of competence without comprehension should not beguile us into believing that surgery is a suitable subject for its application. Anecdotes of people not educated, but able to perform complex tasks should be understood in the framework of the psychologist Rasmussen’s Skill, Rule and Knowledge-based Error model. Some complex tasks are a set of repetitive steps where the person acquires proficiency merely by practice, for example, using a complex machine without knowing how it works. This is not applicable in surgery where novel situations are often encountered and a good knowledge base is essential to solve problems which may not have been previously encountered. What constitutes safe surgery Modern medicine is an integrated whole in which specialties have developed from the understanding that the knowledge base is so vast that a single human can only ever hope to master a few of the domains required in order to provide the best possible outcomes to patients. Modern medical training consists of a basic degree during which the fundamentals of the functioning of humans in health and disease, and techniques to diagnose illnesses are taught. Increased knowledge in various domains is obtained through post-graduate training. All these domains work together in order to ensure safe surgery. It is impossible for Ayurveda to incorporate surgical techniques while ignoring all the other domains of modern medicine and still perform surgery safely and effectively. What is scientific knowledge? How is it to be transmitted? Is there any sound basis for different scientific systems in the modern world? More specifically, can there be fundamentally different explanations of how the human body is structured and functions? These are all important questions and have implications for policy in health care. Important decisions with potential to seriously harm thousands of people should not be casually made without clear answers. Safe and effective health care should not become a casualty of a misguided desire to protect indigenous systems. Traditional knowledge in India has become the victim of self-serving apparatchiks who have fossilised it, preventing its development and growth. Human knowledge is a universal resource, ever growing. The way forward is to incorporate traditional medical systems into modern medicine. Could deepen inequity The quality of medical care received in India is highly dependent on personal resources. Surgical facilities manned by graduates of Ayurveda will be patronised only by the very poor who do not have the resources to access modern medical care. This will further entrench the existing grossly unequal access to health care. An epidemic of catastrophic complications, disproportionately affecting the poor can be expected if surgical procedures are performed by the poorly trained. There is a shortage of trained medical personnel in rural areas. The only way to address this is to greatly increase the number of government medical colleges. This will take a few years, but it is a safe and effective policy. Safety of patients should not become a victim of misguided policies based on poor understanding of what safe surgery requires. Dr. George Thomas, an orthopaedic surgeon practising in Chennai, is the former editor of the ‘Indian Journal of Medical Ethics’
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Recalibrating India-Nepal ties||When Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla arrived in Kathmandu on November 26 and spoke in fluent Nepali to the media, there was some hope that the visit would go beyond the traditional exchange of pleasantries. When he departed, the hope was that his visit would be the beginning of a continued dialogue between the two countries that have had a strained relationship since the imposition of a five-month-long blockade in 2015 in Nepal just as the country was recovering from a devastating earthquake. In the past five years, the only glimmer of hope to work on the relationship was the constitution of an Eminent Persons Group. The Group was disbanded after submitting its report, the outcome of which is still not known. Nepal thought that the Eminent Persons Group would be the foundation for reworking the relationship between the two countries, but for India, as a former diplomat put it, it was just one of the hundreds of initiatives or administrative mechanisms. The Foreign Secretary did not touch upon the issue of the Eminent Persons Group in his latest address. His speech was not different from speeches made in the past, and the joint statement from both the governments was a usual nicety. Unchanging perspectives The Nepal-India relationship has never been free of controversy as the perspectives of both sides are yet to change. Many in Nepal continue to equate being anti-India with being nationalistic. Politicians and political parties whip up such sentiment and compete with each other on who can be more extreme, especially before an election. Prime Minister K.P. Oli won the 2017 election partly because he projected himself as someone who stood up to India during the blockade. He again whipped up nationalistic sentiments when he got the Nepal map amended to add new territory. This was a good way to deflect attention from the poor management of the COVID-19 pandemic by his government. His government’s excuse was that after India released its new map in November 2019, Nepal wanted to discuss the map with India but the latter did not provide any time for a discussion. India continues to think that by providing largesse to Nepal in the form of aid and development projects, it can win Nepali hearts. But despite pouring billions of rupees into Nepal over decades, it has still not been able to do so. Therefore, it needs to reflect on what it is not doing right. Two issues are important to understand here. First, all aid to Nepal from countries other than India and China go through the Plans of the Government of Nepal. Indian aid is seen in Nepal as a favour bestowed on a constituency it wants to garner support from rather than a contribution to Nepal’s planned development. Second, India competes with China in providing aid outside government budgets. And China picks up projects of visibility and strategic location. Chinese involvement in Nepal has increased since the April 2015 earthquake and Nepal is surely an area of strategic influence in China’s Belt and Road Initiative. People-to-people ties The Foreign Secretary raised the issue of people-to-people exchanges between the countries, a welcome development. In the past two decades, two significant changes have happened in this area. First, Indian workers in Nepal constitute a big part of the workforce and send about $3 billion to India every year. In terms of remittances to India, Nepal ranks eighth. So, the Government of India needs to keep in mind that many households in India are being run with remittances from Nepal. Second, Nepalis have migrated in the past 20 years to more than a hundred countries; India is not the only country that Nepalis rely on for jobs or education. This is a new Nepal comprising young people with global aspirations. Nearly three-fourths of the population of Nepal is under 35 years of age. India needs to engage beyond its current constituency, the minuscule proportion of the population who are above 65. Meanwhile, Nepal needs to plan how it engages with the youth in mainland India for whom Nepal is just like Bangladesh or Myanmar, areas they study about in geography in school but know little about. There are some fundamentals that we simply cannot forget: geography will not change, the border will remain open as millions of livelihoods on both sides depend on it, and China is going to be a big global player with varied interests in the neighbourhood. Therefore, the India-Nepal relationship has to be recalibrated. The hope is that the Nepali-speaking Foreign Secretary who has Sikkimese ancestry will be able to rethink the dynamics of the relationship as he reflects on his visit to Nepal. Sujeev Shakya is the author of ‘Unleashing the Vajra: Nepal’s Journey Between India and China’ and ‘Unleashing Nepal’
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Moving forward in base areas||The Union government is in the process of deploying five more battalions of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) to Chhattisgarh to scale up anti-Maoist operations, particularly in the south Bastar region. More than 45 Central Armed Police Force battalions are already deployed in Chhattisgarh, where 14 districts are Maoist affected. Of them, eight are severely affected. Most of the 22 State armed battalions are also deployed in these districts. In addition, the CRPF’s specially trained ‘Cobra’ units and the State’s Special Task Force and District Reserve Guards are also engaged in operations in the forward areas. Though the proposed deployment is in line with the ‘National Policy and Action Plan’ of the Central government on Left Wing Extremism, its impact may have wider implications on the ground. Despite the present deployment, Bastar still has a security vacuum in many pockets, particularly in the south Bastar and Abujhmad areas. These pockets, called base areas by the Maoists, not only provide them occasion to wage ‘mobile war’ against the security forces, but also enable their military formations, including the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army battalion, to move about freely. Though their movement is regularly checked by the security forces, the Maoists still enjoy sufficient control over the tribal populace. Benefits of more forces The newly inducted battalions could have multiple advantages for the State. First, as more area will now be dominated by the security forces, the Maoists’ movement will be restricted to a comparatively smaller area. In case of any attack on the security forces, the Maoists will not be able to retreat unchallenged. Consequently, the intensity of war will be reduced and the ‘mobile war’ will come down to its basics, i.e., the ‘guerrilla war’. Similarly, the Maoists’ battalion, being large in size, will become more vulnerable and in all likelihood, would be cut back over time due to continuous pressure from the security forces. Also, additional deployment and frequent movement of the security forces would improve the intelligence network. Second, establishment of new security camps always brings immediate benefits for the nearby villages. New borewells are dug and health services are also extended by the medical staff of security camps. Once these services are initiated by the forces, the district administration scales them up by providing the required funds. The dislocated fair price shops (PDS) are restored to their original locations and villagers are not required to walk long distances to fetch their rations. All other schemes of the governments are also implemented better through these newly established security camps-cum-development centres. Third, once the security environment improves, more roads can be laid and mobile towers and electricity poles installed for better transportation, communication and electricity supply. Financial inclusion can be improved and the MNREGA works started to give impetus to economic activities. More schools, primary health centres and anganwadis can be opened up to provide basic amenities to the villagers. Fourth, democratic institutions like panchayats may get revived and political activities could increase with the improved security scenario. This may further lead to better grievance redressal in the existing inaccessible areas. Being alert on tactics However, the security forces need to be more alert to thwart any untoward incident while moving in base areas. They need to be more watchful of their tactics knowing well that IEDs and iron spikes have been laid all over by the Maoists. The collateral damage must be reduced to its minimal. The Maoists usually oppose establishment of new security camps and use villagers as their cover. A lot of violence has been witnessed in the past at the behest of the Maoists. Therefore, the villagers must to be taken into confidence and told that the new security camps will act for their welfare as centres of development. R.K. Vij is a senior IPS officer in Chhattisgarh. Views are personal
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Winter worries||New Home Ministry guidelines to check further spread of COVID-19 during the winter months starting with December reflect the government’s concern that the gradually reviving economic activity should remain unaffected by ongoing containment measures. The Centre has mandated that States declare containment zones online, identifying them with micro targeting to minimise the impact. It has also prohibited any lockdowns at State and city levels without prior consultation with the Ministry. Such advice might appear redundant, coming as it does after a long unlock phase that permitted the relaxation of restrictions on almost all public activities, barring regular flights and trains, and the onus having shifted to the citizen to avoid getting infected. Several States with a perceived decline in new infections have opened up even more; in Tamil Nadu, for instance, final year in-person college classes and medical courses except for fresh entrants are set to reopen on December 7. This is a time to reiterate proven safety norms, considering that India has about 4.48 lakh active cases out of a total of 94.31 lakh cases recorded thus far, and where almost three-fourths of new infections are concentrated in eight States and Union Territories including Delhi. Encouraging results from vaccine trials and the likelihood of early emergency use authorisation have weakened voluntary caution, and citizens are yielding to pandemic fatigue. Health authorities must reinforce the message that low-cost interventions such as masks, good ventilation and distancing norms cannot be abandoned. Evidence from the lockdown in India shows that the reproductive number for COVID-19, representing the number of fresh infections caused by an individual, was indeed reduced by the severe curbs, although the outcome varied by location. At the end of April, as the lockdown rigour eased, India had over 30,000 cases and 1,153 deaths in all. But seven months later, there were 39,806 infections and 433 deaths in a single day, November 29, underscoring the continuing challenge. The prime task before health administrators is to convince the average citizen that there is much to be gained through inexpensive lifestyle modification. A study of 131 countries published in The Lancet estimated the benefits of restricting group gatherings to 10 people, and how reducing physical attendance at workplaces could bring down the reproductive number by 38% in one month. Universal masking, with 95% compliance, is projected to reduce deaths dramatically, in another University of Washington study. Evidently, the entire economy stands to benefit from such painless interventions, while sparing doctors and frontline health workers of deadly risk. The Central government has rightly prioritised targeted containment, but it should standardise testing protocols across States, and not dilute the message of safe behaviour by labouring over the point of recoveries and low per-million fatalities.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Closer to punishment||More than 12 years since the dastardly attacks across prominent locations in Mumbai, its key conspirators have continued to evade justice in India. While nine of the attackers were shot dead by the police between November 26-29, 2008, one of them, Ajmal Kasab, was apprehended and sentenced to death after a trial that revealed the conspiracy and planning by LeT operatives among others responsible for the attacks. One among the foreign collaborators is Tahawwur Rana, who conspired with former FBI agent David Headley to assist the LeT in the planning and execution. Rana, a Pakistani-Canadian citizen, was found guilty by a U.S. court in 2011 of providing material support to the LeT and planning an attack on the offices of the Danish newspaper, Jyllands-Posten , and was later sentenced to 14 years in prison. Unlike Headley, who escaped extradition after entering into a plea bargain with the U.S. prosecutors and was sentenced to 35 years in prison, Rana was acquitted in the U.S. of charges of involvement in the 2008 terror attacks. An Illinois court commuted his jail sentence that was scheduled to end in September 2021, after he tested positive for COVID-19; this has opened the window for his extradition to India. Rana, according to Headley, had helped him to open an immigration firm in Mumbai, which was used by Headley to survey targets chosen by the LeT. An extradition memorandum filed by U.S. prosecutors in a California district court has reaffirmed Rana’s role and provides more detail into the conspiracy and the knowledge shared with him by Headley about the attacks. This should provide the U.S. court enough reason for Rana’s extradition to India to face punishment. The trial of Ajmal Kasab exposed the collusion of the Pakistan deep state with terrorist organisations. Arguably, this has helped in a dramatic reduction in terror targeting civilians in India. Groups such as the LeT and JeM have changed their modus operandi to target security forces since then. The scrutiny over Pakistan has been accentuated by the FATF’s decision to retain Pakistan on its greylist. Yet, Pakistan has done little to bring the culprits of the 26/11 attacks to book — a case in point being LeT chief Hafiz Saeed who has been sentenced to prison for terror financing but has eluded justice for his role in the 2008 attacks by never being charged despite being identified by Ajmal Kasab and Headley as a mentor with knowledge of the attacks. Rana’s extradition would go a long way in bringing justice to the nearly 160 victims of the Mumbai attacks and shed further light on cross-border terror.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||University lectures||Professor Mackenale concluded his series of lectures on “Social Philosophy” on Monday evening. The subject of the evening was “social ideals.” There were three sets of ideals, began the Professor, the aristocratic and the democratic, the socialistic and the individualistic, the national and the international. The items of each of these sets were commonly supposed to be antagonistic. The fact was not so. A harmony underlay the seemingly opposites. In aristocracy, the rulers had need to be statesmen with practical wisdom, knowledge of men, men who had the confidence of the people. That meant some sort of selection by people. The democratic ‘fraternity’ was the basis of citizenship and equality and liberty had ultimately to be interpreted in terms of fitness and opportunity which subserved the aristocratic ideal. He had already dealt with the socialistic and individualistic ideal in his previous lectures; and as regards the national and international ideals, the trend was towards the international. But the international ideal itself contained an element of nationalism in that it allowed local self-government and so forth.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Fire in Guruvayur temple||A disastrous fire broke out in the famous Sri Krishna temple here [Guruvayur] in the early hours of this morning [November 30] reducing three sides of the Chitrambalam surrounding the sanctum sanctorum to cinders. The sanctum sanctorum and the presiding deity were not affected by the fire which was stated to have started at about 1-20 a.m. The fire, it was stated, originated near the Vinayaka shrine on the western side of the Chitrambalam and soon spread to the “mystery room”. (This room is never opened). It engulfed the whole of the western Chitrambalam and destroyed it completely. The fire spread to the southern and northern enclosures and destroyed most of them. The copper plate roofing of the Chitrambalam melted and what little remained on the roofing was all twisted out of shape. Three-fourths of the Chitrambalam were reduced to a shambles. The Chief Priest of the temple removed the idol of Sri Krishna from the sanctum sanctorum fearing that the fire might also engulf it. He kept the idol under safe custody in his residence adjoining the temple until the fire was brought under control.
01 December 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Bank capital in India, Sri Lanka to fall more than in other EMs’||Bank capital will shrink moderately in Asia’s emerging markets over the next two years with banks in India and Sri Lanka expected to post larger declines in the absence of public or private funds injections, Moody’s Investors Service said in its Emerging Markets Financial Institutions Outlook report. “Non Performing Loans (NPLs) will rise most for banks in India and Thailand because of the greater shock to their economies and the historically poor performance of certain loan types. In India, stress among non-bank financial institutions will also curtail their capacity to lend,” it said. Moody’s said the tangible common equity to risk-weighted assets will remain broadly unchanged or decrease modestly at most banks in emerging Asia over the next two years. “This will not be significant enough to prompt us to change our views on most banks’ fundamental creditworthiness. Banks in India and Sri Lanka could post larger capital declines without public or private capital injections,” Moody’s said. Overall, terming the 2021 outlook for banks in emerging markets as negative, Moody’s said the outlook for emerging markets insurers was stable. Asset quality uncertainty “The uncertain trajectory of asset quality is one of the biggest threats for emerging market banks, as operating conditions remain challenging amid the current health crisis,” it said. “Profit growth will be modest because of low interest rates and subdued lending, but lower loan volumes should aid capital,” said Moody’s MD Celina Vansetti-Hutchins. “Additionally, banks’ lending and funding shifts in response to flatter yield curve dynamics and low rates will also pressure net interest margins,” Ms. Vansetti-Hutchins added.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Consumer spending to rebound in 2021: Fitch||After a COVID-19 pandemic-led contraction in consumer spending in 2020, household spending will return to growth in 2021, expanding by as much as 6.6%, Fitch Solutions said on Monday. Consumer spending in India is forecast to have contracted by 12.6% in 2020. “While growth will return to positive in 2021, we do note the recovery will be slower than most countries, as a result of the significant contraction over 2020,” it said. “Unemployment will remain heightened, while the effectiveness of government support measures is questionable.” Fitch Solutions forecast a return to pre-COVID-19 levels only over the second half of 2021 and 2022. In nominal terms, total household spending will only be 1.2% higher than what it was in 2019 (Rs. 123 lakh crore in 2021, compared to Rs. 121.6 lakh crore in 2019), indicating the extent of the impact that the pandemic has had on consumer spending. Fitch Solutions said the main categories will return to growth in 2021. However, the economic impact of 2020 had created a significant base effect. Food and non-alcoholic drinks were prioritised in household budgets in 2020 and so growth in spending on these items will be slightly lower than in 2020.
01 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Amalgamation ensures stability, says DBS Bank India||The amalgamation of the erstwhile Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) with DBS Bank India Ltd. (DBIL) has ensured stability and better prospects for the former’s depositors, customers and employees following a period of uncertainty, the subsidiary of DBS Group Holdings Ltd. said on Monday. “The amalgamation of LVB has enabled us to provide stability to LVB’s depositors and employees,” said Surojit Shome, CEO, DBIL. “It also gives us access to a larger set of customers and cities where we do not currently have a presence.” The lender said interest rates on savings bank accounts and fixed deposits would be governed by the rates offered by the erstwhile LVB till further notice. All LVB employees were now on the rolls of DBIL and would continue in service, the Singapore-based group’s Indian banking unit said.  Systems integration “The DBS team is working closely with LVB colleagues to integrate LVB’s systems and network into DBS over the coming months,” DBIL said in a statement. “Once the integration is complete, customers will be able to access a wider range of products and services, including the full suite of DBS digital banking services,” the bank added.
01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘India to surpass 350 mn 5G connections by 2026’||India, which has the highest average monthly mobile data traffic per smartphone, is expected to surpass 350 million 5G subscriptions by 2026, accounting for 27% of all mobile subscriptions in the country, according to a report by Swedish telecom equipment maker Ericsson. As per the ‘The Ericsson Mobility Report 2020,’ four out of every ten mobile subscriptions in 2026 will be 5G globally with 5G subscriptions forecast to reach 3.5 billion. “In the India region, LTE (long-term evolution technology) subscriptions are forecast to increase from 710 million in 2020 to 820 million in 2026” by which time 3G will be phased out. Based on the reported timeline for spectrum auction for 5G services, India could have its first 5G connection in 2021, according to Nitin Bansal, head of network solutions for the market area south east Asia, oceania and India, Ericsson. The report added that in India, the reliance of people on mobile networks to stay connected as well as work from home during the pandemic has resulted in average traffic per smartphone user rising from 13.5 GB a month in 2019 to 15.7 GB in 2020, the highest globally.
01 December 2020||MUmbai,||‘Bank credit growth to stay slow in near term’||Bank credit growth is likely to remain moderate in the near term as lenders will continue to remain risk-averse due to the pandemic-led uncertainty, according to a report. The overall bank credit growth in October continued to decelerate to 5.6%. “The overall credit growth is expected to remain slower in the near term as banks are being selective in giving fresh loans due to asset quality concerns,” Care Ratings wrote in a report. It said though the interest rates of scheduled commercial banks (SCBs) were falling (by 115 bps from October 2019 to October 2020), pick up in incremental credit had not been seen. Services, retail and agriculture and allied segments grew 9.5%, 9.3% and 7.4% respectively in October. Industrial segment registered a contraction of 1.7% during the same period, compared with a growth of 3.4% in October 2019.
01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Passenger vehicle, bike wholesales to decline’||Domestic passenger vehicle and two-wheeler wholesales will come down in the next few months as inventory levels remain high at the dealer level, according to rating firm India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra). The overall auto industry would, however continue, to grow in the next few months, it noted. “With the festive season now over in India, the rating agency expects wholesale billings to moderate in the next couple of months, given that the inventory at dealer level for passenger vehicles (PVs) and two-wheelers is already at higher than the 21 days recommended by Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (FADA),” Ind-Ra said in a statement. However, it expected the overall automotive industry to continue to revive in the next two to three months, in line with improving economic indicators, it noted. Over the past two-three months, original equipment manufacturers had been focussing on stocking-up at the dealership level ahead of the peak demand expected during the festive season in October-November. Consequently, production had surged since August.
01 December 2020||Chennai,||Safe Storage to enter packing and moving||Safe Storage, a storage solutions provider, has drawn up plans for a countrywide expansion by end-2021 and a foray into the packers and movers business by early next year, said a top official. “Owing to the lockdown and ‘work-from-home’ scenario for the foreseeable future, self-storage facilities have seen a significant rise in demand, as people have moved out of their rented apartments back to their native places,” said M. Ramesh Babu, CEO and co-founder. “The number of enquiries have also seen a huge surge,” he added. “Our aim is to be present across nine cities in India by end of 2021. We will also be venturing into the packers and movers business by early next year,” he said.
01 December 2020||Mumbai,||‘Oct. queries on card users grows on year’||Banks’ requests for information on credit card borrowers or ‘credit card inquiries’ in October surpassed the year-earlier level, a credit information company said on Monday. This suggests consumer economic activity has materially improved since the easing of COVID-19 lockdown measures, Transunion Cibil said. Festival purchases, coupled with pent-up demand, had resulted in improvement in many economic indicators in October. However, many observers are skeptical of demand enduring.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||S&P still sees GDP shrinking by 9% in FY21||S&P Global Ratings on Monday retained its forecast of 9% contraction in the Indian economy for the current fiscal, saying even though there were now upside risks to growth, it would wait for more signs that COVID-19 infections had stabilised or fallen. S&P, in its report on Asia Pacific, said the Indian economy would grow at 10% in the next fiscal.   “We project headline consumer price inflation just above the mid-point of the Reserve Bank of India’s [target] range of 2-6% through 2021. One-off factors should ease, including food-supply disruptions... But the pass-through to core inflation, currently near 6%, suggests inflation persistence remains a challenge,” S&P said.
01 December 2020||Mumbai,||IHCL strengthens presence in east in tie up with Ambuja Neotia Group||Indian Hotels Company Ltd. (IHCL) has announced an agreement with the Ambuja Neotia Group to manage three Taj hotels — two in Kolkata and one in Patna — which would add to its east India presence. The Ambuja Neotia Group is building two other hotels in the east, in Darjeeling and Gangtok, which will open in 2022.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Kaspersky, Cert-In sign MoU for cyber security cooperation||Kaspersky on Monday said it has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) for collaboration in the area of cybersecurity. The MoU will facilitate cooperation for detection of latest cyber threats and to devise security measures, the firm said in a statement.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Paytm Money to facilitate investments in IPO, aims for 8-10% applications mkt share||Online investment platform Paytm Money said its users can now put in applications for investment in IPOs via the platform, adding that it was aiming to capture an 8-10% share of total applications for IPOs in the first year of the introduction of this facility. It said it had made the process of IPO application ‘digital and simple for retail investors’.
01 December 2020||Chennai,||Indian Bank EGM||Indian Bank shareholders on Monday approved the write-off of net accumulated losses of about Rs. 19,000 crore arising from the lender’s merger with Allahabad Bank. MD and CEO Padmaja Chunduru said the bank would use the Rs. 19,833 crore in the Share Premium Account to set off the losses.
01 December 2020||Sydney,||Warner ruled out, Cummins rested||In-form Australia opener David Warner has been ruled out of the remainder of the limited-overs series against India due to a groin injury he suffered during the second ODI here, while top pacer Pat Cummins has been rested as part of workload management. Warner, who scored 69 and 83 in the first two ODIs, hurt himself on Sunday while fielding at the SCG in the second one-dayer which Australia won by 51 runs. The dashing opener has returned home to begin his rehabilitation and will be looking to get fit ahead of the opening Test at Adelaide starting on December 17. Priority “Pat and Davie are critical to our plans for the Test series,” coach Justin Langer was quoted as saying by the Australian media. “Davie will work through his injury rehab. “And in Pat’s case it is important all of our players are managed well to keep them mentally and physically fit throughout what is a challenging summer. “The priority for both is being fully prepared for one of the biggest and most important home Test series we have played in recent years, especially with World Test Championship points up for grabs,” Langer said. Left-handed batsman D’Arcy Short, who was the leading run-scorer in two series in the Big Bash League, has been named Warner’s replacement in Australia’s white-ball squad. India and Australia will play one more ODI on Wednesday before the three T20 Internationals begin on Friday. Cummins, who was part of Australia’s England tour in August and also played for Kolkata Knight Riders in the IPL, has not been at his best and went wicketless in the first game before claiming three for 67 in the second. All-rounder Marcus Stoinis, who missed the second ODI after suffering a side strain in the opening game, will stay in the squad. No game for Marsh But all-rounder Mitchell Marsh, who is recovering from an ankle injury sustained while playing in the IPL, will not be playing the warm-up game between India-A and Australia-A starting on Sunday. He will continue his rehabilitation and no replacement has been named for him in the ‘A’ squad.
01 December 2020||Milan,||Conte in the firing line, seeks miracle||Antonio Conte is in the firing line with another Champions League failure looming as his Inter Milan side heads to Borussia Monchengladbach on Tuesday with its hopes of reaching the knock-out stage hanging by a thread. The three-time European champion is bottom of Group B with just two points from four games, six points behind leader Gladbach. Real Madrid is one point behind the Germans in second place and three clear of Ukrainian side Shakhtar Donetsk with two matches to play. Title drought An Italian team has not won a European trophy since Inter secured the Champions League to complete a treble under Jose Mourinho in 2010. And Inter needs a miracle to avoid a third consecutive exit in the group stage. Against Gladbach, the 1977 European Cup runner-up, there will be no room for error. The teams settled for a 2-2 draw at the San Siro last month, with Romelu Lukaku scoring both goals for the hosts. Inter needs to win and then beat Shakhtar, while also hoping other results go its way. An exit from the lucrative tournament would prove costly for Inter, who this week revealed losses of €102.4 million for 2019/2020, largely blamed on the coronavirus pandemic. This season Inter has frequently had to come from behind, battling back from two goals down to equalise before Real Madrid snatched a 3-2 victory in Spain. Against Gladbach, Conte will be counting on the attacking duo of Lukaku and Lautaro Martinez, who have scored 10 of Inter’s 14 Champions League goals in the past two seasons. Sanchez factor Alexis Sanchez also scored against Sassuolo, finding the net in two consecutive league fixtures for the first time since December 2017 when he was at Arsenal.
01 December 2020||Sydney,||Smith almost missed Sunday’s ODI with a bout of vertigo||Top Australia batsman Steve Smith has revealed he suffered a “bad dose of vertigo” ahead of the second ODI against India on Sunday and was not sure of playing the game in which he struck a series-clinching hundred. Smith’s quick-fire 62-ball 100 propelled Australia to a mammoth 389 for four in the second ODI, which it defended easily to secure a decisive 2-0 lead in the ODI series. However, the former skipper said it “didn’t look great there for a while”. Strugglling “I didn’t know I was playing today. I had a really bad dose of vertigo this morning and I was struggling. I came down early to have a hit and a bit of a run around,” Smith told cricket.com.au after receiving his second successive Man-of-the-Match award. Smith said it was team doctor Leigh Golding, who relieved him of the symptoms by performing the ‘Epley maneuver’ (a series of head movements used to treat benign paroxysmal positional vertigo, a condition caused by a problem in the inner ear). “The doctor, I think he performed six manoeuvres on me this morning and got the crystals out of my ears and I was struggling for a bit,” he said. “Just pleased to be able to get out here and play another good innings and help the team.”
01 December 2020||LONDON,||Arsenal slumps to yet another defeat||Arsenal slumped to a fourth defeat in six Premier League games as Wolverhampton Wanderers shrugged off a worrying early injury to Raul Jimenez to claim a 2-1 win at The Emirates on Sunday. Pedro Neto out Wolves the ahead in the 27th minute and although Gabriel headed the host level, a clever finish by Daniel Podence restored the visitors’ lead before halftime. Ending a drought Wolves hung on for its first league win at Arsenal since 1979 to move up to sixth in the table on 17 points, four points off the top, while Arsenal is languishing in 14th spot with 13. Napoli, playing in Argentina-style shirts as a tribute to the late Diego Maradona, demolished AS Roma 4-0 in Serie A on another poignant evening on Sunday. Lorenzo Insigne put Napoli ahead with a sublime free kick and celebrated by running halfway across the pitch to collect and kiss a shirt with Maradona’s name on it. Fabian Ruiz, Dries Mertens and Matteo Politano added three more goals in the second half to hand Roma its first defeat of the season on the pitch in all competitions.  As with all other Serie A matches, the game was preceded by a minute‘s silence for Maradona, who enjoyed seven remarkable seasons at Napoli, and the game stopped in the tenth minute for a round of applause. La Liga leader Real Sociedad’s six-game winning streak ended on Sunday as it was held to a 1-1 draw at home to Villarreal. Sociedad is on top with 24 points after 11 games but Atletico Madrid is one point behind with two games in hand. Villarreal is third with 20 ahead of Real Madrid on 17.  The results:   Premier League: Chelsea 0 drew with Tottenham 0; Arsenal 1 (Gabriel 30) lost to Wolves 2 (Neto 27, Podence 42).   LaLiga: Getafe 1 (Angel 75) drew with Athletic Bilbao 1 (Villalibre 9); Celta Vigo 3 (Nolito 27, Baeza 81, Beltran 85) bt Granada 1 (Suarez 25); Real Sociedad 1 (Oyarzabal 33-pen) drew with Villarreal 1 (Moreno 6-pen).   Serie A: Lazio 1 (Immobile 74-pen) lost to Udinese 3 (Arslan 18, Pussetto 45+3, Forestieri 71); Bologna 1 (Soriano 45+2) bt Crotone 0; Cagliari 2 (Joao Pedro 52, Pavoletti 58) drew with Spezia 2 (Gyasi 36, Nzola 90+4-pen); Napoli 4 (Insigne 30, Ruiz 64, Mertens 81, Politano 86) bt Roma 0.   Bundesliga: Bayer Leverkusen 0 drew with Hertha Berlin 0; Mainz 1 (Quaison 33) drew with Hoffenheim 1 (Bebou 62) .
01 December 2020||KOLKATA,||Fabulous spinners do the trick for Tapan Memorial||Tapan Memorial Club relied on its spinners’ fabulous showing to record a 22-run victory over Kalighat Club in a low-scoring match of the Bengal T20 Challenge at the Eden Gardens here on Monday. Opting to bat, TMC banked on Kaif Ahmed’s useful half-century (57 off 51, 6x4, 2x6) to post 113 for four. Then TMC’s spin quartet – Vikash Singh, Ramesh Prasad, Shahbaz Ahmed and Prayas Ray Barman – played a major role in bundling out Kalighat for 91. On a track offering variable bounce and assistance for the spinners, TMC was 25 for three in six overs before Kaif, who cut and pulled the loose deliveries to get most of his boundaries, and Shahbaz (27 not out off 38, 2x4) displayed risk-free batting to add 88 runs. Poor start Kalighat had a poor start as it managed 37 for three in 10 overs with Shahbaz, Ramesh and Vikash – who trapped the experienced Sudip Chatterjee (1) in front – picking up a wicket apiece. Captain Subham Chatterjee (25 off 24) and Prinan Dutta (15 off 19, 1x4) tried to revive the Kalighat innings before Shahbaz had his opposite number lbw in the 13th over to tilt the contest in TMC’s favour.  The scores: Tapan Memorial Club 113/4 in 20 overs (Kaif Ahmed 57, Amit Kuila 2/31) bt Kalighat Club 91 in 19.4 overs (Vikash Singh 2/8, Ramesh Prasad 2/13, Shahbaz Ahmed 2/16).   On Sunday: Mohun Bagan 136/7 in 20 overs (Anustup Majumdar 48, Ayan Bhattacharjee 2/17, Azaz Ansari 2/26) lost to Town Club 137/7 in 19.3 overs (Gitimoy Basu 44, Kazi Saifi 31, Sayan Ghosh 3/34).
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Angulo helps FC Goa hold NEUFC||Igor Angulo’s third goal of the tournament helped FC Goa record a 1-1 draw against NorthEast United FC (NEUFC) in an Indian Super League (ISL) encounter at Fatorda Stadium (Goa) on Monday. A proactive FC Goa created better chances, but it was not enough to record a first win. An unbeaten NEUFC stayed in the second spot with five points from three games. Soft penalty NEUFC took a 1-0 lead despite FC Goa dominating the possession battle. FC Goa centre-back Ivan Gonzalez tugged on the arm of NEUFC forward Idrissa Sylla inside the box, leading to the referee awarding a soft penalty. Sylla, forced to retake the spot kick after an overeager teammate infringed, calmly converted his second attempt. Drawing level Just a few minutes later, FC Goa pulled level through Angulo. The chance was created by Brandon Fernandes, who turned his marker Provat Lakra inside out to create space on the flank. A fine cross from Fernandes was received by Angulo, who deftly slotted it past the goalkeeper with a first-time left-footed shot. Fernandes, who has made a name for himself as an expert provider, found a clinical finisher in Angulo.   In the final minutes, Alberto Noguera nearly gave FC Goa the full three points. A left-footed screamer from distance went past substitute custodian Gurmeet Singh, who was brought in to replace the injured Subhasish Roy. The ball, however, crashed into the sidepost and stayed out. Gurmeet’s opposite number Mohammad Nawaz had a good day at the office, making a couple of brave, crucial saves.  The result: FC Goa 1 (Igor Angulo 43) drew with NorthEast United 1 FC (Idrissa Sylla 40) .
01 December 2020||Buenos Aires,||Police begin probe into Maradona’s death||Police began investigation for involuntary manslaughter against Diego Maradona's personal doctor on Sunday, four days after the Argentina football legend died following a heart attack, prosecutors in San Isidro said. Police raided Leopoldo Luque's surgery and home in search of possible evidence pointing to negligence, according to television images. Daughters’ concerns The probe was triggered by concerns raised by three of Maradona's daughters Dalma, Gianinna and Jana over the treatment he received for his heart condition at his home in Tigre, north of Buenos Aires, judicial sources said. “Our investigations are ongoing, we are talking to witnesses including members of the family of Maradona”, a source close to the San Isidro inquiry said. Later in the day, Dr. Luque gave an emotional televised news conference. “You want to know what I am responsible for?” the 39-year-old doctor asked between sobs. “For having loved him, for having taken care of him, for having extended his life, for having improved it to the end.” “I am a neurosurgeon,” said Luque. “I am the person who has been taking care of him. I'm proud of everything I've done. I have nothing to hide. I am at the disposal of justice.”
01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||So rallies twice to keep final level||Magnus Carlsen and Wesley So won with white to be locked 2-2 after a dramatic first set of the title-clash in the $100,000 Skilling Open online chess tournament on Sunday. Rarely does Carlsen lose, but to see him lose twice in a set was almost unbelievable. So bounced back twice from deficit to level the match and later said Carlsen was clearly not playing his best chess. Carlsen promptly punished a So mistake in the first game, with a decisive attack. In the second game, it was Carlsen who tripped into a checkmating net. Carlsen was seen giving vent to his frustration by punching the air in disgust. But when the action resumed, Carlsen produced a masterclass and brilliantly won with white to regain his lead at 2-1. In the fourth game, So brought Carlsen under time-pressure. The pressure took its toll and Carlsen cracked to leave the score at 2-2. So said, “To beat Magnus twice is very special. I am very happy to compete with Magnus, he is the superior player by all measures and standards. I guess, he is not in his best form right now, so that gives me some chances."  The results: Final: Set One: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) drew with Wesley So (USA) 2-2.
01 December 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Olympics delay is a blessing in disguise’||Avinash Sable, who smashed the National record while winning the Airtel Delhi Half Marathon gold among Indian elite runners on Sunday, has set the tone for next year’s Tokyo Olympics. Having clocked 1:00:30sec at the event, Sable said he wanted to test his endurance level for the Tokyo Games. “I wasn’t doing any special preparations for the half marathon. My focus has been the Olympic Games and since I haven’t had any chance to compete this year, I participated in the ADHM to test my endurance level and to get back into a competitive frame of mind. As I had started training just 15-20 days before the event, it felt great to break the National record,” said Sable. No visit to home Sable, who has been training with coach Amrish Kumar in Bengaluru, hasn’t visited his home for over four years and has decided to do so only after the Olympic Games. Speaking about the training during the lockdown, Sable said, “The initial few days were a little troublesome, but after realising that this thing is going to last long, I started training again. I decided not to go home as it becomes challenging to get back into the rhythm after a long break. So, whenever I got time here [Bengaluru], I started training and tried to keep up my fitness.” The 26-year-old, who earned the Olympics berth last year, feels the postponement has been a ‘blessing in disguise’ as he now has more time to improve his timings. “Initially, I thought I would go to the Olympics and give it my best. I just wanted to get done with it as quick as possible. But the delay has turned out to be a blessing in disguise as I have realised that it’s a great chance for me to cover all bases before heading to Tokyo,” said Sable. “In terms of timing, I was way far from the world-level, but the delay has helped me grow and improve on various aspects of this sport. Now, I’ll go to compete, not only to participate, and I am hopeful of getting good results,” concluded Sable.
01 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Ashok Shandilya in pursuit of a dream||Former World billiards champion and National coach Ashok Shandilya is on a mission to produce champion cueists from the City by setting up his ‘Three Ball Theory’ academy here. He wishes to emulate his 'guru' and cue sports great Wilson Jones, after whom the hall is named. “The reason I started my second one here (after the Indore Academy) is that my first-ever coaching stint was in this City, 20 years ago when my good friend and national player Minhaj Ahmed asked me to train a few players at his residence,” 52-year-old Shandilya said in a chat with The Hindu here on Monday. “We should make the effort and others, including the Government and Federation, will follow. I believe there is an abundance of talent and interest in Hyderabad given the huge number of ‘pool parlours’. My vision is to let the game prosper,” Shandilya said. He thanked “good friend”, Bengaluru-based Ankur Vithani for donating three world-class tables for the academy, and K. Suresh (whose son K. Vibhas is trained by Shandilya and is India sub-junior No. 4) for all help. He said his employer Railways — (he is a senior sports officer based in Mumbai — was very understanding and so he could spend at least 15 days here each month. is very cooperative and Tournament “To start with I will conduct an Open tournament for players from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana from December 10 with a prize money of Rs. 1.5 lakh. A sort of talent scouting to pick the best and groom them on a long-term basis,” he said. “Ever since I stopped playing competitive sport in 2016, I have been nursing this dream of producing champions,” he concluded.
01 December 2020||Chennai,||TNCA willing to host domestic calendar||The Tamil Nadu Cricket Association on Monday expressed its willingness to host domestic competitions in Chennai after the BCCI wrote to State associations outlining its plan to conduct a curtailed domestic season. The TNCA also stated its preference to start the season with the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament, followed by the Vijay Hazare one-day competition before the Ranji Trophy. A senior TNCA official told The Hindu , “We would like to start with the shorter formats to get used to how the bio-secure bubble can be operated. It is easy to start with the T20 tournament since it will only need 22 days.” Quality grounds The official also added “apart from the main M.A. Chidambaram Stadium, we also have quality grounds like IIT-Chemplast, IC-Guru Nanak, SRMC.”  Prefers to start with the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20
01 December 2020||London,||Clash of heads raises serious concerns||The sound of the thud from a clash of heads just added to concern. The game was only five minutes old at the Emirates Stadium when Wolverhampton forward Raul Jimenez and Arsenal defender David Luiz collided while jumping for the ball. The emptiness of the Emirates Stadium — with fans still excluded until next week due to the pandemic — made the troubling sound all the more audible. Concerns grew as Jimenez appeared motionless and was eventually wheeled off the field with an oxygen mask on. Red, red “I knew straight away that something was wrong,” Wolves manager Nuno Espirito Santo said. “Everyone called ‘red, red,’ which means it’s a bad situation. You see the panic in their eyes.” By the time the Premier League game ended — with Wolves beating Arsenal 2-1 — there was a more encouraging update from the London hospital with Jimenez said to be conscious and talking. It was later revealed that Jimenez had fractured his skull. Wolves said he would remain under observation for a few days. “Raul is comfortable following an operation last night, which he underwent in a London hospital,” read the club statement. One of the lingering concerns, though, was why a bandaged and bloodied Luiz played on until the interval at a time when there is growing scrutiny into the long-term impact of head injuries. Trials of concussion substitutes are only due to begin in 2021. Conscious all the time Arsenal maintained that Luiz never lost consciousness. “They have some tests they have to do before they put him back on the pitch, and then David was just concerned about the cut, nothing else,” Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta said.
01 December 2020||MANAMA,||Fittipaldi to replace Grosjean at Sakhir GP||Brazilian reserve driver Pietro Fittipaldi will make his Formula One race debut with Haas at next weekend’s Sakhir Grand Prix in Bahrain as a stand-in for the injured Romain Grosjean, the US-owned team said on Monday. Frenchman Grosjean suffered burns to the back of his hands in a fiery crash that split his car in two during Sunday’s Bahrain Grand Prix. The 34-year-old is expected to remain in hospital until Tuesday. The team said he was unable to compete. “After it was decided that the best thing for Romain was to skip at least one race, the choice to put Pietro in the car was pretty easy,” said team principal Guenther Steiner in a statement. “He’s familiar with us having been around the team for the past two seasons as a test and reserve driver. “He’s been patient and was always prepared for this opportunity and now it has come. “That’s why we want him in the car and I’m sure he’ll do a good job.”
01 December 2020||Manama,||Formula One’s safety systems come in for praise||Race officials and drivers praised the modern safety systems developed for Formula One on Sunday after Romain Grosjean said he was “okay” after surviving a high-speed crash and fireball blaze on the opening lap of the Bahrain Grand Prix. Safety and official medical car driver Alan van der Merwe was on the scene within seconds as he followed the field after the start of the race and along with chief medical officer Dr. Ian Roberts they battled the blaze to save Grosjean’s life. “It’s a miracle that he’s alive,” said 1996 World champion Damon Hill, who was Ayrton Senna’s teammate at the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix when the Brazilian was killed. Big surprise Van der Merwe said: “It was a big surprise for us as well, we’ve never seen that much fire in 12 years. “Romain started to get out of the car himself which was pretty amazing after an accident like that. It was a relief to see he was okay. It just goes to show all the systems we’ve developed worked hand in hand — the halos, the barriers, the seatbelts, everything all worked as it should. “Without just one of those things, it could have been a very different outcome.” Grosjean’s Haas team boss Guenther Steiner said: “When you see something like this the only thing you think is ‘I hope we get lucky’ — you don’t think how it happened or whatever. “I would like to thank all the marshals. They did a fantastic job to get him away as quick as possible from the fire. It was amazing what they did.” Grosjean said the once controversial ‘halo’ safety device had saved his life. “I wasn’t for the halo some years ago but I think it’s the greatest thing we brought to Formula 1 and without it I wouldn’t be able to speak to you today,” he added. Steiner added that Grosjean, who is set to leave F1 at the end of the season, had suffered “light burns on his hands and ankles”. Grosjean was taken to hospital, with reports suggesting he had also suffered a suspected broken rib. “The driver self-extricated, and was conscious at all times,” the FIA said in a statement. “He was taken to the medical centre before being transferred to Bahrain Defence Force (BDF) Hospital by helicopter where he is undergoing further evaluation.” “I’m so grateful Romain is safe,” champion Lewis Hamilton wrote on Twitter.  It was a big surprise for us as well, we’ve never seen that much fire in 12 years Alan van der Merwe Safety and official medical car driver
01 December 2020||Sakhir,||Bosses pledge a full probe into the crash||Formula One bosses promised a full investigation on Sunday into the failings exposed by Romain Grosjean’s terrifying fireball crash in the opening lap of the Bahrain Grand Prix. Formula One’s managing director Ross Brawn said there had been unpredictable and worrying failures. “The fire is worrying. The split in the barrier is worrying and the barrier coming apart, but we can be happy with the safety of the car — that got us through today, but things failed in an unpredictable way. “We haven’t seen anything like that for a very long time, but the barrier splitting normally results in a fatality. “The ‘halo’ saved the day and it saved Romain. There was controversy in developing it initially, but there can’t be any doubt now.” There was reluctance and some opposition to the idea of the halo when F1’s former race director Charlie Whiting championed its value and introduction in 2018. Bianchi’s death The device was proposed and created in the aftermath of the death of Jules Bianchi who died in 2015 from head injuries sustained in a crash at the 2014 Japanese Grand Prix, nine months earlier. On Sunday, the French driver’s mother Christine sent a brief and poignant message that summed up the value of the device. “They introduced the halo after my son’s accident and now the halo has saved Romain’s life today,” she wrote, according to reports.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Lord Siva’s grace||In Thirumoolar’s Thirumandiram, there is a segment called Siva paratva, where Thirumoolar talks about Lord Siva’s supremacy, said R. Narayanan in a discourse. Thirumoolar says that Siva, whom he worships, has hair that is golden in colour. Siva is known as Nandi. He bows before none, but everyone bows before Him. He is the One who makes cultivation of land possible, because He gives us rain-bearing clouds, which are essential for agriculture. Siva is indestructible, whereas the devas do not possess such immortality. And yet, there are many in this world, who do not realise His greatness. Even the devas have not grasped His greatness. He holds everything within Him and yet transcends everything. His greatness is immeasurable. While others are restricted to their space of operation, Siva is not restricted by anything, says Thirumoolar. His grace makes Him resplendent and this grace also makes Him impartial and balanced with respect to all. He is the beginning and the end of everything. Siva wears ash, a garland of bones and dances in the place where bodies are cremated. In anyone else, these would seem like negative traits, but it is these very traits which are celebrated and praised by His devotees. He is the One who grants us our wishes. How can He not be praised? If we mix a spice like asafoetida and kasturi together and heat them, the smell of kasturi will be stronger than that of asafoetida. In the same way, even though people may see Siva as a God on a par with other Gods, no God’s mercy can equal that of Siva. Kubera did penance and pleased with his tapas, Lord Siva made him the ruler of Alakapuri. Thus even the god of wealth owes his position to Siva. According to Thirumoolar, only penance that is done to attain Siva’s grace can truly be called penance.
01 December 2020||Mysuru:,||Kumar shines for NCC in drawn tie||A good all-round performance by L.R. Kumar (110 & four for 29) helped National CC gain vital first innings points in its drawn two-day KSCA Mysore zone Ist Division league match against Jaihind CC ‘A’ at the JSS-SJCE grounds here last weekend.  The scores: 1st Division: Jaihind CC ‘A’: 95 in 45.1 overs (L.R. Kumar 4/29) & 168/6 in 55 overs (J. Kiran 47, M.B. Vivek 29) drew with National CC 362/7 decl. in 76 overs (L.R. Kumar 110, C. Ritheesh 72, N.R. Madhava 65 n.o., Chakshu R. Gowda 27, T.M. Ravichandra 4/84). NCC 3 points, Jaihind CC ‘A’ 1.   MUCSC 287 in 86.2 overs (including 20 penalty runs) (N. Shreyas 88, Sunil Kumar Jain 45, S. Rajath 29, Milind Ramesh 27) & 6/1 in 8.2 overs drew with RBNCC ‘A’ 305 in 77.3 overs (Kruthik Krishna 93, S.J. Nikin Jose 65, Saishiv Narayan 63, P.V. Preetham 50, N.J. Gowtham 5/89). RBNCC ‘A’ 3, MUCSC 1 .
01 December 2020||Mount Maunganui,||Final T20I rained off; Kiwis take series 2-0||The third and final Twenty20 International between New Zealand and the West Indies here was rained off on Monday, giving the Black Caps a 2-0 series win. Only 2.2 overs were bowled before a downpour forced players from the field with the West Indies on 25 for one after being asked to bat. The umpires called off the fixture two hours later with no sign of a break in the weather. New Zealand won the first T20 by five wickets and the second by 72 runs against a West Indies outfit that only emerged from COVID-19 quarantine on Thursday. Paceman Lockie Ferguson was named Man-of-the-Series for his five for 21 in the opening fixture, plus one wicket apiece in the second and third matches. The first of two Tests between the sides begins in Hamilton on Thursday.
01 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian women resume training today||The Indian women’s football team will start its first training camp in nine months in Goa on Tuesday under National coach Maymol Rocky in a strict bio-secure environment put in place by the AIFF. Coach Rocky said the team was excited to resume training with an eye on the big-ticket event — 2022 AFC Asian Cup. “The AFC Women’s Asian Cup is the biggest tournament that the India women’s senior team will be playing in years. We competed in the Olympic qualifiers but the AFC Women’s Asian Cup is a different ball game altogether,” Maymol told aiff.com . Massive challenge She agreed that even with a preparation time of one year, it would be a massive challenge to compete with continental powerhouses. “We’ve to be at the top of our preparations. Although we still have a year or more, the preparation is a long-term process,” she said. According to the SOP, incoming players and support staff at training camps must get a COVID-19 test done three days before leaving home.
01 December 2020||New Delhi,||Four boxers included in TOPS||Four Olympics-bound Indian boxers have been included in the Sports Ministry’s Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS), the Sports Authority of India (SAI) said on Monday. World bronze-medallist Simranjeet Kaur (60kg) and Asian medallist Pooja Rani (75kg) joined M.C. Mary Kom in the elite group. Asian silver-winner Ashish Kumar (75kg) and Asian Games bronze-winner Satish Kumar (+91kg) have also been included in a group featuring Amit Panghal (52kg), Manish Kaushik (63kg), and Vikas Krishan (69kg).
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Swimming pools permitted only for sports training||The Tamil Nadu Government, on Monday, issued a G.O. which read “following the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), swimming pools shall be permitted only for sports training,” but no one knows when the pools will reopen for sportspersons. “We keep hearing that the swimming pools will possibly open on Dec. 7. We hope to receive the SOPs early so that we can be ready,” said M. Nagarathinam, District Sports Officer, to The Hindu .
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 08:45 IST,||Sudoku - December 1, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s the good word for 2020?||If ‘lockdown’ is the word of the year chosen by the Collins Dictionary, the Oxford English Dictionary decided not to choose just one word as it would be difficult to select one to represent a year like 2020 that has seen sweeping changes in the way we we live, work, eat, converse and communicate. As the pandemic swept across the world, certain relatively obscure words became part of our daily usage, including the word ‘pandemic’. Scientific and tech-related jargon were no longer the domain of the nerds. ‘Lockdown’ is right up there on the list, along with ‘working remotely’, ‘bubble’, ‘staycations’, ‘workcations’ and ‘quarantine’. Being ‘positive’ lost its status as a word to indicate a sunny attitude. ‘Social distancing’ made us ‘zoom’; online is where we live our lives as ‘virtual’ threatens to take over ‘real.’ In this new scenario, we  asked Indian authors to pick one such word that captures the essence of the ‘lost’ year of 2020.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Made in heaven, but Earth-friendly||The ‘big fat Indian wedding’ was streamlined this year. As e-invites and online attendance become the norm, courtesy the pandemic, not only are weddings turning into more intimate affairs, but couples are also showing more interest in sustainable, waste-free celebrations. Recently, a Kongu-style wedding of Helga Mary Campbel and Stephen Inbaraj at Pollachi, near Coimbatore, saw the bride, Helga, dressed in a gown entirely recreated from repurposed clothes using zero-waste pattern-cutting techniques. “Mulmul, muga, and summer silk fabrics were recycled to create the bridal trousseau. We opted for an elegant gown with organic thread work in breathable fabric,” says Rachel J. Amritharaj, a Delhi-based designer who conceptualised the wedding. “For the decor, we supported local craftsmen and used materials like clay, wood, straw and native flowers. The wedding feast included seasonal vegetables grown locally,” Rachel adds. Cutting waste “With small gatherings, zero waste can easily be achieved,” says Mumbai-based Aishwarya Lonial, who co-founded Nose to Tail with Indraja Khare, which specialises in sustainable weddings. “Right from invites to gifts, we cut down on waste generation at source. For an upcoming wedding in Delhi, we are using scrap cloth and tailor waste for the decor. We have tied up with NGOs like Feeding India and Robin Hood Army to donate excess food,” Aishwarya adds. Sanna Vohra, founder and CEO of The Wedding Brigade, an online portal that curates wedding fashion, suggests choosing paperless or recycled invites, opting for venues with recycling/composting facilities, buying from sustainable brands and using locally sourced flowers or recycled material for decor. Mumbai-based RJ Preeti Bindaas’ wedding in August was one such; she calls the event “an extension” of her sustainable lifestyle. “We upcycled used tyres, used bottles and scrap for decor. Discarded telephone directories became gift envelopes wrapped in a glossy cover (which were made from discarded car covers),” she says. Preeti continues: “Why do you need to order plastic water bottles for a two-hour function? The waste we leave behind takes millions of years to decompose.” Kanika Subbiah, founder of Wedding Wishlist, concurs. “We have 1.1 crore weddings a year in India. Tonnes of waste goes to the landfill.” Her company offers gift registry services. This, she says, can reduce waste generated by gifts alone by 50%. “Couples can also request guests to support charity as gifts,” Kanika adds. Meaningful events There is a greater focus on replacing single-use plastic cutlery with steel jugs and glasses, wooden spoons, banana leaves and areca plates. Anujna Ravikumar, founder of Bengaluru-based Levitate Wedding, recently helped organise a zero-waste wedding at Panchvati in Kanakapura, near Bengaluru. “We use roses, orchids, lillies and chrysanthemums sourced from farmers in the neighbourhood. The used flowers are upcycled as natural dyes,” Anujna says, adding COVID-19 has been an influencing factor on these trends. The pandemic has revived forgotten traditions, says Arabind Chandrasekhar, managing director of Kochi-based Tamarind Event Management Solutions. “If you look back 40 years or so, weddings were much smaller and conducted at homes, the safest place for any celebration. COVID-19 has made people realise that relationships matter and not revelry.” Tamarind, which holds destination weddings in Goa, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, encourages clients to cut down on guests lists and use minimal resources for decor. “We also tell them to stick to a time limit to reduce use of diesel gensets.” Kanika says they organised over 60 registry weddings and another 40 virtual ones after the pandemic began. “Of late, we are seeing couples from Rajasthan, Punjab, Chandigarh and Ludhiana showing interest in virtual weddings. For an upcoming wedding, we have an eight-hour online function where we have ushers for every guest to make the virtual wedding a memorable one,” she says. Sanna Vohra, too, expects an increase in virtual weddings. “There will be online streaming of the main ceremony for family and friends, or even sharing more intimate wedding moments like an at-home haldi or the post-wedding bride and groom games,” she says, adding, “weddings will still be beautiful, but excesses will be cut.”
01 December 2020||JAIPUR,||NDA constituent RLP threatens to quit alliance over farm laws||The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), a constituent of National Democratic Alliance (NDA) from Rajasthan, on Monday expressed unhappiness over the Centre’s agriculture sector laws and said it would “reconsider its alliance” with the Bharatiya Janata Party if the new legislations were not withdrawn. In an apparent attempt to put pressure on the BJP after the Shiromani Akali Dal broke off ties with the ruling party at the Centre, RLP chief and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal took exception to the Centre’s stand on farm laws in a letter addressed to Home Minister Amit Shah. He said the Acts were clearly not in the interest of farmers. “Your attention is drawn to the farmers’ protest against the three laws... I would request you to take immediate action to withdraw these legislations. The ‘Annadata’' [food providers] of the country are agitating in this extreme cold amid the COVID-19 pandemic, which does not reflect well on the government,” Mr. Beniwal said, while addressing Mr. Shah as the NDA chairperson. The RLP chief also demanded that the NDA government implement all recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission and hold a dialogue with the farmers in Delhi in the right spirit. The party, which enjoys considerable support in Rajasthan's Jat-dominated areas, has one seat in the Lok Sabha and three members in the State Assembly. “Though the RLP is a constituent party of the NDA, its strength lies in Kisan [farmers] and Jawan [soldiers]. If a prompt action is not taken in this matter, we will have to rethink about our alliance in the interest of farmers,” Mr. Beniwal said. Mr. Beniwal, who has been making strong remarks on the subject through social media during the last few days, said on Monday that he had given his “last warning” to the BJP through his letter. He had formed the RLP in 2018 with the support of Jats, who constitute a politically powerful community in more than a dozen Lok Sabha constituencies in the State.  ‘Don’t ill-treat’ “We are with the farmers and [will] march to Delhi, if required. The Prime Minister and Mr. Shah should hold talks with the farmers and provide them space to hold dharna in the Capital. If any kind of ill-treatment is done with them, the farmers of the entire country will be on streets and will lay siege to Delhi,” he said.
01 December 2020||JAIPUR,||BJP MLA dies of COVID-19||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Rajsamand MLA Kiran Maheshwari, who had tested positive for COVID-19, died at a private hospital in Gurugram late on Sunday night. Maheshwari, a three-time MLA, former MP and former State Minister, was 59. She was undergoing treatment at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram for the last three weeks. Maheshwari was shifted to the life support system last week, when her condition deteriorated. She had reportedly contracted the virus infection during the campaign for municipal elections in Kota earlier this month. Maheshwari’s body, being taken to her hometown Udaipur, will be kept for some time at her Amba Mata Scheme residence here to enable the people to pay homage. The funeral will be conducted at Rani Road crematorium in Udaipur on Tuesday.  Minister in Raje govt. Maheshwari was elected an MP from Udaipur-Rajsamand seat in 2004, when she defeated Girija Vyas of Congress. She was elected an MLA from Rajsamand for the first time in 2008 and held the post of Higher Education Minister in the previous BJP government in the State. Maheshwari also served as the BJP national secretary in 2011 and national vice-president in 2013. She was earlier the BJP Mahila Morcha’s national president in 2006 and had lost the 2009 Lok Sabha election from Ajmer against Sachin Pilot of the Congress. With Maheshwari’s death, the number of MLAs in Rajasthan has come down from 200 to 197, as Congress MLA from Sahara, Kailash Trivedi, and Social Justice & Empowerment Minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal, representing Sujangarh, had passed away recently. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, former CM Vasundhara Raje, Assembly Speaker C.P. Joshi and Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari have condoled her death.
01 December 2020||Kohima,||No separate flag, constitution for Nagaland, says Governor||Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi on Monday made it clear that there would be no separate flag and constitution, amid persistent demand for these by the NSCN(I-M) to achieve a solution to the Naga political issue. In his message to the people on the eve of 58th Statehood Day, Mr. Ravi, the interlocutor for the Naga peace process, said the essence of India is its unity in diversity, on the demand for integration of Naga inhabited areas in other States, especially Assam, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh. “The Indian national flag and Constitution are the pride of the people of India. The Government of India is absolutely clear that there is and there shall be only one national flag and Constitution in India,” he said. Anyone talking anything contrary is peddling preposterous lies, Mr. Ravi said. “They are trying to confuse and mislead the people,” he added.  “The territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Union of India are supreme. The Government of India has never ever talked, much less negotiated with anyone on the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. Any misadventure to disintegrate this great nation shall not be tolerated,” he asserted. Maintaining that Nagaland currently stands at the crossroads of history, Mr. Ravi said the right decision taken will determine the future and the destiny of the coming generations. With common understanding having been reached on all the issues and conclusion of talks on October 31, 2019, the people of Nagaland are anxiously waiting for the new dawn, he said.
01 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha BJP steps up campaign for ouster of Agriculture Minister||The Odisha unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday stepped up its campaign against Agriculture Minister Arun Sahu by sending a party delegation to the village, where Pari, a five-year-old, girl, was murdered. Led by Leader of the Opposition Pradipta Kumar Naik, the delegation of 18 party MLAs visited Jadupur village in Nayagarh. The BJP has a total 22 MLAs in the State Assembly. Members of the delegation met Ashok and Saudamini Sahu, Pari’s parents. The couple had alleged that Nayagarh district police were not arresting the main accused as he was a close confidant of Mr. Sahu. The girl was found murdered under mysterious circumstances in her village on July 14. “The administration is under tremendous pressure from the ruling party. A child was brutally killed and there were allegations of involvement of a big organ trade racket in the incident. But, the police did not show any urgency to nab the culprit,” alleged Mr. Naik.  ‘Police not acting’ He said, “The police did not act because the main accused was a close confidante of the Minister who hailed from Nayagarh district. Instead of giving protection to child’s parents, the government is shielding the accused.” The BJP has been highlighting the issue of the child’s death and alleged police inaction, in the Assembly as well as outside. The party has demanded the ouster of the Minister. It also accused the ruling Biju Janata Dal government of abruptly ending the winter session of the Assembly on Sunday as it found itself cornered over the issue. Although the State government has constituted a Special Investigation Team to probe into the incident, the main Opposition party has been insisting for an CBI probe. BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra has also moved the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights seeking its intervention in the matter. The party also staged a demonstration in front of Odisha Bhawan in New Delhi.
01 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan plans electrification of anganwadis||Rajasthan’s Churu district, which often records the hottest summer at over 50 degrees Celsius and reels under a severe cold wave during winters, may soon see its anganwadi centres connected with power supply for the first time as the State government plans electrification of 37,000 anganwadis as part of its efforts to improve infrastructure facilities for beneficiaries of government programmes. The proposal is worth over Rs. 260 crore, which will include one-time expenditure on installation of solar power units and recurring cost of Rs. 55 crore annually towards electricity bill. There are a total of 82,000 anganwadis in Rajasthan, but the proposal is for those facilities that are outside school premises. ‘Better attendance’ “We hope the move will result in improvement in attendance at anganwadis,” Rajasthan Women and Child Development Secretary K.K. Pathak told The Hindu . “The State government’s attention towards electrification is impressive, given that we have seen that while the Central government has promised to prioritise infrastructural facilities such as toilets and water supply, progress on the ground has been slower than the current need, especially with COVID,” says Avani Kapur, Director, Accountability Initiative. Last year, a senior official of the Union government said that there were plans to upgrade 2.5 lakh out of the total 14 lakh anganwadis in the country. As per the government data presented in Parliament, 3.6 lakh anganwadi centres don’t have toilet facilities and 1.6 lakh don’t have drinking water facilities. As of June 2019, as many as 12% anganwadi centres also operated out of kutcha buildings, including all centres in Arunachal Pradesh, 95% centres in Nagaland, 86% in Manipur, 41% in Bihar and 19% in Tamil Nadu, according to an analysis by the Accountability Initiative.
01 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana MLA quits as livestock board chief||Independent Dadri MLA Sombir Sangwan on Monday resigned as the Chairman of Haryana Livestock Development Board to support the ongoing farmers’ agitation in Delhi seeking withdrawal of three controversial farm legislations. He is the first legislator supporting the BJP-JJP coalition in the State to resign in the wake of the agitation. Speaking to The Hindu over phone, Mr. Sangwan said he supported the farmers’ demand and the two things (being part of the government and supporting the farmers) could not go hand-in-hand. Mr. Sangwan, also the head of Sangwan Khap, said leaders of 30 Khaps had supported the farmers demand in a meeting on Sunday and would now march to Tikri border in large numbers with tractors and trolleys. He, however, refused to comment on the arrest of farmers’ leaders and use of water cannons and tear gas on farmers by the Haryana police saying “it was the decision of the government” and he had nothing to say about it. Of the seven Independent MLAs in Haryana Assembly, Meham MLA Balraj Kundu has also been at loggerheads with the coalition government. Commenting on the resignation of Mr. Sangwan, Head of Political Science Department, Maharishi Dayanand University, Prof. Rajendra Sharma said more leaders from the ruling dispensation with rural vote bank would be compelled to come out in support of the agitation in case it lingers on.
01 December 2020||Jaipur,||Child raped, murdered||An eight-year-old girl was thrown into a dry well after being allegedly raped and strangled to death by unidentified men in Pratapgarh district of Rajasthan, police said on Monday. Her body was recovered on Saturday night, SHO of Choti Sadri police station Ravindra Pratap Singh said. The accused had abducted the minor from her house on Friday night while she was sleeping with her mother, the SHO said.  Mr. Singh said a probe into the case is under way and half-dozen people have been rounded up.
01 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Haemostatic gel brought back in first aid kits||The Rajasthan government’s Transport Department has brought back a bleeding-controlling ointment, Feracrylum, to the first aid kits of all motor vehicles being henceforth registered following a direction of the High Court, which had recently stayed a Central notification omitting the gel from the mandatory medical provisions in the vehicles. The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) had issued a gazette notification on December 18, 2019, for insertion of Feracryclum in the first aid kits after due consideration and analysing various expert studies. The necessary amendments were also brought in the Central Motor Vehicles Rules. Feracrylum has been recognised to be a haemostatic agent by several clinical studies. A public interest litigation filed in the Rajasthan High Court said that the MoRTH, through a notification on June 16, 2020, had arbitrarily decided to overrule the earlier notification and excluded Feracrylum from the first aid kits. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta stayed the operation of the notification by its order on September 29 and mandated inclusion of Feracrylum gel in all first aid kits.
01 December 2020||Agartala,||CM Deb flays Left govt. for ‘mixing politics with sports’||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Monday slammed erstwhile CPI(M)-led left front government for mixing politics with sports. He claimed the present BJP-led coalition government created a constructive environment in fields of sports. “There were lots of politics in sports during the past regime. Party cadres used to sneak in sporting teams, thus destroying merits,” Mr. Deb said after inaugurating the renovated campus of the Netaji Subhas Regional Coaching Centre here. He went on to say that the incumbent BJP-led alliance government stopped the old practice and created a positive atmosphere in sports. The CM also unveiled a half-bust statue of India’s independence hero, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, in the complex. Hitting hard at the previous government he said, ‘they’ installed statues of different foreign leaders (hinting at statues of Lenin and Marx), but never bothered to have a statute of ‘our own Netaji’. Deputy Chief Minister Jishnu Debbarman and Olympian Dipa Karmakar graced the occasion.
01 December 2020||Guwahati,||Rare turtle rescued from Assam market||A turtle belonging to a vulnerable species has been saved from being sold in a fish market in Assam on Monday, thanks to the initiative of an academician, an official said. Head of the Life Science and Bioinformatics department of Assam University Sarbani Giri had gone to the fish market when she noticed a man putting up an Indian peacock soft-shell turtle (Nilssonia hurum), which was alive, for sale. He wanted to cut the turtle into pieces and sell it but Ms. Giri immediately stopped him from doing so and offered to buy it alive for Rs. 4,000, a forest officer said. Her gesture moved the man and he gave her the turtle.
01 December 2020||December 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Winter is here||
