01 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||PM slams ‘politics’ on Pulwama||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the truth about the 2019 Pulwama terror attack, in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed, had come out in Pakistan’s Parliament. Mr. Modi’s statement came just two days after Pakistan’s Science and Technology Minister Fawad Chaudhry claimed in the National Assembly that his country was “responsible for the attack”. The Prime Minister said that some forces had indulged in “dirty politics” over the attack for political gains, adding that everyone should refrain from politics that can affect the morale of the armed forces. “The real face of such people has been exposed after the truth was accepted in the Parliament of our neighbouring country,” Mr. Modi said, addressing the Ekta Diwas Parade at the Statue of Unity in Kevadiya on the occasion of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s birth anniversary. “Today when I was watching the parade of officers here, an image came up in my mind... this image was of the Pulwama attack. The country can never forget that when India was mourning the death of its sons... there were some people who were not a part of that grief. They were looking for selfish gains,” Mr. Modi said referring to those who questioned the government over “lapses” that led to the attack on the CRPF convoy. “The country can never forget that some people were not saddened at the sacrifice of the security personnel. At that time, these people were only doing politics... I request them not to do such politics in the interest of the nation,” he said. Pakistan rejected Mr. Modi’s comments, accusing the government of “twisting” Mr. Chaudhry’s remarks. It claimed that the Minister was referring to the response by the Pakistan Air Force to the Indian air strikes on Balakot and not the Pulwama terror attack. “The BJP regime is advised, once again, to stop dragging Pakistan into India’s domestic politics, especially at the time of elections in India,” the Foreign Ministry said in a statement.
01 November 2020||Kolkata,||‘Resume suburban train services’||The West Bengal government on Saturday has written to Eastern Railway seeking discussions on resumption of suburban trains, even if partially. Home secretary H.K. Dwivedi wrote to Suneet Sharma, general manager, Eastern Railway, expressing concern over “use of unquiet means to disperse passengers in need at railway platforms” “GOWB is concerned to see the use of unquiet means to disperse passengers in need at railway platforms and has written a letter to railway authorities for discussions towards plying of a few pairs of train in the morning and afternoon hours for general commuters at large on observance of physical distancing norms and public health protocol..,” the Home Department tweeted. In the letter Mr. Dwivedi said, “It is painful to notice that you are running these trains for your staff only, while many other sections of governmental service providers and members of society at large are denied these services. We are anguished that your central forces have used coercive means to deal with members of public today in railway stations, which is deplorable”. The Home Secretary also referred to the fact that the State government has helped in managing Metro stations efficiently. It may be recalled that Metro services were resumed in September and the trains are now carrying more than 70,000 passengers on week days. Saturday’s development comes at a time when the Ministry of Railways has announced resumption of more suburban special trains in Mumbai. Several leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also urged the Ministry to resume the suburban and local train services used by thousands of commuters to reach Howrah and Sealdah stations from the neighbouring districts of Kolkata before the lockdown brought the trains to a halt in March. Two letters Sources in the Eastern Railway said that two letters were sent by the zonal railways to the State government for organising a co-ordination meeting for resumption of local and suburban train services but there has been no response so far.
01 November 2020||Mumbai,||One killed, 2 hurt as part of crane collapses||A 26-year-old woman was crushed to death and two others were injured when a trolley of a speeding crane got separated and collapsed at 6 a.m. near Gundavali bus stop on the Western Express Highway on Saturday. The accident took place after the driver of the crane, which was heading towards Dadar from Jogeshwari, lost control in Andheri, an official said. The trolley of the crane got separated and hit Chandivali resident Falguni Patel and two others, and also damaged an autorickshaw and a Metro rail pillar nearby, a police official said. Patel, who was waiting with her cousin close to the bus stop, died on the spot, while the injured were rushed to a hospital. An FIR under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304(A) (death by negligence) and other relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Motor Vehicle Act has been registered against crane driver Vinod Yadav, who fled the scene after the accident, In a series of tweets, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is carrying out Metro work, said a puller axel crane of Metro Line 2A (DN Nagar to Dahisar) had a technical failure. The locking pin between the puller and axel was broken and the latter swung uncontrollably resulting in a fatal collision with a woman, it stated. A three-member committee has been constituted to conduct a detailed investigation, which will be headed by project director P.R.K. Murthy and the report is expected within two days, the MMRDA tweeted.
01 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||More tests and fewer cases in State||The State has for the seventh day in a row reported less than 3,000 new COVID infections in 24 hours ending Saturday morning. During the same period, 14 new deaths were reported and the death toll increased to 6,690. With 2,783 new cases, the infection tally increased to 8,23,348. The recovery rate of the infected patients also increased to 96.20% with 3,708 new recoveries in the past day. So far, 7,92,083  patients have recovered leaving 24,575  active patients under treatment. The death rate remains at 0.81%. In October, 22.22 lakh samples were tested and 1.29 lakh turned positive which puts positivity rate at 5.84%, lowest in last four months. In September, 20.83 lakh samples were tested and 2.5 lakh cases with 12.42% positivity rate were reported. Test positivity rate in August was 16.59%, July was 11.90 and it was 2.13% in June. Also, the total of deaths in October at 862 was less than half of September’s toll of 1,859. Meanwhile, the tests per million ratio crossed 1.5 lakh and reached 1,50,354. New cases Krishna and Chittoor reported three new deaths each while West Godavari, Guntur and Visakhpatnam reported two deaths each. East Godavari and Anantapur reported one death each while six districts reported no deaths. West Godavari reported 469 new cases, highest among districts. It was followed by Krishna (425), East Godavari (371), Chittoor (351), Guntur (324), Anantapur (170), Kadapa (169), Prakasam (134), Visakhapatnam (113), Nellore (86), Vizianagaram (70), Srikakulam (67) and Kurnool (34). After several months Krishna district, which was last in the infections tally, has been replaced by Vizianagaram. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,15,744), West Godavari (85,727), Chittoor (78,342), Guntur (67,220), Anantapur (64,606), Nellore (59,496), Kurnool (59,468), Prakasam (59,401), Visakhapatnam (55,813), Kadapa (52,080), Srikakulam (43,932), Krishna (39,324), and Vizianagaram (39,300).
01 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Polavaram revised cost: CM urges PM to prevail on Finance, Jal Shakti ministries||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to prevail on the Ministries of Finance and Jal Shakti to give investment clearance for the 2nd Revised Cost Estimate (RCE) of the Polavaram project as recommended by the Polavaram Project Authority (PPA), the Central Water Commission and the technical advisory and revised cost committees, at the earliest to facilitate its completion by December 2021. Mr. Jagan stated that a further delay would result in further cost escalation, thereby harming the national interests, it being a national project. He pointed out that the cost of Land Acquisition (LA) and Relief & Rehabilitation package together accounted for Rs. 28,192 crore out of the RCE of Rs. 47,726 crore. The revised cost at 2017-18 price level stood at roughly Rs. 55,657 crore. Capping the expenditure at approximately Rs. 20,400 crore at the 2013-14 price level was unrealistic and it would be against the earlier commitments of the Central government and the guidelines for national projects and in violation of the relevant provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014 (APRA) enacted by Parliament. Expenditure If the Centre limited the expenditure to Rs. 20,400 crore, it would not be possible to meet the total cost of civil works, LA and R&R. In such a case, the project could not be completed as targeted. The Chief Minister said the Government of Andhra Pradesh had already incurred an expenditure of Rs. 12,521 crore after bifurcation, including LA and R&R. Of that amount, Rs. 8,508 crore was reimbursed by the Central government and the balance was to be paid while the bills for the works done had been pending since December 2018. Mr. Jagan said the cost revision was necessitated by time overrun, inflation, introduction of new taxes (GST) and some Acts and rules, the ground situation which dictated the design, alignment etc. and various unforeseen factors. “The State government is only an executing agency and the overall responsibility of completing the project lies on the GoI as per the APRA,” Mr. Jagan said.
01 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nath moves SC over EC curbs on Congress campaigners’ list||Former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister and Congress leader Kamal Nath on Saturday moved the Supreme Court against the decision of the Election Commission (EC) to remove his name from the list of ‘star campaigners’ for his party. On October 30, the top poll body had found Mr. Nath guilty of violating the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) in place for the byelection to 28 Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh scheduled on November 3. The EC had revoked his name on the basis of a complaint from the BJP that Mr. Nath derogatorily referred to its candidate, Imarti Devi, as an “item” during a campaign rally at Dabra in Gwalior. On Saturday, Mr. Nath, represented by advocates Varun K. Chopra and Gurtejpal Singh, asked why the EC had remained mum when BJP leaders used “uncivilised, crass and abusive language” against him. “On October 6, Shri. Kamal Patel in Ujjain called the petitioner a ‘frog’ in a well and said that the petitioner was sitting over the funds of farmers like a ‘snake’... On October 23, Shri. Kailash Vijayvargiya of BJP at Muraina called the Petitioner elusive like ‘Raavan’...” the petition said. Mr. Nath, through Mr. Chopra, cited several other instances of name-calling. “For the sake of brevity and after taking into considering the uncivilised, crass and abusive language used by the leaders of BJP for the petitioner and Indian National Congress, the petitioner considers it would not be apt to reproduce many more instances of use of unparliamentary language by BJP leaders,” he said. The petition said it was the prerogative of his party and not the EC to remove his name as star campaigner. “Section 77(1) of the Representation of People Act, 1951 read with Guidelines for Star Campaigners issued by the Ec, from time to time, makes selection/revocation of ‘star campaigners’ the sole prerogative of the political party,” the petition said.
01 November 2020||MYSURU,||Positivity rate and mortality see a decline in Mysuru||After concern over mounting COVID-19 statistics some time ago, Mysuru district has witnessed a sharp decline in test positivity rate and the number of deaths during October. While the number of deaths came down to 219 till October 30 from 302 and 293 in August and September respectively, the test positivity rate, which was 22.85% and 20.95% in September and August respectively, dipped sharply to 8.6% during October. While 16,569 cases were reported in September, it came down to 13,005 during October. Similiarly, the number of active cases dropped by around 75% from 7,110 to 1,781 during October. This has also coincided with the number of tests rising from around 65,000 during August and 72,000 during September to 1.51 lakh during October. “Two thirds of the total 3.3 lakh tests in Mysuru were carried out during September and October, which led to increase in number of cases from 17,949 to 47,523 during the same period,” pointed out Mysore Sanjeev, convener of Jeevan Raksha, an initiative by Proxima, a management consulting firm, which is studying COVID-19 trends in the country with technical support and guidance by Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). This, he said, was the “advantage of high qualitative and quantitative testing is early detection and early cure of infected people due to mild onset of virus spread”. Meanwhile, Chidambara, an official of Department of Health and Family Welfare in Mysuru, who is monitoring COVID-19 testing and training, attributed the declining number of people testing positive and the fall in positivity rate to climatic conditions and increased testing. The district now has a daily target of 4,500 tests, of which 3,100 has to be RT-PCR tests. He also observed that the declining numbers coincided with cloudy weather giving way to sunny days. “It is definitely not on account of people adhering to precautionary measures. We are seeing people going around without masks or maintaining social distancing,” Dr. Chidambara said. But, he did not rule out an element of herd immunity. With regard to the declining number of deaths, Dr. Chidambara said people had started responding to symptoms by getting tested early and there has been an adoption of improved treatment protocols. “Most of them are now following treatment protocol as per Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines,” he added.  GFX Fact sheet Mortality July- 139 August - 302 September - 293 October – 219 Test positivity rate (%) July - 5.45 Aug – 20.9 Sept – 22.85 Oct – 8.6 Caseload July – 3,949 Aug – 13,732 Sept – 16,569 Oct – 13,005 Testing July – 21,000 Aug – 65,000 Sept – 72,000 Oct – 1,51,000
01 November 2020||Mangaluru,||Adani Group takes over Mangaluru airport||The Adani Group, which had won the concession to operate, manage and develop Mangaluru International Airport, took charge of the airport on the midnight of October 30 [Friday]. A tweet from the handle Mangaluru Airport, which is the official one of Mangaluru International Airport, said at 1.29 a.m. on Saturday: “Welcome the Gateway To Goodness in your lives. The Mangaluru International Airport family is privileged to serve you on your journey to let your dreams take flight.” Another tweet at 3.37 p.m. on Saturday said: “As the Gateway to Goodness opens to the world, we were honoured to welcome the first batch of passengers from the Mangaluru International Airport. Words can not describe how privileged we feel on this momentous occasion.” The Mangaluru airport is the first of three with the Airports Authority of India (AAI) that the Adani Group took over. The group will take over the Lucknow and the Ahmedabad airports on November 2 and November 11, respectively. A tweet by the AAI said on Saturday that in accordance to the concession agreement executed on February 14, the AAI handed over the Mangaluru airport to Adani group on lease for 50 years. Exchange of a symbolic key was held at 00:00 hrs on October 30, it said. Another tweet by AAI on Friday night said that senior AAI officials will assist Adani Group for the next three months, and AAI employees and support staff will remain with the group for three years. Director of Mangaluru airport V.V. Rao handed over the airport to Ashutosh Chandra, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Adani Mangaluru International Airport Ltd., and Behnad Zandi, CEO of Adani Airports. The Ministry of Civil Aviation signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Adani Mangaluru International Airport Ltd. on October 21, in connection with providing services such as customs, immigration, plant and animal quarantine, health, MET, and security (collectively called Reserved Services). Simultaneously, AAI has also signed three separate communication, navigation, and surveillance-air traffic management (CNS-ATM) agreements with the concessionaires for the provision of CNS-ATM services at three airports [Luknow, Ahmedabad, and Mangaluru]. The concession agreements for the operations, management, and development of the three airports through public-private partnership (PPP) were signed on February 14 this year. The Union Cabinet in July 2019 taken a decision to lease these three airports to Adani Group.
01 November 2020||Kolkata,||A mobile app for exotic plants at the Indian Botanic Garden||With about 14,122 plants belonging to 1,377 species, the Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanic Garden, located on the bank of river Hooghly, is an open museum — a living collection of myriad plants, trees, shrubs, herbs and climbers. But for the nearly one million visitors to the garden every year, it is often a challenge to locate rare and exotic plants and trees in its 273 acres. So, from locating the 270-year Great Banyan Tree, which has one of the biggest canopies in the world, in the western part of the garden, to the only full-grown tree of kalpabriksha ( Adansonia digitata ) to the ‘mad tree’ ( Pterygota alata var. irregularis ), visitors sometimes struggle to find the exact tree. The other species that most of the visitors want to spot are the Lodoicea maldivica , the country’s only double coconut palm; the branching palm ( Hyphane thebaica ), introduced from Egypt; the century palm ( Corypha macropoda ), and the giant water lily ( Victoria amazonica ) brought from the Amazon river, all located in different parts of the garden. The Indian Botanic Garden also hosts the Central National Herbarium, which is India’s biggest repository of two million plant specimens, a palm section with 110 palm species, an orchidarium, a rose garden, a cactus section, and an aromatic plants section, among others. In an attempt to provide detailed information on the vast variety of plant species, and the location of rare and exotic plants in the garden, and their flowering season and other details, the Botanical Survey of India (BSI) has developed a mobile application. “The application, named ‘Botanical Survey of India’, has two major components — it gives information on the flora of protected areas of the country, and a section entirely dedicated to all botanic gardens. It is basically an attempt to provide a virtual guide to the visitors,” said A.A. Mao, Director, BSI. The scientists behind developing the application say that it was an arduous task to put together information about so many species spread over such a big area. The app will not only help visitors locate the plants in the garden, but will also provide details such as nativity, introduction history, flowering and fruiting season, and uses. Basant Kumar Singh, scientist, who worked on developing the application, said that the garden is not only about trees, it also has a lot of history to it. “Set up in 1787, the garden was formerly known as the ‘Company Bagan’ or the Royal Botanic Garden, and bears testimony to the introduction of some notable species like tea, cinchona, rubber and mahogany, which have an impact on the lives of people and the economic development of the country,” Dr. Singh said. The application was launched earlier this month by Babul Supriyo, Minister of State, Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change, and has registered more than 500 downloads in just a few days, even when the garden is closed for visitors. “Once the garden opens, we believe that the application will be a great aid to thousands of visitors and will generate awareness about the rich plant diversity and botanical history of the garden,” Dr. Mao said.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Pandemic gives fillip to Kannada content online||The COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown for over two months that restricted people to their homes and cut-off popular avenues of entertainment such as theatres, malls, amusement parks, and restaurants has had unforeseen impact: it has given a fillip to Kannada content in cyberspace. An increasing number of artistes, authors, stand-up comedians, thespians and others in the entertainment industry are exploring digital platforms to reach out to their audience. Not only has the sale of ebooks and audiobooks gone up, there has been an explosion of content, mostly interviews of celebrities on YouTube. Many people have taken to vlogging and podcasting during the last few months, some of whom have gathered a loyal following. Given that theatres are not yet fully operational, three Kannada films premiered on streaming platforms during the pandemic. While several of these projects owe their origins to the lockdown boredom, most of the content creators struggling to find an audience before acknowledge that the lockdown expanded the viewer base for Kannada content online several times. “Locked up in their homes, with no outings, and cheap data people have taken to their mobiles. It’s evident in the numbers,” said an industry insider. The pandemic has not only allowed entertainers to push the envelope in creating new content online, but has also impacted the streaming of local news with the rise in news portals, both in text and video formats, including those run by senior journalists. While there have been concerns of fake news that persist, some of the portals are credited with investigative journalism bringing out corruption in COVID-19 management as well. “It's also true that job losses in legacy media houses has also led to the start of some of these independent news portals,” a journalist running one such portal said. ‘Passion projects’ However, monetisation of Kannada content remains a challenge across platforms and most of the creative endeavours are “passion projects”. For instance, only a few people have been able to monetise content on YouTube, while people hosting podcasts have yet to see any monetary gain. The only outlier are ebooks and audiobooks, which have been doing some good business, industry insiders say.
01 November 2020||KOCHI,||Antigen test enough to detect high viral load?||While only around 20% of the daily COVID-19 tests done in the State are Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests, which are considered to be more sensitive than more widely-used antigen tests, experts say that increasing RT-PCR testing might not be useful from a clinical point of view, though it would place an additional burden on the system. “The sensitivity of an antigen test is around 50%, while the sensitivity of an RT-PCR test is around 75%. But the cost of an RT-PCR test is several times that of an antigen test. If RT-PCR testing is increased, we might be able to capture more people who might not have a high viral load. But their viral load is low and chances of disease transmission from them are low,” said Dr. Anish T.S., Associate Professor of Community Medicine, Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram. False negative “Usually, in an antigen test, a false negative is possible when the viral load is low. Identifying people with high viral load is more important,” he said. Dr. A.P. Sugunan, scientist and officer-in-charge at NIV Alappuzha, said that the detection format in an RT-PCR test, which detected the RNA sequence, was more sophisticated than an antigen test which detects the antigen-antibody reaction which was visible to the naked eye. “The sensitivity of an RT-PCR test means that it can detect even RNA fragments which need not represent viable virus. They might be dead or residual fragments. Whether this sort of positivity is useful clinically or in view of public health is debatable. Testing people who have a reasonable load of virus is important clinically since they are more likely to transmit it, and for this, an antigen test might be a good approximation,” he said. Data on the COVID-19 dashboard of the Directorate of Health Services shows that the number of antigen tests done has been growing since early July when they were introduced. On the 13th of August, 11,130 RT-PCR tests and 16,369 antigen tests were done. On October 30, the number of antigen tests had increased to 39,944, while 11,812 RT-PCR tests were done. “RT-PCR tests are roughly 20% of the total test figures with slight daily variations. When the rapid antigen tests are nearly 80% of the testing figures, the PCR capacity would also have to be increased in order to retest the negatives from the antigen tests,” said Rijo John, health economist.  Facility augmented  The number of RT-PCR systems in the State was ramped up from 13 in pre-COVID-19 times to 58 in government facilities. Thirty new machines were procured and 15 were arranged to be used for testing through inter-department transfers at institutions, according to an official at the Kerala Medical Services Corporation Limited. For RNA extraction and testing, samples are processed in batches of around 94, and it can take about four hours to process a single batch, Dr. Sugunan said. Districts have varying capacities for RT-PCR testing in government facilities, from a single system in Kollam to four machines in Ernakulam that can process about 200 samples each everyday. “When we were doing only RT-PCR tests, the system was burdened and there was a problem of delayed results since the process is more tedious,” Dr. Anish said. On the ICMR’s list, 24 government and 30 private labs are approved for RT-PCR testing.
01 November 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra records 5,548 cases, 74 deaths||Maharashtra reported 5,548 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking its total tally of cases to 16,78,406. The State also recorded 74 more fatalities, pushing the death toll to 43,911, a health department official said. With 7,303 patients being discharged since Friday evening, the cumulative number of recoveries has increased to 15,10,353. While the State’s recovery rate is 89.99%, the case fatality rate is 2.62%. The case growth rate stands at 18.72%. There are 1,23,585 active cases in the State. The highest spike of 992 cases in the State was reported from Mumbai. The city also recorded the highest fatalities in the day at 32. The fresh COVID-19 cases took the city’s tally to 2,57,497, while its death toll has surged to 10,293. In Pune city, 248 new cases pushed its total case load to 77,214. With one more death, the toll in the city has gone up to 1,572. Among the active cases in Maharashtra, the highest at 24,702 are in Pune district, followed by Mumbai and Thane, with 18,980 and 17,937 cases respectively. Of the 15,10,353 recovered patients, the highest (3,02,580) are from Pune district, followed by 2,27,690 in Mumbai. A total of 25,37,599 people are in home quarantine and 12,342 are in institutional quarantine in the State.
01 November 2020||Press Trust of India kolkata,||New price structure for liquor from today||The West Bengal government has revised the price structure of liquor brands to be sold through the retail route which will come into effect from Sunday, sources said. The government has made 22 new slabs for wine and beer across all categories after rationalising the price structure, the sources said. The State government, in an apparent bid to shore up excise revenues had imposed 30% tax on liquor in the second week of April when lockdown was in force. But the move had resulted in a steep decline in wine and beer sales in the State to the tune of 40% as compared to the previous year during this time, director-general of Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) Vinod Giri said. Mr. Giri said representatives of the association have met the State Finance secretary and Excise commissioner and urged them to revisit the price structure. “The government has been very receptive and indicated that it would visit the price structure in view of the ongoing festive season,” he said. A leading wine retailer of the city said the government has made 22 new slabs for wine and beer across all categories after rationalising the price structure after 30% sales tax. He said prices of various brands have gone up which is detrimental to the liquor industry.
01 November 2020||new delhi,||CSD canteens not to sell direct imports||The unit-run canteens (URC) of the armed forces will stop selling 422 directly imported items following an order from the Defence Ministry in support of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. The Canteen Stores Department (CSD) has issued a notification to all its depot managers to this effect. “To implement government’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat and as per the directions of the MoD, no purchase order will be placed for the directly imported items with immediate effect,” the notice dated October 29 said. However, there is no restriction in supply of items of pending purchase orders and sale to URCs till the stocks of imported items are liquidated fully.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Council polls: Counting of votes postponed to November 10||The Election Commission on Saturday postponed the counting of votes of the four Legislative Council seats that went to the polls on October 28. The scheduled date of counting was November 2 and now it has been put off to November 10, which is the day of bypoll results as well. The four Council seats for which the polls were conducted include Bangalore Teachers, South East Graduates, West Graduates, and North East Teachers constituencies. The decision came after the Congress petitioned the Election Commission to postpone the counting to any date after November 3 in the light of polling in the bypolls to Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar on November 3. A notification from the commission said that the returning officers also felt that the counting of votes could be taken up on November 10 along with the counting of votes for Sira and R.R. Nagar Assembly constituencies.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI/THANJAVUR,||T.N. Agriculture Minister Doraikkannu no more||Tamil Nadu Agriculture Minister R. Doraikkannu died at a private hospital in Chennai on Saturday after battling complications from COVID-19. He was 72. Kauvery Hospital said in a bulletin that Mr. Doraikkannu passed away at 11.15 p.m. A three-time MLA, Mr. Doraikkannu is survived by wife, two sons and four daughters. The Minister was admitted to the hospital on October 13 with severe breathlessness and then tested positive for COVID-19. He was on maximum life support ever since he was admitted to the hospital because of co-morbidities. Doraikkannu, a native of Rajagiri near Papanasam in Thanjavur district, was the secretary of the AIADMK’s Thanjavur (North) District unit. He also functioned as the secretary of the party’s Papanasam union unit for 25 years, besides serving as the president of the district agriculture marketing committee. He was first elected to the Assembly from Papanasam in 2006. He retained the seat in 2011 and 2016. He was inducted into the Cabinet, led by Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, in 2016 and continued in the post in the government of O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami. “He possessed the native knowledge of agriculture as he was from the Cauvery delta region,” said a senior official of the Department of Agriculture.
01 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Police foil ‘Jail Bharo’, many TDP leaders kept under house arrest||Police deployed heavy forces at Prakasam Barrage and on all other roads leading to Guntur district, in wake of the ‘Jail Bharo’ call given by Telugu Desam Party leaders on Saturday, protesting against the handcuffing to the farmers by Guntur Rural police recently. The police intensified vehicle check-ups on the National Highways and on West Godavari and Krishna district borders, and stopped the Opposition party leaders from entering Guntur district. At some places, the TDP leaders entered into an argument with the police and questioned on the police action. They criticised the government for putting handcuffs to the ryots and treating them as hardcore criminals. In Krishna district, police former MLAs and MLCs when they tried to proceed towards Mandadam, Thullur and other places. Some leaders were kept under house arrest in Vijayawada, Machilipatnam, Nuzvid, Eluru and Bhimavaram. Police shifted a few leaders to the station and took them into preventive custody. Officers said there was no permission for ‘Jail Bharo’ and there was information on possible violence.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Classes 9-12, colleges to reopen in T.N. on Nov. 16||While extending the lockdown in Tamil Nadu until the midnight of November 30, the government on Saturday announced further relaxations. It announced the reopening of schools (from Class 9 to Class 12), colleges, research institutes and other educational institutions from November 16. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced the reopening of cinemas, including multiplex and cinema halls in the shopping complexes, with 50% of the capacity from November 10. He also gave the go-ahead for the operation of suburban trains. The Chief Minister said that based on the consultations with medical and public health experts, it was decided to extend the lockdown till November 30. “But the government has decided to further relax the lockdown regulations [except in containment zones] to give a fillip to the economy. The educational institutions are allowed to function with standing rules and instructions from November 16,” he said in a release. Mr. Palaniswami also announced the opening of all hostels in schools and colleges for students and other employees from November 16. He said the effective treatment offered by government doctors had brought the infection rate in the State down to less than 7.30%. As per the announcement, the wholesale fruit market at Koyambedu will function from November 2 and retail sale of fruit and vegetables will open in three phases from November 16. Film shoots Shoots for films and teleserials can begin with participation of a maximum of 150 persons. Entertainment and amusement parks, big halls, auditoriums, biological parks and museums can function from November 10 with standing instructions. A maximum of 100 persons can attend marriages and funerals, religious gatherings, social, political, and recreational events and education-related programmes from November 16. Earlier, gyms were permitted to allow persons below the age of 50; from November 1, the rule has been further relaxed to allow those up to 60 years of age. In the containment zones, however, there will be no relaxation in the regulations. The lockdown will continue for swimming pools, beaches, tourist spots and other places where people gather in large numbers. Flight services will continue only on the routes allowed by the Union Home Ministry, and there will be no international flight services. E-registration will be followed for those who visit Tamil Nadu from other States, except Puducherry. It will continue in the case of tourists spots such as Udagamandalam, Kodaikanal and Yercaud.  The government has decided to further relax the COVID-19 lockdown regulations [except in containment zones] to give a fillip to the economy
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||White blanket||
01 November 2020||New Delhi,||CPI(M) okays Bengal pact with Congress||The CPI(M) Central Committee has approved the State unit’s decision to have an electoral understanding with all “secular” parties, including the Congress, in the West Bengal Assembly election to be held in April. Earlier the party’s Polit Bureau had approved the decision on Tuesday leaving the final call to the Central Committee. “In West Bengal, the CPI(M) and the Left Front will have an electoral understanding with all secular parties, including the Congress, which seek to defeat the BJP and the Trinamool Congress,” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said at a press meet.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Celestial beauty||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Freeze-frame||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Taking in the moment||
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Protests over flood relief erupt across Hyderabad||Scores of protesters took to the streets on Saturday, converged at GHMC Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation zonal and circle offices and demanded resumption of flood financial assistance, even as several alleged bias in its disbursal. The State government has been providing cash relief of Rs. 10,000 per family but this came to a halt on Thursday. As was reported in these columns on Friday, anger was simmering among the public who had alleged that they had not received funds. Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister K.T. Rama Rao reacting to the protests assured flood-hit families that financial assistance would reach them. Taking to Twitter, he said, “I assure all those flood affected citizens who are complaining of being left out of flood relief ex gratia, that we will ensure that all affected families shall be covered. Have instructed MA&UD Principal Secretary@arvindkumar_iasto personally monitor and ensure the same.” Cut to Saturday, tension was palpable at several locations in the city as the protesters gathered in large numbers. Police arrived and kept a close watch on the developments. Demonstrations were witnessed at Madannapet, Uppal, Pahadishareef, Amberpet, Secunderabad, Musheerabad and Gajularamaram, among several places. Dozens of protesters assembled at the zonal offices of GHMC at Khairatabad and Serilingampally and circle office at Uppal. A large number of protesters reached Amberpet and demanded the intervention of local legislator Kaleru Venkatesh. A demonstrator reportedly threatened to set himself ablaze, but other protesters and police intervened and prevented any untoward incident from happening. A protest led by former BJP MLA N.V.V.S. Prabhakar was held at the GHMC Uppal circle office.
01 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Work hard, PM tells IAS probationers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday exhorted civil service probationers to ensure the concept of “minimum government and maximum governance” in administration while cautioning them against developing “babu mindset” in the system. Mr. Modi said the aim of civil servants should be to empower the common man. He was speaking via videoconference from the Statue of Unity site in Kevadiya in Gujarat to probationers at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration in Mussoorie. He said young officers should take decisions in the context of the nation’s interests and to strengthen the unity and integrity of the country. He stressed that decisions taken by civil servants should always be in the interest of the common man, notwithstanding the scope of the department or the region in which they are working.
01 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan Bills to counter farm laws||The Rajasthan government on Saturday introduced three Bills in the Assembly to stop the applicability of the three new agriculture sector laws enacted by the Centre recently. The Bills were tabled following a similar move in the Punjab Assembly last month. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal tabled the three Bills on the first day of the session along with another Bill seeking to amend the Civil Procedure Code for protecting the agriculturists’ land measuring up to 5 acres against attachment and sale in execution of a decree issued by the court in the cases of monetary award. The three Bills pertaining to the State amendments to the Central statutes are the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020. According to the statement of objects and reasons for the Bills, Parliament had introduced a mechanism which was “vulnerable to encroachment and manipulation” by vested corporate interests, leaving the farmers open to the vagaries of market forces. There was no guarantee for Minimum Support Price and no check against exploitation of farmers, it said. ‘Extraordinary outrage’  “There has been [an] extraordinary outrage among the farmers, farm labourers and others... The direct consequence of the Central Acts will be to nullify the MSP mechanism that has stood the test of time and introduce several other infirmities and distortions operating to the grave detriment and prejudice of agriculture and the communities associated with it,” said the statement. While affirming that agriculture, land and markets were the primary legislative domain of the State falling under Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, the State government said the Central Acts were beyond the legislative competence of Parliament. “The State government can amend the Central Acts in exercise of its powers vested under Article 254(2) of the Constitution,” it said. The Assembly was adjourned till Monday after obituary references on the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee and some other leaders, following the introduction of Bills. Senior BJP MLA Rajendra Rathore, who is the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, said the Central laws were in favour of farmers and added that his party would prove its stand during the debate in the House.
01 November 2020||Kolkata,||Park in Kolkata set to turn waste into art||The Esplanade Bus Depot in the heart of Kolkata, usually buzzing with the noise of buses and chugging of trams, is all set to have a unique art installation made of used old tyres. The West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTD) is giving final touches to what it calls “the country’s first tyre park”. Eyesore no more “The idea behind the park is that waste can be converted into art. Nothing is waste and can be art, and that is the message of the tyre park coming up in Kolkata,” said an official of the transport corporation. Disposal of used and waste tyres is not only a challenge for authorities but also takes a lot of time. Usually, such tyres remain piled up at the bus depots, making them an eyesore. The employees of WBTC worked on such tyres and other scrap material for weeks and have been able to convert them into an eye-pleasing and colourful amalgamation. Once completed, the park will have a small café, music and offer space for people to sit and relax in one of the busiest areas of the city. “It will be an island of peace in an otherwise very crowded area,” said Rajanvir Kapur, Managing Director, WBTC. While Kolkata is known for its awe-inspiring art installations during Durga Puja, they can be enjoyed only for a couple of weeks. The tyre park will add to the list of permanent art installations in the city. Officials said that the location of the tyre park at Esplanade is just opposite the WBTC’s tram control room. The location has been chosen keeping in mind other interesting attractions like Smarnika, a museum housed in a tramcar that takes people down memory lane on the evolution of trams. Esplanade serves as an important junction from where people take trams and buses. The recently launched tram library that runs on the Esplanade-Shyambazar route also makes a few stops daily at Esplanade.
01 November 2020||Kolkata,||WB registers record 4,049 recoveries, 3,993 COVID-19 infections||On the second consecutive day, West Bengal on Saturday registered the highest recoveries with 4,049 people being discharged from health facilities. This took the active cases to 36,886. The number of people who recovered from the viral infection reached 3,29,937 and the discharge has rate improved to 88.30%. The State recorded 3,993 infections taking the total to 3,73,664. It registered 57 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the toll to 6,841. Kolkata and the North 24 Parganas recorded 16 deaths each. The toll in Kolkata rose to 2,206 and that in the North 24 Parganas rose to 1,575. In terms of infections in the past 24 hours, Kolkata recorded 895 infections and the North 24 Parganas 907. Both districts have recorded the highest infections and deaths.
01 November 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha to reopen schools after November 15||The Odisha government on Saturday allowed to start the process of reopening schools for Class IX to XII in a graded manner after November 15.
01 November 2020||Chandigarh,||‘Stubble burning area has declined this year’||Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Saturday said the State has so far reported stubble burning over 7.49 lakh hectares, about 5% lower than what it had witnessed in the correspon-ding period last year.
01 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to reopen schools after Nov. 15||With COVID-19-positive cases recording a steady decline over the past few weeks, the Odisha government on Saturday allowed to start the process of reopening schools for Class 9 to 12 in a graded manner after November 15.
01 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Lockdown will not stop the spread of virus’||Delhi recorded 5,062 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 3,86,706, while the death toll reached 6,511 with 41 more fatalities reported in a single day. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said it would be impossible to stop the spread of the virus with a lockdown.
01 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown will not stop the spread of virus: Jain||Delhi recorded 5,062 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 3,86,706, while the death toll reached 6,511 with 41 more fatalities reported in a single day. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said it would be impossible to stop the spread of the virus with a lockdown.
01 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi University releases fourth cut-off list||Delhi University on Saturday released the fourth cut-off list for admission to various undergraduate courses. Students can seek admission online between November 2 and 4. The last date for payment of fee under the new list is November 6.
01 November 2020||Chandigarh,||‘Stubble burning area has declined this year’||Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Saturday said the State has so far reported stubble burning over 7.49 lakh hectares, about 5% lower than what it had witnessed in the correspon-ding period last year.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Notices served to seven hospitals||BBMP has cracked the whip on hospitals that allegedly failed to reserve the mandated number of beds for government-sponsored COVID-19 patients.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Special children cut off from social skills training||Disruption in the academic year may be a big worry for mainstream school students, but for special children as well as their parents, it has meant the abrupt loss of a big support system in the form of special schools.
01 November 2020||Mumbai,||610 additional local train services from today||In a bid to reduce overcrowding in local trains, the Railways has decided to run 610 additional services starting November 1, an official said on Saturday. According to a joint release issued by the Central Railway and Western Railway, with the addition of these services, the number of special suburban services will be increased to 2020. Of the 610 services, 314 will be run on the Central Railway network, while the remaining 296 will be plied on Western Railway. The Railways has been operating 1,410 services on the suburban network.PTI
01 November 2020||Mumbai,||CM urges Centre to raise onion stock holding limit||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has urged the Centre to increase the onion stock holding limit to 1,500 metric tonnes for wholesale traders in the State who purchase the bulb directly from farmers. He said wholesale traders have stopped purchasing onion from farmers due to the limited stock limit of 25 metric tonnes.PTI
01 November 2020||Mangaluru,||One death, 144 new cases in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||A COVID-19 patient with co-morbidity died, while 95 new cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday. Meanwhile, with 49 new ones, the active cases in Udupi on Saturday was 753.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Munirathna will be Minister: Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa campaigned for BJP candidate Munirathna in the bypoll-bound R.R. Nagar constituency on Saturday and said, “It is certain that Munirathna will win this election by a large margin and become a Minister.” He said that even before the bypolls were announced, Mr. Munirathna had been working for the development of the constituency.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Schools, colleges to reopen on Nov. 16||The State government on Saturday announced the reopening of schools (from Class 9 to Class 12) and colleges from November 16. Cinemas, including multiplexes, can also reopen from November 10 with 50% capacity.
01 November 2020||Hyderabad,||01-Nearby-Oct. 31||Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) and L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad (L&TMRH) have introduced another product starting from November 1, as a part of the ‘Metro Suvarna’ offer. This includes a cashback of up to 50% on recharge of Metro Smart Cards, said HMR Managing Director N.V.S. Reddy on Saturday.
01 November 2020||Hyderabad,||02-Nearby-Oct. 31||Telangana recorded 1,445 COVID-19 cases on Friday taking the total to 2,38,632. While 41,243 underwent tests, results of 914 were awaited. Six more COVID-19 patients died. Of the 41,243 examined, 38,457 got tested at government labs, and 2,786 opted for private labs.
01 November 2020||Chennai,||T.N. records 2,511 new COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu on Saturday logged 2,511 fresh COVID-19 infections, pushing the tally to 7,24,522, while 31 deaths took the toll to 11,122. With 3,848 people recovering, active cases in the State stood at 22,164.
01 November 2020||Chennai,||Don’t hoist separate flag, police warn activists||The Tamil Nadu police have warned activists of various Tamil nationalist organisa- tions against hoisting a separate flag representing the State of Tamil Nadu to mark its formation day on November 1.
01 November 2020||Chennai,||‘50% Chennai residents don’t wear masks’||Over 50% Chennai residents have not been wearing masks during the pandemic, Greater Chennai Corporation Commi- ssioner G. Prakash said. The civic body has planned to promote mask wearing among residents, during the festival season, to arrest the spread of COVID-19.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The coming together of the Quad in the seas||Later this week, frontline warships from India, Australia, Japan and the U.S. will team up off the coast of Visakhapatnam in the Bay of Bengal to carry out advanced manoeuvres, including surface, anti-submarine and anti-air warfare operations, cross-deck flying, seamanship evolutions and weapon firing exercises under Phase-I of Malabar 2020. This is the first time since 2007 that the four countries are together in the Malabar naval exercise. While the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad) between the four has no military dimension, they are now teaming up to exercise together under the Malabar banner. This comes after a Ministry of Defence (MoD) statement on October 17, which said: “As India seeks to increase cooperation with other countries in the maritime security domain and in the light of increased defence cooperation with Australia, Malabar 2020 will see the participation of the Australian Navy.” The exercise is being held in two phases with Phase-I from November 3 to 6 and Phase-II from November 17 to 20 in the Arabian Sea. For over three years, New Delhi was reluctant to accept Canberra’s request to join Malabar as an observer. The first indication of a change in view came in June when officials signalled that there was a rethink. A key meeting in the MoD in August took an in-principle decision to invite Australia for this year’s exercise, pending a formal announcement. Experts believe the ongoing stand-off with China in eastern Ladakh had an impact in changing New Delhi’s view. The participants of Malabar 2020 are engaging to enhance safety and security in the maritime domain, the MoD statement said. “They collectively support free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and remain committed to a rules-based international order.” The planning conference for the exercise was held virtually due to COVID-19 and the exercise has been planned on a ‘non-contact-at sea’ format. Australian Defence Minister Linda Reynolds said the Malabar Exercise showcases the “deep trust between four major Indo-Pacific democracies and their shared will to work together on common security interests”. In a recent interview to The Hindu , Australian High Commissioner to India Barry O’Farrell, while saying they were “delighted” at being invited to Malabar, said with the benefit of hindsight, he can say that withdrawing from Malabar “was a mistake”. Australia had joined Malabar in September 2007, which also had a small contingent from Singapore and coincided with coming together of the ‘Quad’ grouping. Both were quickly disbanded after sharp reaction from China. History of the drill Malabar began as a simple Passage Exercise (PASSEX) in 1992 between the Navies of India and the U.S. and hit a pause in 1998 after India’s nuclear tests in Pokhran, to resume again in 2002. Since then, it has become an annual feature. “The 2003 Malabar was seminal, since it not only graduated from the uni/two-dimensional level to a three-dimensional exercise (involving surface, sub-surface and air platforms), but also included Visit Board Search and Seizure (VBSS) missions against suspect vessels,” wrote Gurpreet S. Khurana, executive director, National Maritime Foundation, in an issue brief, ‘Malabar Naval exercises: trends and tribulations’, dated August 5, 2014. “Such operations may be necessary to curb terrorist use of sea transportation, including for trafficking of weapons of mass destruction (WMD).” Both sides fielded submarines for the first time in 2003 and aircraft carriers in 2005 — USS Nimitz and INS Viraat . Over the years, the exercise grew in scope and complexity. It got converted into a trilateral exercise with Japan’s inclusion in 2015. Phase-1 of Malabar 2020 will see participation of U.S.-guided missile destroyer USS John S McCain , Australian long-range frigate HMAS Ballarat with integral MH-60 helicopter and Japanese destroyer JS Onami with integral SH-60 helicopter. Indian Navy is fielding destroyer INS Ranvijay , stealth frigate INS Shivalik , off-shore patrol vessel INS Sukanya , fleet support ship INS Shakti and submarine INS Sindhuraj , a Sindhughosh-class Russian Kilo-class diesel-electric submarine. Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer, P-8I long-range maritime patrol aircraft, Dornier maritime patrol aircraft, and helicopters will also be participating in the exercise. Officials were quiet about the flotilla for Phase-II. China gave a restrained response on the announcement. Asked about Australia’s inclusion in Malabar, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said in Beijing that they “noticed” this development and China believes military cooperation between countries should be “conducive to regional peace and stability”. Military cooperation While New Delhi may have been reluctant to let Australia into Malabar, it has quietly improved its military cooperation with each of the Quad countries bilaterally. Information exchange for enhanced Maritime Domain Awareness is a prominent theme for the Indian Navy with increased presence of Chinese Navy in the Indian Ocean. Since 2008, China has maintained regular presence in the Indian Ocean Region in the name of anti-piracy patrols and even deployed submarines for the purpose. In 2017, China formally opened its first overseas base in Djibouti, in the Horn of Africa. This has also brought a change in the Navy’s operational philosophy in the last few years with its mission-based deployments, a series of logistics support agreements to increase operational turnaround in the region and beyond and other foreign cooperation and capacity building activities. The Malabar and cooperation with the U.S. is one of the many strands being pursued. There are also other regional organisations such as the Indian Ocean Rim Association and the Goa Maritime Conclave that India is actively engaging. This is the first Malabar exercise since India signed mutual logistics pacts with all three countries. India has also now signed all the four foundational or enabling agreements with the U.S., which takes interoperability several notches higher, not just with the U.S but also with Australia and Japan. For instance, during the past Malabar exercises, to enable encrypted communication, the U.S. would install its encrypted communication kits, CENTRIXS (Combined Enterprise Regional Information Exchange System), onboard Indian ships. India got access to these systems after it signed the Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA) in 2018. In March 2019, Indian the Navy and the U.S. Navy signed a loan agreement and installed two Pacific fleet-provided CENTRIXS kits at the Indian Navy headquarters, said Ellen Lord, U.S. Under Secretary of Defence for Acquisition and Sustainment, in November last year. More systems have been added in a variety of places and platforms though officials declined to give a specific number. This will enable seamless communication with all participants of Malabar. An interesting aspect of India’s deployment is that a Russian origin submarine, U.S. origin long-range submarine-hunting aircraft, U.K. origin trainer aircraft and indigenous stealth frigate armed with a mixed armament package will be exercising with the U.S. and its allies. While all eyes are on the exercise, the question is whether Australia’s participation this year is a one-off incident or it will continue to be part of Malabar going forward. The MoD has stated that Australia will be part of Malabar 2020 but has not commented on the future.  In Focus  Malabar began as a simple Passage Exercise (PASSEX) in 1992 between the Navies of India and the U.S.  After having hit a pause in 1998 following India's nuclear test, the drill resumed in 2002 and since then, it has become an annual exercise  Over the years, the exercise grew in scope with both sides featuring submarines and aircraft carriers. It got converted into a trilateral drill with Japan’s inclusion in 2015   India, which was initially reluctant to invite Australia to Malabar, changed its mind in August against the backdrop of the ongoing tensions with China in eastern Ladakh
01 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Beaches and parks in Kerala to be open for public from today||Beaches, parks, and museums in the State will be opened for tourists from Sunday, marking the resumption of tourism activities after remaining shut for eight months. The move, as part of reviving the tourism sector reeling under the pandemic outbreak, comes close on the heels of the opening of tourist destinations and services across the State on October 10. Adhering to standard operating procedures to ensure the safety of visitors, houseboats, personalised boating, and adventure tourism spots and hill stations had been thrown open. “Tourism Department officials are making extra efforts to ensure that the guidelines are followed to the last detail,” Tourism Director P. Bala Kiran said on Saturday. As part of safety parameters for beaches, which do not have controlled access, directives have been issued to ensure that officials are deployed at entry points, walkways, and open areas, equipped with thermal scanners, sanitisers, and hand-wash facilities. Boards featuring dos and don’ts are being put up and walkways, handrails, and shelters will be sprayed with sanitisers at regular intervals. Tourism police will be posted, if necessary, to help Kudumbashree volunteers and lifeguards. A register will be kept at the entry for entering details of visitors. For parks and museums, online ticket /SMS booking will be explored to the extent possible at gated entries. Vehicles will be allowed at parking areas for up to maximum one hour. A register will be kept at all entry points for entering visitor’s name, native place, contact number, and time and date of the visit. “It is significant that we are reopening our beaches, including destinations such as Kovalam,” Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said. “The response in destinations that resumed operations from October 10 has been encouraging, with footfall gradually increasing,” Tourism Secretary Rani George said. SOPs for tourists As per the SOP issued by the government, visitors will have to wear mask, use soap and sanitizer and follow physical distancing at destinations. Tourists coming for visits of less than seven days are exempted from quarantine but should register on the COVID Jagratha portal. If they plan to extend their stay for more than seven days, they have to undergo a test at their cost on the seventh day at ICMR/ state government approved laboratories. They are advised to avoid travel if they are symptomatic.
01 November 2020||Patna,||Crucial polling phase in Bihar on Nov. 3||The second phase of the Bihar Assembly election to be held in 17 districts on November 3 is likely to be the decider for the National Democratic Alliance, led by the Janata Dal(U), and the grand alliance, led by the Rashtriya Janata Dal. Of the 94 seats at stake in this phase, the RJD is contesting 56, the BJP 46 and the JD(U) 43. The Congress has put up candidates in 24 constituencies, while the three Left parties are in the fray in 14. The Vikasheel Insaan Party (VIP), an NDA constituent, is contesting five seats out of the 11 allotted to it for all phases. In 28 seats, RJD candidates are locked in a direct contest with BJP nominees, while in 24, the party is taking on the JD(U). Congress candidates are contesting 12 seats each against the JD(U) and the BJP nominees. The VIP candidates, in this phase, are pitched against RJD candidates in all five seats. Raghopur in Vaishali and Hasanpur in Samastipur districts will vote in this phase, deciding the fate of brothers Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav, respectively. At Raghopur, Mr. Tejashwi, the RJD’s chief minister nominee and heir of Lalu Prasad, appears safe, but at Hasanpur, Mr. Tej Pratap is locked in a tough battle against two-time sitting MLA Rajkumar Rai of the JD(U). 2015 results In the 2015 Assembly election, the RJD won 33 of these 94 seats, while 30 seats went to the JD(U). The BJP and the Congress registered wins in 20 and seven seats, respectively, while the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) won two. One seat each went to the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) and Independent candidates. The RJD and the JD(U) contested together in 2015 and won 151 seats (RJD-80, JD-U 71) in the 243-member Assembly to form the government. The BJP got 53 seats. However, later, JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar parted ways with the RJD to join hands with the BJP to continue as the Chief Minister. This time, though, Mr. Kumar is facing a huge corrosion of his image across the State to retain his chair for a fourth consecutive term. For the first time, Mr. Kumar appears to be banking on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity to win seats. Earlier, it was the BJP that had ridden piggyback on the JD(U). Significantly, a decade ago in 2010, Mr. Kumar had not allowed the then Gujarat Chief Minister, Narendra Modi, to campaign in the State, issuing a covert threat of snapping the alliance, if the BJP sent him and Varun Gandhi to campaign in Bihar. The BJP leadership had bowed to his diktat then. Ten years down the line, the Bihar Chief Minister finds himself on the back foot amid raging anti-incumbency and aggressive attacks from much younger opponents — Mr. Tejashwi and Chirag Paswan of the LJP. Mr. Modi is scheduled to address two public meetings in Bihar on Sunday. Earlier, he had addressed six rallies across the State, consistently backing Mr. Kumar as the chief ministerial face. Close margins In 2015, the victory margin in 18 of the 94 seats was fewer than 5,000 votes. Those 18 candidates included senior Ministers in Mr. Kumar’s Cabinet, Nand Kishore Yadav (BJP) from the Patna Sahib constituency and Shrawan Kumar (JD-U) from Nalanda. Former MP Lovely Anand lost in Sheohar by just 461 votes. This time, Ms. Anand, wife of imprisoned strongman Anand Mohan Singh, is contesting on the RJD ticket. Mohammad Nemtullah of the RJD won from Barauli in Gopalganj district by just 504 votes. From Chanpatia seat in West Champaran district, BJP candidate Prakash Rai won by 464 votes. Mr. Nemtullah and Mr. Rai have been dropped by their parties this time. “Yes, this round of polls in Bihar is likely to clear the picture a bit about which alliance is going to form government,” political analyst Ajay Kumar told The Hindu .
01 November 2020||Ahmedabad/NEW DELHI,||Seaplane makes a splash on Sabarmati||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched the country’s first seaplane service between the Statue of Unity near Kevadiya in Narmada district of Gujarat and the Sabarmati riverfront in Ahmedabad. He travelled in the maiden flight of the twin-engine plane from pond-3 close to the Sardar Sarovar Dam and landed at the riverfront, where a water aerodrome has been set up. The 19-seater seaplane will be used for flights between the two points as part of the regional connectivity scheme. Initially, the plane will make four trips a day. Age limit clause The twin-engine Otter aircraft operated by SpiceJet for the seaplane service is nearly 50 years old, though the Directorate General of Civil Aviation has reservations on allowing planes older than 20 years to be imported. Further, SpiceJet has wet-leased the aircraft from the Maldives Island Aviation Services, a wholly government owned entity, which means that both the aircraft and its crew belong to a foreign entity. The aircraft bears the Maldivian registration code 8Q ISC. This arrangement for renting aircraft and crew is allowed by the DGCA only in “emergency situations” and its rules prohibit their use for “capacity or route expansion”. The plane saw its first flight on July 14, 1971 and over the past five decades, the aircraft has changed hands 13 times with owners in Canada, Turkey and Sri Lanka. “All safety regulations have been complied with in order to commence sea plane operations,” a spokesperson of the Ministry of Civil Aviation said in response to a question on violation of DGCA rules. An airline spokesperson said the plane had undergone regular maintenance and overhaul, adding, “all the required SoPs are in line with operational guidance on seaplane operations.” The DGCA’s Civil Aviation Requirements, or rules, require pressurised aircraft imported and used in passenger services not to be older than 18 years. But for unpressurised aircraft such as the one used on Friday, a decision is taken on a case-by-case basis though it doesn’t “allow such aircraft which are more than 20 years old”. The age limit for cargo aircraft is 25 years. The DGCA explains that the reason for imposing age restrictions is to ensure that the aircraft “does not have problems of corrosion, fatigue, metal fatigue, cracks” which can be missed even during major maintenance checks. However, it recognises that foreign countries operating aircraft older than the design-economic life may be better equipped than India to ensure their proper upkeep and modifications as per advice of manufacturers and regulatory bodies. Maintenance costs “The DGCA would have done their due diligence to allow the aircraft to be imported. Old aircraft aren’t necessarily unsafe as long as they are maintained as per OEM’s (Original Equipment Manufacturer) requirements and updated from time to time. As aircraft get old, they become expensive to maintain, which is primarily why airlines do not fly them for too long,” said Vinamra Longani, Head of Operations at Sarin & Company, a law firm that specialises in aviation related matters. Though Spicejet and the Ministry of Civil Aviation claim that this is the first-ever seaplane journey in the country, Mr. Modi had undertaken a similar ride from the Sabarmati river in Ahmedabad to Dharoi dam in Mehsana while campaigning for the Gujarat election in 2017.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Justice is conservative||By confirming Amy Coney Barrett, a judge from the Seventh Circuit of the U.S. Court of Appeals, as the ninth judge of the Supreme Court, the Republican-majority Senate has not only stacked the cards of American jurisprudence broadly in favour of conservative ideals, but has also ensured that in the event that the outcome of the 2020 election is decided in court, there will be one more supporter of President Donald Trump ruling on that decision. Never in U.S. history has a Supreme Court justice been confirmed this close to an election — nearly 80 million early votes have already been cast ahead of Voting Day on November 3 — and rarely has such a confirmation come without a single vote of support from the opposition party in the Senate. Judge Barrett was confirmed almost entirely on partisan lines by a vote of 52 Republicans for and 47 Democrats against, with a single Republican, Susan Collins of Maine, crossing the floor to vote nay. The Supreme Judges are now 6-3 favouring the conservatives. On the subject of nominating justices who lack broad political support, Ms. Barrett’s confirmation brings to five the total number of U.S. Supreme Court justices out of nine who were nominated by an American President who did not win the popular vote. So, who is Ms. Barrett, the youngest judge on the Supreme Court today, whose apotheosis has tipped the scales of American justice so dramatically in one direction? Growing up in Metairie, Louisiana, just outside the vibrant city of New Orleans, Ms. Barrett attended St. Mary’s Dominican High School, a Catholic girls’ school, and in 1994 graduated from Rhodes College, a liberal arts college in Tennessee associated with the Presbyterian Church. After graduating, Ms. Barrett attended law school at Notre Dame, where her outstanding academic record by 1997 won her wide recognition and plaudits. Political leanings Her political leanings became apparent early, when she went on to hold two high-profile conservative clerkships, one of them with the late Supreme Court Justice and conservative stalwart Antonin Scalia, during 1998-99. Justice Scalia was a fierce opponent of the constitutional right to abortion, and Ms. Barrett’s association with him has fuelled American liberals’ fears that she now poses a grave threat to Roe v. Wade, the 1973 ruling that guaranteed abortion rights. After a few years practising law in the private sector out of Washington DC, Ms. Barrett returned to Notre Dame to lecture on the federal courts system, statutory interpretation and constitutional law. Here too, her legal acumen was recognised when she was made a full professor in 2010, recognised as the Diane and M.O. Miller II Research Chair of Law in 2014, and three times named ‘Distinguished Professor of the Year’. While she was prolific in her legal writing throughout her 15 years as a full-time law professor, she was also noticed for joining the Federalist Society, the conservative legal group, during 2005-06 and 2014-17. Her conservative Christian leanings were also revealed in a law review article she wrote earlier, on “Catholic Judges in Capital Cases,” which studied the impact of the Catholic moral principles in U.S. laws relating to the death penalty, abortion and euthanasia. In that article, she is said to have described the prohibitions on abortion and euthanasia as “absolute” because they “take away innocent life”. The extent of her political and religious leanings began to emerge more clearly into the spotlight when she was quizzed on this article at her Seventh Circuit confirmation hearing, principally by Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, who said to Ms. Barrett in a now-viral exchange, “The conclusion one draws is that the dogma lives loudly within you. And that’s of concern when you come to big issues that large numbers of people have fought for years in this country.” Today, at 48 years of age, Ms. Barrett is the youngest judge on the Supreme Court. The mother of seven, who has also been closely scrutinised for being a member of People of Praise, a charismatic Catholic sect which some say relegates women to inferior roles in its structure and society, has decades to leave her imprint on U.S. Supreme Court. The quality of justice, as Americans know it, might look very different by the time her tenure ends.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Live, from Beijing||Buy! Buy! Buy! screamed Li Jiaqi into his smartphone. As the 28-year-old logged on to livestream his latest sales session on October 21, broadcast on Taobao, China’s biggest online sales platform owned by the e-commerce giant Alibaba, a few million viewers were already waiting for him. By the time he logged off some seven hours later, hawking cosmetics and other products from some of the world’s leading luxury brands, there were an incredible 160 million people tuning in to watch Mr. Li. In that one day alone in October, Mr. Li and another popular livestreamer Wei Ya, who had close to 100 million viewers on her Taobao show, recorded $100 million in sales, according to Chinese media reports. The October 21 sales session was itself only a prelude to the big event — the annual upcoming festival in China that has come to be known as ‘Singles Day’, because it is marked on November 11, a subtle dig at the other more popular global commercial event that falls on February 14, Valentine's Day. This year, November 11 has taken on special significance both for consumers and the Chinese economy as a whole. Online shopping, in particular driven by this year’s livestreaming sales — which owes its popularity to offering significant discounts — has emerged as an unlikely driver of domestic spending, with millions of Chinese remaining homebound through months of lockdown. It has been the lifeline for brands that have been struggling in a pandemic year and are increasingly counting on the revival of the Chinese economy to bounce back. In the business of fame Ahead of November 11, Mr. Li and Ms. Wei are perhaps the two most in-demand Chinese celebrities, as newly minted as they are in the business of fame. Mr. Li’s rise has been as rapid as that of the wave of online consumerism that has carried him to fame and fortune, sweeping him from a small shopping mall in the city of Nanchang, where he worked on the sales floor offering lipsticks to shoppers, to overnight stardom as a livestreaming star. Last November 11, Mr. Li was invited by Jack Ma, Alibaba’s celebrity founder, for a joint live sales session. He netted Alibaba 1 billion yuan (around $145 million) in sales. He may well break that record this year, notwithstanding the COVID-19-caused economic slump. Everything about the scale of “Double 11” is staggering. Over 24 hours on ‘Singles Day’ last year, Chinese shoppers spent $60 billion, according to one report, with Alibaba’s Taobao leading the way and its local rivals Jingdong and other Chinese retailers all grabbing a share of the pie. This year, Alibaba’s logistics arm Cainiao will charter around 700 flights, reported the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post (which is, incidentally, owned by Mr. Ma’s Alibaba). China’s Communist Party is actively encouraging this festival of capitalism and consumerism. Indeed, this online boom is in many ways key to China’s push to boost domestic consumption as a driver of economic growth. That ambition has taken on ever greater urgency following COVID-19. China’s economy was alone among major global economies by expanding 4.9% from a year earlier in the July-September period, up from 3.2% in the second quarter and an unprecedented 6.8% contraction in the first quarter when China was still reeling from the coronavirus outbreak, which began in Wuhan in December. Silver lining The revival, however, has been driven largely by government spending and a 5.8% growth in industrial production in September, enabled by a surge in investments in infrastructure projects. The government is aware this is unsustainable, as it has worsened an already ballooning debt problem. The recovery in consumption was one silver lining, growing 3.3% in September, but still down 7.2% year-on-year over three quarters. A sustained revival in spending will be key to China’s economic turnaround. Every year, ‘Singles Day’ has emerged as something of an unofficial barometer of the health of China’s consumer economy. Indeed, that is all the more true this year as November 11 comes around, with the fate of China’s economy riding on whether consumers will, when Mr. Li urges them on November 11, buy, buy and buy.
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala combats high test positivity rate, mortality||Kerala reported 7,983 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, carrying out 59,999 tests. Test positivity continued to be between 12-14%, touching 13.3 % on Saturday. Going by Health Department data, in October alone, the State reported 2,36,999 cases, while the cumulative case burden was 1,96,106 cases as of September 30. The cumulative death toll on September 30 was 742, but as many deaths were reported just in October. On Saturday, 27 more deaths were added to the official list. Ernakulam reported seven of these deaths, Thrissur six, Kozhikode three, Malappuram, Palakkad, Kottayam and Alappuzha two each, and Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Wayanad one case each. Ernakulam reported 1,114 cases, Thrissur 1,112, Kozhikode 834, Thiruvananthapuram 790, Malappuram 769, Kollam 741, Alappuzha 645, Kottayam 584, Palakkad 496, Kannur 337, Pathanamthitta 203, Kasaragod 156, Wayanad 145 and Idukki 57. Active cases were concentrated in Ernakulam (12,576), Thrissur (10,544), Kozhikode (9,649) and Malappuram (9,516). Telangana recorded 1,445 cases on Friday as 41,243 people underwent tests. Six more patients died. The 1,445 cases included 286 from Greater Hyderabad, 122 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 107 from Rangareddy, 102 from Nalgonda, 90 from Bhadradri Kothagudem, and 77 from Khammam. Andhra Pradesh reported 2,783 new infections on Saturday, and 14 more deaths. In October, 22.22 lakh samples were tested and 1.29 lakh returned positive - a positivity rate at 5.84%. Krishna and Chittoor reported three new deaths each, West Godavari, Guntur and Visakhapatnam two deaths each. East Godavari and Anantapur reported one death each. With 690 new cases, Chennai’s tally of COVID-19 moved closer to the two lakh-mark on Saturday. The city recorded 12 of the 31 deaths in the State. As the State reported 2,511 new cases, the number of districts accounting for less than 100 cases each stood at 32.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Chennai, and Hyderabad bureaus)
01 November 2020||Gohad/ Morena,||Chambal workers desperate for jobs||For 29-year-old Sonu Khatik, the byelection promise of a canal near his village in Bhind district in Madhya Pradesh holds little value. “What will we do with an irrigation system as we are landless and migrate for work?” he said, idling at the Ratwa village square. During the reverse migration after the COVID-19 lockdown, Mr. Khatik returned from Bengaluru where he worked at a sweet shop for 14 years and made Rs. 9,000 a month. “My employer has asked me not to return for now as there is less demand,” said Mr. Khatik, who has turned to agricultural labour for Rs. 300 a day. “No candidate is talking about us, the migrant workers. Our jobs are uncertain and there is no feasible transport to return to work,” said Mr. Khatik, whose two siblings, after returning from Pune during the lockdown, have also stayed back. “Why would they raise the issue? After all [due to the reverse migration], political parties have saved the expense of bringing back workers at the time of voting,” he quipped. Thousands of workers, including those who have returned from other States and are battling joblessness, are demanding that job security and provision of transport be made the top priority by candidates in the Morena constituency of the district headquarters, and Gohad constituency in Bhind district. Four-years-ago, Shakil Shah found hope in Pune, where his neighbour Ramhit Baghel managed a pani puri stall. After acquiring hands-on experience there, he worked in his own makeshift stall until the pandemic struck. Desperate to return home, he entrusted the stall to his landlord, to whom he owed Rs. 28,000 in rent already. Of the nearly 2,000 workers who’ve returned from other States in the village, at least 200 are pani puri vendors. At Rui ki Mandi in Morena, daily-wage workers, who begin arriving every morning at 7.30 a.m. to find work, point out that both the parties are engaged in only exchanging barbs.  Both the BJP and the Congress have promised to develop industries along the Chambal expressway. The Congress has further said it would formulate a policy for land use in the interest of landless workers by converting Chambal ravines and barren lands into cultivable ones.
01 November 2020||Kochi,||MPI commissions new facilities||The Meat Products of India (MPI) has commissioned a swine slaughtering plant and a waste treatment facility as part of its modernisation and expansion plans. The commissioning of the new facilities comes on the heels of the public sector meat company’s turnover going up from about Rs. 16 crore during 2018-19 to more than Rs. 17 crore during 2019-20. The new swine slaughtering plant will be able to process about 11 tonnes of meat a day through operations spread over two shifts, company sources said. The company based at Koothattukulam has commissioned its waste treatment plant as part of the government policy of treating waste at source itself. The plant can handle about 11 tonnes of animal waste a day. The facility has been established with Italian technology and is one of biggest such facility in southern India. The waste treatment facility will also generate bonemeal, tallow, which is used in the production of cosmetics and soap, and nitrogen fertilizer. Bird and animal feed are also products that will be produced at the new facility. The company expects to improve its performance by raising enough funds to secure raw material. The government has provided guarantee for Rs. 15 crore for raw material supply and once the funds are available, the company will be able to streamline its performance and improve profitability. The meat processing company has also been granted administrative sanction to establish a value addition plant at Eroor in Kollam at Rs. 13.50 crore. The administrative and factory blocks have been completed. A part of the raw material available at the Koothattukulam plant of the MPI will be processed for value-added products at the proposed plant. The plant is expected to be completed by February 2021. The Kollam plant will be able to handle about two tonnes of value-added products per day and will provide employment to about 250 people, mostly women.
01 November 2020||New Delhi,||CPI(M) okays Bengal pact with Cong.||The CPI(M) Central Committee has approved the State unit’s decision to have an electoral understanding with all secular parties including the Congress in the West Bengal Assembly election to be held in April. Earlier the party’s Polit Bureau had approved the decision on Tuesday leaving the final call to the Central Committee. “In West Bengal, the CPI(M) and the Left Front will have an electoral understanding with all secular parties, including the Congress, which seek to defeat the BJP and the Trinamool Congress,” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said at a press conference held after the two-day meeting of the committee. In the 2016 Assembly election, the central leadership had disapproved the Bengal unit’s decision to have a tactical electoral understanding, and called for a rectification during the review of the election results. The Congress won 44 seats and the Left Front ended up with just 32. The Central Committee had concluded then that “the electoral tactics evolved in West Bengal were not in consonance with the Central Committee decision based on the political-tactical line of the party, which states that there shall be no alliance or understanding with the Congress”. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, despite efforts from the CPI(M) and other Left parties, the Congress did not agree to have a formal arrangement in West Bengal. Changing equations In 2016, the Kerala unit of the CPI(M) was the fiercest critic of the Bengal unit’s decision to go along with the Congress, arguing that the party could not contest the Congress in one State and join hands with it in another. This time around, though, according to the sources, the members in both the Polit Bureau and the Central Committee were also on board with the alliance. “The people of Kerala are very mature. In 2004, when the party had announced the decision to support an alternative government led by the Congress ahead of the Lok Sabha election, Kerala had elected 18 Left Democratic Front candidates of the 20 Lok Sabha seats. So do not underestimate the Kerala voters,” Mr. Yechury said. The party has also agreed for a similar alliance in Assam which will also go to the polls next year. The aim, Mr. Yechury, said is to defeat the incumbent BJP government which is sharpening communal polarisation, destabilising social harmony and heaping miseries on the people. The Kerala and the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections too are scheduled next year. In Tamil Nadu, the CPI(M) will contest as part of the DMK-led alliance. And in Kerala, it will stick to the present Left Democratic Front alliance.
01 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP raises Pakistan every time it faces defeat: Cong.||The Congress on Saturday accused the BJP of raising the issue of Pakistan again after realising that the party is staring at defeat in the Bihar Assembly polls. Party general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, have lost their ‘political balance’ after the first phase of voting in the State and that is why they are talking about Pakistan. “Every time, the BJP stares at defeat, they take ‘refuge’ in Pakistan,” Mr. Surjewala said in a statement. Mr. Surjewala, who has been camping in Bihar for over two weeks, said the BJP and the Prime Minister do not have any answers on alleged corruption of the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar, on the issue of rising unemployment, farmers not getting adequate price for their produce, the collapse of the health and the education system, and the closure of factories and enterprises in the State. “Modi ji looks for the answers to all these problem in Pakistan,” the Congress leader said, adding that Mr. Modi was “the only PM” to visit Pakistan in an unscheduled visit in 2015. PM attack on Opposition The Congress was responding to Mr. Modi’s attack on the Opposition earlier in the day for questioning his government over the Pulwama attack in February 2019. He also referred to the statement made by a Pakistani minister in the country’s National Assembly about the country’s role in the terror attack. On Friday, BJP’s Prakash Javadekar had also demanded an apology from the Congress for questioning the Pulwama attack. In a tweet, Congress leader and Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor, however, countered the government for making such a demand. “I am still trying to figure out what the Congress is supposed to apologise for. For expecting the government to keep our soldiers safe? For rallying around the flag rather than politicising a national tragedy? For expressing condolences to the families of our martyrs?” Mr. Tharoor asked.  Why should Congress apologise for expecting the government to keep our soldiers safe -Tharoor BJP leaders have lost ‘political balance’ after the first phase of voting in Bihar - Surjewala
01 November 2020||Kodakandla (Jangoan dt.),||Will resign if proven wrong, says Chandrasekhar Rao||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao offered to resign and walk away if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) claims that the Centre contributed Rs. 1,600 out of the total Rs. 2,106 per month paid to social security pensioners in the State was proved right. The fact, however, was that the Central share out of the Rs. 11,000 crore spent by the Telangana government on pensions was a mere Rs. 105 crore per annum. The State government paid Rs. 2,016 per month to 38.64 lakh beneficiaries, whereas the Centre gave only Rs. 200 per month to 6.95 lakh people. “The BJP can malign a government that was not upright but not the KCR government,” Mr. Rao said addressing a public meeting after inaugurating the Rythu Vedika here on Saturday. Mr. Rao made the comments in the context of the BJP’s election campaign in the Dubbak Assembly by-election, which he said the Telangana Rashtra Samithi would win comfortably. Mr. Rao cited a few instances to caution farmers about false news being circulated on social media, and certain statements by leaders of political parties, particularly in the Dubbak by-poll. “Shabir Ali, a Congress leader, burnt his field alleging losses of fine variety paddy and showed it as done by a farmer. It is not social media but anti-social media. And frauds and liars in Dubbak are saying that the Centre is contributing Rs. 1,600 to the Aasara pensions. But the fact is the State spends Rs. 11,000 crore and the Centre gives Rs. 105 crore for the same,” he said. Mr. Rao further justified his figures as recorded by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, and said, “Any man if proves me wrong, I will immediately resign as the Chief Minister and go home.”
01 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||India protests, U.S. amends transcript||Days after a protest by the Indian government, the U.S. State Department agreed to amend its version of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s comments at the “2+2” India-U.S. meeting on October 27. According to the original U.S. version, released by both the State Department and the U.S. Department of Defense, Mr. Singh was quoted as saying that India was challenged by “reckless aggression on our northern borders”, in what appeared to be the first reference by an Indian official, in talks with another country, to what the government has so far maintained was a “bilateral issue” with China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC). A similar controversy was seen in May this year, when U.S. President Donald Trump claimed that he had spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the stand-off between the People’s Liberation Army and the Indian Army at the LAC, and that Mr. Modi was not “in a good mood” about it. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) had denied any such conversation. On this occasion, while the MEA and the Ministry of Defence had denied Mr. Singh had used the words on Tuesday itself, the U.S. government had refused to change its version, on the basis that the interpreter for the talks had been provided by the Indian side. “The original U.S. transcript of the 2+2 opening statement was prepared from an audio recording of the Indian government interpreter’s English-language delivery to U.S. participants,” said a U.S. Embassy spokesperson.  The Hindu has verified that the audio of the interpreter does in fact support the U.S.’s claim. However, the audio also includes Mr. Rajnath Singh’s voice making a different statement in Hindi. From the audio, it appears that the interpreter realises the discrepancy between her version and that of the Defence Minister’s midway through the sentence, and is then silent for the rest of Mr. Singh’s statement. “Excellencies! In today’s times the challenges we face make our partnership more important and our deciding our future. We both believe in a rules-based order and democracy,” Mr. Singh is heard saying in Hindi. ‘Wrong quote’ Officials dismissed speculation that Mr. Singh’s final statement had dropped the reference to China, while the interpreter had been given a previous version of the prepared remarks, and said that the publication of the wrong quote had been raised in Delhi by the government and in Washington by the Indian Embassy. They added that the U.S. response had taken some time as both Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Esper had continued their travels. When asked about the controversy, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said that he “was surprised at the question as the video of the 2+2 opening statements is available”. The MEA also strongly denied a news report that suggested that U.S. officials had told External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Mr. Singh that India’s “hesitation” on discussing China’s aggression internationally would “demoralise and hurt efforts to check Beijing’s expansionist agenda”. Some former diplomats said that while the controversy over the difference in translation was unfortunate, the government should be bolder in discussing the threat from China on the global stage. “We have been very sensitive to the so-called Chinese concerns, so it is about time that we call a spade a spade and name the aggressor, which is clearly China,” said former Ambassador and former MEA spokesperson Vishnu Prakash, who has served in China as well. The U.S. State Department has now changed the wording on its website, but in a sign that the issue hasn’t been completely resolved yet, the Department of Defense has retained its original wording, adding only a disclaimer.
01 November 2020||MYSURU,||Mysuru woman, two children found dead in Dublin home||Relatives in Mysuru of Seema Banu, who was found murdered along with her two children at her home in Ireland on Wednesday, are in touch with the Dublin police and the Embassy of India in that city. Seema Banu, 37, is a native of Hadaganahalli village in Periyapatna taluk of Mysuru district. She was found dead along her daughter Asfira Syed, 11, and son Faizan Syed, 7. Superintendent of Police, Mysuru, C.B. Ryshyant said Seema Banu’s husband, Syed Sameer, aged around 40, is alive. Mr. Sameer is a software engineer employed in Dublin. ‘In touch’ “The Dublin police are in touch with the family regarding investigation and further formalities. The consulate is in touch with me. All support required by the Dublin police and the family in Periyapatna is being provided by the Mysuru police,” Mr. Ryshyant said. “We have already spoken to the Indian Embassy there. Channels of communication had been established between the embassy officials and the family members of the deceased here,” he added. According to Mysuru city police, Seema Banu’s husband is from Naidu Nagar in Mysuru city. Mr. Sameer and his family reportedly left for Dubai some seven months ago before moving to Ireland. Meanwhile, the Indian Embassy in Dublin has put out a tweet expressing deep shock over the discovery of the bodies of the three family members and offered full support to the family and Garda (Irish police). “... Garda has urged people not to contribute to online speculation, viewed as uninformed & unhelpful to investigation,” the Embassy of India, Dublin, tweeted.
01 November 2020||Chandigarh,||‘Stubble burning area has declined this year’||Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Saturday said the State has so far reported stubble burning over 7.49 lakh hectares, about 5% lower than what it had witnessed in corresponding period last year. “Five per cent less stubble burning area is reported this year in the State with the effective management of crop residue and concerted efforts to sensitise farmers,” said Mr. Mahajan in a release here. Virtual meeting During a virtual meeting with senior officers, Deputy Commissioners and Senior Superintendents of Police here, she expressed satisfaction over the steps taken by the State government to end the hazardous practice. Ms. Mahajan directed officials to further intensify their efforts to eradicate the menace. She said about 137 lakh metric tonnes of paddy has so far arrived in the mandis, which is 33% higher than the previous year. She said the district administration should enforce the instructions strictly to ensure zero stubble burning in coming days. The total straw burning area this year was 7.49 lakh hectares as compared to 7.90 lakh hectares last year, which is 5.23% lower, she said. Additional Chief Secretary Development Anirudh Tewari told the Chief Secretary that on October 30 this year, 2,799 cases of straw burning were reported as against 3,135 last year. In Bathinda district, 202 cases have been reported this year as compared with 343 last year. Similarly, in Ferozepur 290 cases of farm fires have been reported against 328 last year.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Congress complains to EC on Karnataka CM’s promises||The State Congress on Saturday petitioned the Election Commission of India against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Bharatiya Janata Party candidate Rajesh Gowda and others for “committing corrupt practices” to lure voters in Sira constituency, which will go to the polls on Tuesday. The Congress, in its complaint to the EC through Chief Election Officer Sanjiv Kumar, claimed that the Chief Minister had violated the model code of conduct by making a statement during the campaigning on Friday that the government would take steps to fill 60 tanks in Sira if the voters elected the BJP candidate. Mr. Yediyurappa also promised the release of Rs. 5 lakh for each house under the government’s housing schemes and the inclusion of Kunchitiga Vokkaliga community in the backward classes category 2B. The Vokkaliga community has more than 55,000 voters in Sira constituency. Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadananda Gowda said that the process for including the Kunchitiga community in 2B had commenced. The Congress has named BJP MP Pratap Simha, Chitradurga MP A. Narayanaswamy, and BJP candidate in Sira Rajesh Gowda in the complaint. Seeking action against these BJP leaders, the Congress said “the promises made by these leaders are nothing but bribe and undue influence on the voters of Sira.” ‘False promise’ Noting that the Congress was not against the filling of the Madalur tank by drawing water from Hemavathi reservoir, the complaint stated that Mr. Yediyurappa as Chief Minister had failed in the past to take measures in this regard. The Congress termed the Chief Minister’s words a “false promise”. The Congress also lodged a complaint to the EC against the BJP’s Munirathna, claiming that the R.R. Nagar bypoll candidate had affixed stickers on most of the houses in R.R. Nagar in Bengaluru to identify voters and distribute money as bribes ahead of polling.
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CPI(M) distances itself from Bineesh||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Saturday appeared to distance itself from Bineesh Kodiyeri. A meeting of the central committee chaired by general secretary Sitaram Yechury reportedly felt that the party could not hold State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan to blame for the personal conduct of his son Bineesh. The CPI(M) had been taking flak from the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Bengaluru arrested Bineesh on the charge of using illegitimately earned wealth to bankroll drug traffickers. The ED had also accused him of using an array of shell companies to launder the “proceeds from the crime”. Given the closeted nature of CPI(M) meetings, it was unclear whether Mr. Balakrishnan faced any criticism from his peers or if the forum had weighed the issue at all. By one account, the CPI(M) felt that wrongdoers deserved their comeuppance. The norm applied to the kin of party leaders as it did to others. The party felt the BJP had borrowed a strategy from the playbook of past Central governments. It had unleashed the federal law enforcement to unsettle Opposition-ruled States. Kerala was no exception. Congress draws flak The Centre had attempted to lay down a barrage of lies against the government by leaking cherry-picked portions of the statements of the accused to its enablers in the media. The Congress played second fiddle to BJP’s machinations in Kerala. The BJP’s main accusation was the CPI(M) leadership had mislaid its moral compass to enable relatives to amass wealth through illegal means. However, the real reason for the renewed hostility lay in Bihar.  Hostility in Bihar The BJP had sensed that the CPI(M) was the moving force behind the mustering of secular forces in the State. For one, the party had persuaded the Rashtriya Janata Dal, the Congress, and the CPI(ML) to sink their differences to halt the march of the BJP in Bihar. The coalition has offered battle to the BJP-Janata Dal (United) alliance in 29 seats. The CPI(M) had initiated similar coalitions in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, and Assam. The BJP feared the CPI(M) could turn the tide of the battle against the Sangh Parivar forces in the coming elections.
01 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||Samajwadi Party has exposed BSP-BJP link in U.P.: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said his party had supported the nomination of an independent candidate in the Rajya Sabha elections in Uttar Pradesh to expose the tacit understanding between the BSP and the BJP. He said the SP supported the nomination of independent candidate Prakash Bajaj — his papers were, however, eventually rejected — to necessitate voting and show people how the BSP and BJP “ chupchaap, andar se mile hue hai (are tacitly working together)”. Mr. Yadav’s remarks come two days after BSP chief Mayawati accused his party of trying to lure her MLAs and vowed to ensure the defeat of the SP candidates in the upcoming MLC polls — even if it meant that her party would vote for the BJP nominees — for attempting to thwart her nominee’s entry into the Upper House of Parliament. Ten seats need to be filled for the Rajya Sabha from U.P. While the BJP declared eight candidates, the SP nominated one. The BSP, despite being short on numbers, also nominated a candidate, leading to allegations by the SP that it was colluding with the BJP to ensure smooth sailing for its nominee. Then in a twist, Prakash Bajaj, who hails from a business family, filed his nomination at the last minute as an Independent, making it 11 candidates for 10 seats. However, while the BSP nominee Ramji Gautam’s papers were accepted, Mr. Bajaj’s were rejected. Talking to reporters on the sidelines of an event in Lucknow, Mr. Yadav asserted that “those who were colluding with BJP tacitly have been exposed” by the episode. Mr. Yadav also took a dig at the BJP and said the party “could enter into any alliance”. A year after long-time rivals SP and BSP came together for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the two parties have entered a new phase of acrimony as the State heads towards the local bodies election.
01 November 2020||Srinagar,||J&K government voids Roshni Act||The J&K government on Saturday decided to declare all the actions taken under the Jammu and Kashmir State Land (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, 2001, also known as the Roshni Act, under which 20 lakh kanals of land was to be transferred to existing occupants, as “null and void”, and has decided to retrieve the land within six months. “The J&K government has decided to implement the High Court order, where it declared the Jammu and Kashmir State Land (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, 2001 as amended from time to time as unconstitutional, contrary to law and unsustainable,” an official spokesperson said. In an order issued by the J&K Department of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs, with the approval of the Lieutenant Governor, the J&K government said it has found necessary that in order to implement the judgment passed by the High Court, “directions are required to be issued”. The Principal Secretary, Revenue Department, has been asked to pass an order declaring all actions taken under the Act as void ab initio (from the beginning). “He shall also work out a plan to retrieve the large tracts of State land vested under the Act, 2001 in a time bound manner. He shall also work out the modalities and plan to evict encroachers from such State land and retrieve it within a period of six months,” the order said. The Principal Secretary, Revenue Department, shall work out modalities for handling the money received for these lands after annulment. According to the order, the identities of all influential persons, including Ministers, legislators, bureaucrats, government officials, police officers, businessmen, etc., and their relatives or persons holding benami for them, who have derived benefit under the Act, will be made public. “The action shall be completed within a period of one month,” it added. The Roshni Act, enacted during Farooq Abdullah’s regime, aimed at earning Rs. 25,000 crore by transferring 20 lakh kanals of State land to existing occupants against payment at market rates. During the Ghulam Nabi Azad regime, the cut-off was relaxed to In 2014, the Comptroller and Auditor General estimated that only Rs. 76 crore had been realised from the transfer of land between 2007 and 2013.
01 November 2020||Srinagar,||Hurriyat shutdown against ‘forced demographic changes’||A shutdown call, issued by the separatist Hurriyat against the newly introduced laws in J&K, affected life in the Kashmir Valley on Saturday. Most markets, shops and private offices remained closed. Most commercial hubs in the Valley districts also wore a deserted look. Government offices saw thin attendance. However, private transport plied. An official said security was tightened in volatile pockets. Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq said that the anti-people orders being issued for J&K “are aimed at intimidation and psychological torture of the people”. Call for dialogue “The Hurriyat reiterates its principled stand of engagement and dialogue among stakeholders for resolution of the Kashmir dispute. Instead, a policy of permanent demographic change is aggressively being pushed, to snatch our land, destroy our identity and turn us into a minority in our own land,” the Mirwaiz said in a statement. Jammu & Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir on Saturday said the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration and his party had “many common agendas”. “We are part of these common agendas. But there can be differences in the language being used while fighting for the cause,” he said. He described the repealing of land laws by New Delhi a “betrayal”. He said that there was a need to fight unitedly against New Delhi “to frustrate their anti-Kashmir designs”.
01 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. holds protest against farm laws||Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former party chief Rahul Gandhi on Saturday were among the leaders who offered their homage to former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on her 36th death anniversary. The party also observed the Kisan Adhikar Divas to protest against the recent farm laws enacted by the Centre, coinciding with Sardar Patel’s birth anniversary. The official Twitter handle also remembered Sardar Patel’s thoughts on non-violence and tweeted, “Non-violence is the essence of our nation’s being. Hatred and hostility have no place in it.” Making a rare public appearance, the Congress chief offered floral tributes at the Indira Gandhi memorial museum on 1 Safdarjang Road, the house where the former Prime Minister was assassinated by her guards. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra paid her homage by visiting Shakti Sthal, her grandmother’s memorial, while former party chief Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter to pay his respects. In a tweet, Ms. Vadra noted that it was both her grandmother’s death anniversary and Maharishi Valmiki’s birth anniversary.The party had directed all Pradesh Congress Committees (PCCs) to observe ‘satyagraha’ between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. at every district headquarters to protest against the farm laws of the Modi government. In an earlier statement, the All India Congress Committee said that during the satyagraha, party leaders would highlight “the special contribution of Sardar Patel to the farmers’ movement and their rights, particularly in the context of the Bardoli farmers’ movement and how the Modi government is blatantly attacking what the Sardar had fought for, as indeed undoing the Green Revolution ushered in by Smt. Indira Gandhi that made India self sustainable in food security”.
01 November 2020||Mumbai,||Pandemic affected access to justice: CJI||Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, along with Justice D.Y. Chandrachud of the Supreme Court, on Saturday inaugurated the first ever e-resource centre and virtual court for traffic and transport to enable speedy justice for litigants, called ‘Nyay Kaushal’, at Nagpur. After inaugurating the centre, CJI Bobde said, “The biggest problem that came with the pandemic was that access to justice became conditional on access to technology. This has ended up creating a divide between the ones who can afford technology and ones who cannot. With the aid of virtual courts, our system of justice does not suffer and the rule of law continues to be maintained.” He added, “The e-resource Centre at Nagpur is meant to be a step at mitigating various inequalities, being connected to the Supreme Court, the High Courts and the Taluka Courts.” The centre will provide the easiest way of filing court matters by utilising technology. It will provide benefits in saving time, avoidance of exertion, travelling long distances, and a saving in costs. The virtual court can deal with all traffic challan cases from every corner of Maharashtra online. It will be possible for the litigants to pay the fine and get the traffic challan case disposed of with the click of a button. The virtual court will be working from Katol in Nagpur district. Justice Chandrachud, who is also the Chairman of the Supreme Court’s E-court Committee and attended the inauguration virtually, said, “Delhi was the first to start virtual traffic courts across India, with almost 27,00,000 challans received by the virtual courts, and Rs. 19.8 crore collected by the government online.”
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,||BBMP to take action against 7 hospitals||Although Karnataka started the process of creating a database of healthcare workers, who would be the first beneficiaries of COVID-19 vaccine when it hits the market, only a little over 30% of the total 28,753 healthcare facilities in the State have submitted details of the frontline workers. The Centre had asked States to submit the database by October 31. Only 23% pvt. hospitals While 89% of government healthcare facilities have submitted details, the response from private facilities has been very poor with not more than 23% filling up the standard database templates and returning it to the health department. Following this, the State is now planning to request the Centre to extend the deadline by a few more days. The State had got a communication from the Centre on October 18 to compile the database following which an orientation for all district officials was conducted on October 20. Standard templates were sent out to all hospitals for collection of details. “Although we have been following up with all hospitals, we do not know why the response from private facilities is poor. As we have to submit the database to the Centre for entry in the national portal, we are planning to ask for an extension of the deadline,” State Health Director Om Prakash R. Patil told The Hindu on Saturday. He said all that the hospitals have to do is fill up the template with name, age, address, contact number and attach an identity card. According to the healthcare database tracking report compiled by the State Health Department, among the total 3,076 government health facilities in the State except for those in Bengaluru Rural, Bagalkot and Vijayapura the response from facilities in other districts is good. However, of the total 25,677 private health facilities, the response from facilities in only three districts — Chikkaballapur, Belagavi and Kodagu — has been good. “While private facilities in 13 districts have shown an average response, there has been a poor response from the rest. A mere 11% of the total 9,375 private facilities in Bengaluru Urban and BBMP limits have submitted the filled in templates,” said a senior health department official.  Sources said the poor response is because students in most medical colleges, who worked as frontline healthcare workers, had now taken a break and gone back to their native places. “While administration heads in the government facilities have taken this seriously, those in the private sector are neglecting. The Centre may give us some more time,” the official said. R. Ravindra, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said advisories had been sent out by PHANA to all the member hospitals to submit the details within the stipulated time. “We have been creating awareness about the registration. It is a simple procedure to fill up the template and does not take much time. Most corporate hospitals have done it. We will again send out messages to all private hospitals to be serious about this exercise,” he said.
01 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||CSD canteens to stop selling direct imports||The unit-run canteens (URC) of the armed forces will stop selling 422 directly imported items following an order from the Defence Ministry in support of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. The Canteen Stores Department (CSD) has issued a notification to all its depot managers to this effect. “To implement government’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat and as per the directions of the MoD, no purchase order will be placed for the directly imported items with immediate effect,” the notice dated October 29 said. However, there is no restriction in supply of items of pending purchase orders and sale to URCs till the stocks of imported items are liquidated fully. “You are therefore requested not to place any local purchase orders on the imported items…,” the notification said asking all depot managers to confirm its receipt by October 31. The CSD, which functions as an attached office of the Ministry, has 34 depots located across India. It has a portfolio of over 4,500 products sourced from 650 vendors both Indian and foreign. In an order dated October 19, the MoD said meetings were held with the three Services and CSD officials on May 21 and July 21 in support of “Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan”. “Based on the agreed decisions, it has been decided that procurement of direct imported items shall not be undertaken by CSD.” The list includes some leading brands, and a defence official said the volumes are so high that it should act as an incentive for companies to localise.
01 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Activists want greater focus on tobacco control||Voluntary groups working for tobacco control in Rajasthan have sought a renewed focus on public health by the civic bodies through a licensing mechanism for retail sellers. Activists said this would help generate lot of revenue for urban local bodies, which may be utilised for development works. A day after the polling in the first phase for the municipal corporation elections in three cities, the voluntary groups said the newly elected councillors should take measures for improving health with a special focus on tobacco control. This will be in line with the objectives of the “Nirogi Rajasthan” campaign launched for taking care of the elderly people, women and children and spreading awareness about diseases. Though the State government had authorised municipal bodies in 2018 to regulate the sale of tobacco products, the vendors violating the rules pay a petty fine and go back to selling them. Activists have been pressing for enforcement of a vendor licensing system with the framing of rules under the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA), 2003. Jayesh Joshi, secretary of Banswara-based Vaagdhara group, said since no civic body had taken any concrete action, the Department of Local Bodies had recently written a letter asking them to execute the 2018 order and report on the progress. “The municipal councillors should give priority to regulation of tobacco sales, as an estimated 2.5 lakh vendors can generate a revenue between Rs. 50 crore and Rs. 100 crore,” he said.
01 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Haryana CM, Dy. CM campaign in Baroda||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal and Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala on Saturday held joint public meetings in the Baroda Assembly constituency and urged people to vote for BJP-Jannayak Janta Party candidate Yogeshwar Dutt in the bypoll scheduled for November 3. Both hit out at the Congress and former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda for neglecting the constituency during their 10-year regime in the State. Cong. MLA The bypoll was necessitated due to the demise of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda in April, who had won the seat three consecutive times. The Congress has fielded Induraj Narwal while the Indian National Lok Dal has given ticket to Joginder Singh Malik. Addressing a gathering at Rajgharana in Gohana, Mr. Lal said the contest was only between the BJP-JJP and the Congress. “On one side is the alliance [BJP-JJP] and the other side is the Congress. Our candidate, wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt, is internationally renowned. On the other side is [Congress candidate] Induraj. Somebody is telling me that they have not seen him addressing people in the media. Therefore, you have to compare,” said the CM. Mr. Chautala, while urging voters to ensure a historic victory for the BJP-JJP candidate, said Mr. Dutt had brought laurels to the nation and he can take up their issues with the President and the Prime Minister. “But the Congress candidate himself has said his reach is limited only to Bapu-Beta [Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Deepender Hooda],” he said. Development work Mr. Lal said the State government had carried out development works worth Rs. 165 crore in Baroda in the last four months. “It was a backward constituency and I do not know why the late Sri Krishan Hooda never came to me and raised any issue of his constituency,” he said. Both Mr. Lal and Mr. Chautala held public meetings at Raj Gharana, Bhainswal, Shamdi and Mudhlana.
01 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. CM vows tough law against ‘love jihad’||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said his government would bring an “effective law” against “love jihad”, a slur politically used by the Hindu right wing to target inter-faith relationships and marriages involving a Muslim man. The Chief Minister also issued a “warning” to those who “played with the honour” of “sisters and daughters” by concealing their identities and operating secretly. If they did not mend their ways, then their “ Ram Naam Satya Yatra (funeral processions)” would be taken out, he said. Raising the issue in his campaign for the Malhani by-election in Jaunpur, Mr. Adityanath said, “The government is taking a decision that we will take tough measures to curb love jihad.” High Court order Mr. Adityanath referred to a recent order by the Allahabad High Court in which it dismissed a writ petition by a married couple seeking police protection, noting that the girl, who was a Muslim by birth, had converted to the Hindu faith just a month before the marriage was solemnised. The order was passed by the court on September 23 but became public last week. “The court... found that the first petitioner has converted her religion on 29.6.2020 and just after one month, they have solemnised their marriage on 31.7.2020, which clearly reveals to this court that the said conversion has taken place only for the purpose of marriage,” said Justice Mahesh Chandra Tripathi. The court said in the facts and circumstances it was not inclined to interfere in the matter under Article 226 of the Constitution.  If they do not mend their ways, their funeral processions will be taken out  Yogi Adityanath U.P. Chief Minister
01 November 2020||Panaji,||Cases decline, beds lie vacant in Goa hospitals||With a sharp decline in COVID-19 cases and majority of infected persons opting for home quarantine, the number of vacant beds in government and private hospitals is increasing with every passing day, according to a health department official. However, State Home Minister Vishwajit Rane said the government is not complacent as a “second wave” can be expected in November and December. As on Friday, 405 out of 805 beds in government-run COVID-19 hospitals and private hospitals were vacant, the health official said. Private hospitals have reserved 72 beds for COVID-19 patients, of which 42 were vacant, while of the 733 beds in government hospitals, 363 were not in use, he said. Reacting to this, Mr. Rane said, “The Goa government is witnessing empty beds in facilities set up for COVID-19 treatment, as home isolation has been introduced and infections have reduced.” He however, noted that just because beds are empty, it does not mean they will continue to remain so. “As the economy starts opening up and more people start coming to Goa, there is a possibility of a sudden spike and we should not be caught unawares,” he said. The State government has designated ESI Hospital in Margao, District Hospital (DH) in Margao, Sub District Hospital (SDH) in Ponda (all in South Goa) and Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) near Panaji for COVID-19 patients. “As we open up for November and December, we need to be more cautious. Few empty beds will continue, this is a decision of the expert committee and dean of GMCH and DHS. We should be ready for any spike or second wave,” he said. On October 24, 260 beds in government facilities were vacant, while the number rose to 319 on October 28, 338 on October 29 and 363 on October 30. Mr. Rane said, “I have given instructions to monitor patients in home isolation. We have also given instruction for digitalisation of records. We know the saturation of every patient and when we need to move him to a medical facility. We are following a unique model in Goa.”
01 November 2020||New Delhi,||Jaishankar warns against changes to LAC||In the midst of the China-India border row, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Saturday said any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo of the Line of Actual Control is “unacceptable” and that the agreements between two countries must be respected “scrupulously” in their entirety to restore normalcy in ties. The Minister said peace and tranquillity in the border areas provided the basis for expanded cooperation between India and China but as the pandemic unfolded, the relationship has come under severe stress. Mr. Jaishankar was delivering the Sardar Patel Memorial lecture, which was aired on All India Radio. “To restore normalcy, agreements between the two countries must be respected scrupulously in their entirety. Where the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is concerned, any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo is unacceptable,” Mr. Jaishankar said. “The relationship cannot be immune to changes in the assumptions that underpinned it. Large civilisational states re-emerging in close proximity will not have naturally easy ties,” he said. The Minister said the ties were stable for three decades as the two nations addressed inherited challenges and new circumstances. “Peace and tranquillity in the border areas provided the basis for expanded cooperation in other domains. But as the pandemic unfolded, the relationship has come under severe stress,” he said. Referring to cross-border terrorism, he said India has to be uncompromising in combating it. The External Affairs Minister said India will continue to give the utmost attention to its immediate neighbourhood while engaging the different poles of emerging global order. “As an outlook, the Neighbourhood First policy remains generous and non-reciprocal in creating the basis for shared activities in different domains.
01 November 2020||Aligarh (U.P.),||AMU student leader booked for ‘hurting religious sentiments’||A student leader of the Aligarh Muslim University who had led a protest against French President Emmanuel Macron has been booked for allegedly hurting religious sentiments of a “particular community”, police said on Saturday. A case has been lodged against Farhan Zubairi on Friday evening under Indian Penal Code sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race...) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) at the Civil Lines police station, it said. The FIR against Zubairi states that during the protest march on Thursday, “objectionable slogans” were raised against a particular community. These slogans, according to the police report, were designed to inflame religious hatred. On Thursday evening, protesting students at AMU had announced a boycott of all French products and had accused French President Macron of “hurting religious sentiments of Muslims” by his statements on the issue of caricatures of Prophet Mohammad.
01 November 2020||TOGUTA ( SIDDIPET DISTRICT),||Campaigning to come to a close today in Dubbak||As campaigning for Dubbak bypoll is coming to end on Sunday, voters are in a dilemma. For many of them, it is only the ruling TRS that can address their problems, but for many, it is the BJP, being in power at the Centre. Some leaders from submerging villages joining the TRS has surprised many of them. There is an underlying fear as well. “Will the government release compensation if another party wins?”, asked a villager on condition of anonymity. S. Sujatha from the TRS, Ch. Srinivas Reddy from Congress and M. Raghunandan Rao from BJP, are trying their luck from Dubbak. Finance Minister Harish Rao had handled the campaigning well. He had targeted the youth, women and farmers, by holding several meetings with them. He had also pursued the oustees of submerging villages of Mallannasagar to join TRS. By giving ticket to Srinivas Reddy, the Congress has strengthened its position and dependence on the image of former minister the late Ch. Muthyam Reddy, who developed the constituency during his tenure as minister in Telugu Desam regime. AICC leaders Manickam Tagore, Bosu Raju, TPCC leaders N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, Ponnam Prabhakar, A. Revanth Reddy and others have been participating in the campaigns. The BJP had mobilised a large number of activists for campaigning. Though it was initially only Raghunandan Rao, slowly all the top leaders took part. Party president and Lok Sabha member Bandi Sanjay became the centre of attention in campaigning. The party has been focusing on youth in villages and exposing the unfulfilled promises of job for each family and unemployment allowance. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, and senior leader D. Aravind also took part in the campaigning.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Kamal Nath moves SC over poll panel curbs||Mr. Nath, through Mr. Chopra, cited several other instances of name-calling. “For the sake of brevity and after taking into consideration the uncivilised, crass and abusive language used by the leaders of BJP for the petitioner and Indian National Congress, the petitioner considers it would not be apt to reproduce many more instances of use of unparliamentary language by BJP leaders,” he said. Role of party The petition said it was the prerogative of his party and not the EC to remove his name as ‘star campaigner’. “Section 77(1) of the Representation of People Act, 1951 read with Guidelines for Star Campaigners issued by the Election Commission, from time to time, makes selection/revocation of ‘star campaigners’ the sole prerogative of the political party,” the petition said. He urged the court to frame “appropriate guidelines for speeches during campaigning by star campaigners/ campaigners, keeping in mind the right to freedom of speech and expression and concept of democratic elections”. ‘No malice’ The petition explained how the Election Commission had first issued notice on October 21 to Mr. Nath on a complaint by BJP submitted on October 18 for violating the Model Code of Conduct at the Dabra rally. Mr. Nath had replied on October 22 that the remarks were “completely misunderstood without context and highlighted that there was no malice or intent to disrespect on his part”. He also said he had regretted the remark and issued a clarification the next day.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||PM slams ‘politics’ on Pulwama||“ Humne Hindustan ko ghus ke maara (We hit India at their home). Our success in Pulwama, is a success of this nation under the leadership of Imran Khan. You and us are all part of that success,” Mr. Chaudhry had said on October 29. Mr. Modi said terrorism is a global challenge and demanded that all forces and countries unite against it. “The way some forces have openly come in support of terrorism is a global concern for world peace and humanity. It is more imperative now than ever that all nations, governments and sects unite to defeat all forces that aid and abet terrorism.” The Prime Minister also sought to assure the country that Indian soldiers have the power to give a fitting reply to those eyeing its land and protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity. “India’s posture and approach at its borders have changed. Our brave soldiers are fully equipped and prepared to give a befitting reply to those who put their evil eyes on us. Security apparatus and infrastructure along our borders are stronger than ever!” However, Mr. Modi did not refer to Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh, while talking about borders, stating that infrastructure projects such as roads, bridges and tunnels along the border regions were being developed.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Work hard, Modi tells IAS probationers||He also emphasized team work and told the probationers that when they work with the entire team, there will be more success and impact of their work on the district or department. Mr Modi stressed that the focus of the “steel frame” of the country should not be merely in managing the daily affairs but in working for the progress of the nation. Reminding the newly recruited batch of civil servants about Sardar Patel’s philosophy on his 145th birth anniversary, he said “serving the citizens of the country is the highest duty of a civil servant.” Another piece of advice the Prime Minister offered to the probationary officers was to not get obsessed with the media and social media. “It is good that your work gets covered in the media but one has to ensure that one does not work only for coverage in the media.” According to Mr Modi, training is very important and therefore, the NDA government has given a new focus on providing training to impart new skill sets to the bureaucrats and public servants. “Training plays a very important role but earlier, not much attention was paid to it. But now, we are paying a lot of attention to the human resource and the training aspect. You have seen how the training of civil services has transformed in the last 2 to 3 years. The government has started Mission Karmayogi, a new experiment in capacity building,” he added. He was referring to the government’s new initiatives like Mission Karmayogi or National Programme for Civil Services Capacity Building, which is aimed at setting up of capacity building commission to harmonize training standards, create shared faculty and resources as well as having a supervisory role over all central training institutions.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajasthan Bills to counter farm laws||The Rajasthan government on Saturday introduced three Bills in the Assembly to stop the applicability of the three new agriculture sector laws enacted by the Centre recently. The Bills were tabled following a similar move in the Punjab Assembly last month. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal tabled the three Bills on the first day of the session along with another Bill seeking to amend the Civil Procedure Code for protecting the agriculturists’ land measuring up to 5 acres against attachment and sale in execution of a decree issued by the court in the cases of monetary award. The three Bills pertaining to the State amendments to the Central statutes are the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020. The first Bill sought to restore agricultural safeguards in the State through the regulatory framework of the Rajasthan Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961. It has provided for imprisonment of three to seven years along with fine for harassment of farmers. The second Bill sought to make an amendment for levying of fee or cess on notified agricultural produce bought by a corporate or traderand for resolution of disputes between the farmer and a trade through the Agricultural Produce Markets Act.The powers of civil courts in dispute resolution will be restored through this provision. According to the statement of objects and reasons for the Bills, the Parliament had introduced a mechanism which was “vulnerable to encroachment and manipulation” by vested corporate interestsleaving farmers to market forces. While affirming that agriculture, land and markets were primary legislative domain of the State falling under Seventh Schedule, the State government said the Central Acts were beyond the legislative competence of Parliament.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||New Indane LPG refill booking number||Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) has launched a common phone number (7718955555) for its Indane LPG customers across the country to book refills. It would mean that even if the customers move their residence from one telecom circle to another across States their Indane refill booking number will remain the same. This common number for booking refills — through SMS and IVRS — is an important step to enhance customer convenience and improve ease of ordering the refills. It will be available round-the-clock, a release from the public sector oil company said. Consequently, the existing system of telecom circle-specific phone numbers for booking the refills will be discontinued on October 31 midnight and the common booking number for LPG refills will be in force. The release said Indane bookings can be done only from the customer’s registered mobile number.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Festive cheer||
01 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||EC grounds Imarti Devi for a day||The Election Commission on Saturday barred Imarti Devi, BJP candidate for the Dabra bypoll in Madhya Pradesh, from campaigning for one day for violating the Model Code of Conduct. In an order on Saturday, the EC said Ms. Imarti Devi would be barred from holding any rallies, processions, public meetings, road shows and interviews in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday. The EC had issued a notice to Ms. Imarti Devi on October 27 for her speech attacking former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath, in which she used the word “item” for his mother and sister. Her speech followed Mr. Nath’s speech where he had referred to Ms. Imarti Devi as an “item”.
01 November 2020||Srinagar,||‘J&K govt. and industry will be partners’||Heads of industry and educational institutes participated in a day-long workshop, “Youth Engagement and Outreach” in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, as the administration opened up four sectors in the first phase to outside investments and handholding. Representatives of Ashok Leyland, ICICI Foundation, Bombay Stock Exchange, Indian Institutes of Managements, Indian Institutes of Technology and policy analysts participated in the workshop. Lt. Governor Manoj Sinha, addressing the workshop, asked the industrial leaders “to partner J&K in formulating and implementing the programme successfully on ground”. “We have so much to offer and there is a lot that I expect this group to contribute for accelerated economic growth,” Mr. Sinha said. “The four sectors in which we are focussing our energies in J&K are Industry and Services, Technology and Innovation, Infrastructure, Agriculture and Allied Sector,” the L-G said. Ashok Leyland proposed establishment of rural schools where dropouts could be admitted to get skill training.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Stop crime against Dalits, say activists||Academics, professionals and individuals from across the U.S., Canada, Europe, U.K., Latin America, Africa and Asia Pacific have joined social movements in India to condemn crimes against Dalits, especially against Dalit women. A statement from India Civil Watch International called for prosecution of the dominant caste men and police who committed the heinous crime in Hathras and in all other recent cases. The statement has been endorsed by over 1,800 signatories including political activist Angela Davis, Gloria Steinem, Maude Barlow, Barbara Harris-White, Chandra Talpade Mohanty, Arjun Appadurai, Meena Dhanda as well as international organisations such as the Dalit Solidarity Forum in the USA, National Women’s Studies Association, SEWA-AIFW (Asian Indian Family Wellness), CodePink and Women’s Legal among others, according to a release. Justice can only become possible with the abolition of caste and militarised capitalism in India, it said.
01 November 2020||Agartala,||90-year-old woman gang-raped||A 90-year-old woman has been allegedly raped by two men in her house in Tripura, the police said on Saturday. The incident took place at Barhaldi village in the Kanchanpur subdivision of North Tripura district on October 24, but her relatives lodged a police complaint on October 29, a senior police officer said. The accused are absconding, Superintendent of Police Bhanupada Chakraborty said.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Managing the monsoon||The northeast monsoon this year set its foot into Tamil Nadu with formidable rains, especially over the coastal districts. The first spell of copious rain on October 29 brought with it the usual issue of inundation of Chennai’s vulnerable areas. While the city managed to bounce back, concerns over the recurrence of the monsoon woes among residents are inevitable. With the meteorological department forecasting near normal rainfall this monsoon, a section of residents in vulnerable areas raises doubts about infrastructure needed to control urban flooding. People in some localities like Anna Nagar Western Extension were relieved that the desilted stormwater drains (SWD) and freshly added infrastructure helped to drain rainwater off the roads. S. Rajagopal, a resident, noted that people had to constantly press officials for completion of the work, a matter of challenge during the pandemic. In contrast to this, residents of other areas such as Mylapore and Saligramam blamed poor stormwater drains for their localities covered with sheets of water long after the rain abated. People in Singaravelu Street and Gandhi Nagar, Saligramam said water pumped out of the Vadapalani bus depot added to stagnation on Kumaran Colony Main Road. C. Thomas of Saligramam said the stormwater drains need to be redesigned to prevent localised flooding. The lack of coordination between Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) and the Highways Department was evident with water-logging on some key roads such as General Patters Road and Anna Salai. However, the official word is that one need not fear a repeat of the December 2015 situation, since a lot of preparatory work has been done. Officials of government agencies engaged in monsoon preparedness noted that the long-term flood mitigation works implemented so far in Chennai and its neighbouring districts would help to reduce the severity of floods, experienced in 2015, by 65% to 70%. Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy said many projects had been completed in phase I in the flood-prone areas to conserve floodwater with riverine reservoirs across the Adyar, eco-restoration of waterbodies and bridging of missing links to carry the rainwater between lakes. The major issues of breaching of lakes and unplanned discharge of surplus water from lakes in the Tambaram region had been addressed, he said. Eight lakes, including Sembakkam, Narayanapuram and Selaiyur, have been provided with flood regulators for a systematic discharge and prevent inundation in foreshore areas. “We have also initiated an early warning system through text messages, irrespective of service providers in the city. On October 29, city residents received weather forecast messages. The project of the Centre for Development of Telematics and the State government will help people to be prepared about impending inundation,” he said. Some of the highly vulnerable areas may be spared localised flooding, according to the Water Resources Department. While the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown have delayed the completion of significant projects, long-term flood mitigation works initiated since 2017 will help to reduce local flooding to a large extent. What has been done Of the Rs. 344 crore allotted, works worth Rs. 260 crore have been completed so far, besides six cut-and-cover drains in areas such as Chitlapakkam and West Tambaram and 31 tanks in southern parts of the city such as Manimangalam and Somangalam that drain surplus water into the Adyar river have been deepened. A total of 13 major drains are being improved, and the completion of some projects had helped to be monsoon-ready by July. The flood drainage system has been improved in localities such as S. Kolathur, Pallikaranai and Mudichur Road. If projects proposed worth Rs. 3,000 crore under the Chennai City Partnership Programme are accelerated, permanent mitigation would be possible. Funds have been sought from the World Bank for comprehensive flood mitigation and conservation in Chennai Metropolitan Area, an official added. Come monsoon, complaints of water pollution and sewage spillover do arise in the city. R. Narasimhan, Chief Engineer (Operation and Maintenance), Chennai Metrowater, said: “We are monitoring 609 locations prone to sewer obstructions. Special monitoring officers have been appointed to check out residents’ complaints. While 3,000 water samples are being tested daily for residual chlorine and total dissolved solids, an additional 300 samples are being tested for various parameters by the Quality Assurance Wing.” Corporation confident Amid the complaints of delay in minor works and inadequate funds for desilting drains in many wards, the GCC is confident of facing the impact of the monsoon. GCC Commissioner G. Prakash noted that works to provide new infrastructure and desilting of waterbodies this year would help face the monsoon. The stormwater drain network, especially in the core parts running to 400 km, was desilted with funds from the Chennai Mega City Development Mission and other projects. Officials said that given the city’s flat terrain and the city’s stormwater drains designed to accommodate only up to 42 mm of rainfall per hour in core parts, it would take several hours for rainwater to recede. In extended areas, new stormwater drains have been built as per international standards to accommodate 68 mm of rainfall. L. Nandakumar, Chief Engineer (General), noted the high tide and low tide also played a significant role in draining floodwater into the sea. On October 29, the high tide delayed discharge of rainwater. The pre-monsoon stormwater drain work helped to keep the city largely free of inundation. Rainwater should not stagnate for more than two hours as per international standard. Nearly 25,000 tonnes of hyacinth, silt and garbage were removed from minor waterways to ensure free flow of rainwater. Measures to install 30,000 silt catch pits in the inlet points of the stormwater drains and 2,000 sunken wells in the parks and abandoned wells helped in rainwater harvesting in public spaces. About one lakh rainwater harvesting structures in the city houses were made functional, he said. The pandemic has delayed the Integrated stormwater drain in north Chennai areas such as Manali, Madhavaram and Tondiarpet. The work to build macro-canals in 10 locations in the merged areas of north Chennai would have been completed had it not been for the lockdown, said GCC officials. However, Velachery residents complained that the pre-monsoon work was inadequate. Citing the construction of the flyover and widening of the Velachery Main Road, S. Kumararaja said the Velachery canal had been blocked with concrete to make way for the road and the macro-canal in the widened portion of Velachery-Taramani Link Road lay neglected. Recurring encroachments Though large-scale projects have been initiated and implemented successfully in various areas, departments like the WRD continue to grapple with issues like recurring encroachments and sewage flow into waterbodies and waterways. WRD officials said an eight-km stretch of the Kosasthalaiyar river beneath the Karanodai bridge, which often breached leading to spillover of floods, had now been restored. “We found the bund cut open in 50-60 locations. Controlling illegal sand mining is a challenge,” said an official. Cleaning various surplus courses, which carry rainwater to the Adyar, in the neighbourhood of Porur and Manapakkam was another challenge. In some narrow stretches, water hyacinth had to be removed manually as machines could not be deployed. Water hyacinth, too, returned over waterways as sewage continues to flow. Missing links in the Paruthipattu and Madhavaram surplus courses too pose a challenge. S. Thirunavukkarasu, former Public Works Department engineer, notes that frequent readings of flow into reservoirs once in 30 minutes during heavy rainfall would help to tackle flash floods. More ‘lascars’ (irrigation assistants) should be deployed to monitor reservoirs. Meanwhile, weather experts note that monsoon preparedness is more focussed on tackling urban floods. But it is also about drought preparedness and harnessing rainwater. It is essential for the State government to develop an elaborate plan to tackle water security next year in case the monsoon fails to bring sufficient rainfall.  Nearly 25,000 tonnes of hyacinth, silt and garbage were removed from minor waterways to ensure free flow of rainwater. About one lakh rainwater harvesting structures in the city houses were made functionalL. NandakumarChief Engineer (General)   Frequent readings of flow into reservoirs once in 30 minutes during heavy rain would help tackle flash floods. More irrigation assistants should be deployed to monitor reservoirsS. ThirunavukkarasuFormer PWD engineer
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai’s overall tally inching closer to two lakh infections||With 690 fresh cases, Chennai’s overall tally moved closer to the two lakh-mark on Saturday. The city recorded 12 of the 31 deaths reported in the State, accounting for a total of 3,651. As the State reported 2,511 fresh cases, the number of districts accounting for less than 100 cases each stood at 32. Both Erode and Tiruppur — which had been recording over 100 cases each — saw a small decline, with 79 and 91 cases respectively. In Coimbatore, 241 persons tested positive, while there were 148 cases in Chengalpattu, 145 in Salem and 133 in Tiruvallur. With the fresh cases, a total of 1,99,916 persons have tested positive in Chennai. Of these, 7,191 were active cases, while 1,89,074 persons were discharged. Coimbatore had a total of 43,252 cases and Chengalpattu 43,654 cases. A total of 3,848 persons, including 794 in Chennai, 605 in Coimbatore and 225 in Chengalpattu, were discharged. So far, 6,91,236 persons were discharged in the State. The overall case count stood at 7,24,522. As many as 22,164 persons were under treatment. The toll rose to 11,122. 31 fatalities Of the 31 fatalities, 17 persons died at private hospitals. All of them had co-morbidities. Among them was a 40-year-old woman from Chennai who had diabetes and systemic hypertension. She was admitted to a private hospital on October 29 with complaints of difficulty in breathing for seven days. She died the next day owing to COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 70,767 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. This took the total number of samples tested to 99,56,210.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sedition charges to be invoked if separate flag hoisted for State||The Tamil Nadu police have warned activists of various Tamil nationalist organisations against hoisting a separate flag representing the State of Tamil Nadu to mark its formation day on November 1. Even as different organisations, including the ‘Thamizhar Viduthalai Kazhagam’, ‘May-17’ Movement, ‘Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam’, ‘Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam’ and ‘Thamil Desiya Makkal Munnani’ among others have planned to unveil and hoist a separate flag for Tamil Nadu in public places or in front of their party/residential premises, the police have cautioned them that such an act would “violate the values enshrined in the Constitution of India and also come under the purview of an offence under Section 124A (Sedition) of the Indian Penal Code.” “Breach of peace” In a notice to the Chennai District Secretary of the ‘Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam’ who organised a meeting here on October 20 and declared that a new flag representing the State of Tamil Nadu would be unveiled and hoisted on November 1, the Chennai Police cautioned the organisation to refrain from organising such events as they may lead to “breach of public peace”. Any deviation would lead to legal action as per law, the police warned. According to police sources, ‘Periariya Unarvalargal Koottamaippu’ comprising various political parties, Tamil, Dalit and student organisations have proposed to distribute sweets and hoist the Tamil Nadu flag in front of the residence of members on November 1 on the occasion of the Tamil Nadu Formation Day. There was also a specific input that ‘Naam Thamizhar Katchi’ coordinator Seeman had also appealed to his party cadres to hoist the separate flag for Tamil Nadu in front of their houses and organise cultural programmes in all Assembly constituencies. Senior police officials across the State have been alerted to prevent any move by such organisations to unveil or hoist a separate flag for the State of Tamil Nadu.  Police have cautioned Tamil nationalist organisations that such an act would “violate the values enshrined in the Constitution”
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||South Tamil Nadu, Western Ghats may get light to moderate rainfall||The prevailing weather system over the Bay of Bengal will bring light to moderate rain over south Tamil Nadu and the Western Ghats districts till Monday, according to the Meteorological Department. Friday’s cyclonic circulation over the Tamil Nadu coast and the adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal persists. Officials of the Meteorological Department said that this would bring light rain over the districts along the Western Ghats till Monday. The interior districts may begin to get light to moderate rain from November 2, they added. One or two places in the districts, including Madurai, Tenkasi, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram and Tirunelveli, will experience heavy rain accompanied by thunder and lightning for the next two days. A few places in Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts will get moderate rainfall. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Saturday, Viraganur dam in Madurai district received 10 cm, the highest amount of rainfall for the day. This was followed by Madurai airport with 8 cm of rainfall. Officials noted that Chennai may have partly cloudy skies and largely experience dry weather for two days. The day temperature will be around 34 degree Celsius, which is three degree Celsius above normal for the period. The city has so far this year received 71 cm of rainfall against its annual average of 140 cm. The Meenambakkam weather station has recorded 86 cm against its yearly normal of 138 cm as on Saturday, according to the Meteorological Department.  One or two places in districts including Madurai, Tenkasi, Virudhunagar and Tirunelveli will experience heavy rain for the next two days
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fireworks traders cut down on orders||Traders and retailers who are into fireworks business are cutting down on budgets. Owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, they have decided not to stock up more than what is required ahead the festive season. A few traders say they are not even applying for licences to open stalls. A trader from Sowcarpet, who regularly opens stalls during Deepavali, says, “Last year, I booked consignments for over Rs. 5 crore; this time, it will be half of that. I will wait until November 10 and will consider buying more, based on the demand. With salary cuts and job losses, crackers would be at the bottom of consumers’ shopping list.” Another retailer, who puts up three stalls on the Island Grounds in Chennai, says, “I have not invested much this year. I have cut down on the budget by 30%... There is still no clarity on green crackers...” Traders point out that if consignments are unsold, they cannot return them to manufacturers. Many traders say they have booked consignments on credit from manufacturers. “Usually we sell off the unsold crackers for marriages and during Christmas and New Year. With a cap on the number of people attending weddings, the celebrations are low key, and there is no demand for crackers,” says Rajan, a retailer. Though production has been impacted at all factories, fireworks manufacturers in Sivakasi, India’s cracker hub, are quite optimistic that business will be good this season. On an average, production has fallen by 20%-30%. “Production is slightly down but orders have been good. People who were under lockdown for several months now want to go out, shop and celebrate. So this Deepavali will certainly be good,” asserts P. Ganesan, president of the Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers Association (TANFAMA), which represents the industry. “Over 75% of the orders have come in and consignments have started going out. We are expecting more orders in the coming days,” said P.C.A. Asaithambi, partner at Lord Fireworks. “We are hopeful that Deepavali sales will be good. Else the economy of Sivakasi will collapse as people here are dependent on this industry.” Mr. Ganesan points out that many manufacturers borrow to run their businesses and if the festive season does not work well it will be a huge burden for the entire industry. There are over 1,000 licensed cracker units at Sivakasi, which account for a market size of Rs. 2,500 crore-Rs. 3,000 crore. These apart, there are several illegal units that operate out of small sheds and cottages in and around Sivakasi; ballpark estimates show that they do a business of over Rs. 2,500 crore a year. Green crackers Mr. Ganesan and other manufacturers who are members of TANFAMA say over 80% of the crackers from Sivakasi will carry a green tag this year. But a few manufacturers say that even before they could get the green cracker formula right, the lockdown came into force. A manufacturer, who has three units, says he could not make green crackers this year. “In December 2019, we were working on how to get the formula right. By the end of February, we decided to start work, and by then the lockdown was announced, and we had to halt our business.” While the big firms have migrated to green crackers, the small units are struggling to get the formula right. The proprietor of a small unit says, “Only 20% of what we made this year are green crackers. Many manufacturers are not able to make green crackers. The migration is cumbersome...”
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Models predict normal rainfall||Tamil Nadu will experience near normal rainfall this year during the northeast monsoon, going by different weather models. On an average, Tamil Nadu receives 44 cm of rainfall during the northeast monsoon. Citing the report of South Asian Climate Outlook Forum (SASCOF), S. Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology, Chennai, said the northern parts of the State may experience near normal rainfall, and the rainfall may be below average in southern Tamil Nadu. “We are expecting wet weather to continue till November 4 or November 5. However, forecasting a number of weather systems that could influence rains may not be accurate as it is a volatile monsoon,” he said. Weather experts noted that many models, including those from the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and the United States National Centers for Environmental Prediction had forecast close to normal rainfall. However, they noted that the north-east monsoon rainfall might not exceed 10% above normal. Weather expert Y.E.A. Raj said the south-west monsoon rains over Tamil Nadu was in excess by 9% this year. Going by the data for 120 years, there had been no year when both monsoons ended with excess rainfall. These global weather phenomena are not the only controlling parameters. Generally, La Nina and positive southern oscillation do not favour the north-east monsoon over Tamil Nadu. But there have been exceptions in the past. The year 2005 was a classic example that experienced a weak La Nina, yet it ended with 52% more rain. Some of the years with similar excess rainfall included 2007, 2010 and 2011, Mr. Raj said.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Collapse of roof in medical college exposes corruption, alleges Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday alleged that the collapse of the roof of the portico in the Government Medical College in Namakkal had exposed corruption and irregularities in tender process. “The incident in which five persons were injured clearly shows the poor quality of construction works in a government hospital where poor and middle class are being treated,” he said. In a statement here, Mr. Stalin said once the DMK was elected to power it would cancel all tenders and bring to justice who were responsible for the irregularities and corruption. Mr. Stalin said the cost of the construction was Rs. 350 crore and it was shocking that it had collapsed after 60% work was completed. “There is no report about any death there. But the incident raises questions about the future of the buildings. Though the AIADMK government boasted about getting permission for new medical colleges, the incident explains to the people that is actually interested in calling for tenders and collecting commission,” the DMK president said.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 50% city residents do not wear masks, says Corpn. chief||Over 50% Chennai residents have not been wearing masks during the pandemic, said Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash. The civic body has planned to promote mask wearing among residents, during the festival season, to arrest the spread of COVID-19. “We have identified locations prone to crowding, ahead of the festival season. Teams of civic officials have been formed in Velachery, T. Nagar, Anna Nagar, Purasawalkam and George Town to contain the spread of COVID-19,” he said. Stressing the need for containment initiatives during the festival season, Mr. Prakash said people have to wear masks and adhere to physical distancing and containment norms for another three months. Officials have collected fines amounting to over Rs. 3 crore from violators of COVID-19 safety norms. “We have been imposing fines on violators, without affecting business in commercial areas. We are determined to contain the spread of COVID-19. But we do not want to create hardship among residents and traders. We request people to wear masks and adhere to the rules during the festival season,” he said. Collection of fines The Corporation has collected the highest amount of fines from zones such as Royapuram that has a large number of commercial establishments. “Civic officials and the police have placed barricades in George Town and T. Nagar to regulate crowding in commercial areas. We are allowing only a limited number of persons inside commercial areas. More barricades will be put up in such areas to prevent crowding,” said another civic official. According to data compiled by the Corporation, the fine amount collected for not wearing masks has been higher in commercial areas. An amount of Rs. 200 is collected by civic officials from those not wearing a mask.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Observation, application helps in animation and design’||The field of animation and design has been growing in leaps and bounds in the last few years. Keeping this in mind, The Hindu Education Plus , along with the Hindusthan College of Arts & Science (Coimbatore), DJ Education and Maya Academy of Advanced Cinematics (MAAC), hosted a webinar on October 31, focusing on career opportunities in the area. Sivaprasad Velayudhan, founder of Coimbatore-based Realworks Studios, explained what the industry looked for. “Learning in this field is more about observation and application rather than memorising from a textbook,” he said. Just studying a course is not enough to excel in the real world, he added. To add value to the work you create, Mr. Velayudhan suggested getting out and experiencing the world, and applying what you observe. “Creativity is like a new recipe in which you take existing ingredients and mix and match them to create something different from what already exists. This is why many movies and books are influenced by what we see and observe around us,” he said. He also spoke about how the industry was interested in people who were dynamic, problem-solvers and team players. Internships and work experience are a great way to improve and gain the knowledge required to thrive, he added. Stalin T.M., creator and educator in the field of 3D Animation and VFX, MAAC, Coimbatore, gave a presentation with video examples of works that could be created through animation and VFX. He focused on the academic side, the subjects that a student would learn during the degree course, and the different career streams one could follow. He introduced the different industries in the stream, including graphic and web, animation, VFX and gaming, and highlighted how the growing media industry was offering different roles for specialisation. A. Ponnusamy, principal of Hindusthan College of Arts & Science, Coimbatore, welcomed the viewers and introduced the new Bachelor’s in the Graphic Design course that the college had introduced. At the end, the panelists took multiple questions from the audience.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Diversity, kindness, empowerment and more in Farishtha||“A world without differences, which celebrates diversity in a positive way” is what Khatija Rahman said when asked to describe her recently released Tamil single Farishtha ( Farishton in Hindi). The young singer has collaborated with her father, music composer A.R. Rahman, for the song in both Hindi and Tamil. A three minute and forty second animated music video was released on October 28, and Ms. Khatija said working on the song was an experience she cherished. “I had the opportunity to share my ideas and reflect on what I would like to sing about through the process,” she said. Composed by Mr. Rahman, the song has lyrics by Mashook Rahman in Tamil and Munna Shaokath Ali in Hindi. The A.R. Rahman Foundation’s renowned Sunshine Orchestra, too, was part of the project. The animated music video follows the pilgrimage of a young girl Amal. Ms. Khatija said they were keen on having a video that appealed to people across age groups. “Animated movies are something that most of us love, irrespective of age. We often want to become a part of that world and I wanted that effect to come through here,” she said. Artist and designer Sam Madhu was the creative director for the project and additional animation was by Ek Number Studios. “I truly hope each person can be a Farishtha or an angel in somebody’s life. Just a kind gesture, however small, would go a long way and make someone happy,” the singer said. She credited singer Lata Mangeshkar as being her greatest inspiration. “Feedback from my father and my teachers has helped me evolve my style of music over the years,” she added. Earlier in September, Ms. Khatija had collaborated with musician Ricky Kej and had sung for her first single, Iltaja . “Independent music projects are a great opportunity for musicians to experiment and dabble in a variety of styles. It is an exciting time for such music projects and collaborations,” said the singer, who is also a director and trustee at the A.R. Rahman Foundation.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||National Unity Day observed by police||The National Unity Day, or Rashtriya Ekta Diwas , was observed on Saturday, with Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy administering a pledge at the police headquarters here. Senior police officers gathered to take part in the event. National Unity Day is celebrated on October 31 across the country to commemorate the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, and to recognise the contributions of the first Union Home Minister, who laid the firm foundations of the Indian police and gave it its identity, character and direction. A special march-past was staged by the personnel near Rajaji Salai. About 500 police officers, comprising the T.N. Commando Force, the Armed Reserve Police, T.N. special police, the mounted police and the police band, took part in the march. Additional Commissioner of Police, headquarters, A. Amalaraj, and other officials took a unity pledge at the venue.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPFO gives pension payment orders to retired employees||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) distributed pension payment orders to the employees of Indian Oil Corporation and Quess Corp on Thursday (the day of their retirement) as part of ‘Prayaas’, an initiative to release pensions on the day of superannuation to members under the Employees’ Pension Scheme, 1995. Pensions were also given to employees of Ashok Leyland, whose retirement date was in October 2020, according to a release. Pension payment orders were handed over to retiring employees by Rituraj Medhi, Regional PF Commissioner - I, regional office, Chennai (North) and regional office, Chennai (South). Dr. Sudhir Jaiswal, Regional PF Commissioner - II (Pension), regional office, Chennai (North), spoke briefly.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Do not fall prey to imposters: city police||The city police have appealed to residents not to fall prey to imposters luring people on the pretext of warding off evil spirits. The appeal was made following a couple of cheating cases in the city. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Adyar, V. Vikraman, said people should not fall prey to such imposters. If residents have any information on fraudsters, they can directly contact the police at 8754401111, and pass on the information. The identity of the informant will be kept confidential, he said. On Thursday, a 45-year-old woman from Perumbakkam was arrested for allegedly robbing a family in Neelankarai of 102 sovereigns of gold and Rs. 8 lakh in cash. She had befriended them on the pretext of warding off evil spirits. The suspect, Narayani, was arrested by the police from a hideout. The victim, Sivakumar, 42, works at the Chennai harbour and is a resident of Palavakkam. His wife died in April, 2018, after her sari allegedly caught fire while she was cooking. Ms. Nayarani met Mr. Sivakumar and his daughter, while she was visiting her daughter, who is their neighbour. She convinced Mr. Sivakumar that his wife died due to evil spirits, and only a special puja could ward them off. She collected 102 sovereigns of jewellery and Rs. 8.6 lakh in cash from him for the puja . Only after a year did Mr. Sivakumar realise that he was being cheated. Another case Last week, the New Washermenpet police busted a gang of four suspects that cheated several persons on the pretext of performing special pujas to ward off evil spirits. The main suspect was identified as Yuvaraj, 42, from Tiruvallur district. He is yet to be arrested. A senior police officer said the main suspect engaged his associates to scout for potential victims. Based on the information shared by them, he would personally visit the families, pretending to be god-sent. “We suspect the gang has cheated several people,” the officer said.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No funds to pay monthly pensions, says varsity||The University of Madras has acknowledged that its pension fund is inadequate to pay monthly pensions and that it had to withdraw a total of Rs. 16.37 crore, on two occasions, from its endowment fund to pay salaries and pensions. The university administration said this in its written reply to DMK MLA from Madhavaram constituency, S. Sudarsanam, during the Senate meeting on Saturday. The university said that it withdrew Rs. 8.37 crore in June and Rs. 8 crore in July from the endowment fund, as a temporary measure, to pay pensions and salaries. It said the same would be credited back, on receipt of certain grants towards salaries due from the Tamil Nadu government, for 2018-2019. The university said that its Syndicate had powers to utilise the endowment funds for other purposes, if needed. According to the reply, the Syndicate, in its meeting on August 11, 2017, authorised the Vice-Chancellor to transfer required funds from one head to another.  Assistance sought Acknowledging that its pension fund was insufficient to meet monthly payments to pensioners and family pensioners, the university said it had sought financial assistance from the State government.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss calls for ban on online gambling||PMK founder Dr. S. Ramadoss on Saturday said that a fourth death by suicide, of a youth in Seeranayakkanpalayam in Coimbatore district, has been reported in 10 days due to the loss suffered in online gambling and called for its ban. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss said that young people were becoming addicted to online gambling and taking their own lives after suffering huge losses. “Madankumar, 28, who had been working in a private bank had started indulging in online gambling to earn money. After earning good money, he ended up losing it and took loans from friends to the tune of lakhs. Ultimately he has taken his own life after being unable to deal with his debt,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss said that those who had previously taken their own lives also had similar stories. “In the last 10 days alone, Pudhucherry, Madurai, Chennai had reported deaths due to online gambling. A large number of families could also end up in severe debt. It needs to be banned,” he said.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Women’s groups extend support to Thirumavalavan||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) president Thol. Thirumavalavan on Friday met with various women’s groups – such as All India Democratic Women’s Association, National Federation of Indian Women, Tamil Nadu Kalai Ilakkiya Perumandram and others – who pledged their support to him and his party for his campaign against ancient Hindu religious text Manusmriti and the BJP. During the meeting, Mr. Thirumavalavan said that he was happy to receive support from various women’s groups and women have an important role to play in stopping religious forces from gaining a foothold in the State. “Several women’s groups have spoken against Sanathanic forces and have said that it is important to fight against them democratically. It gives me happiness. Oppressing women and maintaining their hegemony in the society is the conspiracy of Sanathanic forces. Understanding this and fighting against them is the need of the hour,” he said. He added, “Women should speak for women. We have always taken a defensive approach. We have not tried to change the situation. We have not opposed it by questioning the system.” Idealogical clarity Mr. Thirumavalavan spoke about the need to develop ideological clarity. “There is no need to support Thirumavalavan. But we need to understand and debate structures behind the oppression of women and ideology that supports it. VCK will support women who mobilise women against this,” Mr. Thirumavalavan said.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents eager for resumption of trains||Residents in the city and its suburbs are eagerly waiting for the Southern Railway to resume suburban train services in the coming weeks, after the State government on Saturday allowed the operation of train services as part of its announcement to extend the lockdown till November 30. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has allowed the resumption of suburban train services, as and when the Central government decides. While the decision on the operation of suburban and long-distance trains rests with the Railway Board, residents hope the Chief Minister’s request to the Central government for restarting operations of suburban trains speeds up its decision regarding the same. Southern Railway Chief Public Relations Officer B. Guganesan said the Railway Board had not given its go ahead for resumption of suburban train services. However, sources in the Southern Railway said they were hopeful that a decision to restart the services would be made in the coming week. A timetable was ready, and services could be started in a day, once the order was given, they said.  Economical option Though the State government had allowed bus services to restart across the State from September 1, residents have been demanding that suburban train services, too, be permitted, as they are easily accessible and is the most economical transport option for lakhs of commuters. A. Roy Rozario, an office-bearer of the Railway Passengers’ Association, Pattabhiram, and a retired official of the Southern Railway, said suburban train services were the lifeline for thousands of office-goers and daily wage earners, travelling from places like Arakkonam, Tiruvallur and Thiruninravur to the city, and the absence of the trains was burning a hole in their pockets. He asked what stopped the Southern Railway from allowing people to use the suburban trains, which are being operated for essential workers and government staff, when Western and Central railways had resumed the operation of electrical multiple unit (EMU) services.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AMMK to stage protest for paddy procurement||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) will hold a demonstration on Monday in Tiruvarur to highlight the need for expeditious procurement of paddy. In a statement, T.T.V. Dhinakaran, general secretary of the party, pointed out that farmers of the Cauvery delta had raised paddy even during a pandemic. But a number of paddy bags had not been procured due to a paucity in the number of direct procurement centres. Suppressing farmers’ plight The bags were getting damaged due to the impact of rain. Even though the AMMK had raised the issue, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Food Minister R. Kamaraj were “showing keenness in suppressing” the plight of farmers, Mr. Dhinakaran complained. In a series of tweets, the AMMK leader expressed shock over the reported collapse of a portion of the under-construction building for the Namakkal government medical college hospital and wondered why senior officials of the district administration had to rush to the spot if there had been no crash of the structure, as claimed by Electricity Minister P. Thangamani, who hailed from the district. The government should come out with reasons behind the event, he added.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sagayam applies for VRS||U.Sagayam, an officer of the Indian Administrative Service of the 2001 batch, has applied for voluntary retirement from service. The officer, now Vice-Chairman of the Science City, sent his application to the authorities on October 2. Terming the reason “personal”, Mr.Sagayam stated that he would be devoting himself in “service to the society”. There is no word as yet on the government’s decision regarding his application. Mr.Sagayam originally belonged to the State Civil Service before getting promoted into the IAS. He would be ordinarily retiring from service in July 2022. For over six years, he has been with the Science City. Enforcing MCC Though he served Namakkal and Madurai districts as Collector, it was his innings in Madurai (2011-12) that got highlighted for the way he enforced the model code of conduct during the 2011 Assembly election. At that time, the Madurai rural police had registered case against the then south zone organising secretary of the DMK and Union Minister M.K. Alagiri in connection with an assault case. In September 2014, the Madras High Court made him Special Officer/Legal Commissioner to inspect and enquire into illegal granite mining activities in Madurai district. In November 2015 and January 2016, he submitted his reports to the court.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Unauthorised persons using advocate stickers’||The Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry has submitted a petition to the DGP regarding the misuse of advocate stickers by unauthorised persons. In a letter to the DGP, C. Raja Kumar, secretary of Bar Council, informed that the council had issued stickers to advocates, containing their vehicle registration number, symbol, logo and signature of the chairman of the Bar Council. However, complaints were received about non-advocates using the sticker. The Bar Council has requested the police to take necessary action against such persons.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Awareness on abdomen stones||GEM Hospital in Perungudi will be organising stones awareness week till November 8. The camp will be held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., and people can have free consultation with medical specialists. The camp will aid in the early detection of stones in the abdomen. For appointments, people can contact 9884998385.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IAS Officer Sagayam applies for VRS||U. Sagayam, an Indian Administrative Service officer from the 2001 batch, has applied for voluntary retirement from service. The officer, who is presently the vice-chairman of Science City, sent his application to the authorities on October 2. Terming reasons for his retirement “personal”, Mr. Sagayam stated that he would be devoting himself for “service to the society”. There is no word yet on the government’s decision regarding his application. Mr. Sagayam was with the State Civil Service before being promoted to the IAS. He would be ordinarily retiring in July 2022. Though he served Namakkal and Madurai districts as Collector, it was his innings in Madurai (2011-12) that has been highlighted for the way he enforced the model code of conduct during the 2011 Assembly election. At the time, the Madurai rural police had registered a case against the then south zone organising secretary of the DMK and Union Minister, M.K. Alagiri, in connection with an assault. In September 2014, the Madras High Court made him special officer/Legal Commissioner to inspect and enquire into illegal granite mining activities in Madurai district.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Minister extremely critical’||Tamil Nadu Agriculture Minister R. Doraikkannu, who had tested positive for COVID-19 and was hospitalised, suffered a significant deterioration in vital functions. He is extremely critical despite being on maximal life support, according to a statement issued by Kauvery Hospital here on Saturday. The Minister was admitted to the hospital on October 13 with severe breathlessness and tested positive for COVID-19. He has multiple co-morbidities and was being treated for severe COVID-19 pneumonia and its complications.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reach out to govt. school students, CEOs told||Chief Educational Officers (CEOs) across the State have been asked to reach out to government school students who have scored good marks in NEET 2020 to apply for the UG medical admissions. Officials were informed to encourage students to apply, a day after Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit granted assent to the Bill which provides 7.5% horizontal quota to government school students. Initial data provided by the school education department when the results of NEET 2020 were announced indicated that 1,633 students from government and government-aided schools had qualified. Of this, 747 students were from government schools and 886 were from aided schools.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for smuggling gutkha||The Maduravoyal police on Saturday arrested two persons who transported banned gutkha and paan masala products to Chennai from Bengaluru. Following a tip-off, police personnel mounted surveillance on Poonamallee High Road and spotted two persons who were shifting parcels from a lorry to a goods carrier. They were identified as Silambarasan, 30, and Saravanan, 32. The police seized 600 kg of banned products from them.
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac timings extended||Starting November 1, Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) shops across Tamil Nadu will stay open from 12 p.m. to 10 p.m. A senior Tasmac official said, “Yes, we are getting back to pre-COVID-19 timings.” However, bars will continue to remain shut until further orders, he added. Tasmac has over 5,338 shops across the State.
01 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||City sees decline in cases||From around 3,600 active COVID-19 positive cases in the first and second week of October, the city has seen a decline in the number of positive cases. Sources in the Coimbatore Corporation said that as of October 30, the total active cases stood at 1,844, almost half of what it was in the first half of the month. The Corporation continuing to collect and test swab samples for COVID-19 from an area as soon as a positive case was reported had helped identify more positive persons. This positive impact of the strategy could also be seen from the increase in number of streets that was free of the infection. As of October 31, the number of streets free from the infection was 6,608. It was 5,876 on September 30. The total number of streets in the city was 7,569. Likewise, the number of streets with three-plus COVID-19 positive cases stood at 1,300 on September 30. It was 909 on October 31. Fever camps This, if seen with the population that the Corporation had covered through its fever camps to identify persons with influenza-like infection would show the true picture of the civic body’s efforts, the sources pointed out and added that as of October 31, the civic body had covered 13.06 lakh persons in the city of over 20 lakh. The Corporation had conducted over 11,000 such camps and continued to hold 90 to 100 camps a day. Even the number of persons in home quarantine had come down. At present, there were only 65. And, in the COVID Care Centres that the Corporation and district administration had established to treat asymptomatic persons, several beds were vacant. Of the 1,250-odd beds in the three halls in the CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex, only 250 were occupied. And, only 96 of the 300-plus beds in a care centre on Avinashi Road were occupied. The sources said though the number of positive cases had come down, the Corporation at present was not thinking of either reducing the number of beds or closing down the care centres. In fact, the Corporation was more vigilant than before as the increase in movement of people during the festive season posed a risk. It was for this reason that the Corporation had extended till November 30 the door-to-door survey to identify people with fever or other health ailments, the sources added.
01 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore start-up aims to make safety a lifestyle||My, a Coimbatore-based start-up, has launched products in its efforts to make personal protection and safety a lifestyle. Pocket UV sanitiser Kavin Kumar Kandasamy, founder and CEO of My, and Raja Palanisamy, its co-founder and Chief Business Operator, said that the start-up has launched UV One, a pocket UV sanitiser, and anti-pollution masks. It will soon launch UV Safe, a tabletop UV sanitiser, and masks with more safety features. Working on the products for nearly four months, the company has involved consultants from India and abroad for technical inputs. It makes the products through manufacturers in Coimbatore, Bengaluru, Tiruppur and Pune. It will launch “My Safe Place”, a service that ensures that a particular place is safe, in a couple of months. “We are looking at safety in a very different way. Contamination of any kind should not be contagious,” Mr. Kandasamy said. The products and services aim to provide protection to the customers. Launching the “My” brand and the products recently for online sales (myprotection.in), Mr. Kandasamy and Mr. Palanisamy said that they had already entered into agreements with several institutions for supply of masks. They plan to sell 75,000 pieces of ‘UV Safe’ and about three lakh pieces of ‘UV One’ by the end of this financial year. Apart from online sales, My is talking to Corporate companies for supplies and is appointing distributors across the country for retail sales, they added.
01 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||New initiative by rural police||Contacting the police control room by dialling 100 and telephoning the nearest station are the commonest practice followed by people to reach the police in a distress situation. In addition to these, Coimbatore District (Rural) Police are now providing the mobile numbers of the officers in charge of the night rounds in each of the five police sub-divisions through social media on a daily basis. The initiative started by Superintendent of police Ara. Arularasu has received wide welcome from people who follow Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and YouTube accounts of Coimbatore District Police. According to Mr. Arularasu, mobile phone numbers of the night round officers in the five sub-divisions are posted in the four social media pages every day evening. “The officers in charge of the sub-divisions will be active at night. They can be contacted for immediate access to the police in case of an emergency,” he said. Upon receiving calls regarding an emergency, the night round officers will alert the respective police station immediately. Response time Through the initiative, the rural police are also expecting to improve their response time in distress situations. Including three All Women Police Stations at Thudiyalur, Pollachi and Perur, there are 37 police stations under the five sub-divisions namely Periyanaickenpalayam, Perur, Karumathampatty, Pollachi and Valparai. The daily updates shared in social media also mentions the names of police stations that come under each sub-division for easy understanding of the public. In addition, control room numbers 94981-81212 / 0422-2302732 and WhatsApp number 77081-00100 of the rural police are also shared in the daily updates.
01 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Parent alleges disconnection of online class by school demanding pending fees||A parent accused a private school of disconnecting online classes for his daughters demanding payment of pending school fees. The school administration denied the allegation. The parent, on conditions of anonymity, told The Hindu on Saturday that his daughters were studying in LKG and Class I in The Indian Public School’s Tatabad and Kovilpalayam campuses respectively. A lawyer practising at the High Court in Chennai, he claimed that he faced financial constraints due to the COVID-19 lockdown and managed to pay the fees for the first term for his children. However, the school allegedly demanded additional fees in September for “breakfast, field trip and class photograph,” he claimed, even though his daughters did not attend the school as it remained closed due to the pandemic. The High Court had recently ordered private schools in the State that for the academic year 2020-21, they may collect 75% of the fees collected in the previous academic year and that 40% can be received as advance fees while the rest could be collected only after the reopening, he noted. “As I did not get uniforms from the school, I asked them to consider the uniform fees as tuition fees,” he said, further claiming that the term fees along with the uniform fees came to “over 45%” of the total amount. The school allegedly did not accept this and have been disconnecting the two students from the online classes since the first week of October, he claimed. The school management has not resolved the issue despite multiple requests. Denying the allegations, a senior school official said that the school was “not forcing any parent” for payment of fees higher than stipulated by the High Court and that the online class was interrupted due to “technical issues.” The parent did not pay the 40% of the total fees as per the High Court order, the official alleged, adding that the school has reached out to the parent and awaiting his response. Collector K. Rajamani said that he has directed Chief Educational Officer P. Usha and Revenue Department to resolve the issue.
01 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman, daughter die after inhaling poisonous gas||A woman and her daughter at Nallampalayam, near Thudiyalur, died after they inhaled poisonous gas generated from an insecticide they had used inside the house to get rid of bed bugs, said the police. The deceased were identified as S. Premakumari (70) and her daughter M. Anuradha (40), residents of Ramasamy Nagar Extension at Nallampalayam. According to the police, Premakumari lived in the house with her husband Shanmugam, Anuradha, son-in-law Murali and grandson Sabarish. While the two women died after inhaling the toxic gas generated from the insecticide on Saturday morning, Mr. Shanmugam suffered breathing difficulty. He was admitted to a private hospital. Mr. Murali and son did not have any problems. Thudiyalur inspector S. Balamuralisundaram said that the police were yet to confirm the type of insecticide and the chemical compound, which caused the deaths. The bodies were shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem.
01 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||High winds in October push up wind energy generation in T.N.||High winds during October this year in Tamil Nadu have helped the State realise better wind energy generation during the peak wind season.  K. Kasthurirangaian, chairman of the Indian Wind Power Association, told The Hindu that normally high wind days in Tamil Nadu start in May and end in September. However, this year, high wind days continued till about four days ago. Thus, wind energy evacuated in the State in October this year is 1,328 million units, as against 157 million units last October and 143 million units during the same month the previous year. The peak wind energy generation season (April to October) in the State this year has concluded with evacuation of 9,375 million units as against 9,177 million units last year. “We had a couple of low wind days even during Aadi this year. But, high winds continued in October, making up for the loss during the other months,” he said. According to Mr. Kasthurirangaian, the change in wind days pattern is an indication of climate change. He says such a trend must have been seen in other States too. Wind energy generation peaked during June-August in 2018 and 2020, with more than 2,000 million units consumed each month. This year, the generation during these months was relatively less. But, picked up in October. With less number of grid drops, wind energy evacuation was also higher this year, helping the wind energy producers, he added.  The change in wind days pattern is an indication of climate change K. Kasthurirangaian Chairman, Indian Wind Power Association
01 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CMCH performs 25 emergency procedures on newborns, children in a month||The Departments of Paediatric Surgery and Paediatric Medicine at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) performed nearly 25 emergency procedures involving newborns and children in the last one month even as the hospital was at the forefront of COVID-19 management. According to doctors, 10 out of 25 emergency procedures were performed on newborns for conditions including congenital anomalies such as oesophageal atresia (congenitally interrupted oesophagus), bowel atresia (block in the intestinal passage), anorectal anomalies (absence of anal orifice by birth), and abdominal wall defects. Paediatric surgeon N. Venkatesamohan said that just born babies constituted 30% of these cases and the emergency surgical procedures were technically highly demanding for a better outcome. “The surgery of these newborn babies required assisted ventilator support for respiration by means of ventilators and temperature control by incubators. Good post-operative care was given to the babies in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) and Paediatric Intensive Care Unit that are equipped with modern gadgets,” said V. Booma, Head of the Department of Paediatrics and nodal officer for NICU at CMCH. The other children aged between one month and 12 years underwent various emergency procedures for appendicitis, liver abscess, burns and accidental foreign body ingestion. According to doctors, the majority of the children who underwent the procedures had been discharged after recovery while others were in post-operative care. Due to the COVID-19 situation, the medical and surgical teams took utmost precaution by wearing personal protective equipment. They also subjected themselves to COVID-19 testing before performing the procedures, said CMCH Dean P. Kalidas. The Departments of Anaesthesia and Paediatric Medicine provided support for the procedures.
01 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||4,000 saplings planted in CRPF campus||As many as 4,000 saplings of native trees were planted under an afforestation drive by non-governmental organisation Siruthuli in the Central Training College campus of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) at Kurudampalayam, near Coimbatore, on Thursday. A release said that the saplings of native trees endemic to the Western Ghats were planted under the Miyawaki method. The patch is expected to become a micro forest which will be home to many birds and smaller reptiles, generating the much-needed oxygen for the trainees in the CRPF campus and people in the region. Inspector General of Police Satish Chandra Verma, Principal of the Central Training College, inaugurated the phase III of the afforestation drive in the campus. Rekha Varma, Group Manager, Business Excellence, Robert Bosch Engineering and Business Solutions Pvt Ltd, and Ramesh Kumar, Customer Care Manager, Mahindra and Mahindra, represented the companies which sponsored the project. Officers of the CRPF, trainees and apex members of Siruthuli were present.
01 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for bid to murder wife||The Singanallur police arrested a 33-year-old man on charges of attempting to murder his wife on Friday. C. Vijayasankar, a resident of Thiru Vee Kaa Nagar at Kannampalayam near Sulur, was arrested based on a complaint lodged by his wife V. Ranjitha (25). The police said that the woman was staying at her paternal house at Irugur following family issues. On Friday, Vijayasankar came to the house and allegedly demanded that his wife accompany him to his house. The police said the woman refused to go with Vijayasankar and he assaulted her with a knife. He also assaulted Ranjitha’s brother Ranjith. Vijayasankar remanded in judicial custody.
01 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man ends life after losing money in online gambling||A 28-year-old man ended his life as he was unable to settle the debts he incurred from online gambling. Mathan Kumar, a resident of Radhakrishnan Street near Seeranaickenpalayam, was found dead at his house on Thursday. Kumar, an employee of a private bank, was addicted to alcohol and online gambling, police said. Kumar’s parents and friends told the police that he had borrowed money from others, which he reportedly spent for online gambling. The R.S. Puram police have registered a case of unnatural death. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
01 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mobile outlet to sell Khadi products||The Tamil Nadu Khadi and Village Industries Board has launched a mobile outlet that will travel across the district till November 2 selling Khadi products. A release said the board has fixed a sales target of Rs. 2.57 crore for the district this year. There are three main outlets in the district that sell soaps, honey, footwear and puja materials. In an effort to take the products to more people, the mobile outlet will travel across the district and also in the Nilgiris. Further, from November 7 to 9, a special silk expo and sales will be organised at the outlet on Avinashi Road.
01 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Rotary Club launches diabetic foot screening project||‘Save Limbs’, a global grant project aimed at early intervention of diabetic foot ulcer, was launched here recently. The initiative is taken up by the Rotary Club of Coimbatore Metropolitan with the Rotary Club of Fond du Lac Morning, the U.S., as international partner club, and Mowthi Diabetic Speciality and Foot Care Centre, Vadavalli, as project associate. The project aims to offer screening and treatment for at least 2,000 people from economically poor background in Coimbatote in two years.
01 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Hope raises for use of suburban bus stand at 46 Pudur village||With the Erode Outer Ring Road project works expecting to be completed in two months, it had raised the hope of utilisation of the suburban bus stand at Anakalpalayam in 46 Pudur village, which has remained non-functional for six years. Constructed at Rs. 1.53 crore under the Scheme Component of Pooled Assigned Revenue along the ring road in Modakurichi Taluk, the bus stand was inaugurated by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, through video-conferencing, in 2014. Facilities It has five bays, separate entrance and exit, 12 shops, toilets and a room for the bus crew to relax. Since no buses were operated in the past six years, the facility is used by people for drying crops and for four-wheeler learners. Efforts by officials to establish a compost yard on the premises recently was stopped due to stiff opposition from people who wanted the bus stand operational. Keeping in mind rapid urbanisation and facilitating movement of people in the surrounding areas, the bus stand was constructed. But, now officials from the Modakurichi Union were trying to convert it as a compost yard, said C. Murugesan of the village. “Though it is an enroute bus stand, no buses are operated so far,” he said and wanted the facility utilised. With ring road works resumed after many years, vehicles from Namakkal and Karur districts could reach Perundurai or Chithode without entering the city. Road users and villagers wanted the bus stand converted into a terminating facility as there was a sharp increase in the vehicle movement on ring road.  Bus services “Once the works are completed, vehicle flow will be very high and the operation of bus stand will serve people,” said Muthukumaran of Lakkapuram. Also, bus service could be introduced from Tiruppur and Coimbatore to Namakkal and Tiruchengode, he added.
01 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Students in hill areas yet to receive dry rations||Students pursuing studies at the Government Tribal Residential Schools (GTRS) in the district are yet to receive the dry rations provided under the noon meal programme. Since schools remained closed for the academic year 2020-21 due to COVID-19, the State government had started distributing monthly dry rations comprising 3.1 kg rice and 1.2 kg pulses for primary class students and 4.65 kg rice and 1.25 kg pulses for upper primary students of government and government-aided schools across the State. The dry rations were distributed by the Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department at their respective schools from June. There are 25 GTRS functioning in Talavadi, Hasanur, Bargur and Kadambur hills of which 15 schools are primary and middle schools. About 4,200 students study in these schools who were provided three meals a day in the school. While students in plains are receiving dry rations regularly, students of GRTS are not given dry rations so far. S.C. Natraj, Director, Service Unit for Development Activities in Rural, a non-governmental organisation, said there were 312 GTRS in the State and the government was allotting Rs. 900 a month for each student. “These schools remain closed from March 21 and the students were not provided with dry rations in all these months,” he said and added that many students had turned workers now.
01 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘20,000 students registered for NEET online training in a day’||As many as 20,000 State government school students registered for online training in National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) in a day, said School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan at Gobichettipalayam on Saturday. The Minister said that till Friday, 9,842 government school students had registered for undergoing online coaching for NEET. Horizontal quota “But 20,000 students had registered in a single day”, he said and added that interest among students had gone up after the Bill providing 7.5% horizontal quota for students of government schools for admissions to undergraduate medical courses was given assent. The Minister said that at least 303 government school students will be getting admissions in medical courses and history will be created soon. Mr. Sengottaiyan said that 5.25 lakh students from private schools were admitted to government schools in the current academic year and attributed it to the effective functioning of the State government. He ruled out conducting classes in the open spaces for the students and said that students will be affected due to the weather in open space. The Minister reiterated that conditions were not conducive for reopening of schools.
01 November 2020||ERODE/Salem,TAMIL NADU||Repeal farm Acts: Congress||Urging the Central government to repeal the three farm Acts, members of Erode Urban District Congress Committee staged a demonstration here on Saturday. Led by its president E.P. Ravi, the functionaries said the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, were anti-farmers and anti-national and would benefit only corporate companies. They said the companies would have the major role in fixing the price of farm products. The government had enacted the Acts to provide revenue to the companies and crush the farmers. They raised slogans against the government and wanted the laws repealed. Earlier, the party proposed to observe a fast near Kalaimadu Silai to which the police denied permission. Hence, the demonstration was staged. In Salem, the cadre protested in front of the Collectorate. They raised slogans condemning the Centre and said the government was acting against the interest of farmers. The protesters alleged that the farm Acts would affect the livelihood of farmers and demanded that the Centre should withdraw the Acts. Close to 50 persons took part in the protest.
01 November 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Man killed in wall collapse||A man was killed and two others were injured in a wall collapse at a private firm in SIPCOT industrial Estate here on Saturday. Maheshwar (27), Sarath Behera (35) and Dasanath Malik (50), migrant workers from Odisha, were working inside an old tank, shifting metal rods at the time of the accident. According to the police, the wall of the old tank collapsed and the co-workers brought the injured out. Later, Maheshwar succumbed to injuries. Sarath Behera and Malik were admitted to Hosur government hospital.
01 November 2020||Kancheepuram,TAMIL NADU||College student hacked to death in Kancheepuram||A 23-year-old college student was hacked to death by unknown persons in Darghas, Kancheepuram district, on Friday. According to the police, Abhishek, was the son of Arun, from Naduveerapattu in Sriperumbudur. He was pursuing engineering at a private college in Pallavaram. On Friday evening, he had visited a church to take part in a wedding. When he stepped out of the church after attending the function, a six-member gang, on two motorcycles, attacked him with sharp weapons and sped away. He died on the spot. D. Shanmugapriya, Superintendent of Police, Kancheepuram, rushed to the spot and ordered an inquiry. Special teams have been formed to crack the case. Further investigation is on.
01 November 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Fair price shops staff stage protest||Members of the Tamil Nadu Government Fair Price Shop Employees Association staged a protest here on Saturday over a raft of demands. They demanded a compensation of Rs. 25 lakh for the families of employees who died of COVID-19, wage difference settlement for work during the pandemic, regularisation of service for over 5,000 workers, and implementation of pay revision recommended by by a government-appointed committee. The association also demanded appointment of separate staff for weighing of goods for fair price shops with more than 500 family cards.
01 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level goes up in ‘ooranis’, temple tanks||Madurai Corporation’s efforts in rejuvenating waterbodies in the city reaped benefits. Following the heavy downpour on Friday night, water level has increased in many temple tanks and ‘ooranis’ (ponds) in the city. According to a press release from the civic body, water level has increased in the tanks of Prasanna Venkatachalapathy Temple at Tallakulam and Koodal Azhagar Perumal Temple on Town Hall Road. Last year, the Corporation had removed a huge quantum of garbage and desilted the stormwater drains present on Gokhale Road to direct rainwater towards Prasanna Venkatachalapathy Temple tank. Stormwater drains were also constructed to bring stagnant rainwater from West Veli Street to Koodal Azhagar Perumal temple tank. City Engineer S. Arasu said that the civic body was taking steps to restore the temple tanks in the city as they were the best bet for rainwater harvesting. A total of 33 ooranis are under the purview of Madurai Corporation. In the first phase, the civic body is currently rejuvenating Kosakulam Oorani, Silayaneri oorani, Kottangulam oorani, Kamban oorani, Uthangudi oorani, Muthupatti Kalthaar oorani, Sooravalimedu oorani, Managiri oorani, Sokkayee oorani, Milagaranai oorani, Ulaganeri oorani and Masthanpatti oorani. The water storage in all these tanks had increased, said the release. A Corporation official said that in all these tanks, the level has increased by at least 1.5 feet. Mr. Arasu said that the main aim of the civic body was to improve the underground water table by harnessing rainwater in temple tanks and ooranis. “The groundwater level has increased in many areas in the city in the last one year,” he added. The press release said that the civic body had identified 280 waterlogging-prone spots in the city and rainwater harvesting structures were built there. Similarly, 412 defunct borewells were identified in the city and rainwater harvesting structures were built there. The Corporation official said that the rainwater harvesting structures present in the Corporation offices in the city were monitored and cleaned to harness water during the monsoon.
01 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Marginal rise in sale of saris at Co-optex showrooms||The Deepavali sales at Co-optex showrooms in the city have picked up recently after a period of lull owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, say Co-optex officials. J. Nagarajan, Regional Manager of the Co-optex, said that a sale target of Rs. 12.60 crore had been fixed for this year's Deepavali in the Co-optex showrooms of the region, which includes the showrooms located at Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Theni, Dindigul, Virudhunagar and Sivaganga districts. Although the Deepavali sales were inaugurated on September 15, it was only in the last 10 days that the sales had marginally improved, said Mr. Nagarajan. “We are aiming to achieve last year's sales, which was around Rs. 10.44 crore,” he added. Different varieties of cotton saris and silk saris are sold across the Co-optex showrooms for Deepavali festival. Discount of 30% is offered for saris. However, the procurement of saris for Deepavali festival from the handlooms weavers had drastically come down this year, said K.R. Kishore Babu, manager of Dhakshinamoorthy Weavers Cooperative Society. Mr. Nagarajan said that the procurement of saris from handloom weavers for Deepavali was lower this year mainly because of the poor sales of the previous stock of saris. “But, based on the sale of saris for Deepavali, we will procure more saris from the handloom weavers,” he added.
01 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases down in Tirunelveli||Madurai district recorded a total of 51 new positive cases on Saturday, taking the total number in the district to 18,736. With 60 persons getting discharged, the active cases stood at 508. One death was recorded on Saturday, taking the district’s toll to 419. Virudhunagar district recorded the lowest number of active cases in recent months at 151. The district recorded 17 new cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 15,437. With the discharge of 40 patients, the total number of discharged patients till date increased to 15,066. The death toll in the district remained at 220. Theni district accounted for 10 new cases of COVID-19, taking the tally to 16,233. There were 19 discharges from hospitals. Dindigul reported eight fresh cases and the tally moved up to 9,775. Hospitals discharged 60 patients on a single day after recovery. Ramanathapuram recorded 11 new cases after which the tally crossed the 6,000 mark (6004). Hospitals discharged 27 patients. Sivaganga had 19 fresh cases and the tally stood at 5,901. Hospitals discharged 19 patients. With 42 fresh cases, the tally in Thoothukudi went up to 15,060. While 65 patients were discharged, 453 were undergoing treatment. Kanniyakumari added 25 new cases that took the tally to 14,903. After 95 patients were discharged from the hospitals, the district had 392 active cases. The number of fresh infections came down drastically in Tirunelveli as the district recorded 15 cases on Saturday. Consequently, the district had 170 active cases after 43 patients were discharged from hospitals and the infection tally moved up to 14,209. Tenkasi continued to keep the number of fresh cases under control as the district reported 10 cases even as 32 patients were discharged from hospitals. While 31 were undergoing treatment, the district’s infection tally stood at 7,823.
01 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Save agrarian sector: Congress||Congress cadre, who attempted to observe a token fast near the Tallakulam head post office, were arrested here on Saturday. The DCC president Karthikeyan told reporters that as part of the Statewide agitation, it was proposed to hold agitations against the BJP-led government here. The objective was to condemn the farmers Act which would ruin the agricultural sector over a period of time. The Centre, he alleged, was keen to help a few friends of the BJP leaders in corporate houses. Keeping this in mind, they passed the Act in a hurry in the Parliament without even a discussion. When AICC former president Rahul Gandhi had warned of the consequences when it was tabled in the Parliament, the BJP MPs led by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi neglected them. Citing the Punjab government, he said, the Congress-ruled State had passed an Act in the Assembly which would protect the farmers. Like Punjab, other non-BJP governments in the country would follow suit and save the agrarian sector, Mr. Karthikeyan said and courted arrest along with the cadre. Police said that all the arrested people were released later in the evening. The members claimed that they observed the fast during the detention by the police in a private marriage hall.
01 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bail plea of Sattankulam case accused dismissed||Referring to a recent Supreme Court order where bail was denied to an accused in an honour killing case with the observation that ‘Bail is the rule, and jail an exception’ cannot apply in such cases, the Madurai Principal Sessions Judge extended the same logic while dismissing the bail plea of an accused policeman in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case. Principal Sessions Judge G. Ilangovan observed that in the present case the police wanted to assert their power. In honour killing cases it is the assertion of communal supremacy. In both the cases one wants to have complete control, which was not permissible in a civilised society, the judge said and dismissed the bail plea of accused policeman S. Chelladurai. "This court can simply reject the bail application on the ground that if the accused are released on bail and allowed to roam freely in society, there is every likelihood of them using the power once enjoyed by them in office to subvert the trial proceedings." Simply because the petitioner was a low-rung police officer, he could not be released on bail on that ground, the judge said. When it came to the assertion of supremacy, it knows no rung. The petitioner has to face the trial in custody and deserves no consideration for bail, the judge said. The petitioner, suspended police constable S. Chelladurai, claimed that he was falsely implicated in the custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks. He was not on duty at the time of the incident, he said.
01 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MK University invites applications for four posts||Madurai Kamaraj University has invited applications from eligible candidates for four posts through an advertisement on its official website. The four positions are — Controller of Examinations, Dean (College Development Council), Director of Directorate of Distance Education, and Additional Controller of Examinations. According to the notification issued by Registrar (in-charge) V.S. Vasantha, the last date for applying to the advertised posts is November 20. For all the four positions, the appointment will be on a tenure basis for a period of three years. Tenure For the three posts — Controller of Examinations; Additional Controller of Examinations; and Director of Directorate of Distance Education, the appointment is initially for a period of one year and will later be extended after the completion of each year. Application form and other details will be available onhttps://mkuniversity.ac.in.
01 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||One killed, two injured in accidents in Madurai||An unidentified woman, aged around 60 years, was fatally knocked down by a speeding private ambulance vehicle on Panangal Road on Friday night. The police said that the ambulance hit the pedestrian, suspected to be living by seeking alms, at around 11 p.m. The woman was crossing the road when the accident occurred. She was rushed to the Government Rajaji Hospital, where she was declared brought dead. The Traffic Investigation Wing II has booked the ambulance driver M. Arulkumar (25) of Tirumangalam. Meanwhile, in a different accident, two persons, including a 13-year-old boy, V. Viswa of Sellur sustained fractures on their limbs in a hit-and-run accident on Thathaneri bridge on Friday evening. The police said that the boy was a pillion rider with M. Meenakshi Sundaram (25) of Sellur. When they were riding on the bridge, a vehicle that came from the opposition direction hit them. Both of them suffered fractures on their right knee. They have been admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital. A hunt is on to trace the vehicle.
01 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC closes petition on maintaining channel||Taking note of Madurai Corporation’s undertaking that it will take necessary steps to maintain the Chintamani channel, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court closed the suo motu proceedings initiated in this regard in 2018. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy took cognisance of the status report filed by Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan on the steps taken to maintain the channel. In his report, the Commissioner said that the court had initiated the suo motu proceedings and directed the Corporation to clean the Ponnagaram stormwater drain channel and also remove a wooden bridge in the area. He said that steps were taken to clean the more-than-14-km-long Chintamani channel running in Ponnagaram area which starts from the Vaigai river from the West of Madurai and flows up to the Chintamani tank. The Corporation is periodically cleaning the channel and sensitising the public not to throw garbage into the channel. In order to prevent the pollution of the channel, a six-feet-high wall has been constructed on both sides of the channel to the extent of 120 metres, he said. Further, the Corporation Commissioner submitted that the wooden bridge was removed and the Corporation had laid a paver block road with five metre width behind the Arapalayam bus stand abutting the channel and the same was in use. The Corporation was taking all efforts to maintain the channel free of garbage in Melaponnagaram area and frequent cleaning operations were being undertaken, he said. Satisfied with the steps taken, the court closed the petition.
01 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Devotee dies on Sathuragiri hills||A devotee from Srivilliputtur, C. Thangapandi, 39, died while climbing up the Sathuragiri hills on Saturday. Police said the deceased, an auto-driver, was proceeding on the hilly terrain to offer prayer at Sundaramahalingam Temple. When he was near Konai Thalaivasal, he collapsed due to fatigue and died around 10.30 a.m. His body was taken to government hospital at Usilampatti.
01 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Devotee dies on Sathuragiri hills||A devotee from Srivilliputtur, C. Thangapandi, 39, died while climbing up the Sathuragiri hills on Saturday. According to police sources, the deceased, an autorickshaw driver, was proceeding on the hilly terrain to offer prayer at the Sundaramahalingam Temple. When he was near Konai Thalaivasal, he collapsed due to fatigue and died around 10.30 a.m. His body was taken to government hospital at Usilampatti.
01 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 125.85 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 526 cusecs and a discharge of 1,389 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 51.77 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,239 cusecs and a discharge of 2,022 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 5,387 mcft. There was no rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday.
01 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Bharat Darshan pilgrimage train to leave Tirunelveli on Nov. 11||Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) is operating a Bharat Darshan special tourist train tour (Diwali Ganga Snan). The train would leave Tirunelveli on November 11 and reach Prayagraj (Allahabad). It will go through Virudhunagar, Madurai, Dindigul, Tiruchi, Vriddhachalam, Villupuram, Chennai Egmore, Nellore, Vijayawada, and cover Gaya, Varanasi and Prayagraj. The eight day-tour package, costing Rs. 7,575 per person, includes sleeper class journey, accommodation in non-AC hall/dharmshala, non AC road transfers, south Indian vegetarian food, tour escort and security in coach, protection kit with hand sanitiser, mask, face shield and gloves. Central and State government employees can avail leave travel concession for the package. More details can be had over 90031 40680 or 82879 31964.
01 November 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Fisheries University to release UG admission rank list today||Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University, Nagapattinam, is releasing UG admission 2020-21 rank list on its official website (www.tnjfu.ac.in) on November 1. The rank list pertains to admission of candidates to 386 seats in the 10 UG degree programmes offered by the Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University through the constituent colleges, carried out through online mode, G. Sugumar, Vice-Chancellor, said in a press release. The university offers Bachelor of Fisheries Science (B.F.Sc.) programme at three colleges, four different Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) programmes at four colleges, and B.B.A. in Fisheries Business Management programme and four B.Voc. programmes in four para-professional institutes. In-person counselling for the special category students will be conducted on 07.11.2020 at the university. For other candidates, online counselling will be conducted from November 9 to 11. Prof. Sugumar said online applications and prospectus for PG admission 2020-21, for M.F.Sc., M.Tech and Ph.D. courses, could be downloaded from the website from November 1. The last date for submission of online application was November 27. More details can be got from email: pgadmission@tnjfu.ac.in or phone 04365-256430 or mobile 9442601908.
01 November 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Stalemate continues: fishermen asked to keep off Kodiakarai coast till Nov. 4||Fishermen from other parts of the State have been asked not to venture into the sea from Kodiakarai coast till November 4, as there has been no outcome in the stalemate-like situation arising from the protest by local fishermen over their presence, citing decline in marine resources. For the first time in three decades, fishermen of Vedaranyam taluk have taken exception to the presence of their counterparts from other coastal districts in the State, taking officials by surprise. It is a normal practice for hundreds of fishermen from Tuticorin, Ramanathapuram, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and other coastal districts to stay put in Kodiakarai for three months from November onwards since abundant catches of top-variety fishes such as seer and groupers fetch handsome prices. At this time of the year, the calm and shallow sea off Kodiakarai is a sought-after place for fishing. As such, there is no restriction under law that prevents fishermen in the State to go about their activities anywhere along the coastline. Of late, however, consent of the local Assistant Director of Fisheries has been made necessary to prevent law and order problems, official sources said. Representatives of the local fishermen in Vedaranyam taluk said the threat of spread of COVID-19 pandemic was another important reason why they were against the presence of their counterparts from other parts of the State at Kodiakarai this year. According to official sources, there are about 1,200 country crafts owned by local fishermen in Vedaranyam taluk. Usually, not less than 700 country crafts from other districts also venture into the sea. The apprehension of the local fishermen was that the others tend to sell the catch at a lower prices to their detriment. Local fishermen who have been on strike for the last few days over the issue stuck to their position on Saturday at a meeting with Textiles Minister O. S. Manian, District Collector Praveen P. Nair and Joint Director of Fisheries Department Amal Raj Xavier. The Minister suggested that representatives of the fishermen community from the entire district be called for talks at a broader level on November 4 to arrive at a solution.
01 November 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||With a view to promote inland fisheries, the district administration has invited applications from interested individuals for creating fish ponds for rearing Genetically Improved Farmed Tilapia (GIFT). For creating the pond, purchase of fish seeds and feed, and building an enclosure would cost Rs. 99,000, of which 40 % amounting to Rs. 39,600 would be given as subsidy, District Collector Praveen P. Nair said in a press release. Interested individuals could approach the office of the Assistant Director of Fisheries at Nagapattinam or Sirkazhi, the release said.     BHEL Tiruchi on Saturday observed National Unity Day, marking the birth anniversary of the first Deputy Prime Minister of Independent India Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, through taking a pledge to preserve the unity and integrity of the country. R. Padmanabhan, Executive Director, BHEL Tiruchi Complex, administered the pledge to General Managers, products and functional heads and other senior officials.
01 November 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Missing fisherman’s body found||The body of fisherman M. Jesudasan, 53, of Vallavilai, who went missing when a country boat capsized at the entrance of Thengaipattinam fishing harbour on Friday, was retrieved on Saturday. When the country boat, carrying five fishermen, including Jesudasan, was venturing into the sea around 10 a.m. on Friday, a giant wave hit the boat and the vessel was tossed into the air. As the boat capsized, all the five in the boat were thrown into the sea. While Jesudasan went missing, others were rescued by other fishermen who witnessed it from the harbour. Though search operation was launched immediately by the Marine Police and the fishermen, Jesudasan could not be traced. Meanwhile, the body of Jesudasan, who is survived by his wife and four daughters, was found on the rocks situated a few metres away from the scene of mishap. The body was sent to the Government Medical College Hospital at Asaripallam for post mortem.
01 November 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘Sweet, savoury producers must adhere to food safety norms’||The Food Safety Department has advised producers of sweets and savouries for Deepavali to adhere to food safety norms and advised the public to make purchases only from places licensed under FSSAI. According to a release, persons involved in making sweets and savouries from their homes or community halls should operate after registering and getting licence from FSSAI. Manufacturers must follow ‘First In First Out’ formula and records should be maintained for this purpose. Manufacturers should not use adulterants and use only permitted colours. They should not reuse oils for manufacturing purposes. The labels on businesses must carry entire details regarding manufacturer and the expiry and manufacturing date. K.C.Arun, Designated Officer, Food Safety, said food samples would be collected and action would be taken based on test results. Public could report complaints at 9444042322.
01 November 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Shallot farmers unhappy as disease causes income loss||Shallot farmers in Perambalur are an unhappy lot as basal rot disease has hit the crop causing loss of income. Lack of supply and increase in demand has contributed to a price hike. Shallots are being sold in Tiruchi for Rs. 130 per kg. When K. Dharmar, a farmer on Athur road in Perambalur district, saw that his shallots were affected by basal rot, he was disheartened. “This is the second time in a year that this has happened and I have no more money to spend. I invested Rs. 50,000 and expected to harvest eight to ten sacks of shallots, but, I will be lucky if I even get three sacks,” he said. The basal rot is caused by micro-organisms in the soil. There was no way to save the crop once infested, he said. Rainfall too has affected cultivation of the crop. “Shallots harvested in summer can be stored for up to six months, but they get mushy and go bad within two weeks during rainy season,” Mr. Dharmar said. M. Rajendran, a wholesaler in Esanai, said that many farmers were forced to destroy their crop after rot disease infection. “Majority of the shallots come from Chettikulam but at least one-third of the farmers there have had to destroy their crop,” he said. Women have been employed to clean the shallots, which he sells at Rs. 60 to Rs. 70 per kg. “Shallots unaffected by the disease are sold at Rs. 100,” he said. An official of the Deputy Directorate of Agricultural Marketing and Agri-Business said a total of 8,500 hectares of land in the district was under shallot cultivation, because of which the production was the highest in Perambalur. “The primary reason for a spike in prices is that shallots are still at the cropping stage and are not ready for harvesting. There is scarcity as the demand goes up during festival season. Meanwhile, three-fourth of the shallots cultivated are being used as seeds. The basal rot disease is also a major reason for the price rise,” he added.
01 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||105 new COVID-19 cases recorded in U.T.||The Union Territory recorded 105 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. However, no death was reported. As per data released by Health Secretary T. Arun, 70 new cases were reported in Puducherry, 24 in Mahe, nine in Yanam and two in the Karaikal region in the last 24 hours when 3,178 people were tested for the virus taking the total number of people screened in the U.T. to 3,08,629. The case fatality rate has come down to 1.69 % while the recovery rate went up to 87.75%. Currently, there are 1,623 patients undergoing treatment in various hospitals. After the Health Department stopped referring patients to private medical colleges, there are only 55 patients currently undergoing treatment in five medical colleges. Bulk of the patients are at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute and Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research. As many as 2,074 patients are under home quarantine. The overall tally is 592 deaths and 3,697 active cases. A cumulative total of 35,013 cases have been detected and 30,724 patients have been treated and discharged.
01 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Police recruitment process put on hold in Puducherry||The much-awaited police recruitment process in Puducherry could be delayed as Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi has directed Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar, who is also the Home Secretary, to keep in abeyance the recruitment till certain concerns are addressed. In a note dated October 28, Ms. Bedi said she had received complaints about certain changes made in the recruitment process. As per the guidelines notified on August 20, 2018, the physical test should be conducted in the digital/biometric mode. Now, it had been changed to the manual mode. Also, in the outlying regions of the U.T., the physical standards test and the endurance test were not possible due to the non-availability of swimming pools and 400-metre tracks, the note said. “The recruitment process should be fair, transparent and strictly as per approved and notified rules. Changes, if any, will have serious repercussions leading to litigation in the court. So, the process of recruitment shall be kept in abeyance till decisions are taken by the competent authority on the above issues,” Ms. Bedi said in the internal note. The Chief Secretary had been directed to submit the concerned files to the Lt. Governor immediately, the note said. In a message to presspersons on Friday, the Lt. Governor said the Recruitment Department would now prepare a revised schedule for the tests. According to a senior police officer, the recruitment process was set to commence on November 4.  Also, the recruitment cell found 588 candidates eligible for the test for the deck handler posts. The cell was planning to start the physical endurance test from November 4, said an official. The Chief Minister’s Office said a file was sent to the Lt. Governor addressing all the concerns raised by her on Friday. “The software firm selected for the digital tests did not turn up citing the COVID-19 situation. So we have decided to go ahead with the recruitment process manually with the NIC team extending support,” an official told The Hindu . The recruitment process for the jail warder posts was conducted manually with the support of the NIC (National Informatics Centre). Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy had in his clarification stated that a team of senior officials could be appointed to monitor the manual physical test for the constabulary and other posts, the official said.
01 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AICC secretary criticises L-G’s style of functioning||AICC secretary Sanjay Dutt on Friday took objection to the style of functioning of Puducherry Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi, despite a court order directing her to work in unison with the elected government. Addressing a press conference here, he said the court had given a clear direction to the Lt. Governor to work as per the aid and advice of Cabinet. Even during COVID-19 times, Ms. Bedi continued to interfere in the day-to-day administration, he alleged. The Lt. Governor was a strong advocate of field visits by officials and those in public service. However, she had never come out of Raj Nivas during the pandemic, the Congress leader charged. Complimenting the government for being proactive in containing the spread of pandemic, Mr. Dutt said contrary to the Lt. Governor, the Chief Minister and ministers led from the front in controlling COVID-19, and they were on the field visiting containment zones and hospitals to monitor the work of healthcare workers and others. He also announced that AICC secretary in-charge of the Union Territory Dinesh Gundu Rao would be visiting Puducherry on Saturday to kick-start election works.
01 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Congress begins election preparations for 2021||The Congress, on Saturday, commenced its poll preparations with AICC in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao holding a series of meetings with top leaders. Mr. Rao, along with AICC secretary Sanjay Dutt, held discussions with Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, ministers and legislators. PCC chief A.V. Subramanian was also present during the deliberations. The AICC leaders also participated in a function to mark the death anniversary of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. “We have started our poll preparations. We will be meeting all the top leaders to elicit their views to draw a strategy for the next Assembly elections. The meetings will continue on Sunday,” Mr. Dutt told The Hindu .  We will be meeting all the top leaders to elicit their views to draw a strategy for the next Assembly elections Sanjay Dutt AICC secretary
01 November 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Four fishermen rescued||Four fishermen from Mandapam, who were rescued from mid-sea on Friday, have been brought to shore. According to officials of the Fisheries department, mechanised boat owner Sippiyan ventured into sea along with Arockiam, Susai and David on Wednesday. About 540 fishers too set off for fishing the same day. However, the four fishermen never returned the next evening. Anxious relatives informed officials, who immediately alerted the Coast Guard and naval authorities. Surveillance teams, which were on the look out for the missing persons for over eight hours, finally spotted their boat close to Katchatheevu. An official from the Coast Guard said they were stranded after the mechanised boat developed a technical snag. “The fishermen were lucky as the weather was rough and there were tidal waves in the area. The reason for sudden immobility of the boat was not ascertained. All four are fine,” he added. Along with the Coast Guard, a few fishermen from Mandapam too went in search of the missing fishermen.
01 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Ariyanoor flyover construction works progressing at steady pace: officials||Construction works of the flyover at Ariyanoor are progressing at a steady pace and officials are hoping to complete it in November. The Ariyanoor junction is one of the busiest junctions on the Salem -Coimbatore National Highway and a flyover was proposed here to decongest the road and reduce accidents. To ease traffic Once completed, the flyover is expected to ease traffic movement, especially for vehicles moving towards Bengaluru. National Highways authorities said this was the fourth flyover being constructed on the Salem-Coimbatore National Highway. Three flyovers constructed at Kandhampatti, Thiruvagoundanur and at the Steel Plant had been brought to the public use. Besides Ariyanoor, flyover works were progressing at Magudanchavadi as well. The flyover was being constructed approximately at Rs. 43 crore and the construction works began last year. The flyover was being constructed with 37 metre width and one km length. Majority of structural works had been completed and works for laying approach roads and tarring were progressing. The officials expressed the hope that the works would be completed in November.
01 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Palm civets arrive at Kurumbapatti zoological park in Salem||The COVID-19 restrictions have not stopped Kurumbapatti zoological park here from receiving new inhabitants. The park recently received three Asian palm civets from Tiruvarur forest division and the animals were healthy, forest department officials said. District Forest Officer R. Murugan said the Asian palm civets, two female and one male, were rescued in Tiruvarur forest division and they were aged about six months. The animals were received at the zoo based on the instructions of senior officials as this was the nearest zoo. Veterinarians checked the animals and they had been advised to be kept in quarantine. It would be moved to required enclosures once the quarantine period was over. Zoo Ranger M. Muralidharan said the animals had been kept within cages and were currently fed with fruits and vegetables. They would be fed with non-vegetarian food as it grew. The Kurumbapatti zoological park has remained closed since March. The forest division has sent a proposal to the department for expanding and upgrading the zoological park which is the only picnic spot near the city in Salem.
01 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Adi Dravidar welfare money goes to wrong account||Officials at the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department have registered a complaint with the Salem City Police to recover Rs. 8.64 lakh that got transferred to an individual’s account in Maharahstra instead of the department’s rural bank account. Officials said that in March, the department had initiated an online transfer of the money to one of its rural bank accounts for distribution of incentives to girl children under one of its schemes. But, an error while keying in the bank account number led to the money landing in the account of the individual in Maharashtra. The department officials detected this only only in June after the staff in rural areas said they had not received the amount. The officials contacted the bank in Maharashtra to recover the amount, but the account holder had already used it. K. Shanthi, District Adi Dravidar Welfare Officer, lodged the complaint with Salem City Police for steps to recover the amount.
01 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||National Unity Day celebrated||The birth anniversary of freedom fighter Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel was celebrated as National Unity Day at the Collectorate here on Saturday. Collector S.A. Raman paid floral tributes to the portrait of the leader and administered the National Unity Day pledge. District Revenue Officer R. Divakar and other senior officials attended.
01 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Water level in Mettur dam||Water level at the Mettur dam has remained over 100ft for about a week. According to Public Works Department officials, water level at the dam on Saturday was 100.10ft against the full reservoir level of 120ft. The storage was 64,970 tmcft and the dam received an inflow of 8,271 cusecs on Saturday. The discharge to Cauvery river was 12,000 cusecs and the discharge through East-West canal was maintained at 900 cusecs.
01 November 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Engage in lifelong learning, students told||Co-founder of Infosys and Chairman, Sailor Ventures, Kris Gopalakrishnan, on Saturday called upon the students to engage in lifelong learning to be successful in what he described as ‘the fourth industrial revolution’. Addressing the 34th Convocation of SASTRA Deemed to be University on a virtual platform, Mr. Gopalakrishnan said that the fourth industrial revolution has opened up game-changing opportunities powered by multiple technologies like Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning, Internet of Things, Augmented Reality/Virtual Reality, Cloud Computing, Smart phones, 3D printing, Genomics, biotechnology, and nanotechnology. “These disruptive technologies are going to transform every business. New solutions have to be created. New business models have to be invented. The world will be different in the next 30 years and you have the opportunity to create this new world”, he told the graduands. The best outgoing B.Tech. student award was presented to Shrute Kannappan who is currently pursuing her Ph.D. in Biomedical Sciences at Sungkyunkwan University in South Korea. Shrute accepted the award and delivered her acceptance speech virtually from South Korea. The Founder Chancellor’s best Ph.D. thesis award for Engineering was presented to Kishan Kumar and for Sciences to M.Veena. Eighty-one Ph.D. graduands and over 12 special award winners were presented their degrees and awards in physical mode while over 4,800 graduands were presented and conferred their UG and PG degrees virtually. Chancellor R. Sethuraman, presided over the Convocation.
01 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Demonstration against farm Act||As many as 65 Congress cadre were arrested when they tried to observe a hunger strike against the Central government’s recently enacted farm Act here on Saturday. When the Congress cadre announced that they would launch a fast against the Act near VVD Signal on Saturday, the police denied permission for the protest. However, the local party functionaries, led by the party’s Thoothukudi city district president, C.S. Muralidharan, gathered near the protest venue. Though the police reminded them that no permission had been given for the protest, they tried to observe fast and raised slogans against the Central and the State governments. The police arrested them and took them to a marriage hall where the detained Congress cadre observed fast till 4 p.m. In two other places The police also arrested 17 Congress cadre in Eral and 18 workers in Tiruchendur for staging similar demonstrations.
01 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Corporation pushes for bicycle lanes in Tiruchi||To promote bicycle riding, the Tiruchi Corporation has embarked upon a plan to identify dedicated bicycle lanes in the city. As part of the plan, Minister for Tourism Vellamandi Natarajan, Minister for Backward Classes and Minority Welfare S. Valarmathi along with Collector S. Sivarasu, Commissioner of Police, J. Loganathan and Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian pedalled on bicycles along arterial roads on Saturday. Christened India Cycles4, the Minister and the officials, followed by volunteers, rode bicycles with the intent of impressing upon the public the need for avoiding motorised transport as much as possible. To understand the response of people on switching back to bicycles, the civic body in association with the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) has carried out a survey to find out the interest of people on riding bicycles. About 5,000 people responded to the survey. Nearly 88% of them had answered that they knew bicycling. Eighty percentage of them further stated that they would use bicycles regularly if there were designated lanes for them. In the next stage, it has begun “Handlebar Survey” among the people to sort out the difficulties faced by cyclists. The residents of Tiruchi can register their experience. They can point out the difficulties such as the condition of roads, traffic and suggestions to set up infrastructure for cyclists. Based on the findings, the ITDP will submit a report to the Corporation so as to take immediate steps to create basic infrastructure for cycle riders. T.D. Achuthan, of ITDP, said that the idea was to create temporary infrastructure for bicycle riders within the second week of December. It would enable interested persons to use bicycles to visit various places instead of opting for motor transports. The next stage would be to set up permanent and dedicated lanes for bicycle riders. The Corporation could create infrastructure by tapping funds from the smart city initiative.
01 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||216 new cases reported in central region||The central districts on Saturday continued to witness decline in number of COVID-19 cases, recording 216 fresh cases for the viral infection. Three deaths- two in Tiruvarur and one in Tiruchi were reported. A 60-year-old man with a history of chronic kidney disease and a 76-year-old man who suffered from acute respiratory distress syndrome succumbed to the infection in Tiruvarur. An 80-year-old man who had undergone an angioplasty after suffering from a pre-existing condition of coronary artery disease died of COVID-19 in Tiruchi. Nagapattinam recorded the highest number of cases in the region, with 43 patients testing positive for the infection. Among them were primary contacts and inter-district travellers. Tiruvarur recorded 42 new cases for COVID-19 on Saturday. Tiruchi and Thanjavur both recorded an equal number of COVID-19 cases with 32 patients testing positive. Patients in both districts were primary contacts, patients with a history of respiratory illnesses and local index cases. In Karur, 31 patients, including residents of, Kadavur, Kulithalai, Vengamedu and Thogamalai tested positive for the viral infection. Pudukottai district recorded a sharp drop with 22 fresh cases reported. Among them were local index cases with no history of travel or contacts and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. In Ariyalur, 10 COVID-19 cases were reported of whom four hailed from Ariyalur block, two from Thirumanur, one each from Sendhurai, T. Palur and from Jayankondam. One inter-district traveller also tested positive. The addition of these patients further increased the total number of COVID-19 recorded in the district to 4,374. Meanwhile, the total number of containment zones in the district saw a drop with only 18 villages being contained and cordoned off by the district administration to avoid the spread of the infection. Meanwhile, in Perambalur, among the four patients who tested positive, two belonged to Perambalur block, and one each to Veppur and Alathur blocks. Meanwhile, a total of 366 throat swabs were lifted at the government hospitals and primary healthcare centres in the district and sent for testing.
01 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lovers end lives||Two lovers were found dead at Kaduvetti Melavelikadu near Thottiam on Saturday. They were identified as Naveenkumar of Melavelikadu, a construction worker, and Rathibala, an engineering student of Mohanur Alampatti in Namakkal district. They were found hanging in an isolated house. The duo who were reported missing since October 28 had committed suicide due to objection from their families for marriage. Those who require assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts may contact State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
01 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Brick kiln worker arrested under POCSO Act for offence on minor girl||A 13-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by K. Balamurugan (32) of Natarajapuram in Lalgudi and he was arrested under Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO)Act. According to sources, the accused who was a worker in a chamber brick manufacturing unit, abducted the girl on Thursday and sexually assaulted her in a secluded place. She narrated the ordeal to her mother, who was also working in the same unit. Acting on a complaint lodged by the mother of the accused, the All Women Police Station at Lalguidi registered a case under POCSO against Balamurugan, and had him remanded in judicial custody.
01 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 100 feet on Saturday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 8,582 cusecs and the discharge was 12,001 cusecs.
01 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Expedite Smart City projects in Tirunelveli, says official||Projects taken up under Smart Cities Mission must be expedited and completed within the deadline, said Bhaskaran, Commissioner for Municipal Administration and Chairman of Smart City, here on Saturday. The Smart City projects are being implemented in Tirunelveli Corporation on an outlay of Rs. 996 crore. Mr. Bhaskaran inspected the projects and reviewed their progress with Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan and Chief Executive Officer of Tirunelveli Smart City V. Narayanan Nair. After reviewing the progress of Ariyanayagipuram Drinking Water Scheme, which is being executed on an outlay of Rs. 230 crore to augment drinking water supply by bringing the surface water from Ariyanayagipuram check dam, Mr. Bhaskaran asked the officials to speed up work on the water treatment plant at Corporation Kamarajar Higher Secondary School in Pettai. As per the agreement signed with Annai Infra Developers, Erode, in November 2016, the firm should complete the project within 18 months. However, the project is likely to be completed by November 2020 as only 87% of the work has been completed and work on sludge lagoon, clarifloculator, clarified water channel, filter house and the electro-mechanical works are pending. After inspecting the construction of a Trade Centre, being built at a cost of Rs. 56.71 crore with the total plinth area of 3.22 lakh square feet on Exhibition Grounds opposite the Corporation’s administrative office, Mr. Bhaskaran expressed satisfaction over the progress of the work. The Trade Centre, being established on the lines of Codissia fair complex in Coimbatore, will have exhibition halls on the ground and first floors. Following total completion of raft concrete, 480 columns have been raised up to basement roof. UGD scheme Mr. Bhaskaran also asked the officials to accelerate the work on second and third phases of the underground drainage scheme. The second phase, costing about Rs. 296.11 crore, is being executed by L&T Construction, Chennai, and to be completed by July 31, 2021. He also asked the officials and Kolkota-based Simplex Infrastructures, which is executing the third phase of the scheme at a cost of Rs. 421.55 crore, to expedite the work. When he inspected the Tirunelveli Junction bus stand, being reconstructed at a cost of Rs. 78.51 crore, he was informed that raft concrete for Bay 1 and 2 had been completed while raft slab concreting of Bay 3 was in progress. The bus terminus with 27 bays, which now generates an annual income of Rs. 1.67 crore to the Corporation, is likely to give a net profit of Rs. 1.87 crore after the new terminus is commissioned. On the maintenance of seven parks being developed on an outlay of Rs. 12.31 crore, Mr. Bhaskaran, at the end of his marathon inspection that lasted for about 10 hours, asked Mr. Nair and Mr. Kannan to form a society with the Corporation Commissioner and the retired government employees as its head and the members respectively to ensure proper maintenance of the parks and transparency in their operations, especially the handling of finances involved in this work.  Ongoing projects  Ariyanayagipuram Drinking Water Scheme is under way on an outlay of Rs. 230 crore Trade Centre is being constructed at a cost of Rs. 56.71 crore  Tirunelveli Junction bus stand is being reconstructed at a cost of Rs. 78.51 crore  Seven parks being developed on an outlay of Rs. 12.31 crore
01 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Protest staged against arrest of 16 human rights activists||Condemning the “unlawful arrest” of 16 human rights activists, including 83-year-old Jesuit priest Rev. Fr. Stan Swami, and registration of fake cases against Muslims who staged a protest against attacks on them in North East Delhi, people from various walks of life staged a demonstration here on Saturday. Led by Bishop of Palayamkottai Roman Catholic Diocese Most Rev. S. Antonysamy, the protestors raised slogans. The protestors said the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government, which abhorred voices of dissent, had arrested the 16 human rights activists, including Rev. Fr. Stan Swami, who had dedicated his life for improving the lot of tribes of Bihar and Jharkhand in the past 50 years. He had published several reports about the pathetic condition of the tribal people whose rights had been denied by the powerful. When they were chased away from their homeland, Rev. Fr. Stan created awareness of their rights enshrined in the Indian Constitution, for which he was arrested by the National Investigating Agency. When the Muslims staged a protest in a democratic manner against attacks unleashed on the community in North East Delhi, they were crushed by the police who foisted cases and arrested them. The Tamil Nadu government should release the Muslim remand prisoners, who are languishing in jails for more than 10 years without any formal trial in the court of law after being arrested in connection with fake cases registered against them, the protestors said. They thanked the official machinery for detaining under National Security Act those who smashed the cemeteries of Christians recently. “The district, which witnessed gruesome caste clashes in the past, should not witness religious divide and consequent clashes. Since vandalising of the cemeteries is aimed at driving a wedge among different faiths, the district administration and the police have taken the right step at the right time,” said the Bishop. The protest was organised by a few political parties, People’s Citizenship Protection Movement and the Confederation of Secular and Human Rights Protection Movements.
01 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Executive Engineer held on graft charge||Sleuths of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption arrested the Executive Engineer of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation on Saturday when he took bribe from a farmer for giving power connection under ‘tatkal’ scheme. According to DVAC sleuths, farmer Muthulingam of Poovudaiyarpuram near Thattarmadam had applied for power connection under ‘tatkal’ scheme. When Executive Engineer, TANGEDCO, Tiruchendur, Pon Karuppasamy, demanded Rs. 10,000 for giving the connection, Mr. Muthulingam refused to give the bribe. After Pon Karuppasamy delayed the process, Mr. Muthulingam agreed to give the bribe after lodging a complaint with the DVAC police. On their instruction, Mr. Muthulingam gave Rs. 10,000 to Pon Karuppasamy on Saturday and the official was caught red-handed by a DVAC team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police (in charge) Maclaurin Escol. After inquiry, the police also searched the house of Pon Karuppasamy at Tiruchendur.
01 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||No orders issued on resumption of stone quarrying, says official||With all the stone quarrying works in Pongupalayam village near Tiruppur stopped following opposition from residents, no orders for their resumption have been issued yet, a Revenue Department official said. In September, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan ordered the cancellation of quarry licence citing multiple violations including lack of barbed wire fencing, lack of space between the quarry and patta lands and not displaying a board with the quarry details. Spread over 26 acres, the quarries were close to the residential areas including Kalampalayam, Pallipalayam and Babuji Nagar in violation of government regulations, according to E. Sreedhar, a member of the Kalampalayam Residents Welfare Association. He is among the many residents who had represented to the district administration regarding closure of the quarries. Among the issues faced by the residents due to the proximity of the quarries were the heavy vibrations experienced during the blasting works at the site, which had also caused cracks on the walls of some houses, he claimed. “We demand that the quarries must be permanently closed,” Mr. Sreedhar said. A committee will verify the violations and submit a report, Further action will be initiated based on the report, the official said.
01 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||60 new cases detected in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 17,899 with a total of 60 new cases reported on October 31. While a total of 17,187 have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stand at 407. The district’s death toll stands at 305. In Ranipet district, a total of 61 cases were reported taking the total to 14,874. In Tirupattur, the total number of positive cases stood at 6,640 with a total of 34 new cases being reported on Saturday. In Tiruvannamalai district, a total of 54 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 17,619. Out of this, 17,039 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 319.
01 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rain in Virudhunagar||Widespread rain was reported in various parts of Virudhunagar district on Friday. Watrap reported the highest amount of 65.60 mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday. Similarly, Sattur (38 mm) and Pilavakkal dam (34.80 mm) received good rainfall. Other rain gauge stations that registered showers are Srivilliputtur (18.80 mm), Vembakottai 5.80, Sivakasi 4 and Kariyapatti 2.40 mm. The average rainfall recorded in the district is 14.12 mm. Among the eight minor dams, only Periyar and Sasthakoil reservoirs, have significant water storage. While the water level in Pilavakkal Periyar was 200.4 metres (204.5 metres), Sasthakoil dam has got 103.2 metres (103.4 metres) of water. Other dams had almost nil storage.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||278 recruits attested into the Madras Regiment||A total of 278 recruits were attested into the Madras Regiment of the Indian Army at the Attestation Parade held at the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) in Wellington on Saturday. The parade was held on the drill ground of Shrinagesh Barracks for the recruits who have completed year-long basic and advanced military training, a press release said. COVID-19 precautions Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, Commandant of MRC, reviewed the parade, which was held with physical distancing norm in place as part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures. He awarded medals to the recruits for the categories of overall best in training and best in physicals, the release said.  In his address, Brigadier Singh congratulated the recruits and commended the efforts of the instructors and staff members at the MRC, who trained the recruits amid the pandemic. He also congratulated the parents of the recruits, who were not present in the audience to witness the parade due to the pandemic situation, according to the release. Madras Regiment is the oldest Infantry Regiment of the Indian Army.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 241 positive cases||The western region comprising eight districts reported 721 COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday. Coimbatore district reported 241 new cases of COVID-19, registering an increase from Friday’s 228 cases. As many as 2,049 COVID-19 patients from the district were under institutional care as of Saturday while 605 persons got discharged from treatment facilities after recovering from the disease. As per the media bulletin issued by the Health Department, a 68-year-old woman from Coimbatore district succumbed to COVID-19 at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Friday. With this, the district’s death toll increased to 557. Tiruppur district reported three deaths and 91 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 12,745. A 67-year-old man from the district died at a private hospital in Coimbatore on Friday. On Thursday, a 48-year-old man and a 76-year-old woman died at theTiruppur Government Medical College Hospital and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore respectively. Out of 12,745 cases, 11,569 have recovered and 982 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 194 deaths in total. As many as 121 patients were discharged from various hospitals on Saturday. A total of 145 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 123 cases were indigenous, including 56 in Salem Corporation limits. Teams to monitor shops Inter-departmental teams comprising officials and staff from the Salem Corporation, revenue and police departments have been formed teams to monitor adherence to COVID-19 safety norms in commercial establishments here during Deepavali shopping. The Corporation has formed eight teams with 42 officials from the civic body, revenue and police departments. According to a release, the Corporation has deployed two teams for each of its zones, Suramangalam, Kondalampatti, Ammapet and Hasthampatti. Officials said there were over 16,000 commercial establishments in all its zones. The teams would carry out surprise checks at the commercial establishments and also create awareness on standard operating procedures. The Corporation warned of stern action if safety norms were violated. In Namakkal, 67 cases were reported. Six patients had returned from other districts. Erode district reported 79 new cases, taking the tally to 10,303. While 151 persons were discharged, 812 continue to be under treatment. Three persons died, taking the tally to 124. In Krishnagiri, 44 tested positive, while in Dharmapuri 28 new cases were reported. In the Nilgiris, 26 persons tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 6,616. The death toll increased from 39 to 40 on Saturday, while the district administration said that 241 persons are undergoing treatment.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Forest Department road endangers core KMTR habitat: activists||A road laid by the Forest Department with heavy machinery inside the core, inviolate habitats of the Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR) in Tirunelveli district could endanger its very existence, activists say. While KMTR officials insist that they were only clearing the ‘ katcha ’ road to have better access for Forest Department officials to the core areas for better surveillance and that no heavy machinery was used, activists point out that for decades, foresters have only travelled by foot and not on jeeps, and this could set off a dangerous trend. Photographs accessed by The Hindu show that bulldozers are being used to lay the road. The road was being laid in gross violation of the Forest (Conservation) Act and the Wildlife Protection Act. The new road and the resultant vehicular movement could endanger the KMTR’s core and threaten its very survival, and activists have called for a halt to this activity. KMTR was declared a tiger reserve in 1988, the first in Tamil Nadu. It has been identified as a Type-I tiger conservation unit representing the tropical moist evergreen forests. It also forms part of the inter-State Agasthiyarmalai Biosphere Reserve, declared one of the plant diversity centres by UNESCO. It was also declared the Regional Centre of Endemism in the Indian subcontinent. There are 2,255 species of Angiosperms so far recorded from the KMTR, including 448 species endemic to the Western Ghats, in addition to 150 species that are strictly endemic to the Agasthiyarmalai, say researchers working in the reserve. According to activists, this core habitat is one of the highly protected areas with the least entry points. One has to cross the Papanasam checkpoint and reach the Mundanthurai plateau and thereon travel to Servalar and the Karaiyar dam inside the core. The vehicular movement is usually restricted up to the dam, as pucca roads have been laid only up to that. Only 5 kani tribal settlements are present in the core area. There are very few elephant areas in the reserve. About 10 years ago, trekking was also stopped. There are only patrolling/combing routes available from the Karaiyar dam (the Mundanthurai plateau) to Kalivarpul until recently, which lead to Bomacadu (Kerala border). The forest staff and the anti-poaching watchers were patrolling the forest by foot, say activists. Importantly, activists and researchers said these were the few tropical evergreen patches left in the country, free from any man-made interventions and serving as a water catchment for the perennial Tamirabharani river. The access to the forest was only available to the Kani tribals of the area and the forest staff patrolling the region. Alleging that heavy machinery was being operated now to clear rainforest patch along Karaiyar-Kannikatti-Kalivarpul Mottai for 30 km, the activists say such clearing would amount to loss of biodiversity, encourage a larger vehicular movement and allow easy access to poachers and even Maoist infiltration. And for an area that had no road entry, creating a road by clearing the forest inside the core area raises suspicion, they add. “Another reason for laying the road could be to facilitate access for high-profile pilgrims to the Agasthiyar temple in the peak in vehicles. Now they have to trek,” says an activist, requesting anonymity. KMTR field director Yogesh Singh did not react and said the local officer (a deputy director) would answer. KMTR deputy director (Ambasamudram division) Kommu Omkaram denied that heavy equipment was used to lay roads in the core zone between the Papanasam dam and Kalibar Pullmottai. The 30-km ‘katcha’ road connecting the border with Kerala through the dense jungle would usually be maintained to ensure the movement of the vehicles of KMTR officials to reach the spots within the shortest possible time. “Since this area would witness heavy winds throughout the year, uprooting of huge trees is quite usual, and would make our travel inside the core zone tougher. Even then we don’t lay ‘pucca roads’ in this area fearing that it would encourage the entry of outsiders. We used to remove only periodically the wild growth that would cover the ‘ katcha ’ roads,” he said. A retired forest official, a native of the region, said forest officials should continue to trek the region and not lay new roads for them to travel in jeeps. The road plan should be immediately abandoned. Initially, forest officials would only say they would travel on the route. Then the political pressure would make them open up the road for more people. Eventually, there would be a demand for the road to connect to Kerala. This road threatens the very existence of KMTR, he warned.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Classes 9-12, colleges to reopen in T.N. on Nov. 16||While extending the lockdown in Tamil Nadu until the midnight of November 30, the government on Saturday announced further relaxations. It announced the re-opening of schools (from Class 9 to Class 12), colleges, research institutes and other educational institutions from November 16. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced the re-opening of cinemas, including multiplex and cinema halls in the shopping complexes, with 50% of the capacity from November 10. He also gave the go-ahead for the operation of suburban trains.        The Chief Minister said that based on the consultations with medical and public health experts, it was decided to extend the lockdown till November 30. “But the government has decided to further relax the lockdown regulations (except in containment zones) to give a fillip to the economy. The educational institutions are allowed to function with standing rules and instructions from November 16,” he said in a release. Mr. Palaniswami also announced the opening of all hostels in schools and colleges for students and employees from November 16. He said the effective treatment offered by government doctors had brought the infection rate in the State down to less than 7.30%. As per the announcement, the wholesale fruit market at Koyambedu will function from November 2 and retail sale of fruit and vegetables will open from November 16. The shooting of films and teleserials can begin with the participation of a maximum of 150 persons. Entertainment and amusement parks, big halls, auditoriums, biological parks and museums can function from November 10 with standing instructions. A maximum of 100 persons can attend marriages and funerals, religious gatherings, social, political, and recreational events and education-related programmes from November 16. Earlier, gyms were permitted to allow persons below the age of 50; from November 1, the rule has been further relaxed to allow those up to 60 years of age. In containment zones, however, there will be no relaxation in the regulations. The lockdown will continue for swimming pools, beaches, tourist spots and other places where people gather in large numbers. Flight services will continue only on the routes allowed by the Union Home Ministry, and there will be no international flight services. E-registration will be followed for those who visit Tamil Nadu from other States, except Puducherry. It will continue in the case of tourist spots such as Udagamandalam, Kodaikanal and Yercaud.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Virtual meet for ryots on Nov. 3||A virtual meet through Google Meet app will be held for farmers of Virudhunagar district on November 3. Farmers will participate in the meeting, chaired by Collector R. Kannan, from the offices of the Block Assistant Director of Agriculture. The meeting will begin at 10.30 a.m. Farmers should wear masks and maintain social distancing as suggested by the Department of Health, a statement said.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Needs repair||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Anticipatory bail granted to Sub-Registrars||Madurai Principal Sessions Judge G. Ilangovan has granted anticipatory bail to two Sub-Registrars, G. Arun Prasath and S. Sathasivam, who apprehended arrest by Dindigul District Crime Branch Police on the charges of registering documents without prior verification. Disputed documents Principal Sessions Judge Ilangovan observed that it was alleged that the two Sub-Registrars registered disputed documents. Title was a matter that could not be decided by the criminal court but only by the civil court. Though it was strongly contended that the two registered the documents without proper verification, the judge said that whether the petitioners acted with criminal intention at the time of discharging their duty was a matter of trial. The judge granted anticipatory bail to the two Sub-Registrars considering the nature of allegations levelled against the petitioners and taking into account the title dispute with regard to the documents registered. No verification The police contended that the petitioners registered the sale deed without verifying the encumbrance certificate as well as original documents, parent documents, death certificate and legal heirs certificate and booked them under various sections of the Indian Penal Code. The petitioners said that they did not commit any offence.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Agriculture Minister passes away||Mr. Doraikkannu, a native of Rajagiri near Papanasam in Thanjavur district, was the secretary of the AIADMK’s Thanjavur (North) District unit. He also functioned as the secretary of the party’s Papanasam union unit for 25 years, besides serving as the president of the district agriculture marketing committee. He was first elected to the Assembly from Papanasam in 2006. He retained the seat in 2011 and 2016. He was inducted into the Cabinet, led by Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, in 2016 and continued in the post in the government of O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami. “He possessed the native knowledge of agriculture,” an official said.
01 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Multi-rally for fitness||Several associations organised a multi-rally from Belagavi to the jungles of Jamboti as part of Fit India programme on Saturday. About 50 participants completed the 70 km lap from the Rotary Club swimming pool in Goaves to Jamboti either trekking, skating or cycling. Gaurav Kumar Second In-Command, COBRA school, CRPF, flagged off the rally. The rally was organised by the Belgaum Roller Skating Academy, Prerana PU College, Giants Group of Parivar, Rotary Club of Vengram, Aqua Pals, and Unique Sporting Academy, Peeranwadi Muslim Jamat, and Tipu Sultan Nagar Tanzim Committee.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||On campaign trail, BSY says Munirathna will be Minister||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa campaigned for BJP candidate Munirathna in the bypoll-bound R.R. Nagar constituency on Saturday and said, “It is certain that Munirathna will win this election by a large margin and become a Minister.” Singing praises of Mr. Munirathna, he said that even before the bypolls were announced, Mr. Munirathna had been working for the development of the constituency. Mr. Yediyurappa went on to assure voters that he would give all support for development works in the constituency. “And as Minister, Munirathna will get them executed,” he said. This comes a day after he assured the voters of Sira, the other bypoll-bound constituency, that he would order the filling up of Madalur tank from Hemavathi river. Promises galore “In the last year alone, I have sanctioned development projects worth Rs. 820 crore for R.R. Nagar constituency,” he said, giving a breakup of the funds allotted for roads, underpasses, and drains. Also holding the charge of Bengaluru Development, he said he had taken a personal interest in the development of the city. “In the next one month, I will myself start doing city rounds to speed up the developmentworks,” he said. Taking a dig at the Congress and the JD(S), which he accused of playing “caste politics” — an alleged attempt to consolidate Vokkaliga votes against the BJP in R.R. Nagar — he said, “Our government has several Vokkaliga Ministers. We have ensured social justice and ours is a government of all castes. We do not depend on one caste like theOpposition parties.” Another trip to Delhi Meanwhile, Mr. Yediyurappa also said he would make a trip to Delhi after the bypolls to consult the party’s central leadership on the matter of Cabinet expansion. “I want to expand the Cabinet soon after the elections,” he said. When asked whether it would be an expansion or a reshuffle, he said that would depend on the directions of the high command. He said he could not elaborate on the matter now, partly because of the model code of conduct being in force. A Cabinet expansion/reshuffle has been a long-pending exercise in the State. Though the Chief Minister has been keen, the party high command has not given him the green signal for it yet. On his last trip to Delhi, on September 19, when he met the Prime Minister as well, he failed to secure clearance for the exercise from the central leadership, triggering speculation of a leadership change in State BJP.  Our government has several Vokkaliga Ministers. We have ensured social justice... We do not depend on one caste like the Opposition parties B.S. Yediyurappa,Chief Minister
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kannada e-books, audiobooks find many takers||Kannada e-books, which were struggling to find takers, have seen a sudden spurt in demand during the pandemic. Multiple platforms that are exclusively dealing with e-books and audiobooks have reported “great response” as many in the field put it. Vasant Shetty of MyLang app, started last year on Rajyotsava Day, now has over 500 e-books and over 80,000 downloads. “The pandemic saw an explosion of consumer interest and every month since then, we are seeing a growth in the range of 10-15%. It is hearty to note that over 80% of our customers are in the age group of 15-40,” he said. Other platforms like VividLipi and Rutumana have also made strides in the e-books market. Small steps Meanwhile, the audiobooks market, though still nascent, is taking baby steps in the Kannada space. Storytel, a Swedish multinational audiobooks platform, has entered the Kannada market and optioned works of prominent writers, sources said. “I have given rights to four of my novels to be produced as audiobooks to Storytel. Earlier, I read out my first novel Karma as an audiobook for MyLang app and now Storytel has optioned my novels,” said novelist Karanam Pavan Prasad. Other Bengaluru-based platforms like MyLang, Alisiri, and Rutumana have also entered this space. The biggest hurdle for e-books and audiobooks was the publishers who feared this will only lead to free sharing on messaging platforms hitting sales. “Now the publishers are also slowly realising that this can only supplement their revenues, but can never replace the book market. They cater to different demographics,” Mr. Shetty said. However, Mr. Pavan Prasad warns, “There is a need to create awareness among writers to retain rights to e-books and audiobooks. Now there is confusion as to who holds these rights.” Book cataloguing What has only added value to this ecosystem is a Kannada book cataloguing platform BookBrahma, on the lines of GoodReads. During the pandemic, the platform has been hosting book release functions as well online.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Notices served to seven hospitals||As Bengaluru continues to report the highest number of cases among all the districts in the State, and amidst warnings of a second wave of the pandemic ahead of Deepavali, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has cracked the whip on hospitals that allegedly failed to reserve the mandated number of beds for government-sponsored COVID-19 patients. Some of them have also been accused of overcharging or denying beds to patients. Seven hospitals are in the dock for allegedly not complying with the direction of the civic body to reserve beds for BBMP-sponsored COVID-19 patients, and the civic body has decided to take “exemplary action” against them. According to a BBMP release, hospitals are to reserve 50% of beds in each category, i.e. general ward, HDU, ICU and ICU with ventilators. According to a statement from BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad on Saturday: “Showcause notices have been issued to the seven hospitals under the KPME Act for suspension of licence. These hospitals have been directed to show cause within the next 24 hours as to why the KPME registration should not be cancelled. If no proper explanation is received within 24 hours along with compliance, the BBMP will be constrained to close down the OPDs at the first instance, and thereafter all the existing patients admitted in these hospitals will be shifted to some other hospitals, and subsequently these hospitals will be closed down.” The civic body, in a release, said it had served notices to Artyem Hospital, Rangadore Memorial Hospital, Sanjeevini Hospital, Dr. GVG Healthcare Pvt. Ltd., Srinivas Hospital, Medstar Hospital and Nandana Healthcare Services India Ltd. The showcause notices for suspension of licence under the KPME Act state that the hospitals have “not complied with the direction of the government to notify and make available the mandated 50% beds for government-referred patients.” “You are hereby notified that unless information of COVID-19 patients as sought is submitted and compliance given, in terms of notification and admitting government referred patients as per allocation fixed and not diverting these COVID-19 beds to private patients, within 24 hours from receipt of this notice, the undersigned as the Registration Authority, based on the prima facie case drawn up, shall invoke Section 15 of the KPME Act, for immediate suspension of KPME registration of your hospital,” says one of the notices. In the case of some hospitals, apart from not allocating beds, they have also been accused of overcharging. “Under the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, the Karnataka Private Medical Establishment Act, read with the Disaster Management Act, 2005, we are enforcing immediate suspension of KPME registration,” the notice to some of the hospitals says, adding that explanations, if any, must be brought to the notice of the BBMP Commissioner within 24 hours. Some hospitals have also been accused of not allocating beds though they were available. ‘Lying vacant’ Responding to the allegations, Dr. Prasanna H.M., president-elect, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA) said beds reserved for government-sponsored patients are lying vacant as there is no load now given that the number of cases has come down. He said hospitals have sought legal opinion and responded to the notices. “During the inspection, they are asked for different data and expected to give out information in a hurry. This is not like any other day where you can dish out all information urgently. If anyone is victimised, we will stand with them,” he added.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘I represent a political party, not just one community’||The November 3 byelections are the first that D.K. Shivakumar will face after assuming charge as Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president. The contests in Rajarajeshwarinagar and Sira Assembly constituencies have generated much political heat, throwing a challenge to the man, who is known for his organisational skills. In the midst of some hectic campaigning in R.R. Nagar on Saturday, Mr. Shivakumar spoke to The Hindu . Excerpts:  Will the election result be a reflection on your leadership?  Whether I am party president or not, I always do my duty honestly and responsibly. For the past 30 years, I have done what I am doing now. Elections are not different, whether we are in power or not. There is a perception that there is one-upmanship for the Vokkaliga leadership between you and JD(S) leaders.  No. I have never wanted to pose on a community platform. I am representing a political party, not one community. I have distanced myself from the caste angle of politics. Are you seeing this election as a referendum on the BJP government in the State?  No. The government is misusing the machinery. There has been rampant distribution of money and misuse of power. The police force is being misused. Such things are going on.... I am sure a message from the voters will go to them. The government has failed in all respects, including in crisis management of COVID-19 and floods. How is the campaign progressing in R.R. Nagar?  People are responding well. They want a change in the constituency and do not want to help the backstabber [BJP candidate Munirathna.] Despite the percentage of votes that the BJP is talking about, I am confident of winning the seat. If people are feeling the heat in the constituency, it is because the government did not come to their help, either for employee or employer. Sira seems to have emerged as a prestige battle...  No. For us, all political seats are prestigious. In politics, we have to accept there is nothing not prestigious. There is speculation over B.S. Yediyurappa staying Chief Minister after the byelections. Do you think the poll results will have any bearing on that?  That is left to their party [BJP]. I do not want to comment on the matter.    People are responding well.They want changein the constituencyand do not want to helpBJP. Despitethe percentage of votes that the BJP is talking about, I am confident of winning the R.R. Nagar seat D.K. Shivakumar,KPCC president
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bus ploughs into restaurant, four pedestrians injured||Four pedestrians were injured when the driver of a private bus lost control of the vehicle and ploughed into a hotel on 2nd Main Road, Vyalikaval, on Saturday afternoon. The bus, which had only a few people on board, was heading towards Dattatreya junction from Malleswaram around 3.10 p.m. when the incident took place. The driver later claimed it was brake failure. Unable to stop the bus, he ran over a line of vehicles parked on the footpath before ploughing into the hotel even as pedestrians ran helter-skelter. Four people standing outside the hotel were injured. The bus came to a halt after it hit a stand and tables in the hotel. The police estimate that at least 40 people had a narrow escape. “Fortunately, there were very few patrons in the hotel. The few customers inside and the staff were able to escape,” said a police officer, adding that four two-wheelers and a car were damaged. Eyewitnesses handed over the driver, Prateesh, to the police. “The bus driver claims that it was brake failure, and we are investigating this. He did not have a driving licence,” said the Malleswaram traffic police. Based on the complaint filed by the hotel owner, Rizwan Pasha, the police have booked Prateesh under various sections of the Motor Vehicles Act. “We are waiting for the medical report to ascertain if he was driving under the influence of alcohol,” the police added.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rejig of Cubbon Park, Shivajinagar bus station begins||After a delay of several months, work on the long-pending redevelopment of Cubbon Park and transformation of Shivajinagar bus station into a multi-mode transport hub has begun. Both the projects – under the Smart Cities Mission – were slated to begin early this year but had to be postponed due to the lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Bengaluru Smart City Limited (BSCL) Managing Director Hephsiba R. Korlapati said that the Shivajinagar bus station project will be completed by March 2021. “The existing pedestrian subway at the Shivajinagar bus station will be revamped and it will be connected with the upcoming metro terminal. The revamp of the subway will include proper ventilation, lighting and fire safety facilities, and signages,” she said. The metro terminal next to Shivajinagar bus station is being constructed under Phase II of Namma Metro, connecting the 13.9-km underground line from Jayanagar Fire Station to Nagawara. Other facilities include children and senior citizen friendly waiting lounge, information kiosk and toilets. Lakes and ponds to be rejuvenated The redevelopment of Cubbon Park will be carried out in two phases. A senior official of BSCL said that the work will mainly concentrate on rejuvenation of ponds inside Cubbon Park, fixing the damaged fencing, and improvement of pathways. However, the plan has not gone down well with many environmentalists and citizens. Officials insisted that the park will not be affected. “We will only repair or improve the existing pathways, and add only where necessary. The cycle track and jogging track have been designed on the existing road network,” said a senior BSCL official. As a part of water management, Lotus Pond and Karagada Kunte will be rejuvenated. “Pathways around the water bodies and development of adjoining nalas and increasing the carrying capacities of the water bodies by desilting them will also be done,” Ms. Korlapati said, adding that more channels will be added for uninterrupted flow of water. As a part of waste management, a bio-gas plant will be installed. The project has been planned keeping in mind the needs of senior citizens and children. “Single-use toilets for visually impaired and differently-abled persons have been planned,” she said.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||YouTube has a lot of content to offer||There has been an explosion of Kannada content on popular video streaming platform YouTube over the last one year and there have been many takers for it particularly during lockdown. A majority of content dominating the Kannada YouTube space today is long interviews of celebrities, especially film personalities, and food related content. Telugu and Tamil have had a vibrant YouTube space for years now and Kannada has been catching up. K.S. Parameshwar, a NSD graduate who ventured into documentary filmmaking in 2014 with three theatre friends, including his wife, started the YouTube channel Kalamadhyama in 2019. “We have been doing long interviews of film personalities and writers and publishing them in parts. We have interviewed under-represented persons like a senior extra artist and sound designer. Our series in memoriam of Shankar Nag has been a huge hit,” he said. “Many videos that we posted before the pandemic became viral only since the lockdown,” he said. Total Kannada, a noted brand dealing in Kannada DVD market and documentaries also ventured into the YouTube space during the pandemic. “Apart from interviews, we also hosted a series on Hindi imposition and now a new series on dynasties that have ruled Karnataka,” said Lakshmikant, founder of Total Kannada. There has also been a profusion of vlogs, mostly run by homemakers on housekeeping and cookery in Kannada. There are other channels like Unbox Karnataka, which have been producing videos combining travel and food as themes. Expenses However, monetisation of content is yet to be fully realised. “Ever since the lockdown increased viewership for our videos, we started earning to meet our production expenses, but have not been able to earn enough to sustain a team,” said Mr. Parameshwar.  Many videos that we made before the pandemic became viral only since the lockdown.K.S. ParameshwarFounder of Kalamadhyama
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Truth test’ challenge surfaces again||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar on Saturday hit back at BJP candidate Munirathna over the latter’s challenge to a “truth test” before a deity in Dharmasthala. He said there was nothing to prove after Mr. Munirathna had cheated his “mother”, as he had referred to the Congress when he was with the party. A few days ago, Congress leaders alleged that Mr. Munirathna had received money from the BJP and that was the reason for him quitting the Congress. The BJP mandenied this and dared his accusers to a truth test. When asked about this, Mr. Shivakumar said, “We will see about the truth test after November 3.” His brother and Congress MP D.K. Suresh said Mr. Munirathna used to openly say that the Congress was his “mother and lifeblood”. Earlier, Mr. Munirathna wept during his campaign, expressing unhappiness over the tenor of the Congress leaders’ allegations. “Truth test” is an idea often bandied about by politicians in Karnataka. Back in 2011, JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa challenged each other to a truth test, which eventually did not take place. DKS visits factory Meanwhile, on Saturday, Mr. Shivakumar broke the routine of public meetings and rallies in Rajarajeshwarinagar constituency, visiting a garment factory and seeking the support of the women workers of the factory in the coming byelection. There are more than 40 garment factories in the constituency. Addressing the garment workers, mostly women, the KPCC chief said neither the BJP candidate nor the State government had helped them during the COVID-19 lockdown.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Podcasts take baby steps||Five months ago, three friends — out of boredom during lockdown — started a podcast ‘Aralikatte’ where they discussed various issues on a weekly basis. “Thirty episodes old now, the podcast has acquired a loyal listenership,” said Mukund Setlur, one of the three founders. Podcasts are a relatively new medium and those in Kannada are taking baby steps here. “There are only a handful of podcasts in Kannada. Going by the response to our podcast, it is evident the problem is on the supply side and not demand. The lockdown has created a new consumer base for podcasts, especially among senior citizens,” said Pavan Srinath, who has a podcast called Thale-Harate. Leading legacy media houses are experimenting in the medium, offering their content in audio format in Kannada. A very successful podcast has been “Janasuddi”, a science podcast started in 2017, a finalist in the Falling Walls, Berlin Science Week Festival for science communication. “I started this podcast as a resource for science teachers in Kannada. But it has grown beyond that and has garnered a loyal listenership,” Kollegala Sharma, a CFTRI scientist spearheading the podcast, said.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With schools shut, special children cut off from social skills training||Jacklene S. is a single parent of an 11-year-old. While the outbreak of COVID-19 turned life upside down for most people, for this mother of a special child, it meant taking some desperate measures. Her son, Joshua Vivan, is a non-verbal autistic child. Ms. Jacklene used to work as a teacher and drop him off at a special school before going to work, and pick him up later. But the pandemic meant that she remained out of work and unpaid as there was no provision for online classes in her school. “It became very difficult as I couldn’t manage him at home. He became very aggressive, tearing clothes and hitting me. I could not control him as he was not ready to be at home,” she said. With money running out, she took up a marketing job. With no external support, she started changing her child’s routine to sleep during the day, so she could step out for work, and return in time for his online classes. “The special school gave him a tab and started an hour’s class in the evening. After that, he has started enjoying it,” she said. Disruption in the academic year may be a big worry for mainstream school students, but for special children as well as their parents, it has meant the abrupt loss of a big support system in the form of special schools. Sarbani Mallick, founder-director, Bubbles Centre for Autism, said, “Online classes has pushed them further into a comfort zone, which is conducive for them, but the social skill component is something which is not getting addressed at all. What about the social inclusion that we have been working on for years? It has gone out of the window.” She highlighted two crucial issues in the current system: the lack of digital access among many of these children, as well as the burnout of parents. The former has led to dropouts, she said. Shobha Sundar, Programme Director, OPD Services, Spastics Society of Karnataka said children with cerebral palsy and intellectual disability would prefer going to school, as keeping them engaged is a major challenge. “Going out, a change of place, getting fresh air – all of this is not happening. They are cooped up at home, and the demand on parents is huge,” she said. Online classes also require a lot of creativity from special educators, she said. “Our teams and volunteers are finding ways to keep them interested. But there is some fatigue with online, and we are not doing it with very young children – below the age of six. We are giving programmes and tips to parents to keep them engaged through activities. But the children are missing out on physical therapy. The therapist is substituting it with an exercise online,” she explained, adding however that the tempo in participation from the lockdown days is coming down. Preparing for reopening, the school has been training students to wear masks from the initial days. Services such as assessment and therapy have partially opened, she said.
01 November 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Book release today||The complete works of Kuvempu and the digital edition (EPUB books) published by Prasaranga, Kannada University, will be released on Sunday at the Vidhana Soudha. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan will release the book. The event willbe jointly organised by the Government of Karnataka, Kannada University, Hampi, and Visvesvarya Technological University, Belagavi, according to a press release.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Producers turn to OTT to reach viewers||With people wary of going to theatres, over-the-top (OTT) media platforms like Netflix have stepped in to fill the void in the entertainment sector. Three Kannada films — Law , French Biriyani, and Bheemasena Nalamaharaja — had a direct release on Amazon Prime after theatres shut their doors to the public during lockdown. Several other films are in the queue trying to strike a deal with streaming platforms, sources said. Though there were protests from within the industry when Puneeth Raj Kumar Productions sold two films for a direct OTT release, things have settled down and several senior producers are looking at streaming platforms as a new avenue, given theatres are not fully functional yet. However, the potential of such platforms to tap into the Kannada entertainment industry is not being realised fully. Srinivas Sribhakta, a content curator for streaming platforms, said that no content is being produced in Kannada exclusively for OTT platforms. “So far, films, which were preparing for a release in the theatre but were forced to alter their plans because of COVID-19, have premiered on streaming platforms. On the other hand, we are seeing content in Tamil and Telugu being developed solely for OTT viewers,” he said. He pointed out that the three films that OTT platforms have bought are produced by leading production houses and no independent filmmaker has been able to sell a film to these platforms, indicating the OTT market is yet to open up for Kannada. “The subscriber base of streaming platforms has been mostly concentrated in Bengaluru, which is a very cosmopolitan city where the audience is presently watching content in multiple languages. So the platforms are not interested to invest in Kannada content,” he added.
01 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cleaning in all 198 wards||On the occasion of Kannada Rajyotsava, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will be taking up intensive cleaning in all 198 wards across the city on Sunday. During the day, black spots, debris and silt will be cleared, followed by fogging, spraying and sanitising at market places at ward levels, said BBMP in a release.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for murdering woman||The police on Saturday arrested a man for allegedly strangling a 28-year-old woman to death in her house at Medahalli in K.R. Puram. ‘Was angry with his brother-in-law’ “The investigation so far has revealed that the accused, Srikanta, was angry that his brother-in-law Harsha was in an extra-marital relationship with the victim, Shailashri,” said a senior police officer. According to the police, Srikanta’s sister Chitra married Harsha four years ago, but then left her in her parents’ house. Went to her house “On Saturday morning, Srikanta waited near Shailashri’s house. After Harsha left, he entered Shailashri’s house and killed her,” said the police. Neighbours alerted the police. Within hours, the K.R. Puram police tracked down Srikanta. He has been arrested on the charge of murder, and is in police custody.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||D.J. Halli case: Former mayor yet to be traced||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police, which is probing the August 11 violence at D.J. Halli and K.J. Halli, has formed a special team to track down former mayor R. Sampath Raj, who has been ‘absconding’ after being discharged from a private hospital where he underwent treatment for COVID-19. The former mayor is named as an accused in the chargesheet. According to CCB officials, neither Mr. Raj nor his family members can be traced. “Their mobile phones are switched off,” said an official, who is part of the team. The police are awaiting a response from the hospital that discharged Mr. Raj. “We had issued a notice to the hospital administration intimating that they need to inform the CCB prior to discharging the accused. However, they failed to do so,” said the official. On Friday, the police learned that Mr. Raj had been discharged from the hospital on October 14. The incident has caused much embarrassment to the CCB. According to sources, no personnel had been deployed either at the hospital or at his house to keep tabs on the former mayor. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said, “We will ensure that he is traced, and necessary action will be taken.”  We will ensure that he is traced, and necessary action will be taken Kamal Pant, Police Commissioner
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Modi has hijacked my schemes: HDK||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Saturday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had “hijacked” most of his schemes and was portraying them as his own. “I started the industrial cluster scheme in which nine districts were identified. Mr. Modi has announced Aatm Nirbhar Bharat on the same lines. Similarly, I had announced the Badavara Bandhu scheme to financially help street vendors with interest-free loans. Modi’s announcement on financially helping 50 lakh street vendors is the same,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said during an interaction with industrialists in Peenya. He also said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had not kept the promises made to 6.5 crore Kannadigas, and was instead meeting the promises made to the 17 legislators who helped topple the Congress-JD(S) coalition regime.
01 November 2020||BIDAR/KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Ekta Divas celebrations||The Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Prathisthan celebrated the 146th birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel as Rashtriya Ekta Diwas in Bidar city on Saturday. The celebration began with an oath-taking ceremony led by the president of the prathisthan Shivasharanappa Wali, in which the members pledged to dedicate themselves to preserving the unity and integrity of the nation. Bidar MP Bhagwant Khuba paying floral tribute to the portrait of the leader, acknowledged his relentless effort and contribution. Shuseela Bai Hallikhed, a farmer, donated four guntas of private patta land to the district administration for this. “After the 20-year struggle, we got a piece of land for Patel’s statue in the city. The prathisthan has ordered an 18-feet tall bronze statue by a Gujarat-based sculptor and it is likely to be installed before the next birth anniversary of Sardar Patel,” Mr. Wali said. In Kalaburagi, the 146th birth anniversary of Sardar Patel was celebrated enthusiastically by the members of the Kalyana Karnataka Utsav Samiti. The members this Samiti, Hyderabad Karnataka Janapara Sangharsha Samiti, and legislators gathered at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Chowk and paid floral tributes to the ‘Iron Man for his great efforts to unite India. On the occasion, the Kalyana Karnataka Pratyeka Rajya Horata Samiti conferred the ‘Kalyana Karnataka Ratna award’ on Lakshman Dasti and Arun Kumar Patil for their struggle to install the statue in Kalaburagi.
01 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: KIMS gets 200 portable ventilators||As many as 200 portable ventilators, manufactured by Aequs company, for treating COVID-19 patients were handed over to the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi on Saturday. In a function at KIMS on Saturday, a representative of Aequs Praveenkumar Naik handed over the equipment to Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi and Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar, in the presence of Director of KIMS Ramalingappa Antaratani. Speaking at the ceremony, Mr. Joshi said that India had converted many of the challenges posed by the pandemic into opportunities. “Initially there was only one virology labortatory conducting COVID-19 tests. Now around 2,000 laboratories are conducting nearly 1 lakh tests. We have now reached a stage where we can export PPE kits, ventilators, and essential medicines to other countries. We will build Atma Nirbhar Bharat as per the direction of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said. During the pandemic, many corporate firms and helped under their corporate social responsibiity (CSR) initiatives. Coal India had donated Rs. 5 crore, IOCL Rs. 50 lakh, and Aequs had initially given four ventilators to KIMS. “Now they have donated 200 Aqovents [portable ventilators] which they developed and manufactured,” he said. Mr. Joshi said that as the Union government was bent on implementing ‘Make In India’ project in toto , no Indian company would be allowed to give construction contracts worth less than Rs. 200 crore to foreign companies. This apart, any foreign company would have to take the permission from the Union Home Ministry before investing in India, he said, adding that the country’s economy was slowly recovering. Mr. Shettar took exception to alleged malpractices by private hospitals in the name of COVID-19 treatment and said that some of them were charging Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh for treatment. Fleecing patients at a time of health crisis was unethical, he added. Lauding government doctors, the Minister said that they had done excellent job in fighting the pandemic. Dr. Naik of Aequs said that if there was a demand for more by KIMS, they would provided additional portable ventilators. Portable ventilators would also be distributed with the help of philanthropic organisations, he said.
01 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Indira Gandhi, Sardar Patel remembered across Dharwad dist.||The birth anniversaries of late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and former Deputy Prime Minister Vallabhbhai Patel were celebrated in compliance with COVID-19 guidelines at various government offices in the district and also by different organisations and political parties. At the office of the district administration in Dharwad, Deputy Commisioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil and ZP CEO Dr. B. Susheela and others offered floral tributes to the portraits of Indira Gandhi and Vallabhbhai Patel as part of the ‘Sankalp Din’ and ‘Ekta Divas’ celebrations. Subsequently, Mr. Patil administered the oath of ‘Sankalp Din’ and ‘Ekta Divas’ to the officials and staff of the district administration and different government offices. Meanwhile, in various government offices similar simple programmes were held. The birth anniversary of Indira Gandhi was celebrated by members of the Congress and programmes were held by different wings of the party. At the same time members of BJP celebrated ‘Ekta Divas’ paying tribute to Sardar Patel who is considered ‘architect of united India’. The leaders recalled the revolutionary steps and views of both the leaders. In various localities in Hubballi Dharwad organisations also held similar programmes recalling the contributions of the leaders.
01 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||50 ‘Nand Ghars’ dedicated in Dharwad district||As many as 50 ‘Nand Ghars’ (Anganawadis) developed in Dharwad district under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) project of Vedanta were symbolically dedicated to the public by the Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi at a function held at Kamadolli in Kundagol taluk of Dharwad district on Saturday. The ‘Nand Ghar’ developed by Vedanta at Kamadolli is the 1,700th of such kind in the country and the company plans to develop 4,000 more across the country in association with Union Ministry of Woman and Child Development. These 50 are spread across various taluks of Dharwad district. Lauding the initiative Mr. Joshi said that the development of the centres would go a long way in ensuring overall development of children and women with a holistic approach. “We hope that we will continue receiving such support and do more for women and children from underprivileged sections across the length and breadth of the country and realise Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of a self-reliant New India,” he said. Krishna Reddy, Director, Vedanta Iron Ore Karnataka, said that being a dream project of Vedanta chairman Anil Agarwal, the Nand Ghar was aimed at building a network of model anganwadis where the thrust was on inclusive development of children, women and local communities. Former MLA S.I. Chikkanagoudar and others were present. The project aims to provide pre-school education, e-learning, smart kits, packed precooked food, health van, support to local community health centre, skill and entrepreneurship development among women.
01 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Congress observes ‘Kisan Adhikar Divas’||Apart from observing the birth anniversaries of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and former Deputy Prime Minister Vallabhbhai Patel, members of the Congress staged protests in Hubballi and Dharwad on Saturday as part of ‘Kisan Adhikar Divas’. The Congress has decided to observe ‘Kisan Adhikar Divas’ across the country to protest against the ‘anti-people’ policies of the BJP-led State and central governments. As part of the protest, the Congress observed a symbolic protest to highlight the problems of the farming community. The protesters alleged that under the BJP, more anti-people, anti-farmer, and anti-labour policies were being implemented causing hardships to the people, snatching away employment and pushing them to the streets. In Dharwad, the protesters led by KPCC members Rober Daddapuri, Prakash Ghatge, former HDMC councillors Subhash Shindhe, Raghunath Lakkannavar, and office-bearers of the party staged a symbolic dharna in front of the statue of B.R. Ambedkar. Addressing the protesters, Anand Jadhav and Subhash alleged that the State and central governments were bent on snatching away farmlands from farmers through various amendments to land reforms and APMC Act. In Hubballi, a one-day dharna against the State and central governments was held at Indi Pump circle in Old Hubballi. Prasad Abbayya, MLA, said because of the illogical and unplanned steps by the central government the country was moving towards economic bankruptcy and needed an economist like former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to revive the economy. Former Minister A.M. Hindasageri, district unit president Altaf Halwoor praised the contributions of Indira Gandhi and Vallabhbhai Patel and alleged that the BJP was playing with the lives by bringing in policies that were detrimental to them.
01 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Congress’ silence shows its double standard’||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi said the Congress’ double standards had been exposed as even after a Pakistan Minister’s acceptance of his country’s role in Pulwama attack, the Congress had remained silent. Addressing presspersons on Saturday, Mr. Joshi said after the Pulwama attack, the Congress had made allegations against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “However, now one its Ministers revealed about Pakistan’s role in Pulwama attack in Parliament. But the Congress is silent now,” he said. He sought to know whether it was not a good news for the country. “Why do you (Congress) want to oppose the country for the sake of opposing Mr. Modi,” he asked. On Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s comments, Mr. Joshi said his comments in favour of the Congress showed his foolishness and to what level the Congress would stoop to for votes.  CM’s discretion Meanwhile, Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar said the restructure or expansion of the State cabinet after the poll results was left to the Chief Minister’s discretion. Regarding doubt expressed by BJP leader and former Minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal about the tenure of Mr. Yediyurappa, he declined to comment saying that it was a personal comment by Mr. Yatnal.
01 November 2020||Kadabur (Kalaburagi),KARNATAKA||‘Don’t just pay relief, shift our village’||People of Kadabur, a village with around 500 houses, live in fear every rainy season. Heavy rainfall in the Bhima catchment areas in Maharashtra and Karnataka, leading to heavy discharge from Ujjani and Veer reservoirs in Maharashtra or Sonna Barrage in Kalaburagi, means sleepless nights for the residents. Situated close to where a minor tributary meets the Bhima, Kadabur has been identified as one of the “flood-prone” villages in Kalaburagi district. As the elders in the village recall, it has suffered many floods in the last 50 years, including the devastating ones in 1998, 2009, and now. Yet, the government’s promise to shift the village to a safer place remains unfulfilled. Worst hit Even in the recent floods, Kadabur was one of the worst-hit villages in the second week of October. Flood water entered this village and literally drowned nearly 200 houses in low-lying areas, destroying everything in its wake — foodgrains, clothes, electronic items, and so on. “We left behind everything and took shelter in the houses of relatives and friends and also in school buildings that were at safer places. When we came back after a week, everything in the houses was destroyed,” recalls Lakshmibai, a resident of the village. Since 1948 Shivakumar Patil, one of the eldest in Kadabur who has seen many floods devastating the village since 1948, said complete shifting of the village to a safer place was the only solution. “When floods struck the village in 1998, the administration decided to shift the village to a safer place. However, it has not completely materialised. In 2009, only 64 houses were shifted. Some people moved into them and others remained in the village. When the floods hit, officials and politicians come to the village and give assurances of shifting the village, but forget it later,” Mr. Patil said. According to Akthar Police Patil, another prominent figure in the village, Sannati Barrage built across the Bhima about 12 km away downstream is an additional threat to the village. New threat “The backwater of the barrage always threatens the village. We panic when the area receives heavy rainfall or heavy water is discharged from the reservoirs and barrages upstream as it would raise the water level in Sannati Barrage. The government is planning to increase water storage from the present six metres to eight. If that happens, parts of Kadabur and Kollur villages would be under water,” Mr. Police Patil said. “We don’t want just compensation that the government offers every time floods hit. Let the government shift our village to a safer place so that we can live in peace,” Sharanu, a young farmer, said.  When floods struck the village in 1998, the administration decided to shift the village to a safer place. However, it has not completely materialised. In 2009, only 64 houses were shifted.Shivakumar PatilResident of Kadabur
01 November 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Pratishtana awards out||The Nadoja Dr. J.S. Khanderao Pratishtana annual awards to promote fine arts and artists from the country were announced here on Saturday. The Visual Arts Study and Research Department of Gulbarga University in a release stated that the pratishthan has received around 382 artworks from 14 different States as of October 31. The panel of expert artists has selected Bharat Jain from New Delhi, Pradeepta Kishore Das from Rajasthan, and Satya Prabhu Naveen from Chennai for their artworks. All three artists would receive a cash prize of Rs. 10,000 each for their works. The pratishthan also selected five consolation prizes each in three categories of art works - water colour, oil painting, and acrylic paintings.
01 November 2020||Kumar Buradikatti,KARNATAKA||Star Air to commence direct flights between Kalaburagi and Delhi||Star Air, an airline service that is a part of the Indian business conglomerate Sanjay Ghodawat Group, has planned to start its commercial scheduled non-stop flight services between Kalaburagi and Delhi (Hindon) from November 18, 2020. Once operationalised, this would be the first commercial flight service between the two prominent cities. “Currently, passengers face a lot of travel hassle to cover the journey between Kalaburagi and Delhi (Hindon), approx 1700 km apart. By road and rail, it takes over 24 hours. Once Star Air starts this service, people can travel this long distance in just 2-hour 20 minutes with the comfort of world-class, Brazilian-manufactured Embraer ERJ145 aircraft,” said Sanjay Ghodawat, Chairman of Sanjay Ghodawat Group, in a media release on Saturday. Economical option Mr. Ghodawat further said that the service would not just save passengers’ time but money as well as the service would be under the popular RCS-UDAN scheme which would enable passengers to fly at a very economical cost. “Having an airport located strategically at a significant geographical point bordering various States, Kalaburagi holds prominence for travel connectivity. It is expected that with the commencement of this service, thousands living across several districts like Bijapur, Solapur, Bidar, Osmanabad, Latur, Yadgir, Ranga Reddy, Medak of three vital states of Karnataka, Maharashtra, and Telangana would benefit,” Mr. Ghodawat said. The company started sales operations for this route today. Anyone can buy its tickets by visiting starair.in or can contact 9970555111 / 022 – 50799555 for more information, he added. Nine cities Currently, Star Air operates in nine different Indian cities that include Ahmedabad, Ajmer (Kishangarh), Belagavi, Bengaluru, Delhi (Hindon), Indore, Hubballi, Kalaburagi, Mumbai. In the coming months, it is planning to start services to Surat and Nashik as well, Mr. Ghodawat added.
01 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Teachers in DK make recorded video lectures for Class 10 students available||A group of teachers from Dakshina Kannada have come out with recorded video lectures to make Class 10 students engaged in learning to continue the same especially in the absence of Vidyagama neighbourhood schooling. The initiative is particularly aimed at helping students, more so those from the Kannada medium, who do not have access to virtual classes. The classes will be made available on YouTube under the link ‘Swajnana’ from Sunday. Dakshina Kannada district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivasa Poojary will launch the initiative, supported by the office of Deputy Director of Public Instruction (DDPI), Dakshina Kannada, on Sunday. As many as 40 teachers from government, government-aided and private schools in the district are involved in the initiative. The video recordings of physical lectures have been made for all subjects. Two lecturers, 45-minutes each, will be released everyday between 7.30 p.m. and 8.45 p.m. as per the schedule given by the office of the DDPI. “This facility will be in addition to classes already available on the DD Chandana channel,” said Dakshina Kannada DDPI Malleswamy, adding that the lectures would be uploaded in the evening when students can easily access mobile phones from their family members. Mr. Malleswamy said arrangements were being made to make the lectures available to schools in CDs or on pen drives. With this, the schools can display them using projectors or on television sets for students who do not have smartphones. Mangaluru South Educational Block Resource Coordinator Prashant Kumar K.S. said teachers can make use of these videos effectively to prepare slow and other learners for examinations. A. Vittala, principal, Kittel Memorial Pre-University College, Gorigudde, who mooted the Swajnana learning module concept, said teachers have voluntarily come forward to provide a mode of learning that can reach a wider section of students. The video lectures for P.U courses from lecturers of this region, that have been available on YouTube since May, get one lakh views daily. “This inspired us to have a similar facility for Class 10 students,” he said. The video classes for Class 10 students were recorded at the St. Aloysius Pre University College. Learning process Santosh Kumar, headmaster, Government School in Montepadavu, near Mangaluru, who has made lectures in English, said it was a new experience to be part of Swajnana. “It’s a learning process for us too. With every lecture, we are trying to bring in changes in our presentation to make it effective,” he said. “This initiative has brought to light the talent of many teachers who have been working silently in schools,” said Yusuf Vitla, principal, Government Pre University College, B. Mooda, Bantwal.  This initiative has brought to light the talent of many teachers who have been working silently in schools. Yusuf Vitla principal, Government Pre University College
01 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Coastal security police hold ‘unity run’ at Mattu beach||The coastal security police (CSP) in association with the Udupi district police and other organisations held ‘unity run’ to mark National Integration Day on Saturday. As many as 354 persons participated in the run for 3 km between Mattu beach and Pandarinatha Bhajana Mandira in Udupi district. The participants were divided into four categories: children aged below 10, those aged below 18 years, women, and open. As many as 150 police constables undergoing training at Udupi, NCC cadets from PPC College, CSP personnel and members of United Athletes, Udupi Track and Field, Stadium Sprinters and Nation First Athletes participated in the run. After speaking about Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and significance of the day, Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha flagged off the run. CSP Superintendent of Police R. Chetan, Additional Superintendent of Police, Udupi, Kumarchandra, also took part. Long-distance runner Kannaiah came first, followed by Rakshit, and Vikhyat Shetty in the open category. Prajnya K, Preeti Shetty, and Arnika Varsha D’Souza topped the women’s category, while Mooda Poujan, Aaradhya M. Belve, Samrudhna Pandit, and Abhisha V.S. topped in the children category. Digant, Shashank, and Yatish were winners in the under-18 category. At the mandir, Mr. Chetan administered the National Integration Day oath. Mr. Jagadeesha presented awards and certificates to the winners in the four categories.
01 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MRPL Q2 net profit at Rs. 36 cr.||Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd (MRPL) has declared a net profit of Rs. 36 crore during the second quarter of 2020-21 as against a loss of Rs. 574 crore in the corresponding period of the previous financial year. The gross revenue from operations stood at Rs. 9,686 crore during the second quarter of 2020-21 as against Rs. 15,262 crore in Q2 of 2019-20. The gross refining margin (GRM) of the company stood at $3.85 per barrel during Q2 of 2020-21 as against $0.68 per barrel in the corresponding period of the previous financial year. (GRM is the difference between the price of crude oil and the end products.) A press release by the company said that the capacity utilisation gradually improved during the current quarter as compared to the previous quarter of current financial year. The management has assessed the potential impact of COVID-19 based on the current circumstances and expects no significant impact on the continuity of the operations of the business on a long term basis. As regards the recoverability of assets and financial resources, performance of contractual liability and obligations, ability to service the debts and liabilities, the company expects to fully recover the carrying amounts of the assets and comfortably discharge its debts and obligations. It said that the company is positive on long-term business outlook as well as its financial position.
01 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yaksha Siri award||Karnataka Yakshagana Academy will present its annual honorary award, Yaksha Siri, and a book award for 2019 to achievers from Dakshina Kannada at a function in the city on November 8. The function will be organised in the Tulu Bhavan at Urwa Stores. The annual honorary award will be presented to Chandrashekar Damle, a resident of Sullia in Dakshina Kannada, who is a doctorate degree holder from Pune University in Sociology. He has been active in many areas of Yakshagana, including being an amateur artiste, playwright, director and publisher. The honorary award carries Rs. 50,000 purse, a citation, a memento, a certificate, a petha and a shawl. The Yaksha Siri will be presented to Ubaradkka Umesh Shetty and Kuriya Ganapathi Shastri. It carries Rs. 25,000 purse, a certificate, a petha and a shawl. The book award will be presented to Gurudeva Prakashana, Odiyoor, and Krishna Prakash Ulithaya.
01 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Akashbhavan Sharan among 7 held for murder||The Dakshina Kannada police have arrested seven more persons, including underworld operative Vikky Shetty’s supposed aide Akashbhavan Sharan, for their alleged involvement in the murder of financer-turned-actor Surendra Bhandary, 39, in Bantwal on October 20. Apart from Akashbhavan Sharan ,who is in the Bengaluru central prison following the rape of a minor in Manipal, the police have arrested Pradeep Kumar, Sharief alias Syed Sharief, Venkappa Poojary, Divyaraj, Anil Pumpwell, and Rajesh. The police have already arrested Satish Kulal and Girish, a close aide of realtor Kishan Hegde who was murdered in Udupi on September 24. Personal differences and differences over financial dealings led to Bhandary’s murder, said a release by police. Five special teams were formed to trace the accused. According to the release, the questioning of Kulal and Girish led to the arrest of Pradeep Kumar, Sharief, and Venkappa Poojary. Pradeep and Venkappa had allegedly borrowed money from Bhandary and had differences with the latter over returning it. Pradeep had allegedly paid Rs. 2 lakh to Sharan for murdering Bhandary. Similarly, Venkappa allegedly paid Rs. 90,000 to Satish and had reportedly promised more after the murder. While the police questioned Sharan, he reportedly told the police that he had a personal rivalry with Bhandary and hence agreed to murder him. Sharan allegedly involved Girish also in the crime by telling the latter that they were avenging Kishan Hegde’s murder. Divyaraj, another aide of Kishan Hegde and an accused in the Ashraf Kalai murder case of 2017, and Anil Pumpwell were arrested for providing a vehicle to the arrested. Rajesh was arrested for sheltering the accused. The police recovered Rs. 50,000, a van and mobile phones from the accused. Sharan is accused in 20 criminal cases, including five murder cases, registered in Dakshina Kannada. Search was on for other persons allegedly involved in the murder, the release added.
01 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man held for stealing batteries||The Udupi Shirva police arrested Kiran Devadiga, 39, for allegedly stealing three batteries attached to solar-powered street lights in Paniyooru Kuchhikadu of Belapu Gram Panchayat in Kapu Taluk. According to the police, the accused stole the batteries on Thursday. The street lights were near the house of director of South Canara District Central Cooperative Bank I. Deviprasad Shetty. Mr. Shetty caught the accused on Friday and handed him over to the police. Kiran was involved in a theft case in 2019, the police said. The photo of Mr. Shetty holding a stick with the arrested person tied to a scooter was widely circulated on social media. One arrested The Udupi city police arrested Vignesh Joshi, 24, for allegedly consuming cannabis on Thursday. The police said he was found in an intoxicated state near the Mahishamardhini temple in Badagubettu village of Udupi taluk on Thursday morning. A test at the Forensic Department of KMC Hospital came positive for cannabis consumption. He was booked for offence under Section 27 (B) of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.
01 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||TAPMI, University of Southampton ink pact||T.A. Pai Management Institute (TAPMI), Manipal and the University of Southampton (SOTON), U.K., have signed a memorandum of association to develop academic and research collaborations. Faculty members from both institutions joined the signing ceremony that was held digitally recently, a release from TAPMI said. Referring to the collaboration, Madhu Veeraraghavan, director of TAPMI, said that TAPMI’s quest for high-quality research creates more mind space among emerging management educators. TAPMI also contributes to the management education community. Laura Costanzo, head of Southampton Business School at the University of Southampton, praised the efforts of both schools at the time of COVID-19. Padmadas Sabu, Associate Dean (International), Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Southampton, made a presentation on University of Southampton, and Vishwanathan Iyer, Associate Dean (Academics) of TAPMI, spoke about various avenues for faculty and student exchanges in both schools, the release added.
01 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Protests against amendments to farm-related Acts||The former Minister B. Ramanath Rai said on Saturday that the Congress gave people land for farming but the BJP was taking it away. At a protest by the Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee in front of the District Congress Office at Mallikatta to oppose the recent amendments to farm-related Acts, Mr. Rai alleged that the Centre was trying to suppress the rights and livelihood of farmers. He said former Congress leader D. Devaraj Urs as CM brought in the Land Reforms Act and ensured that many landless owned land for farming. Otherwise many would have remained as farm labourers. But the Union government led by the BJP was now pushing farmers to the corners. Leader of the Opposition in Mangaluru City Corporation council Abdul Rauf and other leaders were present.
01 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Mangaluru Smart City Ltd., Mangaluru City Corporation, and Bicycle Clubs of Mangaluru will present ‘cycle for commute rally’ in the city on November 1. The venue is Mangala stadium. Participants will have to report at 6.30 a.m.     There will be no power supply to some areas in Moodbidri on November 3 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The areas are Jain Pete, Masti Katte, Gandhinagara, Mahaveera College, Hosabettu, Alangar, Kotebagilu, Jyothinagara, Kantavara Cross, Kadalakere, and Paladkka. It is for maintenance works.     The Udupi district administration will webcast live Rajyotsava Day celebrations at Mahatma Gandhi stadium Ajjarakadu on Sunday. It can be viewed onhttp://udupi.nic.in/webcast, Facebook Live cast # Tag;-#dcudupi, #Nov 1 udupi, #dcudupilive, a release said.
01 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||As pandemic cases fall in Mysuru, health centres have surplus beds||There was a time when Mysuru was facing shortage of beds for COVID-19 patients and the authorities were scrambling to ramp up the bed strength, setting up new isolation wards, when cases were in the range of 800-1,000 a day. Today, the scenario has changed completely with the designated COVID-19 hospital and other government hospitals having surplus vacant beds, thanks to sharp drop in fresh cases and remarkable recoveries over the last fortnight. The active cases in Mysuru have dropped below 2,000 as on Friday, resulting in a large number of beds lying unoccupied in designated government and private hospitals besides the dedicated government-run COVID-19 Care Centres. The availability of beds has increased even in CCCs run by private hospitals. Also, the number of patients in home isolation has dropped below 1,000 with record drop in active cases. Until last month, the largest government-run COVID-19 Care Centre at the KSOU building near the irport had nearly 1,000 patients. But the number has dropped below 100 with faster recoveries and fewer cases since the past two weeks. The dedicated COVID-19 hospital at Metagalli, which accommodated patients exceeding its bed strength for several months when the cases were unremitting with infection rate second highest after Bengaluru, has about 100 vacant beds now. The K.R. Hospital, which has 178 beds equipped with oxygen supply for COVID-19 patients, has over 50 per cent beds unoccupied. However, the administration of the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) had taken steps to increase the number of beds by another 200 with the hospital getting the 13 kl liquid oxygen tank. Speaking to The Hindu , MMCRI Dean and Director C.P. Nanjaraj said more beds in government hospitals were lying unoccupied with the substantial drop in cases and faster recoveries. About 40 ICU and ventilator beds at the Trauma Care Centre (TCC) on KRS Road are also unoccupied with no seriously ill patients. The unoccupied TCC was readied recently to treat COVID-19 patients and it was identified as the second designated COVID-19 hospital, with the installation of liquid oxygen tank and other essential facilities, he said, adding that TCC would get nearly 200 beds with oxygen supply soon. Dr .Nanjaraj said steps had been taken to increase the number of beds at KRH from 178 to nearly 350 as part of readiness to handle any sudden spurt in infections. On alert “We hope the cases continue to drop and Mysuru becomes COVID-19 free soon. Nevertheless, we have continued to ramp up our facilities. There is no room for contentment with the second wave of infection reported in Europe. We need to be ready with all preparations to tackle any upsurge.” With the installation of a 13 kl liquid oxygen tank at the KRH, around 200 more beds will be equipped with oxygen supply, taking the number of beds for COVID-19 patients to about 350 at KRH alone besides 250 at the designated COVID-19 hospital and about 40 beds at the TCC. “Also, there are no patients at the ESI hospital which had set aside about 100 beds.”
01 November 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Meri Saheli’ to shore up security for women passengers on trains||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) on Saturday launched an initiative for shoring up security for women rail passengers in the Mysuru Division. Called “Meri Saheli’’, the initiative will provide safety and security to women passengers travelling by trains for their entire journey, from the station of origin to their respective destinations. The initiative entails interaction with women passengers – especially those travelling alone – by the RPF women personnel at the originating station. The authorities said the passengers will be briefed about the precautions to be taken during the journey and are advised to dial 182 in case of any problem in the coach. The RPF team collects the seat numbers of the women passengers and conveys them to RPF personnel at stations en route. The RPF staff on duty at the platforms will also keep an unobtrusive watch over the coaches and berths and interact with the women passengers if need arises, railway authorities said. The RPF escorts on board will also cover the coaches or the identified berth during the course of the journey. RPF teams at the destination will collect the feedback from the identified women passengers and their response will be analysed for corrective actions if required. In the event a distress call originates from a train covered under Meri Saheli initiative the response will be monitored by senior officers.
01 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||K.R. Hospital gets advanced COVID-19 testing facility||The RT-PCR testing facility in Mysuru has been expanded with the Department of Microbiology of the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) that runs the VRDL on the premises of K.R. Hospital receiving a new advanced COVID-19 testing facility. This facility assures faster results of the swab tests done under the PCR method. Maybe, within 24 hours, the results would be made available, sources said. The VRDL has been carrying out the swab tests using the RT-PCR method since March this year and it has been doing nearly 2,500 swab tests a day. So far, it has done over one lakh swab tests. The new testing system, also referred to as the “liquid handling system”, has been brought from the Bengaluru Institute of Medical Sciences, which had two such advanced testing equipment. Following a request to the government by the Mysuru district administration over the results of swab samples sent to Bengaluru for the tests taking a longer time, causing hurdles in containing the spread, the new testing device was sent to the MMCRI so as to strengthen the PCR testing and give results within 24 hours. MMCRI Dean and Director C.P. Nanjaraj told The Hindu that steps had been taken to increase PCR testing and handle 4,000 swabs a day instead of 2,500. “Our lab has now been equipped with the most advanced confirmatory testing system that can step up swab tests, ensuring rapid results.” With new guidelines on confining COVID-19 tests under the PCR method instead of Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), steps had been taken to ramp up PCR testing across Mysuru with about 4,000 swab tests a day. “When the new system is ready we can stop sending surplus swab samples from Mysuru to Bengaluru labs for testing. There were some issues as the results were taking some time because of the swab load there too. With the new system, there won’t be any more delay in getting results.” The number of swab samples tested for COVID-19 has crossed 3.31 lakh mark in Mysuru district and the Microbiology Laboratory of the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) has alone tested more than one lakh swabs. The lab at the MMCRI was carrying out tests of samples sent from other districts earlier. After the districtsgot the COVID-19 labs, they started doing the tests in their own facilities and the samples sourced from Mysuru district were tested at the MMCRI lab.
01 November 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Sugarcane farmers plan stir for fair, remunerative price||Nearly 25,000 sugarcane farmers in the district will launch an agitation from November 2 seeking government intervention to help secure them a fair price for the crop based on the rate of sugar recovery. The Sugarcane Cultivators Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar said the State Advisory Price for sugarcane procurement fixed by the government is Rs. 2,850 per tonne. But if the rate of sugar recovery was above 10 per cent for every tonne of sugarcane crushed, the mills have to pay an additional amount of Rs. 285 per tonne. If the rate of recovery was 11 per cent the mills were bound to pay Rs. 570 per tonne. However, the farmers suspect that a majority of the sugar mills in the State were providing false data to under-report the rate of sugar recovery so as to avoid paying the farmers additional amount due to them. The Association members said since the last 3 years the sugar mills across the State were citing a lower rate of sugar recovery. “All these years the mills were citing a sugar recovery rate higher than 10 per cent. But ever since the SAP was introduced three years ago, the rate has been cited at below 10 per cent.’’ ‘Common practice’ This is a common practice adopted by almost all the sugar mills and the Association will launch a State-wide agitation against it in due course, according to Mr. Shanthakumar. He said the financial distress faced by the farmers was being compounded due to such practices as they tend to lose Rs. 280 for every tonne of sugarcane cultivated. The government accepts at face value the figures and statistics provided by the mills without auditing the figures, he alleged. The Association also criticised the SAP pegged at Rs. 2,850 per tonne on the grounds that the cost of cultivation itself was Rs. 3,050 and hence the procurement price was lower than the cost of cultivation. “This is as per the various agricultural research institutes and despite that the government had fixed an SAP lower than the production cost to benefit the sugar mills’’, said Atahalli Devaraj, General Secretary of the Association.
01 November 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Old troubles of new Hurusgundigi||New Hurusgundigi village near Shahpur in Yadgir district was set up to resettle those who lived in the flood-prone Hurusgundigi village. However, lack of infrastructure and delay in releasing land rights to 30 beneficiaries and compensation for 155 families have been its bane. Hurusgundigi was identified as a village prone to flooding after the construction of Sannati Barrage constructed across Bhima river near Chittapur taluk in Kalaburagi district to irrigate 16,000 hectares of the dry areas in Yadgir, Gurmitkal and Chittapur taluks. The shifting of about 670 houses began in 2011. According to residents, 120 acres of the land was purchased for rehabilitation and 940 land right records were distributed. Money was given to build 670 houses. But, there was delay in releasing compensation to 155 houses. Worse, infrastructure at the rehabilitation village was woefully inadequate. “Discrimination in fixing compensation for those who lost homes has also caused anger among residents, many of whom do not wish to relocate at all now,” Harish, a resident, said. Other affected villages Similar is the story of Roja village in Shahpur taluk and Shivapur of Yadgir taluk, both affected by Sannati Barrage. Revenue Minister R. Ashok and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah, who recently visited the village, also promised to shift the village. Shafi Ahmed, a disillusioned resident of Roja, said, “Our demand from several years to shift the village is still not fulfilled. We see politicians only during floods and not after, ” he said. People at Shivapur told The Hindu that they had again appealed to Prabhu Chavan, district in-charge Minister, to shift them to a safe place, a promise made a decade ago. Like every year, they were only shifted to a temporary shelter this year too. Officials say the process is being delayed because of absence of government land and they would start the process after purchasing private land.
01 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Valmiki Jayanti celebrated in Yadgir||Maharishi Valmiki Jayanti was celebrated in Yadgir and Raichur on Saturday. Deputy Commissioners of both districts R. Ragapriya and R Venkatesh Kumar inaugurated the programme by paying floral tributes to the portrait of Maharishi Valmiki. ‘A guide’ They said that the achievement of Maharshi Valmiki, who wrote Ramayana, was considerable and a guide for the younger generation. Dr. Ragapriya said saints had taught about the path one all should follow to bring change in society.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Only 40 councillors return gadgets||More than two years ago, the BBMP’s 198 councillors were given electronic tablets to aid the process of paperless council proceedings. Cut to October 2020, a month after the term of the council ended, just around 40 councillors have returned the gadgets to the civic body. In October, the BBMP’s council section had issued notices to all councillors, asking them to return the gadgets along with the accessories. This was based on express directions of BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, who had stated that the gadgets would be given to elected representatives of the next council. The councillors were required to return them within three days of receipt of the notice. The civic body had procured 198 iPads in 2018 paying Rs. 45,000 for each device. Sources in the BBMP’s council section told The Hindu that, apart from two, all the councillors had accepted the gadgets. They said that many councillors had reported that they had assumed the devices were intended for them and that they didn’t need to return them. Former mayor B.S. Sathyanarayana, who hasn’t had the time to return his gadget, said the councillors did not ask for the electronic tablets. “The BBMP thrust them upon us. Had it been made known in the beginning itself that we have to return them at the end of our term, many would have returned it by now,” he said. Former mayor Gangambike Mallikarjun concurred and said that after the BJP came to power in the council, even hard copies of the proceedings were hard to come by. Stating that she had returned the device the day after she received the notice, she said BBMP was justified in asking them to be returned since taxpayers’ money was used to procure them. “However, if the gadgets are to be given to the next elected body, the administration should ensure council proceedings are paperless,” she added.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Colleges wary of resuming classes||Although the State government has given the green signal for colleges to conduct offline classes on a voluntary basis from November 17, many managements are in a dilemma over whether they should re-open or continue with online classes. Several college principals in Bengaluru told The Hindu that they are apprehensive about resuming physical classes even on a voluntary basis as it will affect students who don’t live in the city. “If we start classes on November 17 and students residing in other States come to attend classes, we are worried that these students will be left in the lurch if the number of COVID-19 cases increases during winter,” said Elizabeth C.S., principal of Jyoti Nivas College. She, however, said that they would follow the rules stipulated by the State government. Worried C.B. Annapurnamma, principal, National College, Basavanagudi, said they are unsure about asking students to come to the campus. “We are worried as health experts say that the number of COVID-19 cases will increase from November.” The government’s directive to conduct both online and ‘offline’ classes is also proving to be a logistical problem. “We are unsure if we will have the staff strength to conduct offline classes for students who are willing to attend classes on campus and online classes for those who don’t want to take the risk,” Ms. Annapurnamma explained. K.R. Venugopal, Vice Chancellor of Bangalore University, said that affiliated colleges will be asked to conduct practical classes first and revision classes in a phased manner. No official order Universities and colleges are yet to receive an order from the State government on resuming classes or a detailed SOP on how to conduct classes. Education officials said the SOP is being framed and includes sanitising classrooms after every session, health screenings at entry points, and setting up of healthcare units on campus. Karisiddappa, Vice Chancellor of Visvesvaraya Technological University, said that they would follow the SOP to ensure that students’ health is not at risk. According to Amaresh Kadagada, State president, Students’ Federation of India, students who have to commute long distances are apprehensive about going to campus to attend classes as they are dependent on private transport. “In the best interest of students, the number of COVID-19 cases needs to decline before classes are conducted,” he said. Decision next week The State government is yet to take a call on when medical and dental colleges can resume offline classes. Sources said that it would be decided next week. Many medical and dental students have stated that they have got no practical exposure, making it very difficult for them to understand concepts.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State’s daily TPR falls to 2.96%||The State on Saturday reported 3,014 new cases taking the total number of cases to 8,23,412. With this, the day’s Test Positivity Rate (TPR) reduced to 2.96%, for the first time after the pandemic peaked in July. The TPR, which stood at an average of 3.5% in the last seven days, has been dipping since then. From 4.75% in the beginning of this week (October 26), the daily TPR fell to 3.47% on Friday and further reduced to 2.96% on Saturday. The State’s cumulative TPR is currently 10.41%. From 6.76% on June 27, the State’s daily TPR saw a drastic jump to 11.2% in over a month’s time (on July 29). TPR hovered between 11% and 18% for a long time before it reduced to 13% in September. It further reduced in October and stood at 9.53 % on October 11. From then onwards, the TPR has been on a decline consistently. TPR, which is a vital marker in assessing the spread of an outbreak, is the percentage of people who are found to be infected by the virus from those who are being tested. While cumulative positivity rate takes into account all the people tested so far, the daily rate is for those tested on a particular day. Pointing out that the low TPR may be due to weekend effect, Giridhar R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) said, “We need to wait and check for further drop in seven-day averages. There needs to be a better testing strategy in districts other than Bengaluru so that their testing rates are similar to that of Bengaluru. This is to get a realistic sense of the decreasing TPR,” he said. Decline in deaths too The State has also been witnessing a decline in fatalities since the beginning of October. From 1.4% on October 29, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) decreased to 0.92% on Saturday with 28 new deaths. With this, the toll rose to 11,168. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. As many as 7,468 persons were discharged on Saturday taking the total number of recoveries to 7,57,208. Of the remaining 55,017 active cases, 956 patients are being monitored in ICUs. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,621 cases taking the tally to 3,36,469. With 17 of the 28 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 3,864. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 34,459. As many as 1,01,556 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 81,128 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 79,05,868.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Adani Group takes over Mangaluru airport||The Ministry of Civil Aviation signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Adani Mangaluru International Airport Ltd. on October 21, in connection with providing services such as customs, immigration, plant and animal quarantine, health, MET, and security (collectively called Reserved Services).  Simultaneously, AAI has also signed three separate communication, navigation, and surveillance-air traffic management (CNS-ATM) agreements with the concessionaires for the provision of CNS-ATM services at three airports [Luknow, Ahmedabad, and Mangaluru]. The concession agreements for the operations, management, and development of the three airports through public-private partnership (PPP) were signed on February 14 this year. The Union Cabinet in July 2019 taken a decision to lease these three airports to Adani Group.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Aam Aadmi Clinic’ in Shantinagar||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is starting an ‘Aam Aadmi clinic’, modelled on the Delhi government’s mohalla clinic, in Shantinagar on Sunday, which is celebrated as Rajyotsava Day. The clinic will be run with donations from the savings of volunteers and supporters through a registered trust. “This is a pilot project to show how primary health service should be provided by the BBMP and the government. It will function from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Monday to Saturday,” said former IAS officer Renuka Viswanathan, who is one of the five trustees. “The clinic will have a doctor, a nurse, a lab technician and another person to help with patient registration. We will provide allopathic consultation, drugs and 60 diagnostic tests free of cost. While the blood samples will be collected at the clinic, we have tied up with a private lab for the tests,” she said. The clinic, located on Basappa Road in Shantinagar, will be inaugurated at 10.30 a.m. on Sunday, November 1, she added.  This is a pilot project to show how primary health service should be provided by the BBMP and the government. It will function from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Monday to Saturday Renuka Viswanathan, former IAS officer
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||National Unity Day||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Dakshina Kannada district administration: Rajyotsava Day, Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary hoists the national flag, Nehru Maidan, 9 a.m. Udupi  Udupi district administration: Rajyotsava, Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha hoists the national flag, Mahatma Gandhi Stadium, Ajjarakadu, 9 a.m.
01 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||645 test positive in Alappuzha||The district logged 645 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. The new cases include 635 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, four persons who came from abroad and three from other States. The source of infection of three other patients remains unknown. The district also recorded two COVID-19-related deaths, taking the official tally to 98. The deceased were identified as a 75-year-old woman from Cherthala and a 56-year-old man from Peringilipuram. They died on October 27 and October 28. COVID-19 cases continue to surge in Alappuzha municipality. Of the 645 cases, 115 were reported from Alappuzha. Thuravoor (41), Aroor (40), Cherthala (38), Kumarapuram (27), Nooranad (23) and Cherthala South (22) also registered a high number of cases. Meanwhile, 571 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 8,700. The police have registered 36 cases and arrested 25 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 272 people for not wearing face masks and 897 for not maintaining physical distance. Another four cases were registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed in the district under section 144 of the Cr.PC. Action was taken against 30 people in connection with the four cases. Ward 15 in Kainakary, ward 14 in Ambalappuzha South grama panchayat and ward 16 in Kayamkulam municipality were declared as containment zones. Besides, parts of ward 16 in Mavelikara municipality, ward 19 in Cherthala South, ward 1, 13, 19 and 20 in Thanneermukkom grama panchayat were also declared as containment zones.
01 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Lawyers’ ploughshares yield paddy||Members of the Lawyers Farm, a lawyers’ collective in Alappuzha, have proved that farmer togs too suit them. On Saturday afternoon, the lawyers-cum-farmers, who had undertaken paddy cultivation after feeling exhausted during the COVID-19-induced lockdown, demonstrated their mettle with a fairly good harvest. “It was altogether a very good experience. Going back to nature was highly satisfying,”says, Arun Krishnan, a member of the collective following the harvest. Earlier this year, nine young lawyers hailing from different parts of the district, all practising law in the Alappuzha district court, had joined hands to form the collective and took up paddy farming in three acres of land taken on lease at Thaduthuveli under the Kayippuram Krishi Bhavan in Muhamma grama panchayat. They had to overcome several hurdles, apart from their relative inexperience in agriculture, to make the farm project a success. “Preparing the land for paddy farming was an arduous task. When the plants started to grow, there was a pest attack. The biggest of the challenges came in August when the entire field got submerged in heavy downpour. Some of the plants were destroyed, while others survived. Although it does not appear to be a bumper crop, the yield is still encouraging,” Mr. Arun says. By doing paddy cultivation, the members of the Lawyers Farm revived a karapadam (upland rice field) that had been lying idle for the past 20 years. The group juggled between legal practice and farming for the past several months. While they appeared in the court in mornings, they managed agriculture in afternoons and holidays. Almost all the works related to paddy cultivation were done by them. The Kayippuram Krishi Bhavan provided them with 200 kg of seed free of cost. The group says that they will return to paddy farming in the next additional crop (second crop) season. In between, they plan to do sesame cultivation. The August floods had destroyed the additional crop in around 3,500 hectares in the district, causing heavy losses to paddy farmers. Crop in around 5,300 hectares survived the floods.
01 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Heritage museum||A museum showcasing the history, heritage and agriculture tradition of Onattukara region will be inaugurated by Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran on Sunday. The museum is set up at the Mavelikara Block Panchayat office compound. R. Rajesh MLA will preside..
01 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Two killed in separate accidents||Two persons were killed in separate road accidents in the district. The deceased were identified as Naveen, 25, of Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta and Anju V. Dev, 26, of Sooranad in Kollam. Naveen died after the two-wheeler he was riding collided with an insulated truck on National Highway 66 at Pathirappally near here on Friday night. He was heading to his wife's house at Arthunkal. Anju died when the car in which she was travelling hit a truck at Karuvatta near Haripad on Saturday. She along with her parents and brother were heading to her husband's house at Perumbavoor. Both her parents and brother who sustained injuries in the accident were admitted to a hospital.
01 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||‘Existential crisis awaits humanity’||A major existential crisis is awaiting humanity in the near future, Muralee Thummarukudy, Chief of Disaster Risk Reduction, United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) has said. He was delivering an invited lecture at an international webinar on ‘Alternate livelihood programmes in the post-COVID era’, organised under the aegis of the Centre for Research on Aquatic Resources and Internal Quality Assurance Cell of SD College, Alappuzha on Saturday. According to Mr. Thummarukudy, the COVID-19 pandemic has quickly transformed from being a health crisis to an economic crisis and further to a livelihood crisis, which is unprecedented in human history. He said that future employment would be in the area of ‘green jobs’ such as resource recovery from wastes, renewable energy and sustainable tourism. The UNEP has recommended ecosystem-based adaptation and disaster risk reduction. India should put its acts together and start implementing long term projects to avert the crisis, he said. SD College Manager P. Krishna Kumar inaugurated the webinar. College principal P. R. Unnikrishna Pillai, G. Nagendra Prabhu and others attended.
01 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Child injured seriously by uncle||A five-year-old boy was cruelly attacked and was admitted in a serious condition to a private hospital at Thodupuzha. Police arrested Assam resident Imdadul Hakkim,25, in connection with the incident. The police said that the boy was attacked by his father’s brother. The boy’s family members are all migrant workers living at Undaplavu, near Thodupuzha. The boy was attacked around 4 p.m. on Friday and was admitted to a hospital by the neighbours around 8 p.m. The neighbours informed about the incident to the police, who reached the hospital. Only Hakkim was there at the hospital with the child. He told the police that the child’s father was at his workplace and his mother was looking after a one-year-old child at home. Initial reports said that the boy had serious skull injuries. Hakkim confessed that he had pushed the child to the wall of the house after the boy did not eat the food served by his parents. Hakkim had recently arrived from Assam. The police said that they were collecting the details from different quarters includingthe neighbours. Additional charges would be slapped after a thorough probe, they said.
01 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Two killed in road accident||Two persons were killed and eight others were seriously injured when a jeep carrying workers to the cardamom plantations lost control and fell into a gorge at Kottamala under the Wagamon police station limit on Saturday morning. Those killed were identified as jeep driver and Pulinkatta resident Stanley, 37, and Suvarnagiri, 51, a resident of tea estate lane at Kottamala. The police said that the jeep was carrying the woman workers from the closed tea estate to the cardamom plantations. The jeep hit on a rock and overturned, the police said. After the tea estate in Kottamala was closed, they worked as daily wage earners in different cardamom estates. They were carried to and from the estates on taxi jeeps.
01 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Dalit girl succumbs to burns||A Dalit girl, who attempted suicide after being sexually assaulted, died on Saturday. A native of Nariyanpara near Kattappana, the 17-year-old set herself on fire at her house on October 22. She was undergoing treatment at the Thiruvanathapuram Government Medical College Hospital. Kattappana police said that she was sexually assaulted by her neighbour Manu Manoj, 24, after giving a promise that he would marry her. Manoj, a DYFI activist was arrested. He was then suspended from the DYFI.  Suicide prevention toll free number: 1056
01 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Products identified for One District, One Product programme||Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) and the Department of Industries have joined hands to implement the One District, One Product programme under the Centre’s Aatmanirbhar Bharat, to create micro-enterprises focussed on local strengths and brand creation. A baseline study conducted by KAU for the programme has identified produce ranging from mussels to tapioca, coconut oil, and spices for various districts. KAU sources said a preliminary study of the farm sector in the country had revealed that around 74% of enterprises were in the unorganised sector. The unorganised food processing sector in the country comprises 25 lakh processing units which are unregistered and informal. With only 7% of the investment in plant and machinery and 3% of outstanding credit, the unorganised enterprises contribute to 74% of employment (a third of which are women), 12% of output, and 27% of value-addition in the food processing sector. Rural areas Nearly 66% of these enterprises are located in rural areas, and around 80% of them are family-owned and fall into the category of micro-enterprises and manufacturing units, according to a handout on the programme. The One District, One Product programme is meant to strengthen the hands of the farming community as well as entrepreneurs. The areas of strength identified by KAU for various districts are: Mussels for Kasaragod, coconut oil for Kannur, milk and milk products for Wayanad, coconut for Kozhikode, coconut-based products for Malappuram, banana for Palakkad, rice for Thrissur, pineapple for Ernakulam, spices for Idukki, coconut oil and coconut powder for Kottayam, paddy and rice products for Alappuzha, banana for Pathanamthitta, tapioca and other tuber crops for Kollam, and tapioca for Thiruvananthapuram. The programme is based on the understanding that the unorganised micro-food processing units need support for skill training, entrepreneurship, technology, credit, and marketing. The programme is expected to substantially increase the competitiveness of individual micro-enterprises in operation in the unorganised segment and promote formalisation of the sector, and, at the same time, support farmer producer organisations, self-help groups, and producers’ cooperatives.
01 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Parents of special children up in arms over move to repeal National Trust Act||For Smitha Unnikrishnan, the mother of a seven-year-old boy afflicted with cerebral palsy, this has been a season of woes. First, there was the pandemic that took a toll on her child’s treatment, and then came news of the reported move by the Union government to repeal the National Trust Act, 1999, which, she fears, if acted through, may have an adverse bearing on the fate of her child. “My son has not yet started walking and needs extensive treatment, perhaps even surgery. Scrapping this Act may do away with many welfare schemes that may hit his treatment. We have no other way but to fight the move,” said Ms. Unnikrishnan. Under the Act, a national trust was created as a statutory body of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment for the welfare of persons with autism, cerebral palsy, mental retardation, and multiple disabilities. Now, the Union government is planning to repeal the Act and subsume it in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act, 2016, on a recommendation by NITI Aayog. “The move bodes disaster for our children who may end up in the streets as it is likely to do away with the provision of their legal guardianship on attaining the age of 18 that is so critical for guaranteeing their own personal well-being and protection of their properties. Along with the Act, the Niramaya Health Insurance Scheme offering free coverage of up to Rs. 1 lakh may also be scrapped, dealing a body blow to parents of such children who are hardly covered under any other medical insurance,” said James Neelankavil, father of two children with multiple disabilities. The Act provides for a three-member local-level committee (LLC) chaired by district collectors for issuing legal guardianship certificates either to parents or persons concerned to act on the children’s behalf in everything from opening bank accounts to property deals. “LLC is a safeguard for affected persons as it will intervene in complaints of their ill-treatment and even take them into government’s care if needed,” said K.M. George, State President of the Parents Association for the Intellectually Disabled (PAID), that organised a mass petition campaign against the purported move last month. As per PAID estimates, the Act covers around 1.25 lakh such children in 288 special schools in Kerala, with over 60,000 of them from Ernakulam district. “RPWD accounts for persons with 21 kinds of disabilities will significantly reduce the assistance received for those covered under the National Trust Act,” said Susheela Kuriachan, vice-chairperson, Association of Intellectually Disabled, a combine of special schools. Parents are also apprehensive about the potential loss of educational scholarship of Rs. 28,500 allocated through local bodies and the aid under Ashwasam Kiranam received by mothers taking care of those covered under the National Trust Act.  The move bodes disaster for our children who may end up in the streets as it is likely to do away with the provision of their legal guardianship on attaining the age of 18 James Neelankavil A parent
01 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Teacher sends across nuggets of inspiration||Some time ago, Anson Kurumbathuruth, a teacher at Peechanikkad Government UP School in Angamaly, received a call from an anonymous girl who just wanted to thank him. A little prodding, and the girl revealed she would not have been alive but for him. Devastated by a failed love affair, she was all set to end her life when she happened to listen to his motivational message on WhatsApp and dropped the plan. “That message was about a person trapped in a cesspool who can either resign to his fate and suffer or be optimistic and try to recover,” said Mr. Kurumbathuruth, who has been sharing motivational messages in the form of small stories or real-life experiences set to a soothing background music over WhatsApp without fail for the past five years. Making a difference On the fifth anniversary of his initiative, a teacher from Fort Kochi rang up to thank him for having stopped her from resigning from her job in a fit of depression after the death of her parents. In another instance, a woman diagnosed with blood cancer kept listening to his messages daily till she died three months later. A motivational speaker, he started his new habit when some regular participants of his sessions pointed out rather unkindly that he was repeating stories and incidents. Thus dawned the realisation that he has to spruce up his reading. “I started collecting books. Reading a few passages every morning became a routine,” said Mr. Kurumbathuruth. He then spun from it a motivational message and shared it over WhatsApp groups. He now shares messages over 230 groups and a few broadcast groups from where they take a life on their own and get shared to countless groups even among expatriates. Another role “I have never missed it in even in the middle of personal tragedies and have recorded those messages from hospital corridors and parking lots,” said Mr. Kurumbathuruth, an established Chavittunatakam exponent, having performed in over 300 stages for 16 years. Once his mobile phone broke down, and a Vypeen-based businessman in the Middle East gifted him with one, so that he would continue to inspire others.
01 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||District adds 1,114 more cases to COVID-19 tally||The district recorded 1,114 new cases of COVID-19 and 853 recoveries on Saturday. As many as 826 people have contracted the virus through contact and the source of infection of 278 people has not been traced. Six health workers have newly been infected. Ernakulam recorded the highest number of new cases of the infection in the State on Saturday. With 39 people testing positive, Payipra registered the highest number of new infections. Cases were also reported from areas including Fort Kochi, Thripunithura, Cheranalloor, Vengola, Rayamangalam, Palluruthy, Thoppumpady and Kadungalloor. A total of 29,897 people remain in quarantine and the district’s active caseload stands at 12,584. For testing, 5,609 samples were sent. At first-line treatment centres, 970 people are being monitored, while 154 patients are at second-line treatment centres. As many as 9,297 people are recovering at home, and private hospitals are treating 722 COVID-19 patients. At the Government Medical College Hospital, 189 patients are being treated and 51 patients are at the PVS Hospital.
01 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CPI(M) to hold people’s gatherings today||The CPI(M) is organising people’s gatherings at various places in the district on Sunday against what it calls “media lies” against the party. The branch-level gatherings will be between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. in compliance with COVID-19 protocols. Party Central Committee member M.C. Josephine will inaugurate the gathering at Nayathodu school junction, district secretary C.N. Mohanan at Kaloor, State committee members C.M. Dinesh Mani and S. Sarma at Palarivattom and Njarakkal, Gopi Kottamurikkal at Muvattupuzha, K. Chandran Pillai at Eloor and M. Swaraj, MLA, at Nettoor. ‘Unholy nexus’  The gatherings, said a press release here, would be to discuss the “unholy nexus formed against the Left front” and the “approach of the media that creates controversies and anxiety” as part of it.
01 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||KMRL slashes parking fee for commuters||Kochi Metro Rail Limited has slashed parking rates for commuters. They will now get up to 50% discount on parking charges for both cars and two-wheelers. The metro agency has also introduced 12-hour and 24-hour slabs for cars and two-wheelers, with additional discounts. For daily commuters, monthly passes will be introduced from November 1. For cars, the monthly pass is priced at Rs. 1,000 while it is Rs. 380 for two-wheelers. Commuters may park their vehicles for up to 10 hours a day. “We monitored commuter behaviour for a month, before slashing the rates. We had received a lot of suggestions and also a few complaints from our commuters with regard to parking fee. The new rates will encourage metro commuters to travel regularly,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, Managing Director of KMRL. The new rates will be effective from Sunday. The rate for car parking will be Rs. 20 for the first two hours and Rs. 5 (Rs. 10 earlier) for every additional hour. Commuters will have to pay Rs. 60 to park a car for 12 hours and Rs. 100 for 24 hours. For bike users, the parking fee is Rs. 10 for the first two hours and Rs. 2 (Rs. 5 earlier) per additional hour. For keeping a bike for 12 hours, the fee is Rs. 25 and for an entire day (24 hours) the fee is Rs. 40, KMRL has informed.
01 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Stakeholders awaiting reopening of synagogue||Tourism stakeholders in Mattancherry heritage town that was severely hit by almost nil arrival of guests due to the impact of the pandemic, are banking on the historic synagogue on Jew Street reopening on Sunday, to get back on track. Interestingly, almost 95% of Kashmiri traders in the locale, who constituted a bulk of traders engaged in selling curios, carpets, shawls and other wares to tourists, returned to their home State in the early months of the pandemic. “Reopening of the synagogue holds the key in retaining the interest of tourists, especially from the U.S. and countries in Europe, in the locale. Its impact will hopefully be known in a week,” said Sajid Hussain Khatai, president of the Kashmiri Traders’ Welfare Association. Altogether, 950 traders and their families returned to Kashmir from Mattancherry, Kovalam, Varkala, Thekkady, and Kumarakom, in a special train arranged by the government. They preferred to return since they could not afford even the slashed shop rentals, apart from the rent for their houses and expenses on employees. By November-end “Only seven of us, from among the 400 earlier, are left here. A clear idea of tourist footfall will be known only by the end of November, and they might take a call on returning here,” Mr. Khatai. “We are keeping our fingers crossed, since the State and Central governments have not offered any help, leave alone loans at reduced interest. Already, business was low during the past about three years,” Mr. Khatai said. The synagogue is reopening on Sunday, after a big time gap, ever since it was closed on March 10, said Thaha Ibrahim, close aide of Sara Cohen, Mattancherry-based Jew who died a year ago. “The pandemic came at a time when I had almost readied the premises of her home in her memory. The resumption of footfall of foreign tourists holds the key in reopening shops that sell antiques, spices and other wares,” he said.
01 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Polls: UDF seat-sharing talks to be over by Nov. 5||The UDF Ernakulam district leadership has decided to complete seat-sharing talks with constituents ahead of the forthcoming local body polls by November 2 and 3. At the panchayat-level, discussions should be over by November 5. The existing seat-sharing agreements are likely to be continued in most cases. However, formulations that closed ranks with the front after the last local body polls will also be given deserving attention. UDF district chairman Dominic Presentation, District Congress Committee president T.J. Vinod, MLA, and IUML district president K.M. Abdul Majeed took part in the discussions.
01 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Modi to launch ro-ro ferries between Kochi islands||A pair of roll-on roll-off (ro-ro) ferries of the Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI), which will transport container-laden lorries on the Willingdon Island-Bolghatty Island route, will be launched online by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. November 9 has been fixed as the tentative date to launch the service. The ferries will initially carry only container-laden lorries. In the long run, commuters too might be transported since the ferries cover the 3-km waterway in around 20 minutes, whereas the road route would take over an hour. Vehicles opting for the ro-ro service are expected to decongest roads. About 1,000 container lorries commute through congested city roads, including the NH Bypass and Edappally-Kalamassery NH stretch. The launch of the ferries was initially slated for Saturday and they were set to begin operation from Sunday. The ferries, each capable of accommodating lorries bearing six 20-feet containers and three 40-feet containers, will be operated by the city-based Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation. Each ferry can also carry around 30 cars. Cochin Shipyard The two ferries were built by Cochin Shipyard Limited, which had earlier built the ro-ro ferries operating in the Vypeen-Fort Kochi sector. Those ferries, owned by the Kochi Corporation and operated by KSINC, carry both commuters and different types of vehicles, including two-wheelers, buses and lorries. 150 lorries As per estimate, the ro-ro ferries must transport at least 150 container lorries daily to operate in a feasible manner. Discussions were held in October with lorry operators and driver unions to prevail on them to opt for the fast, eco-friendly and cost effective mode of transporting containers between the two isles, said KSINC sources. The lorries can be driven to Vallarpadam container transshipment terminal, from the adjacent Bolghatty Island. The agency will shortly write to the District Collector, seeking curbs on transporting container lorries through NH Bypass and other congested corridors in the city, it is learnt. The Collector can take a decision, especially since he heads the District Road Safety Committee and Regional Transport Authority. The ongoing reconstruction of Palarivattom flyover and the burgeoning number of vehicles are among the reasons for traffic hold-ups on the bypass. The Traffic Police too are keen to keep container lorries away from city roads. Timing The ro-ro ferries are expected to operate from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. and from 3 p.m. to 11 p.m.
01 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Matsyafed to procure fish directly for small vendors||Ending the monopoly of middlemen and agents, Matsyafed will now procure fish directly for small scale fish vendors, distributing it through fisher cooperatives. Thousands of vendors across the State, most of them women, will benefit from the initiative, which also ensures the availability of quality fish. “Fish vendor cooperatives will be formed in all major markets and Matsyafed will supply the fish for them on a daily basis. This will put an end to the exploitation of both fishers and vendors while preventing the inflow of formalin-laced fish. This will be very advantageous to women who are engaged in post-harvest marketing, delivering the catch to thousands of households,” Matsyafed chairman P.P. Chitharanjan told The Hindu . In the initial phase fish will be made available to the vendor cooperatives that are already active and then more units will be formed covering all parts of the State. “The project will be launched through a fish vendor cooperative in Punalur,” he added. At present the vendors have to pay 12% commission to the agents who buy large volumes and later sell it on a high margin. Boats usually fix the deal with the agents while at sea and very often the vendors have to return empty handed as the price will be too high for them to afford. After the lockdown there has been several skirmishes in harbours and fish landing centres across the State with the government introducing new norms to streamline activities. “Once the project takes off, vendors who sell both marine and inland fish will get the catch at reasonable rate. This will also ensure the daily supply of catch to vendors,” he says. Matsyafed has 45 high-tech fish marts, six mobile units while 14 new marts are being opened in association with service co-operative banks in various districts. The Matsyafed authorities are planning to start marts in all constituencies and 100 fish marts are expected to be operational in the State by December 31.
01 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Maveli supermarket in Kollam||The Maveli Store upgraded as supermarket at Anchalumoodu in Kollam Corporation started functioning in the new building on Friday. Food and Civil Supplies Minister P.Thilothaman inaugurated the supermarket through video conferencing and Kepco chairperson J. Chinju Rani made the first sale. Mayor Honey Benjamin presided over the function while councillors T.R.Santhosh Kumar, M.S.Gopakumar and D.Sukeshan were also present on the occasion.
01 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Section 144 extended in Kollam||The district administration has extended prohibitory orders under Section 144 till November 15 to arrest the spread of COVID-19 and strengthen containment measures. The orders first issued by Kollam District Collector on October 2 will now remain in force for some more days preventing public gatherings and assembling of more than five persons in public places. The order was issued as there are still chances for a surge in caseload and any laxity can endanger human lives. The order also points out that if there is any unmanageable surge the health system in the district will be overwhelmed.
01 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||741 new cases in Kollam||The district reported 741 new cases of COVID-19, one death and 510 recoveries on Saturday. While 735 patients contracted the infection through contact, others include two NRIs, two persons with no known source and one health worker. The Health Department also confirmed that the death of a 68-year-old Anchal resident is due to COVID-19. The district currently has 17,590 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 3,43,507. While 1,542 people completed home quarantine on Thursday, the Health Department has traced 82,273 primary and 7,612 secondary contacts of the positive cases.
01 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Vaikom boat jetty to get a facelift||After lying in shambles for years on end, the iconic boat jetty at Vaikom where Mahatma Gandhi disembarked a boat to join the historic Vaikom Satyagraha, is finally set to get a major facelift. The Irrigation Department has embarked on a project to restore the heritage structure, constructed by the erstwhile Travancore royals. The project, to be carried out in six months at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh, envisages replacing the damaged parts of the wooden roof, besides reconstruction of the platform and laying of floor tiles. According to C.K. Asha, Vaikom MLA, the jetty, which is among the oldest surviving timber-framed structures at Vaikom, was at the risk of being lost as a result of neglect and decay. “It is a historical and cultural point of interest as far as Vaikom is concerned and the objective is to restore the site through appropriate repairs while maintaining its heritage value. The restored jetty, along with the recently launched Vaikom Satyagraha museum, will serve as a vital link to the tourists visiting this backwater town,” she said. Irrigation officials said the structures associated with the building including the embankment along the lake side too would be restored. Meanwhile, locals demanded that the authorities revise the current plan to replace the wooden parts of the building’s roof using metal frames. The old jetty, which used to be abuzz with activities for more than a century, fell into oblivion following the commissioning of another jetty a few yards away from it during the tenure of the previous government. Ever since, the old facility has served as a work shed for the boat crew and technicians. Gandhi’s trip Mahatma Gandhi had reached Vaikom on March 9, 1925, on board a boat from Ernakulam to extent his support to the Vaikom Satyagraha, which was aimed at securing freedom to all sections of society through the public roads leading to the Sri Mahadeva temple at Vaikom. During the journey, he was also accompanied by secretary Mahadev Desai, his son Ramdas Gandhi, Alladi Krishnaswamy Iyer, and C. Rajagopalachari. Meanwhile, the authorities have also commenced efforts to restore the old prison where the protesters who were part of the epic struggle were incarcerated.
01 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam tally at 584||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rage in Kottayam with 584 people from the district testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, all but three contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases included 88 persons above the age of 60 and 74 children. Kottayam municipality led the tally with 59 cases, followed by Parathodu panchayat with 36 cases, Vazhappally and Madappally panchayats reported 30 cases each, while Changanassery and Ettumanur reported 24 cases each. Meanwhile, District Collector M. Anjana has extended the prohibitory orders till November 15, a bulletin issued here said.
01 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Facelift for Vaikom jetty||After lying in shambles for years on end, the iconic boat jetty at Vaikom where Mahatma Gandhi disembarked a boat to join the historic Vaikom Satyagraha, is finally set to get a major facelift. The Irrigation Department has embarked on a project to restore the heritage structure, constructed by the erstwhile Travancore royals. The project, to be carried out in six months at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh, envisages replacing the damaged parts of the wooden roof, besides reconstruction of the platform and laying of floor tiles. According to C.K. Asha, Vaikom MLA, the jetty, which is among the oldest surviving timber-framed structures at Vaikom, was at the risk of being lost as a result of neglect and decay. “It is a historical and cultural point of interest as far as Vaikom is concerned and the objective is to restore the site through appropriate repairs while maintaining its heritage value. The restored jetty, along with the recently launched Vaikom Satyagraha museum, will serve as a vital link to the tourists visiting this backwater town,” she said. Irrigation officials said the structures associated with the building including the embankment along the lake side too would be restored. Meanwhile, locals demanded that the authorities revise the current plan to replace the wooden parts of the building’s roof using metal frames. The old jetty, which used to be abuzz with activities for more than a century, fell into oblivion following the commissioning of another jetty a few yards away from it during the tenure of the previous government. Ever since, the old facility has served as a work shed for the boat crew and technicians. Gandhi’s trip Mahatma Gandhi had reached Vaikom on March 9, 1925, on board a boat from Ernakulam to extent his support to the Vaikom Satyagraha, which was aimed at securing freedom to all sections of society through the public roads leading to the Sri Mahadeva temple at Vaikom. During the journey, he was also accompanied by secretary Mahadev Desai, his son Ramdas Gandhi, Alladi Krishnaswamy Iyer, and C. Rajagopalachari. The authorities have also commenced efforts to restore the old prison where the protesters who were part of the epic struggle were incarcerated.
01 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||CM protecting Sivasankar: Congress||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is protecting his former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar despite the emergence of solid evidence of his involvement in criminal activities, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has said here. Inaugurating a one-day protest staged by Congress leader Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan, MLA, in Kottayam on Saturday, Mr. Chennithala challenged Mr. Vijayan to initiate steps to expel the IAS officer from service. He claimed to know who was in possession of the cell phone Swapna Suresh, accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, had allegedly received as commission in the Life Mission scam.
01 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||NSS observes ‘flag day’||The Nair Service Society (NSS) on Saturday observed ‘flag day’ as part of its 106th anniversary of formation. At a function held at the NSS headquarters in Perunna in the morning, NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair hoisted the flag at the Mannam Samadhi mandapam and administered the pledge.
01 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||State’s first mechanised foot overbridge to be opened today||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will open the mechanised foot overbridge in Kozhikode on Sunday. The first of its kind bridge in the State, with an escalator and lift in the open space, has been built across Rajaji Road in the city connecting Mofussil Bus Stand and V.K.Krishna Menon Indoor Stadium. The work for the bridge began in February 2019 and was scheduled to be completed by March 2020. However, COVID-19 put a damper on the plans and the completion took much longer due to the non-availability of mechanical parts imported from China. The lift, which is part of the design, has a capacity of 13 people while the escalator can hold a traffic of 11,700 per hour. The design also comprises 1,140 sqft of commercial area around the bridge. The bridge is located in the exact place where a foot overbridge used to exist earlier. It had fallen into disuse after the commuters preferred to cross the road rather than climb the stairs. It was later dismantled just before the National Games. The bridge was constructed under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme at a cost of Rs. 11.35 crore. Fifty per cent of the project cost was borne by the Centre while the State bore 30% and the rest by Kozhikode Corporation. The works were carried out by Uralungal Labour Contractors Cooperative Society with a three-year maintenance contract while Kochi Metro Rail Limited prepared the structural design. The new bridge is expected to ease the traffic on Rajaji Road, which is prone to traffic blocks due to the frequent pedestrian crossing.
01 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||A few critical issues yet to be addressed at Kozhikode MCH||Going by the Health Department data, COVID-19 caseload may be stabilising in Kozhikode district. But some issues at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), one of the two government hospitals designated for treatment of infected persons, remain to be solved. The Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, Ernakulam, was in the news recently after one of the doctors there claimed that some patients might have died due to lack of attention from the nursing staff. Some doctors at the MCH pointed out that the situation here might not be that bad, but inadequate deployment of nursing staff was a cause for concern. Right now, there are two intensive care unit wards marked exclusively for COVID care. However, only three nurses have been allotted for a 15-bed ward at a time, that is, one nurse for five patients. “Neither the nursing staff nor the hospital authorities can be blamed for this situation. It is a systemic problem. The staff pattern needs to be revised in line with the existing circumstances,” they pointed out. Also, doctors and nurses from all departments are being allotted COVID-19 duty. At least some of them may not be trained in attending to infected persons or those in need of critical care at the ICU units. This could create issues in certain cases, a doctor said. Renal patients Sources pointed out that MCH remained the only government hospital in the district where infected persons were given dialysis facility. Around 100 such patients are at the hospital right now. Recently, IQRAA Hospital too started a unit for the purpose in the private sector. Kidney patients are highly vulnerable to COVID-19, as there is a chance of development of future complications. A section of doctors believes that opening more dialysis units in the district is the need of the hour. Referral issue Another issue is the referring of infected persons with other health issues from other private or government hospitals. If people with existing health issues such as stroke, heart disease, or cancer seek treatment at government hospitals in the periphery or private hospitals, they are immediately referred to the MCH if they test positive for SARS-CoV-2. There are many cases of virus-infected pregnant women who too are referred to the hospital. This happens at the expense of other non-COVID patients who actually require tertiary-level treatment at the MCH, one of the doctors said.
01 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Officials complete training ahead of local body polls||Returning officers and assistant returning officers for the forthcoming local body elections have completed their two-day mandatory training in Kozhikode district. The batch-wise training by restricting the total entry below 40 was conducted at select locations in line with the COVID-19 protocol. The training sessions for panchayat-level officials were held in various blocks. District-level training sessions were held for officials from municipalities. A separate one-day training for those deputed for polling and counting duties will be held later. Stringent safety precautions were followed during the sessions in view of the pandemic threat. Only halls without air conditioners were used for the purpose. While hand sanitisers were provided, physical distancing was strictly followed by the officials. Training coordinators said stress was laid on the COVID-19 protocol to be followed during the election process in each booth. Apart from ensuring smooth polling, the officials will be responsible for overseeing voters’ compliance with safety guidelines. At the time of submission of nominations and their scrutiny, the officials should make necessary arrangements in line with the COVID-19 protocol. To avoid rush, they should fix a time schedule for each candidate for filing papers. Not more than three persons will be permitted at the timing of filing nomination. The procedure will be the same for scrutiny of documents. The officials were also told about the procedures to be followed in case a candidate tests positive for the virus. On such occasions, they should complete the formalities through a proposer on behalf of the candidate.
01 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Test positivity well above 10% in Kozhikode||The test positivity rate (TPR) remains well above 10% in Kozhikode district even as 834 people were newly tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here on Saturday. According to the District Medical Officer, the number of tests done on the day was 6,960, and the TPR was 11.98%. The ideal TPR is below 5%. There were 811 cases of locally acquired infections, and the source was unknown in six cases. A total of 249 such cases were from within Kozhikode Corporation area, 51 in Olavanna, 33 in Feroke, 31 in Chorod, and 30 in Chelannur. As many as 749 people recovered from the infection, and the active cases from here are now 9,491. Restrictions to continue Prohibitory orders issued by District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) on October 2 have been extended by 15 days in Kozhikode district as part of the stringent measures in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The extension was considered after noticing a decline in the test positivity rate from 14% to 10% in the last three weeks. The Health Department also expressed satisfaction over the preventive measures adopted to contain the viral infection during the period. Public assembly of more than five persons will be restricted. All regulations now in force in containment zones will continue. Shops will be allowed to function only during the permitted hours. Mr. Rao said all previously announced guidelines would be implemented as such, as the infection spread was yet to be brought under control. He added that there were chances of the test positivity rate going up if relaxations were allowed.
01 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||KSSP objects to ‘bhumi puja’ for WTE plant||The Kozhikode unit of the Kerala Sasthra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP) has objected to the recent ‘bhumi puja’, held to mark the construction of a waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at Njeliyanparamba, under the aegis of the Kozhikode Corporation. KSSP district committee president B.S. Harikumar and secretary A. Sasidharan said the city Mayor and some councillors had violated the secular values being upheld in the democratic set-up. They said everyone was free to hold rituals in accordance with their beliefs in their personal lives. However, it was condemnable to drag them to public space, the KSSP functionaries said, pointing out that the elected representatives were voted to power with the support of secular people too.
01 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Kappad beach to be reopened today||Kappad beach, which had remained closed for several months owing to COVID-19 regulations, will be thrown open to visitors on Sunday. District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) authorities hope that the destination, which was recently accorded the prestigious Blue Flag certification, will attract large number of domestic and international tourists. One-hour parking In compliance with the COVID-19 protocol, parking will not be allowed at the spot for more than an hour. For two-wheelers, the parking fee will be Rs. 10. Light and heavy motor vehicle owners will have to pay Rs. 30 and Rs. 50 respectively. The revised entry fee for local people is Rs. 10. For others, it will be Rs. 50. The premium ticket for sea bath will be available for adults at Rs. 100. For children, it is Rs. 50 per head. The entry fee fixed for foreign nationals is Rs. 150 now. Their children will have to pay Rs. 75 per head to enjoy the premium entry.
01 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Renovated municipal office to be inaugurated||The renovated office building of the Payyoli Municipality will be opened on Sunday as part of Kerala Piravi Day celebrations. Minister for Excise and Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan will inaugurate the facility. The office, which had been functioning in a congested area for over five years, was renovated at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. Of this, Rs. 1 crore was the contribution of the State government. The municipality set apart Rs. 1 crore to complete the renovation project in time. Municipal Chairperson V.T. Usha said the rooms and floors had been extended to accommodate more offices. “We had been functioning from a building which was earlier a panchayat office,” she added. Ms. Usha said the only pending work was the installation of lifts.
01 November 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||769 test positive in Malappuram district||Malappuram district registered 769 new COVID cases and 994 recoveries on Saturday. District officials said that as many as 719 of the new cases were found to have been infected through direct contacts. However, there were 40 cases whose source of infection could not be established. Among the new cases were seven health workers. The district’s caseload of active infections currently under treatment dipped to 9,509 on Saturday. However, more than 60,000 people were quarantined across the district. Meanwhile, District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan extended the prohibitory orders under CrPC 144 to two more weeks. He said the orders would be in place until November 15.
01 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Week-long dharna of Walayar parents ends||The parents of the two Walayar girls who were found dead in mysterious circumstances have said they will continue their fight until their daughters get justice. “The government says it stands for us. But it has done nothing to bring those responsible for the death of our children to book,” the parents said on Saturday. A letter by the Additional Chief Secretary assured the parents of stern action against those who scuttled the case. But the parents said they would continue the agitation until solid action was taken against those responsible. The Walayar Action Council has decided to stage a march to Minister for SC, ST and OBC Welfare A.K. Balan’s house on November 10 in protest against his remarks in connection with the case. The week-long dharna staged by the action council under the leadership of the parents in front of their house at Attappallam, near Walayar, ended on Saturday. K. Muraleedharan, MP, BJP leader P.K. Krishnadas, and Pempilai Orumai leader G. Gomathi, were among those who visited the parents on Saturday. Ms. Gomathi inaugurated the valedictory session. Rights activist Vilayodi Venugopal presided. Plachimada agitation leaders Sakthivel, Puthusseri Sreenivas, Mariyappan Neelappara, and Aramughan Pathichira spoke. The parents and supporters took out a procession to the school where the girls had studied carrying petticoats.
01 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad: 496 found positive||As many as 496 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad district on Saturday. When 287 of them contracted the disease through direct local contacts, the source of infection could not be traced in 207 cases. District officials said that among the new cases were two health workers. Recovery The district saw 458 infected persons recovering from the disease on Saturday. Meanwhile, District Collector D. Balamurali extended the prohibitory orders issued under CrPC 144 in the district until November 15. Mr. Balamurali said that all existing restrictions in public gatherings would continue for two more weeks in view of COVID-19.
01 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Traders seek micro containment zones||Traders under the banner of the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti (KVVES) will stage an agitation across the State on Tuesday in protest against the anti-trader stand being adopted by the State and Central governments. Apart from stand-up protests in front of 10,000 State and Central government offices across the State, traders will hold protests in front of their respective shops too. “We will leave the shops open but will not conduct any business. We will protest by holding placards against the government’s harassment,” said Joby V. Chungath, chief patron of the KVVES district committee, here on Saturday. Protests will be organised in front of 500 government offices in Palakkad district. ‘Being harassed’ “The traders are being harassed in the name of GST, a new tax norm implemented in a hurry, and that too without any preparation. The GST rules were changed many a time,” said Mr. Chungath. KVVES district president V.M. Latheef and organising general secretary P.S. Simpson demanded that the government end the practice of closing shops for weeks on end in the name of COVID containment. “The administration should consider going for micro containment zones rather than containing large areas in the name of COVID,” they said.
01 November 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Thayambaka comes in capsule form||Thayambaka maestro Sukapuram Radhakrishnan has given shape to a capsule form of Thayambaka with the objective of reaching out to wider audiences with his art of percussion. Mr. Radhakrishnan has encapsulated the essence of Thayambaka with all its highs and lows into a five-minute performance. He said he had abridged the 80-minute performance. A small group of spectators enjoyed the show as Mr. Radhakrishnan and his team performed his five-minute special capsule here on Saturday. He said he could touch all major elements of a full-length show and abbreviate it into the capsule. Mr. Radhakrishnan experimented with the new form during the lockdown, as most percussionists were rendered jobless in the wake of the cancellation of festivals. He said Thayambaka, one of the finest and popular percussion art forms, could be enjoyed by all sections of people if given in a capsule form. According to him, it can attract not only tourists but also anyone who does not have the patience and time to sit through a one-and-half hour performance. He said none had attempted to present Thayambaka in a capsule form so far. His maiden performance here took 301 seconds, and left the small group of spectators swinging to the tune of chenda.
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Oppn. highlights Bineesh case||The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday continued to use the Enforcement Directorate investigation into Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, to assail the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government and the CPI(M). The Opposition parties also held protests across the State to highlight the money laundering and corruption charges against M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran said CPI(M)’s decision to absolve Mr. Balakrishnan of the guilt of his son’s “criminality” pointed to the moral decline of the working-class organisation.  ‘International ring’ The CPI(M) Central committee lacked a leader like V.S. Achuthanandan to hold wrongdoers in the party to account. The committee had merely rubber-stamped the sins of Kerala leaders. Mr. Ramachandran alleged that Bineesh headed an international drug and money laundering ring. He had used the shade of power to amass wealth illegitimately. His brother, Binoy, had attempted to browbeat ED officers in Bengaluru, he alleged. BJP State president K. Surendran said the CPI(M) central leadership was funded by its Kerala unit. CPI(M) was in its last throes in West Bengal. It never had a pan-India presence. Mr. Surendran asked the Kerala Cricket Association to expel Bineesh. He said some office-bearers in the KCA had financial links with Bineesh. Hence, they were compelled to protect him. Mr. Surendran said Bineesh had used the heft of his father’s political office to wrest the control of the KCA from genuine cricketers. The UDF government also turned a blind eye to the corruption in the KCA headed by a faction led by T.C. Mathew, Mr. Surendran alleged. The BJP also demanded an inquiry by the ED into Bineesh’s “investments and partners” in the entertainment and cinema industry. Some cinema producers were frontmen for Bineesh’s illegal operations. Mr. Surendran said the UDF government had glossed over criminal cases registered against Bineesh.
01 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||790 new cases, 562 recoveries in district||Thiruvananthapuram’s COVID-19 caseload went up by 790 on Saturday taking the active number of cases to 8,774. As many as 562 people recovered from their illness on the day. Among the newly diagnosed cases, 643 people acquired the infection through local transmission. Seven of those affected were health-care workers. With no new deaths being reported, the COVID-19 death toll remained at 410.  1,971 in quarantine The district administration placed 1,971 people in quarantine, increasing the number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 25,005 in houses and 171 in various institutions. Several parts of the district were withdrawn from the list of micro-containment zones. These included Edavacode, Kinavoor, Kesavadasapuram, Nanthencode, Pangode, Thirumala, Mulloor, Vellar, Shanghumughom, Attipra, and Poundkadavu in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. The other areas were Cheruvallimukku in Attingal municipality; Alampotta, Thavaravila, Chundavila, Town and Vazhimukku in Neyyattinkara municipality; Kallazhi in Varkala municipality; Pulloorkonam, Idichakkaplamoodu, Vanniyacode, Cheruvarakonam, Muriyathottam, and Keezhthottam in Parassala grama panchayat; Kulathumal and Chettikonam in Kattakada grama panchayat; Kapaleeswaram, Mudippura, Puthen Nada, and Valiya Palli in Anchuthengu grama panchayat; Konnoori in Karavaram grama panchayat; Manannada in Kizhuvilam grama panchayat; Mariyapuram in Athiyanoor grama panchayat; Thalayal, Pulliyil, Panayarakunnu, Edamanakuzhi, Chamavila, Manali and Office ward in Balaramapuram grama panchayat; Cheramanthuruth and Vilyailkulam in Kadinamkulam grama panchayat; Ayira, Puthupuraikal, Chenkavila, Ambilikonam, Kanthalloor, Kuzhinjanvila, Ambanavila, Puthiya Uchakkada, and Charottukonam in Karode grama panchayat; Manakkallu, Punnakulam and Office ward in Kottukal grama panchayat; Mariyapuram (except Karikinvila and Mariyapuram areas) in Chenkal grama panchayat; Kaivanvila (except Kuzhipalam) and Ottara (except Palliakara and Marappalam road areas) in Kanjiramkulam grama panchayat; Venkadambu in Kulathoor grama panchayat; Thokkadu in Chemmaruthy grama panchayat; and Njekkade in Ottoor grama panchayat. However, Aruvippara (Koothacode area) in Malayinkeezhu grama panchayat and Vadoorkonam and Pazhaya Uchakkada in Karode grama panchayat have been declared containment zones.
01 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Slew of projects ahead of local body polls||With the model code of conduct for the upcoming local body elections approaching fast, the city Corporation, just like most other local bodies, has been scrambling to inaugurate completed projects or launch new ones before the notification is issued. Over the past few weeks, the civic body has launched or inaugurated many of its prestigious projects, including the first multilevel parking lot, which is yet to be open to the public as the rates are not fixed. Of the remaining ones, the turnaround of the city’s biggest waste dump in Erumakuzhi is going to be the Corporation's key campaign point as far as waste management is concerned. Over the past few months, sanitation workers and those whom the Corporation had rehabilitated from the streets during the COVID-19 pandemic have been at work at Erumakuzhi, segregating different kinds of waste from the pile that had accumulated over the years. With all the waste segregated and sold off to different agencies, the area has been turned into a park with finishing touches to the landscaping work happening now. A material-recovery facility and aerobic bins are also arranged at another corner, as part of marketing it as a waste management hub. Even as there has been criticism from various quarters on the lack of a centralised a waste treatment plant, the Corporation has consistently projected its waste-treatment-at-source methods as effective. The park at Erumakuzhi, to be inaugurated this week, is certain to feature prominently in the Left Democratic Front (LDF)’s campaign material. Other projects The work on a bus-waiting shed, with cafeteria and toilets, near the Bakery Junction, for the waiting area for buses to the Poojappura-Karamana route, is also nearing completion. The free dialysis scheme for patients from economically backward families will be launched this week. Also on the list are a few community halls, badminton courts, and new roads. A women-friendly centre that is coming up on the Corporation premises is also expected to be inaugurated soon. Among the projects already inaugurated over the past few weeks, especially the ones under the Smart City project, the finalising of the tenders will probably happen after the election only. For instance, the evaluation of the tenders for the Integrated Command Control Centre is currently ongoing. After the delays caused by COVID-19, the local body elections could also cause its own share of delays to some of these projects.  A free dialysis scheme for patients from economically backward families will be launched this week
01 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Power corridor nearing completion||The Pugalur-Madakkathara high-voltage direct current (HVDC) power corridor, designed to enhance the State’s power import capabilities, will be completed in November, the State government said on Saturday. The line, once commissioned, will enable Kerala to import 2,000 MW from Raigarh in Chattisgarh via Pugalur in Tamil Nadu. The line has multiple benefits, according to the government and the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB): For one, it will help to meet the ever-increasing power requirements of the State and cut down transmission loss. Both domestic and commercial consumers stand to benefit from the new transmission system. It will also “facilitate uninterrupted power supply to industrial ventures being set up as part of the Kochi-Bengaluru industrial corridor”, the government said in a statement on Saturday, adding that the construction had entered the final phase. Work on the project began in May, 2018. The 165-km line has been drawn from Pugalur to Madakkathara (Thrissur) at a cost of Rs. 1,474 crore. The project involves 138 km of overhead cable and 27 km of underground cable - from Wadakkanchery to Madakkathara. The 320 kV, 2,000 MW HVDC line was in fact added as a continuation of the 800 kV, 6,000 MW 1,765-km Raigarh-Pugalur DC line project on the request of Kerala.  Special task force National transmission utility Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd (PGCIL) undertook the Raigarh-Pugalur-Madakkathara project as part of efforts to reduce the power deficit in the southern region. The Pugalur-Madakkathara HVDC system is special in that it is the first transmission network in India to be built on the Voltage Source Converter-based HVDC system, which can minimise transmission loss. The KSEB had assigned a special task force for completing the project on time. The State government had also announced a special package for land acquisition to avoid delays.
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Test positivity steady in State||The State reported 7,983 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday when 59,999 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden to 4,33,105 cases. The number of recoveries reported on the day is 7,330. The test positivity continues to be steady between 12-14% and touched 13.3 % on Saturday. Going by the official data of the Health Department, in the month of October alone, the State reported 2,36,999 cases, much more than the cumulative case burden of 1,96,106 cases as on September 30. When it comes to the number of deaths, going by the official data, if the cumulative toll on September 30 had been 742, as many deaths were reported in the month of October alone. However, sanctity of the official data regarding the number of deaths is very much suspect as number of actual COVID deaths till date, if one goes by the data released by District Collectors daily, is much more than the official figures. Unofficial reports put Kerala’s cumulative death toll to be at least 1,500 more than the official figures. The cumulative recoveries till date being 3,40,324, the number of patients undergoing treatment in various hospitals at present is 91,190. Of these patients, 795 are critically ill and in ICUs with 231 patients on ventilator support. With 27 more deaths added to the official list, the death toll now stands at 1,484. Ernakulam reported seven of these deaths, Thrissur six, Kozhikode three, Malappuram, Palakkad, Kottayam and Alappuzha two each, while Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Wayanad reported one case each. Of the new cases reported on Saturday, 7,897 cases (99 %) are locally acquired infections, with 786 cases remaining unlinked to any known source of infection. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection is 62.
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Government asked to build Chattambi Swami memorial||The government should take over the ancestral house of Chattambi Swami, one of the leaders of the renaissance movement in the State, at Ponniyam and build a memorial, a report by District Collector Navjot Khosa has recommended. Ms. Khosa visited the house, located at Machel Kulangarakonam in ward three of Pallichal panchayat, on Saturday. It was consequent to a plea by I.B. Satheesh, MLA, to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Minister for Culture A.K. Balan, and Minister for Archaeology Kadannappally Ramachandran to take over the house and conserve it as a protected monument that the Collector visited the house and submitted the report. The Chief Minister had, on the occasion of unveiling of a sculpture of Sree Narayana Guru, declared that a memorial to Chattambi Swami would be built.  Dilapidated state Following the MLA’s plea, the Culture Department had submitted a report to the government that the site could be taken over and a memorial built there. The Archaeology Department had informed that as the building was in a dilapidated state owing to the ravages of time, it could not be conserved as a protected monument. Chattambi Swami spent his childhood at the house at Ponniyam that was his mother Nangadevi’s family home. The house is currently in the possession of fourth generation descendants of Chattambi Swami. Mr. Satheesh had requested that the house be acquired and turned into a memorial, besides a study and research centre to keep alive Chattambi Swami’s legacy. He had sought that a digital museum be set up there so that Chattambi Swami’s life and work could be made familiar to future generations, a statement here said.
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Paediatric TB care to be standardised||Treatment of paediatric tuberculosis (TB) in Kerala is getting streamlined with the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) launching a major six-point initiative on Sunday to ensure that paediatric TB diagnosis is standardised and uniform and that latent TB infection in children is tackled through preventive therapy for all vulnerable or at-risk children. The initiative, called TB-free Air for Every Child in Kerala, is being launched by IAP in partnership with National TB Elimination programme and the State TB Cell, to raise awareness on children’s right to breathe clean air. A major highlight of the initiative is IAP’s decision to introduce a peer audit system for diagnosis of paediatric TB, so that uniform high standards of TB care to all children can be ensured. “Diagnosis of paediatric TB is fraught with much confusion and challenges as collecting sputum samples from children for microbiological analysis is difficult. Now, most paediatricians go by clinical diagnosis for a presumptive diagnosis of TB in children, rather than a proper microbiological analysis,” a senior official said. This lack of uniformity in diagnosis has been creating various issues, including the likelihood of over diagnosis of TB in children. This suspicion had surfaced because of the wide disparity in the rate of Paediatric TB in some districts, with the rates remaining inexplicably high in certain districts. It is possible that at least in some instances, paediatricians might have prescribed TB drugs to those children who tested positive in the Mantoux tuberculin skin test as a precaution, even though Mantoux test is not an indication of active disease. Peer auditing “Which is why IAP’s decision to subject every diagnosis of paediatric TB in the State to peer auditing by a committee of experts should be seen as a bold initiative because it will usher in uniform protocols for diagnosis and standardised care of paediatric TB ,” he added. The decision is important in the context of the State’s fight against antimicrobial resistance too. IAP is also partnering with the Health department’s Latent TB Infection (LTBI) management initiative wherein, all children, in households where a case of pulmonary TB has been diagnosed, will be tested for latent TB infection and given preventive therapy to prevent the infection from becoming active TB. Kerala is the first State to draw up an action plan to manage LTBI. Latent TB is a condition wherein a person might be infected by the TB bacteria but the infection remains latent and becomes an active TB case only when the immunity drops. An estimated 20,000 such children till 15 years of age at risk of TB, including those with diminished immune status because of cancer, renal diseases or HIV will be tested and given preventive TB therapy.
01 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SISF security for Secretariat||The government has handed over security of the Government Secretariat to the State Industrial Security Force (SISF). The move to rope in the specialised police wing, mandated with providing security coverage for vital installations, comes amid multiple instances of security breach, particularly during recent demonstrations sparked by the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case. Emphasising on the need to change security system by replacing the existing arrangement with an 'integrated security plan', Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta issued an order on Saturday to transfer complete security of the Secretariat and premises to SISF with effect from Sunday under the control of an officer not below the rank of an SP. The SISF commandant will be responsible for ensuring adequate security arrangements. The existing 102 posts sanctioned for Secretariat security will function under direct command of the SISF commandant. The parking of vehicles inside the Secretariat premises and outside will also be revamped. Restrictions will be imposed at the entrances with one gate being exclusively dedicated for the passage of VIPs. A separate entry gate will be introduced for the public. A strict access control system will also be put in place, using Iris scan, biometric or QR system, to prevent unauthorised entry.
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister releases booklet on Kerala Bank||Cooperation and Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran on Friday released ‘Kerala Bank: Reimagining People’s Banking’, a booklet brought out by the Kerala Bank and The Hindu , by handing over a copy to Koliyakode N. Krishnan Nair, CPI(M) State committee member and chairman of the State Cooperative Union. The 16-page booklet has been released as part of the observance of the 64th Kerala Formation Day and distributed along with The Hindu across the State.  Financial inclusion The Minister said the booklet was intended to convey to the masses the efforts of the government to expand financial inclusion and provide the common man modern banking services at low or no rates. Kerala Bank chairperson Mini Antony said the Kerala Bank’s inherent strength was revealed in its achievement of a net profit of Rs. 374.75 crore over fourth months, at a time when the world economy had strained under the effects of COVID-19. Kerala Bank Chief Executive Officer P. S. Rajan said the bank touched the lives of several lakhs of common people and would play a key role in the State’s economic growth. Kerala Bank Chief General Manager K. C. Sahadevan said that the merger of the district cooperative banks had removed the limitations and imbalances imposed by geographical factors on their financial services. Among those present on the occasion were T. K. Roy, General Manager (Audit, Inspection and Marketing), Kerala Bank; and K. K. Joshy, Senior General Manager (Advt), The Hindu . Videos running to more than an hour support the content in the booklet which also includes a quiz for children to be conducted by the Kerala Bank and The Hindu , as part of the National Cooperative Week (November 14-20). Quiz Children up to the age of 12 are eligible to participate. The answers should be mailed tokeralabankquiz @gmail.comin the prescribed format. Entries received till 5 p.m. on November 30 will be considered. The three top winners will receive Rs. 5,000, Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 2,000 respectively. If there are more than three persons qualified for the prizes, the winners will be decided by a draw of lots.
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM to open online Sargotsavam today||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate an online Sargotsavam at Government Model Boys Higher Secondary School, Thycaud, on Sunday. The festival is being organised in connection with the language week celebrations as part of Kerala Piravi. Vocalist Pandit Ramesh Narayan will inaugurate a Gananjali in which students, teachers, and parents will participate. On Day 2 of the festival, a webinar — Sarga Samvadam — will be inaugurated by former Planning Board member C.P. John. The online ‘Kaviyarangu’ on Tuesday will be inaugurated by Vayalar Award winner Ezhacherry Ramachandran. Students and prominent poets will take part in the poets’ meet. The next three days will see online Kerala quiz, poetry recitation, PowerPoint presentation, and creative writing being held.
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tiding over challenges of online education||With schools remaining closed, the challenge before teachers increasingly is how to enliven academic and other activities and sustain students’ interest in them, not to mention overcoming the feeling of isolation or dispiritedness that threatens to overcome all. As an answer, the district unit of the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, has come up with online gatherings of teachers from classes 1 to 12 in the district. These teacher empowerment gatherings have a slew of objectives, the primary one being to increase the effectiveness of the First Bell online classes through various follow-up activities. With the district Samagra’s Digi Showcase initiative being extended across the district, teachers will be given training through these gatherings to support students in creating digital portfolios and magazines of their creative endeavours. The extended stay-at-home is not easy for both students and parents, and often it is teachers that both turn to for sharing their problems. However, it is important that teachers be scientifically trained to help relieve the frustrations and anxiety of both. At the teachers’ gatherings, clinical psychologists or counsellors will train teachers to address issues raised by students. The gathering will also be exploited to provide counselling to teachers who themselves are under stress for various reasons. Updating knowledge The online meetings will be a platform for subject experts or distinguished personalities such as writers or scientists to interact with teachers to motivate them to increase their reading and research in their respective subjects. With teachers not burdened by various responsibilities in school, this is felt by Samagra to be the best time to organise for them discussions on latest books and publications through these gatherings. Webinars too be held.
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sports council car used to smuggle gold, says BJP||BJP State president K. Surendran on Saturday said smugglers had repeatedly used cars of the Kerala Sports Council to ferry contraband gold to Bengaluru. At a press conference here, Mr. Surendran said the private secretary to KSC president Mercy Kuttan was aware of the crime. Mr. Surendran said he had information that a consignment of gold had reached Bengaluru on July 5 in a car bearing KSC board. The vehicle had also visited the house of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He said the private secretary was a CPI(M) nominee. Ms. Mercy Kuttan had appointed her at the behest of the chairperson of the Youth Commission. Ms. Mercy Kuttan has since denied the allegations as patently false. She said she would sue Mr. Surendran for defamation.
01 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Prohibitory orders extended in capital||District Collector Navjot Khosa on Saturday issued an order to extend the prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Cr.PC till November 15 as part of the COVID-19 containment measures. The order issued by Dr. Khosa, who is also the chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), came shortly before the previous order that had come into effect on October 4 was set to expire on Saturday midnight. The prohibitory orders bans gatherings of more than five persons in public places. Congregations or functions of more than five people will not be permitted in containment zones, except for weddings and funerals where up to 20 people are permitted. Strict movement restrictions and perimeter control will be enforced in such places. Besides, only essential activities, including sale of essential groceries, medicines, and food items will be allowed in containment zones. In the cases of places outside containment zones, public functions of over five people will remain prohibited while indoor gatherings such as social, cultural, political, academic, and religious programmes, including funerals, can have up to 20 participants. Weddings can, however, be conducted with up to 50 participants. Public transport, government institutions, banks, commercial establishments, industries, and hospitals can function in line with the COVID-19 protocol. However, gatherings of more than five people will not be allowed in front of banks and commercial outlets.  Public exams The district administration has permitted the conduct of public examinations that were announced before October 2. However, examinations that are yet to be announced can be scheduled only ater obtaining prior permission of the DDMA. The move to extend curbs comes at a time when the district has 8,774 active COVID-19 cases. A total of 58,729 cases have been reported so far.
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||650 tablets of psychotropic drugs seized||The district excise enforcement and anti-narcotic special squad has arrested Nemom Kannan, aka Pandi Kannan, of Attukal on the charge of selling 650 tablets of psychotropic drugs smuggled from Tamil Nadu. Tip-off The Excise team was acting on a tip-off received by Thiruvananthapuram Deputy Excise Commissioner Elias. Kannan, a regular user of psychotropic tablets, used to sell the tablets to school and college students, a statement from Anilkumar T., chief inspector of the special squad, said. The arrest of Kannan follows investigations and inspections conducted by the Excise Department. Sale and use of drugs The investigations were in the wake of an increase in sale and use of drugs, the statement said.
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||244 kg of fish harvested||As much as 244 kg of fish was harvested at Travancore Titanium Products Ltd. here as part of the Subhiksha Keralam project on Saturday. Minister for Fisheries J. Mercykutty Amma, who inaugurated the harvest, promised to provide better quality fingerlings to expand farming. She handed over the first harvest of fish to company chairperson A.A. Rasheed. The fish was sold at Rs. 250 a kg.
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Torchlight protest today||A torchlight protest will be held in the district as part of a Statewide agitation against the rising sexual crimes and atrocities against Dalit, Adivasi, Muslim, and gender minorities on Sunday, Kerala Piravi day. The protests at 12 centres, from Raj Bhavan to Gandhi Park in East Fort, will be led by groups of five persons in keeping with COVID-19 norms from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m.
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSUM start-up accelerator for electronic technologies||The Kerala Start-up Mission (KSUM), in association with the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC), is setting up an Accelerator for Electronic Technologies in a bid to strengthen the start-up ecosystem in the State. The new facility is aimed at supporting start-ups in scaling-up stage to develop themselves as sustainable enterprises. Located in the C-DAC building at Technopark here, the plug-and-play facility offers uninterrupted power and Internet to the start-ups. More than 20 start-ups including those working in the Internet of Things, cyber security, and IT products domains have come forward to occupy space, according to the KSUM. The accelerator is expected to generate around 1,000 direct employment opportunities.  Future lab One of the main objectives of the new facility is to develop itself as a leading accelerator in electronics in the country, by providing a nurturing environment for development of advanced technology products. The KSUM will provide business connects and support investment facilitation for the incubates in the Electronics accelerator. The accelerator will also host a future lab where start-ups can experiment with some of the emerging technologies.
01 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police officers transferred, suspended||Two police officers were transferred and five personnel placed under suspension, pending inquiry, on Saturday in connection with the security lapse that occurred at the Cliff House, the Chief Minister’s official residence, during a Youth Congress agitation on Friday night. The Museum Circle Inspector and sub-inspector have been transferred to the district police headquarters. Five police personnel have been suspended on the basis of an intelligence inquiry.
01 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Civil service training||The Department of Sainik Welfare has invited applications from the dependants of ex-servicemen and those aspiring to write the Civil Services 2020-2021 exam for the entrance to be held for shortlisting candidates for Preliminary-cum-Main training. The entrance examination will be held from 11 a.m. to 12.30 noon on November 5. Sixty candidates will be shortlisted based on the marks in the entrance examination and interview, according to A. Kishan, director-in-charge. The online classes from Mondays to Fridays will commence from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. and will be for eight months from November 19. Further details can be had from mobile 9495397622 and 9349812622.
01 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KELTRON gets Defence orders||Public sector undertaking Keltron has received an order for fabricating and assembling the towed array system for Maareech, an advanced torpedo defence system (ATDS) that allows naval vessels to detect incoming torpedoes and adopt countermeasures. Keltron has received the Rs. 56.29-crore order from Bharat Electronics Ltd, Bengaluru, the system integrator for the ATDS, the office of Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan said in a statement. This is part of orders worth Rs. 71.25 crore received from various establishments under the Defence Ministry. Keltron will be responsible for the fabrication, assembly, and testing of the Maareech Towed Array System, which has been developed by the Naval Physical and Oceanographic Laboratory (NPOL), Kochi, and the Naval Science and Technological Laboratory (NSTL), Visakhapatnam, the statement said. Keltron has also received another order, worth Rs. 14.97 crore, from NPOL for building various defence-related electronics systems.  In total, orders worth Rs. 71.25 crore from various defence establishments
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KPCC observes anniversaries||The KPCC on Saturday observed the 36th anniversary of the martyrdom of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and the 145th birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhai Patel. Congress leaders led by KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran and UDF convener M.M.Hassan paid floral tributes to the two departed leaders. Mr.Ramachandran also handed over the keys to the beneficiaries of a housing project taken up by the Kerala Legislative State Association for those who lost dwellings in the floods.
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Eight police officials feted for rescue work at Kavalappara||Eight police officials from Kerala who participated in the rescue operation following the massive landslip at Kavalappara in Malappuram last year have been awarded the special operation medal of the Union Home Minister. The awardees include Malappuram District Police Chief Abdul Karim U.; Inspector, Edakara police station, Manoj Parayatta; Sub-Inspector, Pothukal police station, Abbas K.; Sub-Inspectors, Malabar Special Police, Armed Police, Mohammed Basheer T.K. and Syamkumar S.K; Havildar Nidhish C.; and police constables Zakeer K. and Abdul Hameed M. Kerala has won the second highest number of awards after Delhi.
01 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Woman dies after delivery||A 37-year-old woman who gave birth to a baby on Saturday morning died later. The Museum police identified the deceased as Sreekala, wife of Manoj Kumar of Mudavanmugal. She had been admitted to a private nursing home at Bakery Junction on Friday for delivery. After delivery on Saturday, she developed bleeding problems, the police said, adding that she died at 1 p.m.
01 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||First phase of sewerage line opened||Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty inaugurated the first phase of the sewerage line from Murinjapalam to Kannammoola on Friday.
01 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||1,112 cases in Thrissur||As many as 1,112 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur district on Saturday while 582 people recovered from the disease. There are 10,437 active cases in the district and 79 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various districts. So far 39,771 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district while 29,006 people recovered from the disease. According to the official statistics, 1,104 people contracted the virus through local contact. Of them 158 patients are above the age of 60 and 96 people are below the age of 10. In all 6,730 people are in home observation. As many as 6,242 samples were taken for the test on Saturday.
01 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Traffic resumed to normal level at Kuthiran||The traffic at Kuthiran on Thrissur-Palakkad NH, which was disrupted following an accident, resumed to normalcy on Saturday evening. Driver of a container lorry was killed when four lorries collided with one another at Kuthiran in the wee hours on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Jineesh, 31, of Koothattukulam. Three others were injured in the accident. The series of collisions occurred when one lorry tried to overtake another. One of the container lorries overturned in the middle of the road. Two other lorries rammed it while another one fell to the road leading to the twin tunnel injuring the driver. Accidents have become common at Kuthiran. Driver killed A driver of a lorry from Tamil Nadu was killed on Thursday after the vehicles overturned at Kuthiran. Traffic was disrupted for hours at Kuthiran following the accident. Long queues extending to kilometers were formed on both sides. The authorities opened the tunnel road temporarily to ease the traffic jam. Vehicles from Palakkad to Thrissur were allowed to pass through the tunnel. The traffic was resumed to normal by evening.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||203 in Pathanamthitta||As many as 203 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 169 contracted the virus through local contact. The contact source of 30 among these cases are yet to be traced. Eraviperoor and Ranni-Pazhavangadi panchayats reported 16 cases each, followed by Thiruvalla municipality and Vadasserikkara panchayats with 12 cases. Meanwhile, a 51-year-old woman from Thottaman, who had died at the Ranni Taluk hospital the other day, tested positive post-death. This is, however, yet to be included in the Statewide list. With 215 recoveries during the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 2,449 active cases. Meanwhile, District Collector P.B. Noohu has extended the prohibitory order till November 15, a bulletin said here.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||The lilac devil is back||
01 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur Collector clarifies on R&R for project oustees||The State government had notified the land and structure acquisition with regard to Marrimakulapalli village (for getting inundated in the Chitravathi Balancing Reservoir) in 2006 and the compensation was settled then itself, but rehabilitation was not done till now. So, as a one-time settlement (OTS) of the State’s R&R Policy implementation Rs. 10 lakh was given instead of Rs. 6.75 lakh, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu clarified at a press conference held in Anantapur on Saturday night. About 170 persons from Marrimakulapalli have been demanding Rs. 10 lakh as OTS as they too had crossed 18 years of age now and since a similar compensation was given in the neighbouring CC Revu village under the same project with the cut-off date taken as 2019 and 2020 June in some cases. “The cut-off date for compensation is based on the notification for acquisition given and eligibility is based on the Socio-Economic Survey. For Marrimakulapalli within the FRL area, compensation is a settled issue in 2006 and for CC Revu and another village, which lie beyond Full Reservoir Level, based on their request now, the State government decided to provide them R&R package. Hence cut-off date is taken when the acquisition is notified in 2019 or 2020,” the Collector clarified. “While all these things have been explained to the Project Displaced Families in Marrimakulapalli, some people with vested interests were creating an issue there,” he told mediapersons. He clarified that there was no legal provision for the 170 persons from Marrimakulapalli demanding Rs. 10 lakh OTS at this point of time, and compensation for the 1,729 PDFs and for 1,248 structures additionally had been finalised and they were either paid or being paid within next one week in the entire project area.
01 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indira Gandhi was a farmer’s friend: Chinta||Former Union Minster and Congress Working Committee (CWC) working president Chinta Mohan on Saturday paid rich tributes to late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on occasion of her death anniversary at his residence in Tirupati. Dr. Chinta Mohan said it was Indira Gandhi who had ushered in the green revolution in India, followed by introduction of minimum support price norm in 1975 and weaning the country from its dependence on the US and Myanmar for food grains. Nationalization of banks led to agriculture reforms, providing crop loans to the poor farmers, liberation of bonded farm labourers. “It was Indira Gandhi who laid the stone for Kalyani dam in Tirupati, salvaging people from drinking water crisis,” he said.
01 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CBI has become a pet of Centre, State govts.’||Communist Party of India (CPI) national secretary K. Narayana on Saturday flayed the functioning of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), terming it a pet of the Prime Minister and Chief Ministers. Addressing a public meeting at Padmavati Park in Tirupati to mark the centenary celebrations of the AITUC, Mr Narayana said that those in power at the Centre and State were misusing the CBI to settle scores against their opponents. He alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was taking advantage of the sacrifices of the armed forces at the borders to boost his image. The CPI leader added that the vast riches of the country were at the mercy of a few corporate entities in India. “Prime Minister Modi should realise that the workers are the creators of riches,” the CPI leader said, criticising the Modi government for not fulfilling its promise of providing Rs. 10,000 succour to street vendors for the loss they suffered during the COVID-19 lockdown. ‘Movement will prevail’ He said that the Communist movement would continue to prevail as long as the rulers supported exploitation of the poor and followed non-secular policies. CPI State secretary P. Harinath Reddy and Chittoor district secretary Ramanaidu spoke. Earlier, the CPI cadres took out a rally from SGS Arts College to Padmavati Park.
01 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Villagers ransack police station after ‘rescue’ of minor bride||About 50 villagers stormed the Vedurukuppam police station on Saturday night and ransacked the premises, damaging furniture and attacking the constables on duty, after the police intervened in a “child marriage” and informed the ICDS authorities about it. The Puttur sub-division police on Saturday rescued a 13-year-old girl after she was allegedly “married away” to a 36-year-old man at Yanamala Manda village of Vedurukuppam mandal, 60 km from here. The marriage was reportedly performed on October 29. Families summoned According to information, the area police at Vedurukuppam received information about the child marriage on Friday evening. The area sub-inspector, Lokesh Reddy, summoned the families of both sides and counselled them, besides issuing a warning that the minor should girl be kept under the custody of her mother till further measures. He had informed the ICDS (Integrated Child Development Agency) authorities in the district about the girl.  Deputy Superintendent of Police (Puttur) D. Murali Dhar, along with special parties, rushed to the village and brought the situation under control. “When the area SI tried to initiate measures for rehabilitation of the minor girl after her marriage to a 36 year old man, a group of villagers ransacked the police station at Vedurukuppam. We have registered criminal cases against several persons and several more would be identified,” the Deputy SP said, adding that several of the accused, including the bridegroom, were allegedly involved in brewing of illicit liquor in the village. A police picket has been arranged at the hamlet.
01 November 2020||HANUMAN JUNCTION,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 kg of silver ornaments seized||The Krishna district police seized 30.655 kg of silver ornaments, worth about Rs. 15 lakh being transported from West Godavari district. During vehicle check-up CI Venkataramana and SI Chanti Babu confiscated the jewellery reportedly being carried without any bills. Police intercepted a car, proceeding from Eluru to Vijayawada, near the bus stand and found two bags. They questioned two passengers, S. Lakshman and S. Sanjay, who were travelling in the vehicle, but could not give proper reply. Police seized the ornaments, along with Rs. 20,000 cash and alerted the Commercial Taxes department. Investigation is under progress.
01 November 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Artifacts of police history on display||An array of mannequins wearing police uniforms stood out as a special attraction at the Police Commemoration Week that concluded in Kadapa on Saturday. While it is common to conduct meetings at the police memorial, organise blood donation camps and hold open houses to showcase the state-of-the-art weapons, fingerprint collection system, network and communication gadgets, the Kadapa police went a step ahead by displaying rare artifacts and impressive collections housed in the department. The police uniform is such a complex collection of objects that even officials of other departments find it difficult to identify the cadre based on the uniform, not to speak of the public.  Rare records “It is our idea to display to the public the uniform worn by the policemen of various ranks, right from the Director-General to the home guard,” said Kadapa district Superintendent of Police(SP) K.K.N. Anburajan, who conceived the project. Apart from the uniform, the expo had eye-catching items such as a constable’s ammunition pouch, belt, spectacles, police seals, writing desk and table-top clock — all dating back to the 1940s and 1950s. Similarly, a full-sleeve shirt worn by a Deputy Superintendent of Police in Kadapa region in 1955 (before the formation of Andhra Pradesh State) caught the fancy of visitors. Mr. Anburajan had painstakingly collected most of the artifacts during his previous stint as Officer on Special Duty at Pulivendula. Several rare records pertaining to the district were also on display at the expo. The ‘Part IV history sheets’ of some villages, including important events, track record and anecdotes, were carefully preserved and displayed using lamination protection. “One such letter was from a constable who had written to his superior officer seeking to be relieved from the department on getting a higher job. These documents bring to the fore the situation prevalent in those days,” said Additional Superintendent of Police(SP) (Armed Reserve) Rishikesava Reddy, who preserves the artifacts. Impressive collection Apart from the khaki dress, the impressive collection of caps, shoulder badges, collar badges and belts turned out to be a treasure trove of information, especially to children interested in joining the services.
01 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stage set for procurement of paddy in East Godavari||Procurement of paddy for the Kharif season this year is all set to begin in East Godavari district from the second week of November. Paddy was sown in over 2.2 lakh hectares, and a yield of over 13.60 lakh metric tonnes is expected, as per the preliminary estimations by the Agriculture Department. In a procurement preparedness meeting with officials of Agriculture, Marketing and Revenue Departments and rice millers here, Joint Collector (Revenue) G. Lakshmisha said. “Procurement of paddy will commence from the second week of November through the 682 Paddy Purchasing Centres (PPCs). This year, each of the 1,129 Rythu Bharosa Kendras will have a procurement assistant, who will guide farmers on various parameters of paddy quality and Minimum Support Price apart from coordination between the farmer and the PPC,” Mr. Lakshmisha said. Gunny bags The rice millers have been told to offer the MSP of Rs. 1,888 per quintal of A Grade paddy and Rs. 1,868 for General Grade. This year, the State government will not procure the discoloured paddy as the paddy procured by the government would be meant for distribution under the Public Distribution System. Paddy was the most affected crop during the recent rains and floods in the Godavari across the length and breadth of the East Godavari district including the Godavari delta. District authorities have already geared up to meet the demand for gunny bags in order to prevent delay in paddy procurement owing to their shortage. “At least 80,000 gunny bags are already available with us to help speed up the paddy procurement across the East Godavari district. However, the total requirement of gunny bags is nearly 1.6 crore in the district. If need be, we are ready to purchase gunny bags from private sellers,” Mr. Lakshmisha told The Hindu . The Sub-Collectors at Amalapuram and Rajamahendravaram have been told monitor the procurement, guaranteeing the farmer to get the promised support price for the paddy. Civil Supplies Department District Manager E. Lakshmi Reddy and other officials were present.
01 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BC corporations an outcome of Jagan’s padayatra: Minister||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Saturday stated that the creation of 56 corporations for the upliftment of the Backward Classes of the State was the outcome of the padayatra embarked upon by Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy as the Leader of the Opposition in 2017-18. Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna, Kakinada City MLA D. Chandrasekhar Reddy and District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Saturday offered a floral tribute to the portrait of sage Valmiki marking his Jayanti at the Collectorate. “Women are being encouraged to design plans for the uplift of the backward classes with their active role in the 56 BC Corporations,” said Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna during the Valmiki Jayanthi programme. Mr. Muralidhar said that the life of Valmiki is a lesson on how education plays a pivotal role, and how it can help achieve one’s goals in life. “Backward classes should choose education as a tool for their uplift,” Mr. Muralidhar said. District Revenue Officer Ch. Sattibabu and BC Welfare Department Deputy Director K. Mayoori attended the programme.
01 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID tests for students after reopening of schools in Agency||Rampachodavaram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer Praveen Adithya has directed the teaching staff to ensure that the parents of the children are completely aware of the precautionary measures being taken to reopen schools, thereby guaranteeing them a safe environment in the wake of spread of COVID-19 in the East Godavari agency. Mr. Praveen Adithya on Saturday reviewed the arrangements to reopen the primary and ZP high schools in the Rampa agency from November 2. “It is mandatory that every teacher should undergo the COVID-19 test to be eligible to attend the school. The students should be served warm water and warm food on time. Special medical camps will be conducted for students within a week of reopening the schools to detect if any of them is infected,” he said. “However, detailed proposals are required to be prepared for additional facilities to reopen the ashram schools with hostel facility in the Rampa agency. They will be reopened after further guidelines from the State government,” said Mr. Praveen Adithya. The Education Department officials have been told to run the schools with regular supervision by the headmaster and the Mandal Education Officer till the end of this year.
01 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth held for bid to kill woman||A 20-year-old youth was arrested on Saturday in connection with an attempt to murder a 25-year-old woman under Kakinada Port police limits in East Godavari district. On the night of October 25, Balasadi Mahalakshmi allegedly attacked P. Akhila with a cement brick while she was sleeping in her house at Etimogga village in Kakinada rural mandal. According to Kakinada DSP V. Bheema Rao, the accused allegedly attempted to eliminate the victim as she was reportedly interfering in his relationship with a girl from her family. The accused was arrested on Saturday. The police registered a case.
01 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Number of devotees to be restricted at Pushkar ghats||Entry of devotees will be restricted at the Tungabhadra Pushkarams to be conducted from November 20 to December 1 at 21 ghats in the district in order to comply with COVID-19 guidelines, Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath said here on Saturday. After inspecting the permanent development works as part of the preparation for the conduct of the Pushkarams, Mr. Rajendranath, along with Kurnool MP Sanjeev Kumar, District Collector G. Veerapandian and Kurnool MLA Hafeez Khan, said that the State government had sanctioned Rs. 230 crore for laying of roads, construction and repair of ghats, street lighting and construction of toilets. “Adherence to COVID protocols will be mandatory and it is the duty of the administration to ensure that the virus does not spread further during the 15-day Pushkarams, during which many from Karnataka are expected to visit,” the Minister said.
01 November 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make ‘Nadu Nedu’ success, parents told||State Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy on Saturday asked the parents of students in State-run schools to take active part in the committees formed to give facelift to schools. Reviewing the implementation of the ‘Mana Badi Nadu Nedu’ in his home constituency of Atmakur, he said: “Who cares for the bright future of children better than parents? Parents should get actively participate in the committees to ensure best infrastructure in schools.” The Minister, who visited some schools in Maripadu mandal to oversee the scheme, said a social audit would be conducted to assess the way the scheme was implemented. Another review would be conducted after 15 days, said the Minister who was upset with tardy implementation of the scheme in some schools.
01 November 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zero deaths registered in Nellore, Prakasam||After long, COVID-19 deaths abated for the first time in south coastal Andhra Pradesh while the caseload decreased further in the districts of Nellore and Prakasam in a span of 24 hours. The relentless efforts of the health professionals paid dividends as the combined toll in the two districts remained unchanged at 1,057. Nellore district accounted for 486 deaths so far and Prakasam district for the rest, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Saturday night. The positive trend of more recoveries than fresh admissions continued. While 220 persons, including 86 in Nellore district, tested positive for the disease in the two districts, 312 persons won the battle. The number of active cases dipped further to 2,760 with Nellore district accounting for 1,420 and Prakasam district for 1,340. So far, 59,642 persons in Nellore district and 57,490 in Prakasam district have recovered from the disease. Meanwhile, Prakasam District Collector Pola Bhaskar assessed the preparedness of the grassroots level staff in handling any fresh COVID-19 cases.
01 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. urged to continue nursing course||Phasing out of General Nursing Midwifery (GNM) course will pose grave injustice to students, especially from the weaker section of the society pursuing education in nursing, opined CPI(M)-led Kula Vivaksha Porata Sangam (KVPS) and Students Federation of India(SFI) in Prakasam district. The State Government should continue the GNM course, popular among students belonging to SC,ST,BC and minority communities, demanded KVPS Prakasam district secretary B. Raghuram and SFI Prakasam district secretary Ch.Vinod. Scrapping of the State-run course in some districts, including Prakasam, on the pretext of upgrading it to B.Sc Nursing degree course would pave the way for privatisation of nursing education, depriving job opportunities to the weaker section students, they said on Saturday. A majority of the nursing staff in State-run hospitals were GNM diploma holders and were the lower strata of the society, they said.
01 November 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sale of firecrackers to be allowed on Nov. 13 and 14||Rajamahendravaram Sub-Collector Anupama Anjali on Saturday said the sale of firecrackers would be allowed only for two days on November 13 and 14 in the city. In a review meeting on the safety and licensing procedure with officials from Fire and Revenue Department and police personnel, Ms. Anjali said, “Applications will be accepted between November 1 and 5 to grant licence to sell crackers. Action will be taken against those who begin the sales without the licence.” Officials are yet to finalise the site where the stalls would be set up as the two major grounds, one at Subramanyam and another at Arts College, have been used as rythu bazaars since the lockdown started. Rajamahendravaram City Fire Crackers’ Merchants Association president Bejawada Ranga Rao has appealed to the officials to consider setting up the stores on the Arts College grounds .
01 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will back farmers’ agitation, says Congress||The Congress party has slammed the Central and State governments for wreaking havoc on the farm sector by adopting anti-farmer measures in the name of reforms. The party led by Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president S. Sailajanath observed ‘Kisan Adhikar Divas’ on Saturday to mark the death anniversary of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and also the birth anniversary of former Deputy Prime Minister Sardar Patel. Wearing the traditional ‘Gandhi cap’, he led a demonstration near MCT office along with PCC general secretary D. Rambhupal Reddy and other leaders. Mr. Sailajanath called the ‘dark bills’ passed by the Centre as having the potential to ‘disempower’ the farmers by abolition of minimum support price and by doing away with ‘mandis’ and state procurement. “The party will back the farmers’ agitation raging across the country through this satyagraha,” he said. Mr. Rambhupal Reddy said the bills were aimed at strengthening the hands of corporate lobbyists and letting down the farmers. “After a hard cropping season, the farmers will face a bleak future at the stage of trade, price mechanism and procurement, thanks to the ‘one-sided’ bills”, he fumed.
01 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yanamala decries TDP leaders’ house arrests, calls move illegal||TDP Polit Bureau member and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on Saturday condemned the house arrests of his party leaders and called the act illegal, anti-democratic and anti-Constitution. Many TDP leaders were put under house arrest to prevent their participation in the Jail Bharo protest programme in Guntur, called by the Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi JAC as part of a three-day protest against the arrest and handcuffing of the Dalit farmers by the police. In a statement, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said it was unfortunate that protests that were being staged in a peaceful manner were being obstructed. He wondered if the rule of law existed in the State and said it seemed like the ruling party had unleashed “a special Jagan rule of law”. He spoke strongly against “brutal repression which is robbing people of their fundamental rights.” Permissions to hold protests were being denied and voices of people who wanted to speak up were being gagged, he alleged. People should condemn in strong terms the acts of oppression and suppression of the YSRCP government, he said. Varla calls it ‘police raj’ The party’s another Polit Bureau member Varla Ramaiah, speaking to the media, came down heavily on the Jagan Mohan Reddy government and said that people were at the receiving end of the ‘police raj”. Questioning the right of the police department to detain and confine the TDP leaders to their homes, he said this was against their right to freedom of expression. Referring to the suspension of six police constables for handcuffing Dalit farmers, he said the government had found scapegoats in the lower cadre of the police department to protect the top officials at whose behest the handcuffing and the arrest orders were carried out. He accused the Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy of unleashing an “autocratic rule” in the State and warned that if he wanted to continue in power, he should recognise the need to shun autocracy and embrace democracy.
01 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Classes for 9th, 10th, Sr. Inter from tomorrow||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Saturday said schools in the State will reopen on Monday (November 2) and classes would be conducted in strict adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines. At a press conference here, the Minister released the academic calendar for schools and colleges. He said for students of Classes 9, 10 and Intermediate second year (Class 12), classes would commence on November 2, for Intermediate first year (Class 11) students on November 16, for students of Classes 6, 7 and 8 on November 23 and for students of 1 to 5 classes on December 14. Residential schools and hostels would reopen on November 23. The academic year 2020-21 will conclude in August next year. Schools will have 180 working days. Examinations For Intermediate first year, the first term classes will be conducted from November 16 to January 30, 2021 and the second term from February 1 to April 23. Students will write their theory exams in the last week of March. For Inter second year, the first term classes will start from November 2 and run up to January 9 and the second term will be from January 11 to April 23. The students will appear for practical exams in the first week of March and theory exams in the last week of March. Degree, PG courses The classes for degree and professional courses like B. Tech and postgraduate courses will start on November 2. Among non-professional courses, students in the third and fifth semester will attend classes from November 2, write their internal exams from December 1 to 5 and appear for semester-end exams on March 8. Classes for students in semesters 4 and 6 will commence on March 25. Students will write their internal exams from June 1 to 5 and semester-end exams from August 9. The academic year for students in the third, fifth and seventh semester of B.Tech and B. Pharmacy courses will start from November 2. Their internal exams will be held from December 1 to 5 and semester-end exams from March 8. Similarly, classes for students in the fourth, sixth and eighth semesters will start from March 25. Their internal exams would be from June 1 to 5 and semester-end exams from August 9. With regard to postgraduate courses, students in the third semester will attend classes from November 2, write their internal exams from December 1 to 5 and semester-end exams from March 8. Classes for students who are in their fourth semester will start from March 25, their internal exams would be from June 1 to 5 and semester-end exams from August 9. Pointing to the fact that the government had slashed the tuition fees in private institutions by 30%, he said only 70% tuition fees should be collected by private and corporate colleges. The parents who had paid full fees could claim refund, he said, warning that the government would take stringent action against the managements which collected excess fees. He said6.3 lakh students passed SSC exams and there were 5.83 lakh seats available in government and private colleges in the State.
01 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu calls for ‘Vision 2050’ to transform country in 30 years||Former Chief Minister and national president of the TDP N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday exhorted budding technopreneurs and young managers to develop ‘Vision 2050’ to usher in a qualitative transformation in the country in the next 30 years. Interacting with young minds of IIT Bombay virtually as part of Alankar 2020, the IIT’s global leadership summit on the theme ‘Order in Chaos’, organised by the Sailesh J. Mehta School of Management, Mr. Naidu urged the youth to think ahead of their times. Sharing the experience of his own successful journey that began with his Vision 2020 document designed in 1999, he said it started with the construction of a single tower, HiTech City, but later global giants like Microsoft and many US companies set up units, creating a Cyberabad city, to the existing twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad. Attributing the success to a clear vision and meticulous planning, he said traits like patience, persuasion and perseverance go a long way in helping one achieve the target. Key areas Mr. Naidu said the future belonged to Information Technology, non-conventional energy and skilling and therefore, students must focus on these key aspects. “Indian youth is strong in mathematics and English and we should effectively use this for the benefit of the country,” he said. Others who spoke at the event included lyricist Javed Akhtar, nuclear physicist and former Director of Bhabha Atomic Research Centre Anil Kakodkar.
01 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramineni award for G.R. Chintala||Dr. Ramineni Foundation has announced its annual awards for five persons this year, with foundation chairman Dharmapracharak Ramineni revealing the names at a press conference on Saturday. The Visishta Puraskaaram has been conferred on National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) Chairman Govinda Raju Chintala. Three Visesha Puraskaarams were conferred on anchor and actor Suma Kanakala, badminton umpire Sudhakar Vemuri and Dwarakamani Seva Trust founder Bandlamudi Srinivas. A special jury award called Pratyeka Puraskaaram was announced for Sonu Sood at the request of many Telugus, said foundation convener Pathuri Nagabhushanam. Mr. Nagabhushanam said that the foundation awards only four awards including one Visishta Puraskaaram and three Visesha Puraskaarams every year since 1999 on October 12, and this year, the special award will be conferred on Mr. Sood for his exemplary humanitarian service during the COVID-19 lockdown. The convener said the awards are conferred on October 12 every year, marking the birth anniversary of Dr. Ramineni Ayyanna Chowdary on whose 70th birthday the foundation was established in Cincinnati, United States. “Due to COVID-19, we are only announcing the awardees for now. The awards function will be conducted in December or January depending on the situation,” he said. The awardees were selected by a committee comprising L. V. Prasad Eye Institute founder Dr. G.N. Rao, noted psychologist B.V. Pattabhiram and veteran journalist K. Sriramachandra Murthy. Ayyanna Chowdary of Brahmanakoduru village in Guntur left for the U.S. in 1955 where he worked as a professor.
01 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to seek feedback on schemes||YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) leaders will be seeking feedback from the public on the welfare schemes implemented by the government, for 10 days from November 6 coinciding with the completion of three years of party president and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s Praja Sankalpa Yatra. Disclosing this at a press conference on Saturday, government advisor (public affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said remarkable changes were brought about by Mr. Jagan in the last one and a half years. It was on November 6, 2017 that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy began his historic Praja Sankalpa Yatra, which gave him a valuable insight into the people’s problems. This was reflected in the YSRCP manifesto which was implemented in letter and spirit. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said the government had fulfilled about 90% of the promises made by Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who emerged as a trendsetter in working for social justice. Starting November 6, the ruling party leaders would be meeting people to get a feedback on the welfare schemes and find out how to serve them better. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy took governance to the people’s doorstep through various initiatives and delivered the welfare schemes in a transparent manner, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said.
01 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor extends AP Formation Day greetings||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan greeted the people on the occasion of A.P. Formation Day celebrations, on Sunday. The government has initiated many development programmes and has taken up several welfare activities for poor in the State, said Mr. Harichandan. Andhra Pradesh is blessed with abundant natural resources, fertile land, canals and river basins and the State opped in marine products output As regards trading, he said the State was having good infrastructure and potential entrepreneurs and would be in good position in the country in future. He highlighted ‘Navaratnalu’ and the focus on education, housing, health, agriculture and other core sectors by the government. Tributes to Iron Man The Governor paid floral tributes to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on the occasion of his birth anniversary at the Raj Bhavan on Saturday. At a programme held at Durbar Hall, Mr. Harichandan recalled the services of the Iron Man of India to the nation.
01 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID safety measures to be enforced in schools||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz has said that district, divisional and mandal level Task force committees have been formed to enforce implementation of COVID safety measures in schools from November 2 as schools reopen. Mr. Imtiaz asked officials concerned to appoint one Nodal Officer for every school. He said each task force committee member should visit at least four schools in a week and inspect arrangements in compliance with COVID safety guidelines issued by the Central and State governments. He asked officials to encourage private schools to continue online classes. The schools will reopen on November 2 for classes 9 and 10, on November 23 for classes 6, 7 and 8 and on December 14 for classes 1 to 5.
01 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rallies mark Police Commemoration Day||Police organised several service activities as part of the Police Commemoration Day programme, conducted from October 21 to 31, in the State. Activities came to an end with Ekta Diwas, the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, on Saturday. The police officers organised Open Houses, dog shows, weapon displays, band party shows, took out rallies and awareness programmes to mark the day.
01 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Table tennis administrator S.M. Sultan dies of COVID||Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) senior vice-president and A.P. Table Tennis Association secretary S.M. Sultan succumbed to COVID-19 here on Saturday while undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Sultan (61) was the third person in his family to succumb to the pandemic. His mother passed away 10 days ago while his wife Lubna Moosavi died on Friday. Sultan’s son Javed Moosavi had also tested positive for COVID-19 and is undergoing treatment. TTFI president Dishyant Chautala, in a message on the Federation’s web portal, said that Sultan was an able administrator and an excellent organiser. “His wisdom and knowledge had always come in handy for TFFI, and he will be missed badly, ” Mr. Dishyant said.  Sultan was an alumnus of the city’s Nirmala High School.
01 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP plea for teacher voters||BJP State president Somu Veerraju requested Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) K. Vijayanand to extend the time for submission of Forms 18 and 19 by at least four weeks from November 6 to enable the eligible teacher voters to enrol themselves. He stated in a letter that the party received many complaints related to restricted mobility, lack of necessary facilities for enrolment and other reasons. Given the COVID-19 circumstances, enough time should be given for enrolment of teacher voters, the BJP leader suggested.
01 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five arrested on threatening and extortion charges||The Suryaraopet police have arrested five persons, including some traders, on charges of extortion and threatening a student. The accused reportedly tried to kidnap the youth. According to Police Commissioner, B. Srinivasulu, the police arrested K. Vinay Ranjan, G. Lateshwar, P. Pavan Kumar, S. Bhanu Prakash and K. Pradeep Kumar on charges of extortion and threatening one M. Yogendra Sai, branding him as a ganja peddler.Following a complaint, police booked a case under Sections 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation), 170 (impersonation) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) against the accused on Friday. The case is under investigation, Mr. Srinivasulu said. The Police Commissioner took disciplinary action against an SI and two constables, attached to Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) for allegedly colluding with anti-social elements and leaking information to the gangsters. A departmental inquiry has been ordered into the movements of the SI and the constables, Mr. Srinivasulu said.
01 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oil removal from ship nearing completion||The process of removing the fuel and other oils from the 3000-tonne Bangladeshi ship MV Maa that ran aground near Tenneti Park in Visakhapatnam on October 13, is nearing completion. It is likely to come to an end by Sunday. Visakhapatnam-based Gill Marines, a company that has been entrusted with the operation of removing all forms of oils in the first phase of the salvage operation, has already removed 1.05 lakh litres of oil, till Saturday. Removal of oil from the ship is the first phase of the operation to refloat the aground ship. “We began the operation about a week ago and so far we have been able to pump out close to 1.05 lakh litres of oil, including fuel, and the remaining 15,000-odd litres will be pumped out by Sunday,” said Mr. Surinder Gill of Gill Marines. Four high-power pumps were used with external DG (diesel generator) support and the oils were pumped into 10 tankers, through a pipeline. “Once all the oil is pumped out, we will take up the beach cleaning operation along with the Indian Coast Guard,” he said. “The threat of oil spill is now mitigated and the second phase to refloat the ship can commence,” he added. The 80-metre-long ship ran aground after the wind speed touched 65 km per hour, due to the presence of a deep depression system over the Bay of Bengal. Prior to that the ship was waiting at the anchorage point with a 15-member crew on board. It had lost both its anchors and as per sources in the Visakhapatnam Port Trust, the engine was not functioning. Due to high wind, it drifted towards the shore and ran aground near the Tenneti Park. Second phase Soon, the critical phase for refloating the ship and towing it back to the safer waters will begin. As per sources in VPT, the Protection and Indemnity Club which is responsible for overseeing the operation on behalf of the owners of the ship, has appointed multi-national company Resolve Marine to take up the operation. As per marine chief engineer S.V. Durga Prasad, who also served in MMD (Mercantile Marine Department), the operation would be critical as the area where the ship ran aground was rocky.
01 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 113 cases, 2 deaths||With a significant fall in COVID-19 cases during October, the mood in the district administration is upbeat. In the month, the total cases reported were 5,785, which is very low when compared to those reported in the past three months. This was the lowest single month tally since June. As many as 77 persons died due to the coronavirus in October. In July, the district reported 10,277 cases and 86 deaths. In August, 25,929 cases and 167 deaths were reported. In September, as many as 13,434 COVID-19 cases were reported and 143 persons died. Statistics suggest that on an average, 447 cases reported from the district every day during September. But in October, average cases reported every day were 186. Most of the hospitals are having empty beds. The State nodal COVID-19 hospital had just five beds occupied as on Saturday. “Definitely the number of cases have seen a decline, but the virus still persists. With winter setting in, people need to be more cautious. The Health Department is fearing a second wave. One must not forget the basic precautions to be taken,” said a senior officer from the district. He said that November is also expected to see decline in cases further if precautions are followed strictly. Meanwhile, as per the State COVID-19 bulletin released on Saturday evening, the district reported 113 new cases in the last 24 hours. Two persons succumbed to the coronavirus in the same period. As many as 174 persons have been recovered. As on Saturday, the number of active cases and recoveries stands at 2,023 and 53,824 respectively.
01 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Follow precautions, DTC tells schools||Deputy Transport Commissioner G. Raja Ratnam organised a meeting with the school managements, private bus owners and auto-rickshaw associations here on Saturday as schools and junior colleges would be reopened from November 2. He asked them to ensure physical distancing in vehicles. ‘Sanitise buses’ While allowing students into the buses, make sure they form a queue, wear masks, sanitise hands and maintain minimum distance, and also ensure buses run with only 50% seating capacity, he said. He also asked them not to forget to sanitise buses after every trip. The Deputy Transport Commissioner asked the drivers of buses and auto-rickshaws to arrange posters inside the vehicle about the COVID-19 safety precautions. He asked the school principals to organise a meeting with the parents and discuss about the safety measures to be taken. Special teams Mr. Raja Ratnam said that the Transport Department would form special teams and take action against those violating COVID-19 norms.
01 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scrap sale earns Waltair division Rs. 7.59 cr. in 1 day||The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (E Co R) earned Rs. 7.59 crore through the sale of scrap materials on Saturday thereby breaking its own single day sale of Rs. 7.43 crore achieved in the first week of this month. This has resulted in the division achieving Rs. 15.02 crore in October, according to A.K. Tripathi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager. The Materials Management Department identified all the scrap lying along the tracks and workshops during the lockdown period. Within a short span of time, after segregating the scrap, the auction was carried out. These auctions were 100% online, in which anybody from any corner of the country could participate. The released materials from track such as unserviceable rails were sold in this e-auction. The e-auction was carried out under the leadership of P. B. Ninave, Chief Principal Materials Manager, and guidance of Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, Divisional Railway Manager,.
01 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pragati Bharati will take up service activities in all districts, says Vijaya Sai||Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy on Saturday said that Pragati Bharati Foundation will take up service-oriented activities in all 13 districts in the State and started its activities in north Andhra in the first phase. He said the trust was planning to plant coconut saplings from RK Beach to Bheemunipatnam. He said that 230 water bodies have been identified and they would raise funds for their preservation by the GVMC. They will also develop cycling and walking tracks along Beach Road with donations. He asked people to send donations to the GVMC Commissioner and the Collector. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said the foundation was started with a noble cause. Collector V. Vinay Chand said voluntary organisations play a key role in serving people along with the government. Mr. Vinay Chand said services rendered by the foundation in the last one year, particularly during the lockdown, were appreciable.
01 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘attacks’ wife with acid||A man allegedly attacked his wife with acid at Sivajipalem area under M.V.P. Police Station limits, after suspecting her fidelity, here on Saturday morning. According to the police, T. Eswara Rao, a painter, allegedly attacked his wife T. Devi (28), with bathroom cleaning acid mixed with some chemicals at around 7.30 a.m. The woman was shifted to King George Hospital and her condition is said to be stable. The couple’s 12-year-old daughter who reportedly tried to stop the attack received minor injuries. Eswara Rao was married to Devi in 2007. Eswara Rao reportedly used to pick up fight with her, suspecting that she was having an affair with someone. Devi works as a tailor. The police registered a case and investigation is on. The accused is yet to be taken into custody.
01 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga course from tomorrow||Department of Yoga & Consciousness, Yoga Village, Andhra University, is conducting online and offline one-month special programme on ‘Obesity & Weight Management’ through yoga from November 2 to December 2. The timings for the classes are 7 a.m. to 8.30 a.m. Head of Department, Yoga & Consciousness K. Ramesh Babu said that the course gives a brief information about body weight management. The course is suitable for gym trainers, yoga trainers, teachers, health workers, doctors and also who are suffering from overweight. Contact details For further information, interested can contact faculty G. Lakshman on 799 3241 701 or Research Scholar Sai Baba on 9492968443.
01 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bolisetty seeks apology from Minister||National Convener of Jal Biradari, Bolisetty Satyanarayana, said that Minister of Irrigation (Water Resources) P. Anil Kumar Yadav did not heed the advice of experts such as Waterman of India Rajendra Singh who had cautioned that the Srisailam dam was in urgent need of repairs. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Mr. Satyanarayana said that the Minister said that there is no issue with the dam and dismissed it as mere propaganda by the opposition party. The Minister even accused Dr. Rajendra Singh of joining hands with the opposition, Mr. Satyanarayana claimed. “But now, he has to take back his words, as it is learnt that the Chief Minister himself had initiated a committee to look into the matter and the committee has recommended immediate repair works to the tune of Rs. 900 crore,” Mr. Satyanarayana said. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has written a letter to Jal Shakti Ministry to advise the Telangana Government to share the cost of repairs,” he said. Sharing details, Mr. Satyanarayana said the former Superintendent Engineer (Irrigation) K. Haranath had stated that dam protection works should be undertaken periodically, but no such works had been done since 2003. “No effort was made to replace the concrete apron after its erosion,” Mr. Satyanarayana said quoting Mr. Haranath. Despite all these developments, Mr. Anil Kumar Yadav had sought to cast aspersions on the experts, Mr. Satyanarayana said. “We demand an unconditional apology from the Minister for his comments against Dr. Singh,” he said.
01 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||National Unity Day celebrated||Visakhapatnam Port Trust Chairman K. Rama Mohana Rao, along with all heads of departments, participated in the Ekta Diwas (National Unity Day) celebrations here on Saturday. The pledge was administered by Minister of Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya through video conference on Saturday. All the chairmen from major ports and officers of respective ports took part in the conference. Meanwhile, officials from GITAM Deemed to be University celebrated National Unity Day as part of 145th birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel here on Saturday. While addressing the NSS volunteers and programme officers through a webinar, GITAM Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna said that Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel played an instrumental role in India’s struggle for independence, and later during the integration of the country.
01 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Intermediate girl murdered, accused taken into custody||A girl reportedly studying Intermediate was brutally murdered, after a man allegedly slit her throat with a knife at Sri Nagar Sundarayya Colony, under Gajuwaka police station limits, here on Saturday night. It was learnt that the girl, who was shifted to King George Hospital, succumbed to injuries. Police have reportedly taken the accused Akhil into their custody. The police suspecting love affair might be the reason behind the incident.
01 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR Kanti Velugu from tomorrow||The third phase of YSR Kanti Velugu programme will be organised in Visakhapatnam district from November 2. Arrangements are being made by the district administration to ensure all the people above 60 years of age are undergo eye tests.
01 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja worth Rs. 40 lakh seized, three from Maharashtra held||The district police on Friday arrested three persons, while they were allegedly transporting 478 kg dry ganja worth Rs. 40 lakh, near Sileru in Visakhapatnam district. All the three arrested belong to various areas of Maharashtra. Police said that the accused procured ganja from interior areas of the Agency and were heading to Maharashtra from Darakonda. Acting on a tip-off, the police the accused and seized the ganja. A case has been registered.
01 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Municipal Minister inspects sachivalayam offices||Municipal Minister Botcha Satyanarayana visited several Ward Sachivalayam offices at Kotha Venkojipalem and a few others here in the city on Saturday. He inspected the facilities provided to citizens, functioning of the staff and expressed satisfaction.
01 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former MLA Gadde Baburao bids adieu to TDP, joins BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party State president Somu Veerraju on Saturday asked all TDP leaders and activists to join the BJP since there was “no future for the TDP” in Andhra Pradesh. He alleged that the YSR Congress Party government was harassing the TDP leaders who joined the BJP recently as the ruling party was unable to digest the new strength of the BJP in the State. Cheepurupalli former MLA Gadde Baburao joined the BJP in the presence of Mr. Somu Veerraju and BJP State in-charge Sunil Deodhar. Mr. Veerraju said that Mr. Baburao had been with the TDP since its inception but could not adjust with former Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu as the latter was known to “adopt use and throw policy”. Mr. Deodhar alleged that the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government was in a deep financial crisis and unable to take up developmental activities in the State. He said that the so-called welfare schemes introduced by the government would not be useful for people in the long run. BJP MLC P.V.N. Madhav alleged that both YSRCP and TDP were run by two families and there was no freedom and self-respect even for MLAs in the party. BJP Vizianagaram parliamentary wing president Reddi Pavani formally welcomed MSN group of educational institutions’ chairperson M. Sanyasi Naidu into the party fold. Party Etcherla constituency in-charge Nadukuditi Eswara Rao said that 14,000 persons had taken the BJP membership during the special drive taken up in the constituency. BJP senior leaders Pudi Tirupati Rao, Pydivenugopalam, Sevvana Umamaheswari, Kusumanchi Subbarao, Suvvari Rajesh Kumar and others were present in the meeting.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weekend fun||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hunter’s moon||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safe ride||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Celestial wonder||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hunter’s moon||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weekend fun||
01 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Two Maoists apprehended||Two Maoists — a Local Guerrilla Squad (LGS) commander and a woman cadre — were apprehended by a police team during a search operation at Tirlapuram forest area of Pinapaka mandal on Saturday morning. The duo was identified as Manuguru Area Committee LGS commander Madvi Mangalu alias Jilalu, 35, and the dalam member Madakam Desi alias Mamathakka, 20, both hailing from Chhattisgarh, police said. A weapon, 14 gelatin sticks, three detonators, three 1.5V batteries and pen drives were seized from the arrested duo. SP Sunil Dutt presented them before the media.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana logs 1,445 new COVID-19 cases||Telangana recorded 1,445 COVID-19 cases on Friday taking the total to 2,38,632. While 41,243 people underwent tests, results of 914 were awaited. Six more COVID-19 patients died. The new 1,445 cases includes 286 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 122 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 107 from Rangareddy, 102 from Nalgonda, 90 from Bhadradri Kothagudem, and 77 from Khammam. The lowest of four cases were recorded in Narayanpet, seven in Kumram Bheem Asifabad districts. Of the 41,243 people examined, 38,457 got tested at government labs, and 2,786 opted for private labs. From March 2 to October 30, a total of 42,81,991 samples were put to test and 2,38,632 returned positive for coronavirus. Out of the total cases, 18,409 were active cases, 2,38,632 have recovered and 1,336 have died. At the 61 State government hospitals, 4,774 oxygen beds and 1,197 ICU beds were available on Friday. And in the 227 private hospitals, 2,966 oxygen beds and 2,231 ICU beds were vacant, according to the daily bulletin issued by the Department of Public Health and Family Welfare.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSERC unmoved by HMR plea on power bill relief||The impact of COVID-19 induced lockdown on Hyderabad Metro Rail (L&T Metro-Hyderabad) is likely to be harsher with the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) providing relief in the matter of availing de-rated contracted maximum demand (power). In spite of not operating the metro train services in the City from March 22, the Regulatory Commission has issued orders recently to provide relief to the management of HMR on the contract maximum demand (CMD) only from April 29, the day on which certain relaxations were given by the TSERC to mitigate the impact of COVID lockdown. Although the shopping malls, which are part of HMR system, were re-opened from June 8, the metro train services were, however, resumed three months later — from September 7. The regulatory body had issued orders on April 29, following a representation made by the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry and a few other industry bodies, relaxing some provisions of general terms and conditions of supply (GTCS) — de-rating of CMD to high tension (HT) consumers based on request. The management of HMR wrote to the power supply licensee — Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd — on May 1, 6 and 8 to de-rate the CMD for the lockdown period from from 8,900 KVA to 2,000 KVA to four malls (HT-II) at Punjagutta, Irrummanzil,Moosarambagh and Hi-Tec City and from 18,250 KVA to 3,900 KVA to its installations/receiving sub-stations (HT-V-B) at Uppal, Miyapur, MGBS and Yousufguda. However, without considering its request the Discom had issued electricity bills without de-rating the CMD, the HMR management on its part has paid the charges only as per de-rated CMD. The supply licensee filed a review petition on the April 29 order of the Commission but the Commission had dismissed on May 13. De-rating of CMD was agreed upon by the licensee on May 16. As the licensee agreed to de-rate the CMD only from May 16 in spite of the relief order issued on April 29, the management of HMR has requested the Commission to direct the licensee to provide relief from the day of announcement of lockdown — March 22. The regulatory body made it clear that its April 29 order was suo motu and it applies only retrospectively and observed that “it may not be appropriate to interfere in the matter” — its April 29 order — for extending the relief with retrospective effect — from the date of announcement of the lockdown.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre warns State on incentive for paddy||The Centre has strictly warned the Telangana government that any bonus or financial incentive declared by the latter in procurement of paddy from farmers over and above the minimum support price (MSP) shall be borne by the State. The Centre had fixed an minimum support price of Rs. 1,888 per quintal for fine and Rs. 1,868 per quintal for common variety of paddy for kharif marketing season (KMS) 2020-21. The same price was being paid by the State government at procurement centres, recently opened in villages. The minimum support price was Rs. 1,835 and Rs. 1,815 per quintal respectively, which was Rs. 53 less than last year. Targeting the Centre, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao told the public meeting at Kodakandla on Saturday that the State government was restrained from paying the bonus or incentive in these circumstances. As part of its procurement policy, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) will lift minimal stocks from states if they resorted to payment of bonus or incentive over and above the minimum support price. The excess payment will anyway have to be borne by the State governments. On prompt payment of minimum support price, however, the Food Corporation of India adopted a flexible approach to purchase more than the allocations to states to build buffer stocks for supplies across the country. Strict norms The strict norms of adherence to minimum support price were spelt out in a memorandum of understanding (MoU) of decentralised procurement of paddy and delivery of custom milled rice between the Telangana government and the Centre on September 17. The State was represented by Commissioner of Civil Supplies Akun Sabharwal and the Centre by E.K. Majhi, Additional Secretary, Department of Food and Public Distribution. According to the MoU, the State government shall undertake procurement of paddy/custom milled rice on behalf of the Centre directly for contribution to the Central pool from KMS 2019-20 onwards. Before commencement of the KMS, the State government must declare the quantity it intended to retain as decentralised procurement stock for distribution out of the Central pool. Paddy should be procured by State government at minimum support price (MSP) declared by Centre from time to time. Any incentive will be borne by the State government. “In the situation of the State giving any bonus/financial incentive, in direct or indirect form over and above the minimum support price (MSP), if the overall procurement of the State is in excess of the total allocation of the State made by the Government of India under Telangana Public Distribution System/other welfare schemes, such excess quantity shall be treated to be outside the Central pool.” The MoU said that the State government shall ensure thta the total off take/distribution of rice was within the total allocations made by the Central government.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||System to avert train collision introduced in SCR section||South Central Railway (SCR) has successfully commissioned indigenously developed Train Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) for the first time in Indian Railways for a distance of 21.5 km between Umri and Sivungaon stations on the Mudkhed-Secunderabad section of Hyderabad division on Friday. It marks the beginning of TCAS executed by ‘Medha’ private firm after development and trial runs in the past few years. Trials of the indigenously designed system were taken up in association with Railway Designs & Standards Organisation (RDSO), Lucknow, between Lingampalli-Vikarabad-Wadi and Vikarabad-Bidar sections. Following successful implementation of the system, the Railway Board has advised all zonal railways to implement TCAS project and SCR has sanctioned project implementation for 1,200 km between Manmad-Nanded-Secunderabad-Dhone-Guntakal and Bidar-Parli-Parbhani sections of which the first section work has been done, said CPRO Ch. Rakesh on Saturday. TCAS is an Automatic Train Protection (ATP) system and has been developed by the Railways along with manufacturers from within the country. It is aimed to have capability in preventing train accidents caused due to ‘Signal Passed At Danger’ (SPAD) by train, disobedience of train speed restrictions etc. by automatic application of the brakes should the train driver fail to do so. The system will also prevent other collision-like scenarios even in case of non-interlocked or non-signalled territory and provide assistance of loco pilots by real-time display of signalling related information such as ‘Movement Authority, Target Speed, Target Distance, Signal Aspects’ etc. inside the cabin. “Safety is our priority and and our zone will always be at the forefront in executing the works to enhance safety,” said General Manager Gajanan Mallya.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||South African smuggler denied bail||Justice K. Lakshman of Telangana High Court dismissed a bail application of a South Africa national who was arrested five years ago on charge of smuggling cocaine into the country. The judge, however, directed the NDPS Act-cum-Metropolitan Sessions Judge court at L.B. Nagar of Ranga Reddy district to conclude trial of Mosiea Moosa’s case as expeditiously as possible, preferably within six months. Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Hyderabad sub-zone officials arrested the woman after she flew into Shamshabad airport on August 30, 2015. On her admission that she was carrying cocaine capsule concealed in her body, the woman was taken to Osmania General Hospital. After conducting medical procedures, the doctors retrieved capsules containing 427 grams of cocaine from her. Lawyer Taquir Syed, appearing for the petitioner, told the court that authorities completed investigation and filed a chargesheet in the case. The woman was in the prison for past five years. Trial also commenced but could not be concluded due to COVID-19 pandemic. He contended she can be released with conditional bail. Special Public Prosecutor for NCB V. Gopalakrishna Gokhaley said the modus operandi of bringing the cocaine into the country revealed seriousness of the crime committed by the accused. If she is released on bail, securing her presence during trial would be difficult, he told the court. The judge observed that granting bail in the case were subject to the conditions that prosecution is given an opportunity to oppose the bail and the court must be satisfied there were reasonable grounds for believing the accused was not guilty. Bail cannot be granted if either conditions is not satisfied. Observing that prima facie the petitioner had committed an offence serious in nature, the bail cannot be granted, the order said.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||50% cashback on recharge of Metro Rail smart cards||Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) and L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad (L&TMRH) have introduced another product starting from November 1, as a part of the ‘Metro Suvarna’ offer. This includes a cashback of up to 50% on recharge of Metro Smart Cards, said HMR Managing Director N.V.S. Reddy on Saturday. The special offers on tickets, launched earlier this month, has been well received by the passengers with the ridership increasing by over 30% and daily an average of 1.30 lakh passengers are travelling by the trains on all the three routes — Red Line: L.B. Nagar to Miyapur, Blue Line: Nagole to Raidurg and Green Line: JBS-MGBS, he said. “The numbers are increasing daily and the latest cashback offer is on smart card recharges at stations and online through apps. The top-up amount has to be consumed within 90 days from recharge. For example, on a recharge of Rs. 1,500, customer gets Rs. 600 as cashback in smart card. Total amount added will be Rs. 1,500+ 600 = Rs. 2100. In addition he also gets 10% discount on every metro journey,” he said. The ongoing special offer also gives additional free trips to customers and these can also be availed in the existing smart cards. The metro rail authorities had announced few days ago discounts ranging from 40% to 50% depending on three discount options through smart cards, digital and QR payments under the ‘Metro Suvarna’ offer which will last till Sankranthi.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Raj Bhavan illuminated in pink||The Raj Bhavan was illuminated in pink on Saturday to mark the culmination of October as International Breast Cancer Awareness Month. The illumination was taken up by Usha Lakshmi Breast Cancer Foundation with the permission of Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan during an e-meet on breast cancer awareness earlier, a release informed.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nagole metro station bags ‘green’ award||L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad Limited (L&TMRH) informed on Saturday that the Nagole metro station has achieved CII’s ‘IGBC Performance Challenge 2020 for Green Built environment- Excellence Award’ under ‘Transit Buildings - Metro’ category. The evaluation criteria for this year’s selections were ‘Energy and water performance, given the typology and location of the building’, ‘Performance during the preceding two years’ and ‘Performance of the building with respect to the national and international benchmarks’. “L&TMRH is proud to mention that Hyderabad Metro Rail transit system was designed and built to reduce carbon footprints, and has been successful in maintaining maximum natural light provision, renewable sources to generate electricity required, like solar panels installed on station tops. We also use techniques for water cycling, rain water harvesting, and slow flow of water sources in toilets at stations. These help in maintaining street level greenery. Twenty of HMR stations are LEED Platinum-certified,” said MD and CEO K.V.B. Reddy in a press release.
01 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TS police awarded for proactive action during pandemic||Telangana police department bagged SKOCH Gold award for their outstanding contribution and timely support to vulnerable people such as daily wage, migrant workers during the devastating period of COVID-19 pandemic. “Since the first day of lockdown, Telangana police have ensured that no child or family in the State sleeps hungry. To achieve the same, and tackle the disaster in a humane way, the department brought together all the nodal police officers, NGOs, corporate bodies, pharmaceutical companies, retail agencies, banks and other organisations under one common group called the ‘Food Partners’, so as to serve and assist every family in need,” a press release said on Saturday. Rejoicing the moment of achievement, the food partners have joined together to host a one hour virtual ‘meet and greet’ event on Saturday to congratulate, and appreciate the efforts, and support provided by everyone who made this possible. Additional DGP Swati Lakra and DIG Sumati Badagula participated in the event and thanked the NGOs and volunteers who worked together to make it happen.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre to release Rs. 224 cr. more for flood aid||The Centre will be releasing Rs. 224.50 crore under the State Disaster Response Fund to Telangana to help the rescue and rehabilitation activity in the flood-devastated city of Hyderabad, to support the farmers who lost their crops due to the heavy rains and consequent inundations across the state. The Centre has earlier sanctioned Rs. 202 crore for repair and maintenance of roads here. The fund under this provision has actually been meant for release during February- March 2021. However, Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, also Secunderabad MP, has taken the personal initiative in facilitating the early release for the TS government to undertake relief and rehabilitation work, said an official release from his office on Saturday. The Minister held several discussions with officials concerned and sent a detailed report to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) explaining the situation and impressing the imperative of early access to funds. The Central team had already visited the city to take stock of the flood situation and assess the damage. The report of the team is awaited and once the report was submitted, more allocations for a comprehensive flood-relief package for TS could be expected, it said. Mr. Krishan Reddy thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah for the prompt response for early release of funds under disaster management. He would continue to strive to ensure maximum possible support to the State both for immediate exigencies and for long-term needs.
01 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman found dead||A 22-year-old woman was found dead at her residence in Jaipuri Colony of LB Nagar here on Friday. The victim, Susmitha, reportedly hanged herself to death from the ceiling. Police said that the incident took place around 6 p.m. “She was in love with one Kalyan, who was electrocuted in August. Since his death, she was depressed and resorted to the extreme step,” LB Nagar police said. A case was registered and investigation is on.  There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Owaisi writes to MEA on beheading of teacher||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Saturday unequivocally condemned the beheading of a school teacher in France, pointing out that he had written to Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar on the rising anti-minority sentiment in that country. “Copy of my letter to@DrSJaishankar.@MEAIndia's stated policy in Parliament is that India raises the issue of mistreated minorities with govts of foreign countries.@SushmaSwarajji had raised issue of Hindus in Bangladesh & UPA had raised the issue of Sikhs' turbans in France,” he tweeted. Mr Owaisi tweeted copies of his letter in which he said anti-minority sentiment ‘has partly been led’ by French President Emmanuel Macron’s comments about Islam. Quoting a French National Consultative Commission on Human Rights report, he said hate crimes against French Muslims increased when the community was ‘held responsible for condemnable extremist crimes of some self-identifying Muslims.’ “Instead of countering anti-Islamic propaganda, state representatives have indulged in despicable hate speech targeting Prophet Muhammad PBUH. Such hate is only likely to embolden anti-Muslim sentiment in society.”
01 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Gaming hub busted||A ‘high profile’ gaming hub operating from an apartment at Jubilee Hills was busted by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (West Zone) on Friday night. The gaming house was being run by M. Padmaja (58), a resident of Venkatagiri in Jubilee Hills. On receiving information that a group of people were playing cards on the premises, a team led by inspector B. Gattu Mallu raided the house and apprehended 11 persons, including Padmaja, said Task Force DCP (OSD) P. Radha Kishan Rao on Saturday. They seized Rs. 3.45 lakh cash from their possession. “During the inquiry, it came to light that Padmaja was organising online gaming by taking commission for each game from the players and collecting commission for each game from the players and earning money,” he said. The arrested persons along with seized material were handed over to Jubilee Hills police for further investigation.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water board’s OTS scheme extended||The Telangana government on Saturday announced the extension of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board one-time settlement (OTS-2020) scheme, under which scheme interest component on overdue water bills is waived off on payment of principal amount, to November 15. A government order stated that due to the recent flooding in the city, efforts of the OTS-2020 have been disrupted. It further stated that the number of consumers of the HMWSSB who wish to avail this scheme are substantial in number and have requested for its extension. As on October 26, out of the 5.40 lakh OTS CANs, 3,38,042 CANs have paid OTS payments to the tune of Rs. 241.02 crore, the government order noted.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gandhi junior doctors’ protest put off||Members of Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA)-Gandhi Medical College, who had announced boycott of duty from November 1, have postponed it by 10 days. The Post Graduate students, also known as junior doctors, are demanding resumption of non-COVID services at Gandhi Hospital, now a COVID-designated facility. They represented the issue to Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Saturday. President of TJUDA-Gandhi Medical College unit V. Naveen said the Minister spoke to senior officials regarding the demand and the response was favourable.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 40 crore sought for tank repairs||A 15- member expert group of irrigation engineers and officials has recommended Rs. 9.84 crore for immediate repairs and Rs. 31.64 crore for permanent repairs to tanks that were damaged in the city in recent rains. The group inspected 185 tanks and ponds in Hyderabad and seven tanks in the limits of Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority and prepared a report which discussed breaches to 14 tanks. Six tanks were in critical stage. The sluices of 27 tanks, bunds of 32 tanks and weir of 31 tanks were damaged, a release said. The group was constituted on instructions of KCR and KTR.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IG Intelligence retires||Inspector General of Police, Intelligence V. Naveen Chand retired on attaining the age of superannuation on Saturday. A retired IPS officer T. Prabhakar Rao who is the Chief of Operations, (Special Intelligence Bureau of Intelligence, will look after the work of IGP Intelligence, according to an order of Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Regularise Sada Bainama transactions: CM||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered regularisation of sale and purchase of agricultural lands on plain paper (Sada Bainama) in villages that were merged with municipalities and corporations free of cost. He asked Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to pass orders giving a week to apply for regularisation. The decision was taken after public representatives from erstwhile Warangal had made the plea seeking regularisation of Sada Bainama lands in Warangal municipal corporation areas, said a press release.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||page 4 Prepare plans for distribution of COVID vaccine to everyone||Health Minister Eatala Rajender has directed officials to prepare plans for distribution of vaccine against COVID-19 to everyone whenever it becomes available. At a review meeting held on Saturday, officials estimated that the winter this year might not be cold. Usually, any virus finds cold temperature favourable. Officials hoped that virulence of coronavirus would be low if the temperatures were warmer.
01 November 2020||KODAKANDLA,TELANGANA||Centre acting against farmers, says KCR||The BJP-led NDA government at the Centre was not only allowing corporates to loot farmers, but discouraging States that wish to extend better than minimum support prices (MSP) to farmers, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said on Saturday. “This order by Food Corporation of India (FCI), through the Centre, has guidelines instructing States not to give farmers even a rupee more than the MSP,” he said, flashing the copy, while addressing farmers after inaugurating the Rythu Vedika here. Mr. Rao said Telangana government was willing to pay paddy farmers more than the prescribed Rs. 1, 888 for grade A variety. However, if States went ahead with their own decision, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) would not procure any grain, he said. A copy of the Food corporation of India order, Mr. Rao said, would be disclosed to media persons for wider circulation. Attacking the Centre for the farm legislation – the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 – he said they were passed “without voting and by force.” “No farmer would want to transport produce to a far-off place to sell, but traders and corporates would. Telangana is the only State that procures farmers’ harvest at the village level,” he said. Mr. Rao also criticised the Centre for not being reasonable with minimum support price with certain varieties. Both coarse and fine paddy varieties are offered the same minimum support ptice (MSP), the Chief Minister said. And Rythu Vedika, platforms for farmers to unite and raise questions, such as the opposition by farmers in Punjab, was the only way to challenge top-down imposition, he said.
01 November 2020||Kodakandla,TELANGANA||CM inaugurates Rythu Vedika||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said he was as happy as conquering a kingdom in inaugurating the State’s first Rythu Vedika and work sheds to unify and educate farmers to make agriculture not only a for-profit business, but also a farmer-driven enterprise. He said the opening ceremony of Rythu Vedika for Kodakandla in Jangaon agriculture cluster just made Saturday another historic day, two days after Dharani portal, the ‘trendsetter’ land record management system for Telangana, was launched in Medchal. Mr. Rao, who flew down here from Hyderabad, was given a purnakumbham welcome by priests, and along with Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy and others he stood in prayers in the unveiling of the plaque. Briefly, he inspected the 2,046-sq foot premises that was painted and decorated in agriculture theme. Rythu Bandhu Samithi president Palla Rajeshwar Reddy said the farmers’ centre was built at a cost of Rs. 22 lakh. Each of the clusters would be managed by an agriculture extension officer, and the centres would soon be equipped with audio-visual system and manned with required staff. Minister for Panchayat Raj E. Dayakar Rao and Minister for Women and Child, Scheduled Tribes Welfare, Satyavati Rathod, who hail from the undivided Warangal district, said the once-drought area was blessed with irrigation, thanks to the abundantly flowing SRSP canals and the Devadula project. “Words of the previous governments did not become deeds and farmers were mere voters for them. This will mobilise farmers for their rights and give them a platform to grow, a first by any State in the country or the world,” the Ministers said. CM KCR who later addressed the Aathmeeya Rythu Sammelanam with farmers said Rythu Vedika, his brain child, was a dream, which can achieve Bangaru Telangana. “At the Rythu Vedika clusters, farmers can sit and talk, exchange experiences, deliberate about good practices and also listen to agriculture experts and scientists. You can decide on what to grow and how much to sell it for. Together you are like an atom bomb, can become a wonderful force,” he told the gathering.
01 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Only TRS will bring about development, says Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that development was possible only for Telangana Rashtra Samithi as it will be in power for the next three years and other parties can do nothing. Participating in election campaign at several places on Saturday, Mr. Harish Rao said that CAG report had stated that the Centee’s share in Aasara pension was only Rs. 1,147 crore out of total Rs. 30,423 crore and people should understand the lies being propagated by Bharatiya Janata Party. "The Union government has to pay us Rs. 11,180 crore and it is not being released. Instead the BJP leaders are making false claims. It was youth and students who fought for Telangana. The BJP has cheated the people of Telangana with Kakinada resolution in which it has stated that one vote two states. Why has Bharatiya Janata Party leader and Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy not resigned when Telangana Rashtra Samithi MLAs resigned from Assembly to bring pressure on the Centre for formation of Telangana state?" asked Mr. Harish Rao. The Minister said it was only TRS which made sacrifices for Telangana while others clung to their posts. "Who had merged seven mandals of Telangana in Andhra Pradesh and who has given away Cileru power plat to them?" asked Mr. Harish Rao. Referring to the promise of one crore jobs a year made by BJP, ha questioned how many jobs were provided so far. Party candidate S. Sujatha, Lok Sabha member K. Prabhakar Reddy and others participated in the campaign.
01 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||1,558 apply for postal ballot||For the first time, a large number of voters have applied for postal ballot in Dubbak byelections. According to District Election Officer and Collector Bharathi Hollikeri and Returning Officer B Chennaiah, as many as 1,558 persons — 1,089 aged persons crossing 80 years and 469 disable persons — applied for postal ballot. For the first time, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has accorded permission for postal ballot for the aged, differently abled and patients suffering from coronavirus. Voters can cast their vote and put it in a sealed cover. As many as 15 teams were established for collecting postal ballot. These teams visited the houses of voters and collected sealed votes on October 27 and 30. The second phase was to be held on Oct 31 and Nov 1. Ms. Bharathi said for any print and electronic media advertisements on the day of polling and prior to that (November 2 and 3) there must be prior permission.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘TRS dumping money in Dubbak but can’t stop Congress’||A byelection will not change the fortunes of any political party or the government irrespective of the result but for Telangana Congress the Dubbak bypoll has some significance as it is the first test for the new AICC incharge Manickam Tagore. TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy says they are fighting against money bags and misuse of official machinery from both Central and State governments. But he feels the first successful step is bringing back Cheruku Srinivas Reddy from the ruling TRS and announcing as party candidate. What is the party’s slogan and strategy for this election? We are fighting against the hundreds of crores of money being dumped by both Central and State governments for their candidates. We believe in service-oriented politics and thus want to expose both TRS and BJP candidates by asking them to take money but vote for Congress. Dubbak was ignored in the last 15 years by the TRS MLA and all the development seen was done during the Congress rule. Muthyam Reddy, whose son Srinivas Reddy is the party candidate, is the most respected face of Dubbak even after his death. Srinivas Reddy returned from the United States of America (USA) to serve the constituency through a farmers NGO and his clean image adds strength to the party. There have been several defections to the ruling party during the campaign. What impact will it have?  Finance Minister T. Harish Rao is on a buying spree shamelessly. One of our mandal leaders Lakshman Goud from Thoguta went on record how he was offered money by the Minister. People are surprised why the TRS has to buy leaders from other parties when it claims of developing the constituency over the last 15 years. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao argues Congress has no right to ask for votes? All the voters we are meeting, irrespective of the party affiliation, recall the development done by Muthyam Reddy. Dubbak is totally neglected by the TRS and it dumped funds in the neighbouring constituencies – Siddipet, Sircilla and Gajwel at the cost of Dubbak. People have realised this step-motherly attitude towards Dubbak. So TRS has no right to ask for votes. How will you overcome the sympathy factor for the TRS candidate? There is no visible sympathy unlike the bypolls conducted after the death of the MLA. She is under Harish Rao’s shadow and can’t take up Dubbak issues. So we are asking people to vote for Srinivas Reddy, who will ensure Dubbak is heard in the Assembly. If there is any sympathy it is for Ms. Sonia Gandhi for giving Telangana. Congress looks united in this election with all senior leaders putting in their efforts. Will it strengthen the party’s chances? All top leaders of the party who are capable of heading the state unit have taken up responsibility at the village level as well. I should thank them. We agree our party structure was weakened in Dubbak but our unified efforts have rejuvenated party at the village level and it will have an impact across the state. Your party has been critical of the police role in the elections? It is unfortunate that police force is being grossly misused. The intelligence department loaded with officers belonging to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s social group have been illegally tapping our phones using clone technology. Congress MPs will raise it in Parliament and I am warning those officers that their deeds will be exposed.  People are surprised why TRS is encouraging defections. N. Uttam Kumar Reddy TPCC chief
01 November 2020||New Delhi,||The altered court order||When the first lockdown was imposed in the country on March 24 after the COVID-19 outbreak, much like any other establishment, courts too decided to shut down in the Capital. Instantaneously, this led to a sharp fall in the institution of fresh cases. The most drastic impact was seen at the district courts here. Compared to the 44,888 cases being instituted in April last year, only 904 were instituted the same month this year. The Delhi High Court too saw a similar drop in the institution of cases from 4,457 in April last year to just 228 in April this year. Video call hearing Responding to the call of social distancing to ensure that court premises do not contribute to the spread of the virus, on March 23, the Supreme Court decided to shut down all forms of physical hearing to reduce the physical presence of lawyers, litigants and court staff in court precincts and instead adopted technology-centric virtual courts. It authorised the High Courts and district courts across the country to adopt the mode of videoconferencing hearing. The Delhi High Court and its subordinate district courts quickly adopted the videoconferencing form of hearing. However, in the initial days, only cases that involved ‘extreme urgency’ were taken up, while others were adjourned for a later date. Disposal rate The shutting down of conventional form of court hearing also resulted in a massive drop in the disposal rate of both civil and criminal cases after the first phase of lockdown. The district courts here have disposed of 1,46,813 cases till September this year, but the courts were able to dispose of 3,22,364 in the same period last year. Access to justice The Supreme Court on April 6, this year, while admitting that the outbreak of pandemic has led to scaling down of conventional operations within the precincts of courts, said: “Access to justice is fundamental to preserve the rule of law in the democracy envisaged by the Constitution of India.” “The challenges occasioned by the pandemic outbreak have to be addressed while preserving the constitutional commitment to ensuring the delivery and access to justice,” it had observed. Despite this, the initial period of the lockdown and the corresponding shutdown of the courts saw many accused arrested in relation to criminal cases unable to avail of legal remedies. Lawyers had then expressed worry as the detainees were unable to avail of the rights that accrue at the stage of summoning, detention, arrest and remand due to the shutdown of courts and unavailability of lawyers. The new normal Advocate Ajay Verma said that the lockdown definitely affected the justice delivery system. “Initially, all courts were closed due to the lockdown but in an unprecedented initiative, the Delhi High Court, which already had a very advanced e-court system , decided to start hearing urgent cases,” Mr. Verma said. Initially, only matters that were of urgent nature such as medical illness were taken up, which, he said, later expanded to other types of cases. Mr. Verma said all district courts also started functioning virtually giving some relief to people lodged in jail. During this process, lots of lawyers faced problems due to a lack of familiarity with the new technology, Mr. Verma said. “Though the majority of Delhi’s lawyers adapted to the new system quickly, there is still a need to involve other lawyers to get them equipped with the same skills,” he added. Lawyer and columnist  Gyanant Kumar Singh said during the initial lockdown period when videoconference hearing was introduced, it took time even for the courts to adjust to it. “Now the list of cases taken up daily is longer,” he said. On the huge slump in the institution of fresh cases post-lockdown, Mr. Singh said, “The statistic may be misleading”. He said that this slump could be on account of a change in the mode of filing and many lawyers are not conversant with the latest technology. “Secondly and very importantly, the freezing of the limitation period,” he added. In March, the Supreme Court had stipulated a  period of limitation in all cases taking cognisance of the difficulties that may be faced by litigants across the country in filing their petitions, applications, appeal etc. Mr. Singh remarked that there might be a spurt in cases when the court reopens in full flow.  Though the majority of Delhi’s lawyers adapted to the new system quickly, there is still a need to involve other lawyers to get them equipped with the same skills Ajay Verma Advocate   Initially, when videoconference hearing was introduced, it took time for the courts to adjust to it. Now the list of cases taken up daily is longer   Gyanant Kumar Singh  Lawyer and columnist
01 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Constable, friend held for shooting at man||A Delhi Police constable and his friend have been arrested for allegedly firing at a man following a quarrel in Dwarka’s Baba Haridas Nagar, the police said on Saturday. A senior police officer said that the accused have been identified as constable Surender and his friend Rajesh, who shot at one Laxman Bhandari. The victim is a resident of Najafgarh and works as a manager at a private bank. The officer said that Mr. Laxman was partying with three friends — Rahul, Keshav and Dinesh — on Thursday night and after it ended, Mr. Laxman and Mr. Rahul left for home together, while the other two left together. On the way, Mr. Dinesh called Mr. Rahul and asked them to come for help as a fight had broken out. Mr. Rahul told the police that when he and Mr. Laxman reached, they saw two persons, who had come in a car, fighting with their friends, Mr. Dinesh and Mr. Keshav. The two accused allegedly started thrashing the four friends, after which a quarrel broke out between the two sides. Subsequently, Mr. Surendra handed his pistol to Rajesh who shot at Laxman and fled the spot. The friends took Mr. Laxman to a nearby hospital where he is currently undergoing treatment. The accused were identified with the help of CCTV footage and later arrested. During interrogation, they said they were also coming back from a party and spotted a drunk man lying on the roadside. They stopped two men (Dinesh and Keshav), who were coming on a bike, and asked them to help pick up the drunk man. The two men denied and that made the accused furious. The police said that the weapon used in commission of crime was a service pistol and necessary action is being taken.
01 November 2020||New Delhi,||Air quality to improve in coming days||The air quality in Delhi-NCR recorded a marginal improvement but remained in the “very poor” category on Saturday as stubble burning incidents were “unusually high”. Air quality is expected to get better in the coming days due to favourable wind speed, said forecasting agency SAFAR. The Capital recorded a 24-hour average Air Quality Index of 367 on Saturday, it was 374 on October 31. Fire count in Punjab on Friday was 4,266, Haryana (155), Uttar Pradesh (51). The concentration of major air pollutants PM2.5 and PM10 was also high in cities neighbouring Delhi.
01 November 2020||Mumbai,||Uddhav Thackeray urges Centre to raise onion stock holding limit||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has urged the Centre to increase the onion stock holding limit to 1,500 metric tonnes for wholesale traders in the State who purchase the bulb directly from farmers. In a letter to Union Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Minister Piyush Goyal on October 30, Mr. Thackeray said wholesale traders have stopped purchasing onion from farmers due to the limited stock limit of 25 metric tonnes. “This has stalled the supply chain from farmers to consumers, which has resulted in increase in prices of onion in the retail market,” the Chief Minister said. “Arrival of kharif onion is likely to begin from the first week of November. Kharif onion is highly perishable. If this onion is not purchased by traders due to the present cap on stock holding, farmers in Maharashtra will face huge losses,” he added. In the last six months, onion farmers have already suffered due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, the Chief Minister said, and urged the minister that the stock limit be increased to 1,500 metric tonnes. Mr. Thackeray said the limit of 25 metric tonnes for wholesale traders and two metric tonnes for retailers has caused severe hardships to farmers and traders. Maharashtra is a leading producer of onion and it accounts for one third of the country’s total production, Mr. Thackeray added. “The State accounts for 80% of the onion exports from India. In the last season, onion production was approximately 100 lakh metric tonnes,” he said. “This year, excess rainfall and flooding in major onion-producing States, including Maharashtra, damaged the standing kharif crop and led to increase in prices in September-October,” he said
01 November 2020||Mumbai,||CJI opens country’s first e-resource centre in Nagpur||Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde along with Supreme Court Justice D.Y. Chandrachud inaugurated Nyay Kaushal, the country’s first e-resource centre, at the Judicial Officers Training Institute in Nagpur on Saturday. A virtual court was also launched for the Transport Department to deal with challan cases and provide speedy justice to litigants. Justice Bobde said, “The biggest problem that came with the pandemic was access to justice becoming conditional on access to technology. This has ended up creating a divide between the ones who can afford technology and the ones who cannot. With the aid of virtual courts, our system of justice does not suffer, and the rule of law continues to be maintained.” He added, “The e-resource centre is meant to be a step at mitigating various inequalities by being connected to the Supreme Court, the High Courts and taluka courts.” The centre will provide the easiest way of filing court matters by using technology. It will help save time, money, and avoid long travel. The virtual court, which will function from Katol, will be able to deal with traffic challan cases in Maharashtra. It will be possible for litigants to pay fines and get cases disposed of with a click of a button. All judges across the country will be able to access the court online. Justice Chandrachud, the chairman of the SC’s e-court committee, attended the event virtually. He said, “Delhi was the first to start virtual traffic courts in India, with almost 27 lakh challans received and Rs. 19.8 crore collected online.” He added, “Nearly 202.35 crore transactions have been recorded on e-courts websites till now and the total number of emails sent to advocates and litigants in 2020 was approximately 4.84 crore. The e-court mobile application records nearly 35 lakh hits daily and nearly 3,50,000 automated emails are sent daily. Further, 47.65 lakh cases were registered by e-courts websites, with e-filing facility available in 17 High Courts, three High Court Benches and several district courts as of now.” Bombay High Court Chief Justice Dipankar Datta said, “It is time for the world to move from a manual world to a paperless world.”
01 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Two get jail for molesting minor girls||The Alibaug district and sessions court on Saturday sentenced two men to prison in separate cases of molestation. While a 48-year-old man was sentenced to three years’ rigorous imprisonment for molesting a 14-year-old girl from Kharghar, a 30-year-old from Alibaug was sentenced to two years’ rigorous imprisonment for molesting a 15-year-old girl.
01 November 2020||Milwaukee,||Obama to join Biden on campaign trail||Former U.S. President Barack Obama will join forces with Democratic candidate Joe Biden in Michigan as President Donald Trump goes all in on the crucial State of Pennsylvania on Saturday and the two candidates dig deep on the final weekend before Tuesday’s U.S. presidential election. For the first time since the start of the campaign, Mr. Biden, 77, will be joined on stage by his former boss and popular campaigner, former President Barack Obama. Drive-in rallies They’ll put on two drive-in rallies in the cities of Flint and Detroit in Michigan. Stevie Wonder is expected to be the musical guest of the evening. Mr. Trump, 74, won the industrial State by a narrow margin of 0.2 points in 2016 — but this year Mr. Biden leads by seven points. That puts him in pole position to take its 16 electoral votes, a sizeable leap towards the 270 he needs to win the White House. For the past week, Mr. Obama has put his popularity at the service of his former Vice-President, hosting several rallies at which he repeatedly slammed Mr. Trump’s response to the coronavirus pandemic, notably in Florida and Pennsylvania. But Mr. Trump — who has dismissed Mr. Obama’s rallies as much smaller than his own — will himself head to Pennsylvania on Saturday, where he will host three rallies, a sign of how key the State is to his own path to 270 votes. He won Pennsylvania, where Mr. Biden was born, by a razor-thin margin against Hillary Clinton in 2016. Every ballot will therefore count on November 3 if he hopes to claim its 20 electoral votes once more. Mr. Biden will follow suit there both on Sunday and Monday in a clear sign that his campaign also sees the Keystone State as absolutely crucial to victory. Millions voting early On Friday, the two candidates battled over the American Midwest, barnstorming three heartland States each as they chased every last vote in a region that propelled the Republican to victory in 2016. But the race was overshadowed by the coronavirus pandemic, with infections spiking across the country. More than 94,000 new infections were recorded Friday — a new high for the second day running — and total cases passed nine million. Nevertheless, Mr. Trump, who has long said the virus will “disappear”, remained defiant at rallies in Michigan, Wisconsin and Minnesota. “We just want normal,” he told supporters — many of them unmasked — at an outdoor rally near Detroit as he pushed States to relax public health restrictions and resume daily life. He again bucked the advice of his own administration’s health experts and downplayed the threat of the coronavirus, saying, “if you get it, you’re going to get better, and then you’re going to be immune.” The virus has killed nearly 2,30,000 Americans. U.S. hospitals are bracing as infections soar in nearly every state, with winter flu season looming.  Mr. Trump has touted the economic successes of his presidency, including positive GDP figures on Thursday. But U.S. stocks closed out their worst week since March, highlighting concerns about a shaky recovery.
01 November 2020||London,||Legendary 007 Sean Connery takes last bow||Sean Connery, the charismatic Scottish actor who rose to international superstardom as the suave and fearless secret agent James Bond and then abandoned the role to carve out an Oscar-winning career in other rugged roles, has died. He was 90. Connery’s son Jason said his father died peacefully in his sleep overnight in the Bahamas where he lived, having been “unwell for some time.” “A sad day for all who knew and loved my dad and a sad loss for all people around the world who enjoyed the wonderful gift he had as an actor,” Mr. Jason told the BBC. Bond producers Michael G. Wilson and Barbara Broccoli said they were “devastated” by the news and that Connery’s “gritty and witty portrayal of the sexy and charismatic secret agent” was largely responsible for the success of the series. “He was and shall always be remembered as the original James Bond whose indelible entrance into cinema history began when he announced those unforgettable words — ‘The name’s Bond... James Bond,’” they said in a statement on Saturday. ‘An era and a style’ Daniel Craig, the current Bond, said Connery “defined an era and a style” and that the “wit and charm he portrayed on screen could be measured in mega watts.” Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said the country was mourning “one of her best loved sons.” Connery had a commanding screen presence for some 40 years. He was in his early 30s when he starred in the first Bond thriller, 1962’s Dr. No , based on the Ian Fleming novel. Condemned as immoral by the Vatican and the Kremlin, but screened at the White House for Bond fan John F. Kennedy, Dr. No was a box office hit. Connery continued as Bond in From Russia With Love, Goldfinger, Thunderball , You Only Live Twice and Diamonds Are Forever , often performing his own stunts. Diamonds Are Forever came out in 1971 and by then Connery had grown weary of playing 007 and feared he wasn’t being taken seriously despite his dramatic performances in Alfred Hitchcock’s Marnie and Sidney Lumet’s The Hill.  “I’d been an actor since I was 25, but the image the press put out was that I just fell into this tuxedo and started mixing vodka martinis,” he once complained. When he walked away at age 41, Hollywood insiders predicted Connery would soon be washed up. Connery fooled them all, playing a wide range of characters and proving equally adept at comedy, adventure or drama. And age only heightened the appeal of his dark stare and rugged brogue; he set a celebrity record of sorts when at age 59, he was named People magazine’s “Sexiest Man Alive.”
01 November 2020||Washington,||U.S. crosses 9 million COVID-19 cases||The United States passed nine million reported coronavirus cases on Friday, according to a tally from Johns Hopkins University, as infections spike days before the nation chooses its next President. With the virus spreading most rampantly in the Midwest and the South, hospitals are also filling up again, stretching the health care system just as the nation heads in to flu season. “We are not ready for this wave,” Ashish Jha, Dean of the Brown University school of public health, warned on ABC’s Good Morning America on Thursday. Curfew imposed Authorities in El Paso, Texas, imposed a curfew this week to protect “overwhelmed” health care workers and began setting up field hospitals. But a judge’s attempt to shut down non-essential businesses in the city has been challenged by the Mayor and the State’s attorney general, the Washington Post reported. Midwestern state Wisconsin has also set up a field hospital in recent weeks, and hospital workers in Missouri were sounding warning bells as cases there rise. Hospitals in the western state of Utah were preparing to ration care by as early as next week as patients flood their ICUs, according to local media. The U.S., which has seen a resurgence of its COVID-19 outbreak since mid-October, has now notched up 9,007,298 cases. Surge warning On Thursday the country set a record for new daily infections of more than 91,000 in 24 hours.  More than 2,29,000 people have died of the virus in the U.S., since the pandemic began, the Hopkins tally showed as of Friday afternoon, with the daily number of deaths creeping steadily upwards in recent weeks also — though at present it remains below peak levels. For months, health officials have been warning of a surge in cases as cooler fall weather settles over the U.S., driving more people indoors. As the weather changes, New York and other parts of the northeast, which were the epicenter of the US outbreak in the spring but largely controlled the virus over the summer, were reporting a worrying rise.
01 November 2020||VANCOUVER,||Unrest erupts over police killing of Black man in U.S.||Tensions boiled over into unrest late Friday following a vigil for a Black man shot and killed by law enforcement in a city near Portland, Oregon, in southwestern Washington State. Mourners gathered in Hazel Dell, an unincorporated area of Vancouver, Washington, where family and friends say Kevin E. Peterson Jr., 21, was shot on Thursday night. The city is about 19 km north of Portland. Nearby, tensions flared between left- and right-wing protesters. Video recorded by journalists in a parking lot showed two groups of people shouting at each other. The crowds ultimately fizzled out near the vigil but a group of hundreds of protesters later marched through downtown Vancouver. Windows were shattered, flags were burned and federal agents clothed in riot gear surrounded a building — warning people that trespassing on federal property would be subject to arrest.  Family and friends had described Peterson as a former high school football player and the proud father of an infant daughter. In a statement, Clark County Sheriff Chuck Atkins said a joint city-county narcotics task force was conducting an investigation just before 6 p.m. Thursday and chased a man into the parking lot of a bank, where he fired a gun at them. A firearm was recovered at the scene, Atkins said.
01 November 2020||Paris,||France seeks to uncover attacker’s links||French authorities were on Saturday seeking to ascertain if a young Tunisian suspected of killing three people in a knife rampage inside a Nice church had outside help as police arrested a third man who could have been associated with him. Brahim Issaoui, 21, only arrived in Europe from Tunisia last month and, according to prosecutors, killed the sexton, a Brazilian woman and a French woman in the attack in the Notre-Dame Basilica on Thursday morning. The attack, which the government has described as an act of “Islamist terror” sent a shockwave across France, a country already on edge after the beheading this month of a teacher who showed a class a cartoon of the Prophet Mohammed. Issaoui was shot by police multiple times and is currently in a grave condition in hospital. Investigators have been unable to question him and his precise motivations remain unclear. French police are currently holding three people under arrest for questioning in the investigation, which is focusing on two telephones found on the suspect after the attack. A first man, 47, was detained on Thursday evening after being seen next to the attacker on surveillance footage the day before the attack. The second individual, suspected of contacting Issaoui the day before the attack, was held on Friday. Police said Saturday a third man, aged 33, was arrested after being present when the home of the second suspect was raided. Meanwhile, President Emmanuel Macron said that he could understand if Muslims were shocked by cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed. “I can understand that people could be shocked by the caricatures but I will never accept that violence can be justified,” he said. “I consider it our duty to protect our freedoms and our rights,” he added.
01 November 2020||Paris,||Priest wounded in shooting in France||A Greek Orthodox priest was shot and injured on Saturday at a church in the centre of the French city of Lyon by an assailant who then fled, a police source and witnesses said. The 52-year-old priest was fired at twice at around 4 p.m. (1500 GMT) as he was closing the church, and he was being treated for life-threatening injuries, the source said. The incident came two days after a man shouting beheaded a woman and killed two other people in a church in Nice. Two weeks ago, a schoolteacher in a Paris suburb was beheaded by an 18-year-old attacker, who was apparently incensed by the teacher showing a cartoon of the Prophet Mohammed during a class. While the motive for Saturday’s attack was not known, Ministers had warned that there could be other Islamist militant attacks. President Emmanuel Macron has deployed thousands of soldiers to protect sites such as places of worship and schools. Prime Minister Jean Castex, who was visiting Rouen, said he was heading back to Paris to assess the situation. The Nice attack took place on the day Muslims celebrate the Prophet Mohammad’s birthday. Many Muslims around the world have been angered about France’s defence of the right to publish cartoons depicting the Prophet. Third arrest A third person has been taken into custody in connection with that attack, a police source said on Saturday. The suspected assailant was shot by police and remained in critical condition in hospital. Mr. Macron took to Arabic-language airwaves on Saturday, saying he understood the publication of cartoons depicting the Prophet Mohammad may shock some people but that there was no justification for acts of violence.
01 November 2020||DUBAI,||Saudi man crashes car into gates of Mecca’s Grand Mosque||A Saudi man in a speeding car crashed into the outer gates of Mecca’s Grand Mosque late Friday night, the country’s state-run news agency reported. The crash happened around 10-30 p.m. The man rammed his car through a barrier and kept driving until it hit the gate on the Grand Mosque’s southern side, the Saudi Press Agency said. Authorities arrested the man inside, who appeared in an “abnormal” condition, the agency said, without elaborating. Police referred them man to prosecutors for possible charges, according to the report. Video on social media corresponded to the news agency’s account, with security forces later pushing the damaged sedan away. The Grand Mosque houses the cube-shaped Kaaba that observant Muslims pray toward five times a day. Authorities had shut down the mosque amid the coronavirus pandemic, but recently reopened it to small crowds of faithful. Footage broadcast on the state-run Quran TV satellite channel showed people inside circling the Kaaba before and after the crash. The Kingdom held a dramatically downsized, symbolic hajj pilgrimage in July due to concerns that it could easily have become a global superspreader event for the virus.
01 November 2020||YEREVAN,||Armenia asks Russia for help amid Karabakh fighting||Armenia’s leader urged Russia on Saturday to consider providing security assistance to end more than a month of fighting over Nagorno-Karabakh, and both sides in the hostilities accused each other of breaking a mutual pledge not to target residential areas hours after it was mad. Biggest escalation The fighting represents the biggest escalation in decades in a long conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan over the separatist territory. As Azerbaijani troops pushed farther into Nagorno-Karabakh, Prime Minister Nikol Pashinian asked Russian President Vladimir Putin to quickly discuss possible security aid to Armenia.  Russia, which has a military base in Armenia and has signed a pact obliging it to protect its ally in case of foreign aggression, faces a delicate balancing act, of trying to also maintain good ties with Azerbaijan and avoid a showdown with Turkey. Mr. Pashinian’s request puts Russia in a precarious position — joining the fighting would be fraught with unpredictable consequences and risk an open conflict with Turkey. Nagorno-Karabakh lies within Azerbaijan but has been under the control of ethnic Armenian forces backed by Armenia since a war there ended in 1994. The Foreign Ministers of Armenia and Azerbaijan met Friday in Geneva for a day of talks brokered by Russia, the United States and France. Russia said on Saturday help would only be provided if the fighting reaches Armenian territory. “Russia will render Yerevan all necessary assistance if clashes take place directly on the territory of Armenia,” the Foreign Ministry said.
01 November 2020||Stone Town,||Tanzania’s Opposition allege fraud in polls, calls for protests||Tanzania’s Opposition on Saturday called on supporters to take to the streets to protest President John Magufuli’s landslide election victory, which it says was fraudulent, demanding a fresh vote. Mr. Magufuli was declared the winner on Friday with a crushing 84% of votes, while his Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) ruling party took 97% of the 264 elected Parliament seats. The country’s two main opposition groups, Chadema of defeated presidential candidate Tundu Lissu, and ACT-Wazalendo, held a joint press conference in Dar es Salaam in which they denounced the election and called their supporters to action. “Firstly, we call for fresh elections as soon as possible. Whatever happened is not an election,” Chadema chairman Freeman Mbowe said. “We call for continuous, peaceful, countrywide demonstrations until our demands are met,” he said, adding these would begin on Monday. ACT-Wazalendo leader Zitto Kabwe said the decision was for “the future of our country”. “We cannot accept going back to a one-party system. God willing we will win in this war.” Democracy was introduced in 1994 and Tanzania has been seen as a haven of stability in a volatile neighbourhood but critics have raised alarm over a slide into autocracy under Mr. Magufuli. The 61-year-old, nicknamed “The Bulldozer”, was in his first term accused of flouting due process and brooking no criticism. His main opponent this time around, Lissu, won only 13% of the vote.
01 November 2020||Colombo,||Sri Lanka sends trash back to U.K.||Sri Lanka has started shipping 242 containers of hazardous waste, including body parts from mortuaries, back to Britain after a two-year court battle by an environment watchdog, officials said on Saturday. Several Asian countries have in recent years been pushing back against an onslaught of international refuse from wealthier nations and have started turning back the unwanted shipments of garbage as they battle against being used as the world’s trash dump. The first 20 containers of medical waste, which included body parts from mortuaries, were loaded on the MV Texas Triumph on Friday and another 65 will be sent within a week, customs spokesman Sunil Jayaratne said.
01 November 2020||IZMIR,||Death toll reaches 37 in quake that hit Turkey, Greek island||Three young children and their mother were rescued alive from the rubble of a collapsed building in western Turkey on Saturday, some 23 hours after a powerful earthquake in the Aegean Sea killed at least 37 people and injured more than 800 others. The Friday afternoon quake struck Turkey’s Aegean coast and north of the Greek island of Samos. The earthquake toppled buildings in Izmir, Turkey’s third-largest city, and triggered a small tsunami in the Seferihisar district and on the Greek island. Hundreds of aftershocks followed. More than 5,500 rescuers from different agencies and cities worked together to reach survivors. A 65-year-old man was saved 26 hours after the quake.AP
01 November 2020||MUMBAI,||ICICI Bank net rises sixfold to Rs. 4,251 cr.||ICICI Bank on Saturday reported second-quarter standalone net profit jumped more than sixfold to Rs. 4,251 crore, from Rs. 655 crore a year earlier, buoyed by lower provisioning for bad loans. Net interest income at the country’s second-largest private lender rose 16% to Rs. 9,366 crore in the three months ended September 30, from Rs. 8,057 crore in the year-earlier period . The net interest margin, however, was 3.57%, compared with 3.64% in 2019’s September quarter, reflecting surplus liquidity with the bank, ICICI said in a filing with exchanges. Provisions (excluding provision for tax) were Rs. 2,995 crore, compared with Rs. 2,507 crore a year earlier. “This includes provision of Rs. 497 crore made on a prudent basis on loans aggregating to Rs. 1,410 crore that were not classified as non-performing pursuant to the Supreme Court’s interim order dated September 3, 2020, directing that accounts which were not classified as non-performing till August 31, 2020, should not be classified as non-performing until further orders,” the bank said. As on September 30, the bank held COVID-19 related provision of Rs. 8,772 crore. During the quarter, the bank’s total deposits grew by 20% to Rs. 8,32,936 crore. Net non-performing asset (NPA) ratio improved to 1.00% as on September 30, from 1.23% at June 30; including loans not classified as NPA pursuant to the Supreme Court’s interim order, net NPA ratio would have been 1.12%, it said. The provision coverage ratio increased to 81.5%, from 78.6% as on June 30. The bank’s total capital adequacy ratio was 19.33% and Tier-1 capital adequacy ratio was 17.89%. Gross additions to NPAs were Rs. 3,017 crore. Recoveries and upgrades, excluding write-offs, from non-performing loans were Rs. 1,945 crore. Retail loans climb During the period the retail loan portfolio grew by 13% and disbursements had returned to pre Covid levels, ICICI said. Retail loans comprised 65.8% of the total loan portfolio. Including non-fund outstanding, retail was 53.6% of the total portfolio. Growth in the performing domestic corporate portfolio was about 7% year-on-year. The domestic advances grew by 10% year-on-year. Total advances increased by 6.4% year-on-year to Rs. 6,52,608 crore. Consolidated net profit rose to Rs. 4,882 crore, from Rs. 1,131 crore. The profit after tax in the year-earlier quarter had a one-time additional charge due to remeasurement of accumulated deferred tax assets at the revised marginal tax rate. The consolidated return on equity was 14.2% in second quarter, the bank said. Consolidated assets grew by 15% year-on-year to Rs. 14,76,014 crore, from Rs. 12,88,190 crore.
01 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SAP raising investments in India: Bawa||With increased focus on the SME and start-up segments in India, German software maker SAP’s investments in the country are rising as it transitions to becoming a ‘true cloud’ company, said a senior company executive. “India continues to remain one of our fastest-growing markets globally,” said Kulmeet Bawa, president and MD, SAP, Indian Subcontinent. “It has always been very very important because of a variety of reasons... scale, demographic dividend, abundant opportunities, a cloud-first mindset. What is happening in the start-up ecosystem... we are extremely fascinated,” added Mr. Bawa. Economic transition “I think, clearly the transformation of the Indian economy is underway.” He said the company was now ‘diving deeper’ into the SME segment as well as the start-up ecosystem to build an innovation hub in India so ‘overall investments are going up.’ On its strategy for SMEs, which account for almost 80% of SAP’s customer base of 12,000 in India and which have been among the worst-hit by the pandemic, he said, “SMEs have really got impacted but we have not changed our strategy.” “In fact, we are doubling down into that space because SMEs in India today account for about 29-30% of our GDP.A lot of India’s future today is banking on MSMEs. We are... helping them embrace digitisation, focussing on upskilling their workforce and enhancing overall business value.” Faster digitisation Mr. Bawa said organisations were turning digital faster than ever before, especially so in the past six months, but that it was important for them to hop on to the digital bandwagon with agility, and nimbleness and that that was possible only on the cloud. He added that with work-from-home and education-from-home, there was a ‘huge’ sense of urgency among Indian firms to embark on or to culminate the digital transformation journeys even faster.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru,||WFH spurring rural buoyancy: Cisco||The pandemic-triggered work-from-home (WFH) model has been flattening the socio-economic curve through wealth distribution and job creation in small towns and villages, said a senior official of Cisco India. This has greatly contributed to the growth of the rural economy of India, added Daisy Chittilapilly, MD, Digital Transformation Office, Cisco India. She said there had been a lot of talk around the impact of WFH on the environment, but that we ought also to notice the impact it was having on the country’s rural economy ‘after thousands of well-earning professionals moved to their hometowns’, as part of the new work regime, and thus, collectively creating some kind of economic buoyancy across rural India. For instance, Cisco currently has more than 13,000 employees in India and they used to work from fewer than 10 locations before the pandemic. Now, they are spread across 108 locations, she said. “WFH has been leading to the flattening of wealth distribution and job creation; until the pandemic, it was mostly a metro or urban scenario and small towns and cities were not directly part of this growth wave,’’ she pointed out. Access to basics Obviously, the aspirations — the urban sprawls, lifestyle, better job options — are what attracted millions of rural folk to urban India. “But, if we can get people to access the four basics — education, healthcare, food and livelihood — I don’t think they would want to come into cities,” she said. On the longevity of WFH, she said, almost 75% of Indian CFOs are actually on record, saying that they’re going to look at WFH as a way to depress their operating costs. Cisco traditionally has been an 85%-plus WFH-enabled enterprise and therefore, it didn’t have to specially get ready for COVID-19, she said. Between 2012 and 2017, Cisco consolidated its real estate, closing down 239 buildings worldwide and saving almost half-a-billion U.S. dollars a year. Hybrid mode “We believe the world post COVID-19 will settle into a hybrid mode,” she added.“If you take an average across all industries, about 65% of companies settle into hybrid mode.’’ But again, India has a go-to-work culture, and a lot of us naturally go to work,” she said. The social aspect of work is something that all of us miss. And, on the whole, there’s enough research out there and there is community innovation, community learning and community contribution. “Human beings get energy from each other. So, I don’t think we’ll go back to either extreme after the pandemic,’’ she said.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Under penetration is biggest opportunity’||Aditya Puri (70) stepped down as MD and CEO of HDFC Bank, India’s largest private lender, last month after an eventful 25 years at the helm. In an interview, Mr. Puri says the bank’s best is, however, yet to come. Excerpts:  What are the factors behind the bank’s success? There is no ‘secret sauce’. Banking is a simple business and we try to keep it that way. Borrow money from depositors, lend that money and earn a margin. One then needs to price in risk, the probability of default and have very good systems in place to ensure the depositors’ money is returned. As a bank, we have focussed on being consistent and experimenting on a small level before making it big. God has been very kind too. Thus, today we have one of the strongest balance sheets with high capital adequacy levels and among the lowest levels of NPAs in the sector. Capital is not a constraint. We also enjoy market leadership in most of the categories in which we operate and an excellent reputation for delivering value to all stakeholders. This is backed by technology that enables an omnichannel experience. All this has been made possible by the finest people. What this means is that we are well poised to ride out the COVID storm. Let me reiterate that the best of the bank is yet to come. Especially, now that Sashi [Mr. Puri’s successor Sashidhar Jagdishan] is going to be at the helm, I have no doubts about that. What was your biggest challenge? And, any task you wish you had not left unaccomplished? When we started out in 1995, state-owned banks had the customers while the multinational banks had the products. The new private sector banks had neither. The challenge was to create the products/experience of the multinational banks and acquire customers too. In a way, it was like conquering two worlds. Given the background of the senior leadership team, we started out as a wholesale bank. But then, India’s liberalisation programme created a new class of consumers with disposable incomes. That is when we diversified into retail. The challenge now was to grow without compromising on asset quality, taking undue risks or succumbing to the latest fad. This is where the risk management system of the bank came into play. Insulating the credit function from business was a critical call in this regard. Over the years the bank has grown fast but prudently. And yes, in any journey, there is always something you wish you had done better. This is perhaps best kept to myself. Where do you want HDFC Bank to be? What are the biggest risks ahead? I want HDFC Bank to be the biggest and of course, continue being the best bank in India. You can ask anybody in the bank. I did not make decisions. I sat down with the team. We set the vision and we had tremendous arguments on that and we tested out what worked and we scaled it up. Execution of a well laid- out strategy will take the bank places. In the near future, some of our future growth strategies that has already been shared includes: reimagining the branch channel to a financial services marketplace; leveraging Bharat’s [rural India’s] growth potential based on our semi-urban and rural footprint; a payments business with a differentiated business model that leverages the bank’s offerings; digital 2.0 to transform customer journeys into omnichannel customer experience; virtual relationship management where technology comes alive with a human touch; and our subsidiaries that continue to focus on the segments they operate in. There is really no particular risk that I foresee in this. We have the capital, a trusted brand and people. What is the future of banking in India? Like I said earlier, the secular shift in technology, mobility, social computing and analytics is changing the entire business paradigm. We had identified the competition this would bring at an early stage and have reworked our strategy accordingly. We believe that today we offer a customer experience that is on par with global leaders if not better. What are the challenges and opportunities being faced by the COVID-19-impacted banking sector? COVID-19 has been unprecedented. It caught the whole world unaware. However, every crisis brings with it opportunities as one is forced to think harder, and so has COVID-19. It has forced individuals and companies alike to innovate and invent new and perhaps, more efficient ways of functioning. Digitisation is gathering further pace across the country. This can only benefit customers and companies alike. People have realised that while working from home has its challenges, it is also an opportunity. As far as banking goes, the biggest opportunity lies in the sheer under penetration of banking services in India. As we come out of the pandemic and financial inclusion improves, the size of the opportunity will only get bigger. What do you plan to do next? I definitely don’t plan to sit at home and I certainly don’t think my wife will want me at home all the time. So, I’m considering many things. Be it education, health or digital. You will know about it soon.  As we come out of the pandemic and financial inclusion improves, the size of the opportunity will only get bigger
01 November 2020||Mumbai,||BoB slashes repo-linked rate by 15 bps||Bank of Baroda (BoB) on Saturday announced a 15-basis point reduction in its repo-linked lending rate to 6.85%, from 7% earlier, effective November 1. The lender’s retail loans — home loan, mortgage loan, car loan, education loan and personal loan — are linked to its Baroda Repo Linked Lending Rate. With the recent revision, home loan rates will start at 6.85% and car loan rates at 7.1%, mortgage loan rates at 8.05% and education loan rates at 6.85%, Bank of Baroda said in a release. Union Bank of India too slashed its interest rate by 10 basis points for home loans above Rs. 30 lakh. In a release, the state-owned lender said women borrowers would get a further concession of 5 basis points. The new rates are effective November 1.
01 November 2020||new delhi,||JSW Holdings Sept. quarter net drops 48%||JSW Holdings, the non-banking financial company that forms the investment arm of the JSW Group, on Saturday reported a 48.1% decline in consolidated profit to Rs. 39.5 crore for the quarter ended September 30, 2020. The company had posted a profit of Rs. 76.2 crore for the year-earlier period, JSW Holdings said in a filing with the BSE. Total income during July-September 2020-21 dropped to Rs. 50.3 crore from Rs. 85.5 crore in the year-earlier period, the filing said.
01 November 2020||Imola,||Valtteri Bottas snatches pole||Valtteri Bottas snatched pole position for Sunday’s Emilia Romagna Grand Prix from his Mercedes teammate Lewis Hamilton with a dramatic late lap in qualifying here on Saturday. The Finn, who is 77 points adrift of series leader and six-time champion Hamilton with five races remaining in this year’s title, grabbed the prime grid position by a 10th of a second. Hamilton, who was fastest in the only practice in the morning, had been on top through most of the qualifying session and took provisional pole on his first run in Q3 before Bottas beat him in the final seconds. Verstappen third Max Verstappen was third for Red Bull ahead of his former team-mate Pierre Gasly of Alpha Tauri, Daniel Ricciardo of Renault and Alex Albon in the second Red Bull. Charles Leclerc took seventh for Ferrari with Daniil Kvyat eighth in the second Alpha Tauri ahead of the two McLarens of Lando Norris and Carlos Sainz. Bottas’s success brought him his fourth pole of the season and his 15th career pole as the Mercedes team claimed another front row lockout ahead of the race in which they can claim an unprecedented seventh consecutive constructors’ championship.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||All-round Hyderabad ensures the sun does not set on its campaign||Sunrisers Hyderabad took control of its IPL destiny, beating Royal Challengers Bangalore by five wickets at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Saturday. The win places the side fourth (12 points), but with a more-than-healthy net run rate of +0.555, all it needs is a victory over Mumbai Indians on the final day to make the playoffs. The RCB-DC shoot-out RCB, too, has its fate in its hands, despite squandering three opportunities to record the solitary win it needs. Monday’s game against Delhi Capitals will likely be a shoot-out. Chasing 121, Manish Pandey (26, 19b, 3x4, 1x6) and Wriddhiman Saha (39, 32b, 4x4, 1x6) carried SRH to 58 for one in the PowerPlay. But Yuzvendra Chahal broke through in the seventh over by having Pandey caught by Chris Morris running in from long-on. The wily leggie then had Saha stumped, before Isuru Udana got Kane Williamson to turn a routine run chase into a tense one. But the burly Jason Holder came up with an unbeaten 10-ball 26 that contained three maximums, all on the leg-side and all off the back-foot. Nineteen runs came off one Navdeep Saini over, releasing all pressure. Chahal, who had bowled a dream first spell (3-0-13-2), was held back by Virat Kohli, and it was all over one ball into his reintroduction in the 15th over. Earlier, after being put in, the RCB batsmen, Kohli and A.B. de Villiers included, looked staid and unadventurous — albeit on a sticky wicket — and allowed SRH to bowl a whopping 50 dot balls. Superb spell Sandeep Sharma’s splendid first spell (3-0-13-2) pegged RCB back as it scored just 30 runs in the PowerPlay. He rearranged Devdutt Padikkal’s stumps and snapped up Kohli on the drive. It was the seventh time Sandeep had dismissed Kohli in the IPL. Josh Philippe (32, 31b, 4x4) improvised, with flat-batted strokes and sweeps. But the young Aussie and de Villiers were dismissed in a span of five deliveries, to leave RCB reeling at 76 for four. From there, RCB added just 44 more, with the 27 it scored in the last five overs the lowest by a team batting first this IPL.   SRH wins at a canter  SRH reached the 121-run target in 14.1 overs, losing five wickets. Holder (26) and Samad (0) remained unbeaten. The victory helped Warner’s men keep their playoff chances alive
01 November 2020||CHENNAI,||CDBA distributes prize money||Around Rs. 3.5 lakh prize money was distributed among players and coaches at the Chennai District Badminton Association (CDBA) awards function held here on Saturday. The event was sponsored by WEEXPO India. Association’s aim Speaking at the function, Aravindan Samiappan, secretary of CDBA, said the association’s aim is to provide financial assistance to promising young players, who can become world class players in the future. “There will be a time when all the talented young players will be funded by us,” he said. Ve. Arunachallam, secretary of Tamil Nadu Badminton Association (TNBA) lauded K. Vinoth Kumar, CEO of WEEXPO for supporting the function “during COVID times.” In a video message, P. Gopi Chand, chief coach of the Indian National team, lauded the wonderful initiative of TNBA, who he said was “working hard.” He also praised the TN players for the huge progress they have made and wished them “great results in the future.”  The awardees:   Player of the year: Sankar Muthusamy (2018), Rithvik Sanjeevi & Sankar Muthusamy (2019); Promising player of the year: Male: Sugi Sai, Sabareeshwaran; Female: Rithika & Sivaranjani.   Spirited Performance of the year: Siddanth Gupta (2018), Kevin Walter (2019).   Coach of the year: Aravindan Samiappan (2018), Ajit Haridas (2019).   Outstanding Contribution to TN badminton: Chandramohan (Hatsun Badminton Centre) & Surendar (Smashbounce BA).
01 November 2020||Imola,||Hamilton still has vivid Senna memories||Lewis Hamilton was a nine-year-old karting driver when he learned his idol Ayrton Senna died after crashing into a concrete wall during the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix. More than a quarter of a century later, Hamilton still has vivid memories of when his father broke the news as the pair repaired his kart. “I remember I had to walk away from my dad, because my dad would never let me cry in front of him, Hamilton said on Friday while preparing for his first Formula One race on the Imola track where Senna lost his life. “I had to go to a different place and it was not so easy,” Hamilton added, his voice quavering with emotion. “But I remember trying to challenge that sadness into adrenaline and I think I won that weekend. But the following weeks were tough.” First since 2006 This weekend’s Emilia Romagna GP marks the first Formula One race at Imola since 2006, when Hamilton raced in GP2 at the circuit. He returns as F1’s new holder of most Grand Prix wins, after eclipsing Michael Schumacher last weekend by winning a record 92nd race in Portugal. Austrian driver Roland Ratzenberger was also killed during the 1994 race weekend in a high-speed crash but Senna was a three-time F1 champion and considered among the series’ greatest drivers. “It’s just something we’ll always remember,” said Hamilton, who was given one of Senna’s race helmets by Senna’s family at a Brazilian GP. Special lap “I went around today and it was a really special lap just going around seeing this historic track, passing the hard reminder of where Ayrton crashed. “It is very surreal still for me when I go to places, where you drive through the tunnel in Monaco or you drive at the British GP where you know that the greats in the past have raced at those places,” the Mercedes driver added. “That’s heart-warming to know that I was able to be here and do what he was doing 26 years ago.” Mercedes can clinch a record seventh consecutive constructors’ title on Sunday unless Red Bull outscores it by 34 points — something Red Bull hasn’t done in more than four years.
01 November 2020||BENGALURU:,||It’s Multifaceted vs Cavallo Veloce||Multifaceted and Cavallo Veloce may fight out the finish of the Rajyotsava Trophy (1,400m), the chief event of the opening day’s races to be held here on Sunday (Nov 1). There will be no false rails.  KENTUCKY PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms), 1.30 p.m.: 1. Arabian Mist (7) Neeraj 57, 2. Dream Chaser (8) R. Manish 57, 3. Forever Together (4) Suraj 57, 4. Jaga Daku (10) T.S. Jodha 57, 5. Sizzler (1) Darshan 57, 6. Allabouther (12) Zervan 55.5, 7. Aztec Queen (2) Kiran Rai 55.5, 8. Captain Gain (6) P.P. Dhebe 55.5, 9. Drusilla (9) Sandesh 55.5, 10. Mistletoe (5) Antony 55.5, 11. Valour (3) Arshad 55.5 and 12. Watchmystars (11) Trevor 55.5.  1. Forever Together,   2. Drusilla,   3. Watchmystars   INAUGURATION PLATE (1,200m), rated 00 to 20, 2.00: 1. Challenging Star (7) A. Imran 60, 2. Definitive (2) Ankit Yadav 60, 3. Desert Mirage (3) Kiran Rai 60, 4. Roc Girl (10) Jagadeesh 60, 5. Special Stone (12) M. Naveen 60, 6. Estella (1) J.H. Arul 59.5, 7. Heavenly Angel (9) Darshan 59.5, 8. Elite Agent (8) B. Harish 57.5, 9. Iconic Princess (6) Trevor 57.5, 10. Air Force One (4) Rayan 57, 11. Ruler Of Nation (5) Irvan 55.5 and 12. Black Hawk (11) P.P. Dhebe 54.5.  1. Iconic Princess, 2. Challenging Star, 3. Air Force One   ALTENBURG PLATE (Div. II), (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o & over, 2.30: 1. Kingsfield (6) P. Mani 60, 2. Sun Splash (5) S. Shareef 60, 3. Orogenesis (3) R. Girish 59, 4. Tyto Alba (1) Sai Kiran 59, 5. Desert Combat (8) Ashhad Asbar 58.5, 6. Lady Nectar (7) Rayan 58.5, 7. Cameleons Image (12) A. Imran 58, 8. Polar Express (10) Arshad 58, 9. Bahurupah (9) Naveen K 57.5, 10. High Priestess (11) Trevor 56.5, 11. Fortuneer (2) Afsar Khan 55.5 and 12. Southern Power (4) P.P. Dhebe 55.  1. Sun Splash,   2. High Priestess,   3. Cameleons Image   RANGANATHITTU PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms), 3.00: 1. Cavallini (11) A. Imran 57, 2. Daring Boy (5) R. Pradeep 57, 3. Golden Memory (1) Darshan 57, 4. Impeccable (3) Suraj 57, 5. Java Peninsula (9) P.P. Dhebe 57, 6. Little Joe (8) Rayan 57, 7. Manifest (4) D. Patel 57, 8. Papal Decree (2) Trevor 57, 9. Perfect Perfecto (12) T.S. Jodha 57, 10. Amplify (6) Antony 55.5, 11. Michigan Melody (10) Kiran Rai 55.5 and 12. Prerana (7) Irvan 55.5.  1. Perfect Perfecto,   2. Cavallini, 3. Papal Decree   VIDHANA SOUDHA CUP (1,200m), rated 60 & above, 3.30: 1. Silver Ikon (2) B. Dharshan 63, 2. Attorney General (8) S. John 59, 3. Psychic Warrior (3) Kiran Rai 58, 4. Manchester (4) Arshad 57, 5. Set To Win (6) M. Naveen 57, 6. Depth Charge (1) Sai Kiran 54.5, 7. Mongolian King (5) P.P. Dhebe 52.5, 8. Turf Magic (10) Darshan 52.5, 9. Indian Empress (11) Jagadeesh 52, 10. Malwa (12) Trevor 52, 11. Life Awaits (9) Rayan 51.5 and 12. Commodus (7) Neeraj 51.  1. Malwa,   2. Indian Empress,   3. Commodus   RAJYOTSAVA TROPHY (1,400m), 3-y-o & over, (Terms), 4.00: 1. Trafalgar (6) Trevor 63.5, 2. Cavallo Veloce (7) A. Imran 59, 3. Knotty Ash (1) S. John 59, 4. Multifaceted (3) Suraj 59, 5. Salazaar (10) Anjar Alam 59, 6. Areca Legend (9) M. Naveen 57, 7. Point To Prove (11) Antony 57, 8. Augustus Caesar (12) Neeraj 56, 9. Dream Catcher (5) Kiran Rai 56, 10. Knight Templar (13) Sandesh 56, 11. Cosmic Ray (4) Zervan 55.5, 12. Shesmyscript (2) T.S. Jodha 54.5 and 13. Vachan (8) Jagadeesh 52.5.  1. Multifaceted,   2. Cavallo Veloce,   3. Trafalgar   BELGAUM PLATE (1,400m), rated 30 to 50, 4.30: 1. Astral Force (4) Chetan K 60, 2. Johnny Bravo (8) Trevor 60, 3. Queen Of Sands (10) R. Manish 60, 4. Schafenberg (2) Zervan 59.5, 5. Born Queen (5) Suraj 58, 6. Baltimore (9) Antony 57.5, 7. Alexandre Dumas (3) Sai Kiran 57, 8. Black Whizz (1) T.S. Jodha 57, 9. Classic Charm (6) Darshan 57, 10. Striking Memory (11) Jagadeesh 57, 11. Indian Democrat (12) Neeraj 56.5 and 12. Ozark (7) Tauseef 55.5.  1. Born Queen,   2. Johnny Bravo,   3. Schafenberg   ALTENBURG PLATE (Div. I), (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o & over, 5.00: 1. Songkran (12) A. Imran 60, 2. Desert Rose (9) Likith Appu 59.5, 3. Marco Polo (5) J.H. Arul 59.5, 4. She’s Innocent (1) Chetan K 59.5, 5. Incitatus (4) R. Manish 59, 6. Ultimate Power (3) Jagadeesh 59, 7. Chantelle (11) R. Marshall 58.5, 8. Industrialist (7) Naveen K 58, 9. Mariachi (2) Irvan 58, 10. Sainthood (8) Antony 57, 11. Apollo Bay (10) P.P. Dhebe 56.5 and 12. Eco Friendly (6) Afsar Khan 56.5.  1. She’s Innocent,   2. Sainthood,   3. Songkran  Day’s best: Malwa  Double: Forever Together - Perfect Perfecto
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||MI extends DC’s slide, secures top-two finish||Despite the contrasting recent form of the teams involved in the first game of the IPL’s penultimate double-header this season, they were both in with a theoretical chance of finishing No. 1 at the end of the league. But in reality, Saturday’s fixture between Mumbai Indians and Delhi Capitals resulted in one of the biggest mismatches of the tournament. A nine-wicket mauling, with a whopping 34 balls to spare, at the Dubai International Stadium, assured MI of a top-two finish. DC, after its fourth loss on the trot, is stuck at 14 points and will have to beat Royal Challengers Bangalore to ensure a smooth passge into the playoffs. With Rohit Sharma still unfit, Kieron Pollard led MI in its 200th IPL game and opted to chase. DC captain Shreyas Iyer had a smile on his face, however, since his camp was keen on setting a target. Sharp catch The smiles evaporated in no time when in-form Shikhar Dhawan’s uppish cut off Trent Boult in the opening over resulted in a sharp catch at point by Suryakumar Yadav. By the end of the PowerPlay, the MI bowlers had DC running for cover. Prithvi Shaw, who came in for Ajinkya Rahane, top-edged Boult for Quinton de Kock to pouch a skier. Shreyas (25) and Rishabh Pant (21) continued to struggle to find batting rhythm. Their 35-run stand off 44 balls eventually ended when the skipper was stumped off leggie Rahul Chahar. In the next over, Jasprit Bumrah struck twice. He got rid of Marcus Stoinis with one that rose and moved off a good length and followed it up by jagging one back into Pant to trap him in front. At 62 for five in the 12th over, the fizz had gone out DC’s innings and the lower-order eventually trundled to 110 for nine. The fact that none of the top seven scored at even a run a ball illustrated how MI’s bowling unit dominated proceedings. Early wickets were the need of the hour if DC had to avoid damage to its net run rate. Openers Ishan Kishan (72 n.o., 47b, 8x4, 3x6) and de Kock (26, 28b, 2x4) prevented that, punishing the loose balls to make sure the chase never lost momentum. Although de Kock was dismissed after a 68-run stand, Ishan carried on and completed the formalities with a whip off Anrich Nortje for his third six of the day.
01 November 2020||Abu Dhabi,||It’s do-or-die for Rahul’s men||Playoff chances hanging in the balance, Kings XI Punjab will leave no stone unturned as it takes on Chennai Super Kings here on Sunday. KXIP’s chances of a top-four finish took a serious hit after the seven-wicket defeat to Rajasthan Royals, snapping an impressive five-match winning streak. That defeat means even a win against CSK will not ensure a playoff spot. CSK, already out of the reckoning for the first time ever, will aim to end its dismal campaign on a positive note. The M.S. Dhoni-led team heads into the clash after notching up back-to-back wins over RCB and KKR. With skipper Rahul, the leading run-scorer of the tournament, and the flamboyant Chris Gayle coming good and the marauding Nicholas Pooran at No 4, KXIP will fancy its chances at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium. CSK’s 23-year-old Ruturaj Gaikwad has shown a lot of spark, notching up back-to-back fifties to set up the wins against RCB and KKR. Ravindra Jadeja has been in fantastic form. The CSK bowling unit, boosted by the inclusion of New Zealand spinner Mitchell Santner, has done well in the previous two outings and will look to keep the momentum going.
01 November 2020||Sheffield,||Man City, Chelsea move closer to top||Manchester City and Chelsea moved towards touching distance of the Premier League summit on Saturday as Sheffield United and Burnley remained winless at the other end of the table. City has yet to hit the free-scoring form of Pep Guardiola’s side at its best, as for the third consecutive league game it was held to a solitary goal. But Kyle Walker’s long-range strike against his former club was good enough to earn a 1-0 win at goal-shy Sheffield United. Chelsea is also finding its form after a slow start to the season as Frank Lampard’s men ran out 3-0 winners at Burnley to stretch their unbeaten run to nine games. Hakim Ziyech was handed his first Premier League start after scoring in a 4-0 Champions League win away to Krasnodar in midweek and the Moroccan’s shot wrong-footed Nick Pope to open the floodgates for the visitors on 26 minutes. Hazard on target Eden Hazard scored his first goal for Real Madrid in over a year and Karim Benzema struck twice as the Spanish champion coasted to a 4-1 win at home to Huesca in LaLiga on Saturday. Making his first start of the campaign after persistent injury problems, Hazard broke the deadlock in the 40th minute with a thunderous strike from outside the area. COVID-19 positives Lazio announced on Saturday that it had put its entire squad in quarantine after positive coronavirus tests. Lazio fielded a depleted team in Brugge in the Champions League on Wednesday.  It is the first time Lazio has explicitly confirmed cases of COVID-19 in its squad.  The results:   Premier League: Sheffield United 0 lost to Manchester City 1 (Walker 28); Burnley 0 lost to Chelsea 3 (Ziyech 26, Zouma 63, Werner 70).   LaLiga: Real Madrid 4 (Hazard 40, Benzema 45, 90, Valverde 54) bt Huesca 1 (Ferreiro 74).   Serie A: Crotone 1 (Nwankwo 40) lost to Atalanta 2 (Muriel 26, 38).   Bundesliga : Eintracht Frankfurt 1 (Silva 65) drew with Werder Bremen 1 (Sargent 51); Cologne 1 (Drexler 82) lost to Bayern Munich 2 (Mueller 13-pen, Gnabry 45+1); Augsburg 3 (Vargas 40, Hahn 80, 90+1) bt Mainz 05 1 (Onisiwo 64); Arminia Bielefeld 0 lost to Borussia Dortmund 2 (Hummels 53, 71).   Friday: Premier League: Wolves 2 (Ait Nouri 18, Podence 27) bt Crystal Palace 0.   LaLiga: Eibar 0 lost to Cadiz 2 (Negredo 36, Sanchez Ponce 39).   Bundesliga: Schalke 1 (Thiaw 30) drew with Stuttgart 1 (Gonzalez 56-pen).
01 November 2020||BENGALURU,||Anju’s election as KAA nominee hasn’t gone down well||Anju Bobby George’s election on Saturday as the senior vice-president of the Athletics Federation of India via a nomination from the Karnataka Athletics Association (KAA) hasn’t gone down well with a few affiliated units of the State body. The World championship bronze medallist is from Kerala, but lives in Bengaluru where she runs the Anju Bobby George Sports Foundation. The long jumper is said to have secured the nomination by entering KAA from the adjacent Chikkaballapur district. Disappointing “It’s disappointing,” said Ashwini Nachappa, Asian Games medallist and president of the Bangalore Urban District Athletic Association (BUDAA). “It is great to see a woman as VP, an athlete of her calibre. I congratulated her. But we saw in the electoral college that she has been nominated through KAA! “If she had been actively involved [in Chikkaballapur], we would have had no problem. But she has figured in no capacity there. As per the RTI papers we have, Chikkaballapur hasn’t even held its AGM and renewed its registration. Integrity questioned “We have no dearth of international athletes here, starting from Kenneth Powell. So, for them to be overlooked is very disappointing. This also questions Anju’s integrity. Kerala would have been fine. But to do it in such a manner, through the back door, is very disheartening.” Move defended A. Rajavelu, KAA secretary, defended the move and said the presence of a popular name like Anju will “boost the brand of KAA”. He also claimed that the 43-year-old was recently elected senior vice-president of the Chikkaballapur district body and thus there was no illegality. “She might be from Kerala but she is now well settled in Bengaluru,” Rajavelu said. “We aren’t against greats of Karnataka nor do we ignore our senior administrators. Last year we ensured that Uday K. Prabhu was part of the Indian selection committee.” “Anju is the first-ever Indian to win a medal at the World Athletics Championship. For her to be vice-president of AFI and represent KAA will be a proud moment for us,” he added. Anju was unavailable for comment.
01 November 2020||Dubai,||RR’s first task will be to beat KKR||Rajasthan Royals will look to sustain the momentum it has gained when it meets Kolkata Knight Riders here on Sunday. The best-case scenario for RR in its attempt to make the playoffs would be Kings XI Punjab losing its last match and Sunrisers Hyderabad winning no more than one of its last two outings. In that case, RR will go through with 14 points, without net run rate coming into play. However, RR’s first task will be beating KKR. Given the tight situation, the bigger the margin of win, the better. Royals’ talismanic England all-rounder Ben Stokes has won back-to-back Man-of-the-Match awards. The 2019 World Cup final hero seems to be getting his mojo back, great news for the Royals. Sanju Samson rediscovering his touch must have also gladdened RR hearts. Skipper Steve Smith can play according to the situation and opener Robin Uthappa can put any attack to the sword. Despite having as many points as RR and KXIP, KKR’s road to the playoffs looks the toughest. KKR’s only chance of qualification is if it beats Royals and finishes on 14 points, with none of the others reaching that tally.
01 November 2020||Sheffield,||Guardiola rules out return as Barca boss||Pep Guardiola ruled out ever taking charge of Barcelona for a second spell as the Manchester City boss insisted he retains the “desire” to succeed in England. Guardiola is the most decorated coach in Barca’s glorious history after winning 14 trophies in four years in charge between 2008 and 2012. Josep Maria Bartomeu finally bowed to pressure to resign as president of the Catalan giants this week, with one of the leading candidates to take over, Victor Font, saying he wants to bring legends like Guardiola and his former players Xavi and Carles Puyol back to work for the club. It is over “I said many times, my period as a manager in Barcelona is over. I think in life there is once you have to do things,” Guardiola said on Saturday. “There are incredible people who can be in charge, now for example (Barcelona coach) Ronald Koeman is an excellent manager. It is over.” A boyhood Barca fan, Guardiola also enjoyed an illustrious playing career at the Camp Nou and still holds season tickets as a supporter. “I will come back to my seats to see my club to watch a game. I am incredibly happy here, still I have the desire to do well and this is the most important thing. “Now there will be elections in Barcelona. Hopefully they can choose the right board to maintain this incredible club Barcelona in the highest level.” Longest spell Guardiola is already into the longest managerial spell of his career with this his fifth season at City. His side still looks a long way off the heights it reached in winning back-to-back Premier League titles between 2017 and 2019, but it is slowly getting up to speed after a start to the campaign disrupted by injuries, coronavirus cases and just a two-week long pre-season. Kyle Walker’s long-range effort against his former club was enough to secure City’s fourth win in five games in all competitions as it moves up to seventh in the Premier League.
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Titans XI posts record-breaking total||Wicketkeeper-batsman S. Tarun’s 68 (28b, 4x4, 6x6) and Shoaib Md. Khan’s 45 (17b, 2x4, 5x6) helped Titans XI post a record-breaking 264 for seven in 20 overs and post an 81-run win over Warriors XI in the Karbonn HarmonyCity Andhra Cricket Association T20 league at Anantapur. Titans score is the highest-ever score in a T20 game in India, beating the previous best of 263 for five by Royal Challengers Bengaluru against Pune Warriors in the 2013 IPL, according to the official scorer of the tournament. In reply, Warriors XI folded up for 183 in 18.1 overs with opener M.U.B. Sriram (60, 38b, 9x4, 1x6) being the lead scorer.  The scores: Titans XI 264/7 in 20 overs (M. Hemanth Reddy 30, C. Kranti Kumar 37, S. Tarun 68, D.G.J. Chaitanya 30, Shoaib Mohammed Khan 45) bt Warriors XI 183 in 18.1 overs (M.U.B. Sriram 60, P. Girinath Reddy 3/32).   Legends XI 136 in 20 overs (K. Karan Shinde 38, P. Tapaswi 3/22) lost to Kings XI 137/4 in 19 overs (M.A. Praneeth 36 n.o., Naren Reddy 40 n.o.).
01 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sultan passes away||S.M. Sultan, senior vice-president of the Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) and secretary of the Andhra Pradesh Table Tennis Association (APTTA), passed away on Saturday. He was 61 and is survived by a son and a daughter. The Vijayawada-based Sultan was undergoing COVID-19 treatment for the last couple of weeks and breathed his last in a hospital in Manipal.  Sultan had lost his mother a few days ago and wife Lubana Moosavi on Friday night. His son Javed Moosavi is also being treated for COVID-19 and is on ventilator support. Sultan was a familiar face in the table tennis circuit for close to four decades in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, and was largely responsible for Hyderabad hosting many international tournaments including the Commonwealth Championship, World juniors, World cadets, besides Nationals in different age groups. He represented the undivided Andhra Pradesh in the Nationals and later pursued his career as a lawyer. “I lost a good friend, an able administrator and a very good organiser. His wisdom and knowledge-sharing had always come in handy for us in TTFI and we will miss him badly,” TTFI president Dushyant Chautala said. TTFI general secretary M.P. Singh said: “We knew he was hospitalised and were hopeful that he would come out unscathed. But I couldn’t digest the double blow (his wife’s death last night and his this afternoon). I lost a great friend and a guide.” Officials of APTTA and the TTTA expressed condolences.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Royals keep hopes alive||The race for the playoffs remains wide open in IPL 2020. A magnificent chase by Rajasthan Royals against Kings XI Punjab at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi on Friday ensured as much. Steve Smith’s men won by seven wickets with 15 balls to spare. They now have 12 points, the same as KXIP and KKR. Contributions from Robin Uthappa (30), Ben Stokes (50, 26b, 6x4, 3x6), Sanju Samson (48, 25b, 4x4, 3x6), Smith (31 not out) and Jos Buttler (22 not out) took RR to a memorable victory.  Gayle is the first batsman to hit 1000 sixes in T20s
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Bishnoi and Padikkal have impressed: Ojha||Former India spinner Pragyan Ojha is impressed with the way Kings XI Punjab’s Ravi Bishnoi and Royal Challengers Bangalore’s Devdutt Padikkal have performed in the league stage of the tournament. “It’s a brilliant tournament given the circumstances. The players did not practice for seven months. The way they have played is amazing and it shows how much they wanted to get on to the field and enjoy the game,” Ojha said on the Tissot Presents Sportstar Extras T20 Time show. “As a spinner, I enjoyed Ravi Bishnoi. For him, it can’t get any better because he has been working with Anil (Kumble) bhai . At 20, when you get to work with a legend like him, it’s a really something,” Ojha said. Bishnoi was part of the India Under-19 team that reached the World Cup final in February. Padikkal, too, has been a talking point. “Devdutt has been quite impressive. He is playing with superstars like AB (de Villiers), (Aaron) Finch and Virat (Kohli), and has been consistent. He has made a tremendous,” said Ojha, who featured in 24 Tests, 18 ODIs and six T20Is for India. For the full interview, go to www.youtube.com/watch?v=9yDOeZuZo1E
01 November 2020||Christchurch,||WI begins two-week quarantine in NZ||West Indies has begun a two-week quarantine here after clearing the first health test on arrival in New Zealand ahead of their T20I and Test series, starting November 27. All squad members, apart from the players participating in the ongoing Indian Premier League in the UAE, assembled in Barbados on Tuesday. Test skipper Jason Holder and T20 captain Kieran Polard will join their teammates after the IPL. From Barbados, the players flew to London followed by Dubai before ttouching own in Auckland. They, then, made a short trip to Christchurch — where they will quarantine before commencing training.
01 November 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai City signs Horam and Naorem||Mumbai City FC on Saturday announced the signing of mid-fielders Chanso Horam and Naorem Tondomba Singh, both penning deals that will keep them at the club until 2024. As a part of their development, the duo will be loaned out for the 2020-21 campaign with 18-year old Chanso Horam heading to TRAU FC and Naorem going to new I-League entrant Sudeva FC, a media release issued here said. Both are promising mid-fielders. Head coach Sergio Lobera described the duo as exceptional talent, with an ability to influence the game from the middle of the park.
01 November 2020||Kozhikode,||Gokulam signs Dennis Antwi Agyare||Gokulam Kerala FC has signed Dennis Antwi Agyare, a Ghanaian forward, for the new I-League season. The 27-year-old joins Gokulam after playing in Malaysia, Sweden and Norway. “I am delighted to join Gokulam Kerala FC,” Antwi said. “The club has a vision and is highly ambitious. I am attracted to their philosophy and when I spoke to their new coach, I felt Gokulam is the most suitable club for me.” “Antwi is a player who has got a champion mentality,” said Gokulam’s head coach Vincenzo Alberto Annese. “I believe he will be very successful with the club.” “Antwi would be an asset for us in the upcoming I-League,” said Gokulam Gopalan, the club’s chairman.
01 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Sumariwalla’s election ratified||As expected, Adille Sumariwalla’s election unopposed as the AFI president for a third term was ratified on Day 1 of the federation’s AGM here on Saturday, as were all the other posts in the Executive Council. But the focus of the meeting remained firmly on preparations for the Tokyo Olympics next year and curbing doping and age-fraud at all levels. While admitting that COVID-19 related uncertainty and anxiety needed to be handled seriously and sensitively, the AFI sought more proactive measures from states and districts on ensuring resumption of training. However, with most of the elite athletes already in training at SAI Centres across the country, the AFI also expressed concern at the lack of information and a clear roadmap for training in the coming months. The AFI also sought details of injuries and progress of those at Patiala including shot-putter Tejinderpal Singh Toor, Neeraj Chopra and Hima Das. Meanwhile, with no contests for any of the posts, all nominations were confirmed unanimously, including that of Ravinder Chaudhary as secretary of the Athletics Federation of India and Anju Bobby George as the senior vice-president. Besides Anju, the 2003 long jump bronze medallist at the World Championships — India’s lone medallist till date in the competition — the other women elected to the Executive Council include former long-distance runner Suman Rawat Mehta (vice-president), former middle-distance runner C. Latha (joint secretary) and A. Hyma (member), as per the amended AFI constitution. The outgoing EC had no elected woman member.
01 November 2020||Bengaluru:,||BTC’s winter racing season from today||After a long hiatus forced by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Bangalore Turf Club (BTC) witnesses a return to action with the start of the winter racing season on Sunday, BTC announced here. A total prize money of Rs. 1,31,56,799 is on offer for the five race days (November 1, 7, 14, 21 and 28). The BTC will announce the conventions for the online betting mechanism soon. In accordance with government rules, members of the general public will not be permitted to attend the races. All government-mandated Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) will be in place to ensure the safety of all involved personnel.
01 November 2020||New Delhi,||Indians win three gold||World silver-medallist Amit Panghal (52kg) and Sanjeet (91kg) struck gold on Friday in their first competition after the coronavirus-forced break, at the Alexis Vastine international boxing tournament in Nantes. Panghal defeated American Rene Abraham 3-0. Sanjeet beat Frenchman Soheb Bouafia. In the 75kg category, Ashish Kumar also claimed gold after his opponent, American Joseph Gerome Hiks, pulled out due to injury. Kavinder Singh Bisht (57kg) won silver after losing to Samuel Kistohurry in a split 2-1 verdict. India had earlier secured three bronze medals through Shiva Thapa (63kg), Sumit Sangwan (81kg) and Satish Kumar (+91kg).
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Sports Cube Academy enters the semifinals||Haryana Ranji player Sumit Kumar’s unbeaten 80 and Rahul Dagar’s 53 helped Sports Cube Academy beat Niz Sports by six wickets and enter the semifinals of the YS Sports T20 cricket tournament.  The scores:   Niz Sports 186/5 in 20 overs (Himanshu Rana 72, Akshay Saini 42, Rahul Dalal 37) lost to Sports Cube Academy 190/4 in 19.4 overs (Sumit Kumar 80 n.o., Rahul Dagar 53, Akhil Kohar 2/26).      Ayush Doseja and Abhishek Gupta scored unbeaten half-centuries and left-arm spinner and Man-of-the-match Rocky Nagar picked up five wickets to help Ravi Brothers defeat City Academy by two runs in the B.R. Sharma memorial cricket tournament.  The scores:   Ravi Brothers 215/4 in 40 overs (Ayush Doseja 75 n.o., Abhishek Gupta 73 n.o.) bt City Academy 213/9 in 40 overs (Diwakar Kumar 66, Rocky Nagar 5/32, Ajay Chaudhary 3/48).        Delhi under-23 batsman Ayush Badoni struck a 109-ball 151 and Sultan Ansari took a fifer as Sehgal & Chaudhary Academy (SCA) beat Gurukul Cricket Academy by 13 runs in a league match of the Eventeneurs Cup.  The scores:   SCA 298 in 49.2 overs (Ayush Badoni 151, Salman Khan 4/55) bt GCA 135 in 25.1 overs (Sultan Ansari 5/35, Gaurav Tomar 3/23).
01 November 2020||PARIS,||Halep tests COVID-19 positive||Simona Halep has tested positive for COVID-19 and the former women’s tennis World No. 1 said on Saturday that she was “recovering well and feels good”. The 29-year-old Romanian made the announcement on Twitter. Halep, the reigning Wimbledon champion, wrote: “Hi everyone, I wanted to let you know that I tested positive for COVID-19. I am self-isolating at home and am recovering well from mild symptoms. I feel good.”AFP
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 07:59 IST,||Sudoku - November 1, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Happy days will come soon’||Sukhwinder Singh has been busy during the lockdown. The playback singer, who has given us timeless Bollywood hits like ‘Chaiyya Chaiyya’ and ‘Ramta Jogi’, is working not only on film songs but also on some non-Bollywood projects over the past few months. The lockdown has not proved to be too much of a hindrance, he says, adding, “whatever the resources, baat dil se dilon tak hai (the communication is between hearts).” He elaborates, over an online interview, the process that went into ‘Hum kalakar hai’ (we are artists), a song by the Indian Film & Television Directors’ Association, created in solidarity for the technicians, workers and artistes of the industry. The song, which features a voiceover by Anupam Kher, was not just sung by Sukhwinder, but penned by him as well. “We are living in a world of internet and satellites. Many of us have got sufficient facilities to record, so we discussed it on the phone. Once I understood what exactly it [the song] should convey, I wrote it,” says Sukhwinder, about the Salim Sulaiman-composed track. Even outside the industry, the singer has kept on creating content. Among them have been a pumped-up blend of patriotic classic ‘Yeh Des Hai Veer Jawano Ka’ and Mountain Dew’s ‘Darr ke aage jeet hai’ in August, and a marketing anthem for social media platform Trell in September, each of which has raked in over 40 million YouTube views. The former includes lyrics originally sung by giants of their time, Mohammed Rafi and Balbir, that Sukhwinder lent his signature power punch to. The final track, he enthuses, “came out so well. I must appreciate music director Ram Sampath and [Bharat] Bala, the great director: he presented me also in the video, it’s fantabulous.” The Trell anthem, ‘Keh jo kehna hai’, by ad agency Bombay Locale, is accompanied by heartwarming visuals of urban Indians in their domestic settings, attempting to connect over videocall.   There are film projects in the pipeline, too, but he is not forthcoming about them. “It is too early to reveal,” he states, “But [they are] good projects: good films, good songs.” In the meantime, would he be willing to woo an online audience? His response is a tad dismissive: “Online concerts are not going to be forever. People would love to to see the magic of music aamne samne (face to face). One or two [online concerts] I can do, and I am sure I will rock it, but ultimately I would love to see the audience in front of me. I know that happy days are going to come.”
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Gods among men||‘I am no one’s master. No one is mine’, Govinda Shauri declares in The Cowherd Prince (Penguin publication). He is plucked out of his comfort zone, where he lived amid rolling hills and farms, tending to cattle. The book is a prequel to The Aryavarta Chronicles trilogy, in which writer Krishna Udayasankar re-imagined theMahabharataand its epic battle between good and evil. In this book, she traces the origin story of Govinda, the reluctant prince who is up against the forces of Kans in Mathura. Edited excerpts from an interview: This book is a prequel to The Aryavarta Chronicles trilogy... were the backstories of the characters already in place? Yes, in fact, I had thought of writing The Cowherd Prince soon after I finished Kurukshetra , the third book of The Aryavarta Chronicles . There is a story that the Vyasas — Dwaipayana and Sukadeva — were both saddened after theMahabharatahad been set down in all its violent glory, they wanted to write something else, and thus began work on the Harivamsa. My inspiration was along similar lines, though to less excellence for sure. I felt for all the efforts I had put in, I was still left wondering about Govinda Shauri, about what made him the way he was, and what his journey was. But I was also afraid of revisiting the character, particularly since I was not sure I could do justice to him.  When you revisited Govinda’s origin story, how much had your thought process changed?  My thought process certainly had changed, both as a writer and as a person. But my character’s views are very much their own, and I try not to use them to voice my views. But I think the topics and context of my books do reflect certain basic values and worldviews — equality, democracy, the fight against oppression... I don’t think I can hide those in my work. The book addresses concerns such as migration to the capital city and depletion of resources, and in that sense, mirrors the contemporary situation...  Broad social issues and human concerns are fairly universal, though the context in which they arise change. Issues like migration were not something I brought in because they were contemporary or topical — the book has been in the making for seven years. I asked myself what the social and economic situation would have been in the context of the story taking into various factors, including the character’s motivations to act, and then built the details in. To what extent did mythological texts influence the characterisation of Govinda and Balabhadra?  They were instrumental in making me ask what sort of people they were, their motivations, their actions. I have always wondered how a man like Govinda, who orchestrated such a terrible war, was considered divine. Or how a wine-loving Balabadra (he is described in the Harivamsa as having eyes perpetually reddened by his love for wine) was considered a competent administrator, and divine in his own right. What I have tried to hold on to and show, through their characters, is that these heroes are exceptional people because of their choices and actions, not simply because of their divine origin. Most of the primary characters are men. Was it emotionally draining as you navigated the politics of Mathura?  Aah yes! Actually, that has been a conscious decision, one that reflects my learning (or not) as a writer. In earlier drafts, I tried very hard to bring in more women characters. In later versions, though, I realised that it was tokenism. The women characters were not adding to the plot. Which actually is an important fact, because it shows how the world of the story is a man’s world, in fact, a rich, upper caste, man’s world. Which is pretty much how our world, our reality is. I felt it was more important to preserve the integrity of the plot and call out things for what they were. Emotionally draining — for my characters, possibly. For me, not in the least.  In The Aryavarta Chronicles trilogy, which Krishna Udayasankar re-imagined theMahabharataand its epic battle between good and evil
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Grandpa’s debut||Ninety-one-year old Ousef Abraham was astonished to see himself on screen when he watched the documentary Chachan, A Day for the first time. Until then, he had no clue about this film, directed by his grandson Jain J. Abraham, where he plays the central character. Says Jain, “I shot it during my visits to my hometown in Kerala while studying at Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute, Kolkata. My grandfather’s eyesight is weak. Many times, he did not see the camera. But when he spotted it, he became conscious. I had to edit out such footage.” The documentary has now been selected for the Dharamshala International Film Festival, being held virtually. “This is my début film and such spaces are great to meet other filmmakers and engage in conversation on different aspects of filmmaking,” says the happy 28-year-old. Jain, known as JJ among friends, shot the footage over a year. Chachan means grandfather in Malayalam and his film revolves around the everyday life of Ousef, a farmer in a small town called Pala in Kottayam district. “He talks about politics, agriculture, and spirituality. He always has several questions about Kolkata. I wish to take him there someday,” says Jain. The film’s narrative is non-linear and observational. “The works of filmmakers like Jonas Mekas and Kazuhiro Soda inspire me. I always had the habit of capturing everything around me on camera. I had no idea that those shots of my grandfather would one day make a documentary.” Jain received help from a friend in college for sound design and mixing. “I also got feedback from my teachers. As a fresher, the biggest hurdle was budget. I had to finish the film with Rs. 15,000. But it was a great learning experience. I got a better idea on how to merge audio and visuals to express the emotions that I have to convey,” he says.  Chachan, A Day was earlier screened at Kolkata People’s Film Festival and DMZ International Documentary Film Festival, South Korea. “I met Arundhati Roy during the screening at Kolkata and she liked my work. Such recognition gives me a boost to do more films.” Currently, Jain is working on his next documentary, Stories from the Second Floor . “During the lockdown, I spent two months in a room on the second floor of a building in Goa. The film too is an observational piece with visuals from there.”  The Dharamshala International Film Festival is on till November 4. Visit https://online.diff.co.in/ for details.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Local communities build cities: A case study from South Chennai||Just a “byte” away from the IT Corridor, Perumbakkam provides many IT professionals with a home address. With work allowed to be carried out from remote locations due to the pandemic, many techies and other professionals too have shifted to their home towns. A temporary dip in occupancy at gated communities in Perumbakkam is illustration enough. Srinivasan Subramaniam, solid waste management (SWM) lead at the Federation of Perumbakkam Residents’ Welfare Associations (FPRWA), counts this exodus among factors that slowed down “Thuimai Perumbakkam 2020”, kickstarted in mid-2019. “With many residents expected to return to the locality now, November holds some promise in terms of restarting SWM initiatives that are currently in suspension,” shares Srinivasan. From how Srinivasan chronicles events from mid-2019 to the time the pandemic struck, the locality seems to have gone into an SWM overdrive in a short period of time. “Our two demands with the panchayat are: Regular clearance of garbage, and treatment of the garbage that is cleared. There are problems in both. As yet, there is no composting facility in Perumbakkam. So, we decided that as a Federation, we would solve it ourselves as much as possible,” explains Srinivasan. “There are around 35,000 voters in Perumbakkam, and the population should be anywhere between 70,000 and 80,000. As an immediate measure, Perumbakkam, now a village panchayat, has to be upgraded as a town panchayat or a municipality. Understaffed and strapped for resources, it is struggling to meet the demands of waste management,” says N.K. Raja, secretary, Federation of Perumbakkam Residents’ Welfare Associations. A Perumbakkam Selection Grade Village Panchayat official has however stated that the panchayat is not understaffed in terms of solid waste management, and that sufficient vehicles are being pressed into service to carry out the work. Residents’ collective “Last year, we decided to initiate and drive solid waste management in Perumbakkam. In June 2019, we organised an SWM awareness event at the panchayat office, in association with Pasumai Vikatan. It sought to present the nitty-gritty of SWM to residents. We brought P. Natarajan, founder of environment conservation NGO ‘Namma Ooru Foundation’, to talk to the participants. Called ‘Thuimai Perumbakkam 2020’, the initiative set out with the objective of making Perumbakkam clean by the end of 2020. But the pandemic slowed it down. When we started the initiative, Casagrand Cherry Pick, a gated community, was carrying out source segregation massively at the community level. They were giving the dry waste to a vendor and wet waste to multiple vendors.” Srinivasan explains that an SWM core team was formed and it connected with various communities in Perumbakkam, encouraging them to emulate communities like Cherry Pick. It also encouraged residents of individual houses to hand over dry waste to a recycler and carry out home composting. “Last year, the initiative helped source home composting kits for 25 individual houses. Following our advice, residents of individual houses have enlisted the services of a dry waste vendor,” elaborates Srinivasan. “We went to many apartment complexes, and so additionally, six apartment complexes came on board, and they also started segregating waste. Dry waste was being handed over to a vendor. Wet waste was being given to the panchayat. As there was no compost yard, we requested the panchayat to establish one.” Until the time a compost yard comes up in Perumbakkam, the SWM team seeks to have stop-gap arrangements in place to have the wet waste composted, and make sure it does not go to the landfill. “We made an arrangement with a compost yard in Jalladianpet with some help from the Perumbakkam panchayat, to accept wet waste from a few of our societies,” says Raja. Jalladianpet comes under Ward 191 of Greater Chennai Corporation. “Near Varathapuram, there are two apartments, which together account for close to 100 flats. On our request, the Jalladianpet compost yard accepted wet waste from these communities on alternate days. With good intentions, they supported us. We just organised the transport,” says Srinivasan. “They were doing that for three months, and the pandemic put a halt to it,” says Raja, and adds, “We have a plan to contact the Sembakkam Municipality and request them to process the green waste from some of our communities, at their compost yard. We are also planning to approach the Semmancheri compost yard with a similar request. We would do this to manage the situation till we get our own compost yard.” Protest by residents Raja continues, “Meanwhile, the government sanctioned the construction of a micro compost yard at a cost of Rs. 35 lakh. The construction got under way behind the Perumbakkam panchayat office. Associations representing two neighbourhoods raised objections to the micro compost yard being set up at the said location, leading to the work being stalled.” A committee member of VGP Prabhu Nagar Residents Welfare Association, which represents a neighbourhood near this location, says, “Around the site of the micro-compost yard, there is a children’s play area, a gym and a community hall where functions are organised regularly, and there are houses nearby. How can a micro-compost yard come up at such a place?” Veera Subramanian V., secretary, VGP Prabhu Nagar Residents Welfare Association, says, “The panchayat has been dumping garbage behind its office. When they started this practice they said it would be a stop-gap arrangement. We took them at their word. But they did not keep their word. Though it is supposed to be a transit point for garbage on its way to be dumped elsewhere, the garbage just stays there, keeps piling up and is cleared once in four or six months, that too after many follow-ups. And now, they tell us a micro-compost yard is coming up. As of now, there is no sign of any proper segregation practice in place, and their assurances that having a micro-composting centre would not cause any problem to residents does not inspire confidence in us.” A move to have a bigger space for solid waste management, one near the Perumbakkam hill, ran into rough weather with the residents of Bollineni Hillside objecting to the choice of location. Following this, reportedly, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has written to the panchayat that they should be informed about any project that is planned close to areas that come under the protection of ASI. The panchayat official has confirmed receiving such a communication from ASI.  November holds some promise in terms of restarting SWM initiatives that are in suspension SrinivasanSubramaniam   There are around 35,000 voters in Perumbakkam, and the population should be anywhere between 70,000 and 80,000 N.K. Raja
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon notes on tree care||Sabeena Varghese, a resident of South Avenue, Srinagar Colony, is fed up following up with the Greater Chennai Corporation about having the trees in her neighbourhood trimmed to keep them from blocking the street lights. After repeated complaints, when the Corporation team did finally arrive at this neighbourhood in Saidapet, the results of the intervention were far from what Sabeena believes should have been done. “They just cut the branches that they could reach and I was advised that if they had to bring the more appropriate machine with an electric saw mounted on a crane, I had to write to GCC, which I thought was ridiculous as the tree is not inside any compound but on the road,” says Sabeena, a school teacher. Her point is that there obviously has to be more science attached to the process of tree-trimming than just lopping off branches within reach using a knife,    as the Corporation workers did. Following this fiasco, she sent a complaint by registered post to the GCC — Adyar zone, this time drawing attention to a neem tree outside her apartment premises that required immediate attention. “I also mentioned that a mobile crane was required to cut the tree branches as it was hugely overgrown and was obstructing street lights,” says Sabeena. A few others who have complained, either through the Corporation helpline number 1913 or by email, say the redressal mechanism relating to tree pruning and cutting leaves a lot to be desired. A. Shyam Kumar from Anna Nagar has made many representations to the GCC through various mediums about a tree precariously leaning in front of a transformer near the premises of a play school. “I have written to the GCC and the CM’s Cell but no action has been taken so far,” says Shyam Kumar. With intermittent rains hitting the city, the Greater Chennai Corporation’s helpline number 1913 is also witnessing a spurt in calls, especially from residents who see trees pruned, says a Corporation official in-charge of parks. The official says that most complaints are attended to, depending on the priority. “Complaints relating to tree fall are passed to the respective zones for speedy action and residents can follow up with the zonal officials,” the official adds. However, tree activists point out that Chennai has a lot to learn from other cities on how to maintain and care for trees. Bengaluru is among those Indian metros that have a dedicated Tree Authority that attends to such complaints from citizens. It also provides an avenue for residents to alert the authorities about illegal felling of trees in a neighbourhood. Tree audit postponed Citizens can play a role in tree protection by carrying out an audit of vulnerable trees and getting the authorities to take corrective steps. G. Mullaivanam, founder, Tree Bank, has postponed the Brown Tree project, an exercise he carries out once in five years to identify weak and dead trees in the city. “We were supposed to take up the survey of unsafe trees in February-March but due to lockdown we could not assemble our volunteers, so we plan to take it up next year,” he says.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Lifestyle brands greet at the door||If groceries can come to your doorstep, why not fabrics, furniture and footwear? That is the new shopping mantra adopted by retailers as they set up pop-up stores at gated communities to cash in on the festival season while ensuring shoppers’ safety. Jains Inseli Park at Padur will open its club house for Pantaloons today, where the brand will be showcasing its Deepavali collection. Over the last one month, the gated community has been playing host to one brand at a time, which includes Reliance Trends, Max and Oven Fresh. “This is a new shopping experience where the resident need not step outside the society,” says Lavanya Veera, secretary of Inseli Park Owners’ Association. She says the feedback has been encouraging and a few brands are in discussions with the Association to set up a shop on the premises in the coming weeks. MetroZone at Anna Nagar has had brands including Fab India, Max, Pantaloons and Bata wheeling into the community, with their mobile shopping-vans. In some societies, these brands get to have a presence on many of the floors, and this arrangement create a sense of shopping at a store. “I was in awe when Fab India spread its furniture series at our club house and displayed its men’s clothing in-between the furniture products. It was like walking into a store,” says a resident. The criteria adopted by retailers before setting up stalls at an apartment complex include a community with more than 250 occupied flats and more than 1800 sq.ft. of space to showcase the merchandise. An executive with Trends, who says that this is the first time they started going to communities, points out that the enthusiasm for in-community shopping is bound to wane, as people can now head to the stores itself. “All major outlets have reopened and some people want to venture out and shop, and so we are not seeing the same kind of response that we witnessed in June-July,” says the executive. The company has set up shop at 19 gated communities so far. The requirements have also changed. “During the lockdown, it was about offering the most essential merchandise. Now, we are required to create a store-like experience and offer niche collections,” he adds. Some concerns Some RWAs have raised concerns about signing up with brands to set up such stores. Prince Village — Phase I at Tondiarpet, for instance, recently decided not to allow brands as there had been a spike in COVID-19 cases in the neighbourhood. The Association did not want to be caught on the wrong foot by the virus. Jains Inseli Park only allows one stall at a time. “We don’t want people to crowd at the stall and we are not holding an exhibition, so we only permit one brand at the club house,” says Lavanya. Thermal screening, masks and sanitisers are a must at the venue. “We insist that not more than five people are allowed at the spot,” she adds.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The wait for a post office ends||A five-year-long wait for a post office has come to an end for the residents of Perumbakkam. In weeks, a post-office classified as non-delivery sub office (NDSO) would be set up at a building located behind the office of the Perumbakkam Selection Grade Village Panchayat. At present, Perumbakkam residents rely on the Medavakkam post office. N. K. Raja, president, Nesamani Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, Perumbakkam, says, “We have been requesting for a post-office, either NDSO or a branch office since 2015. I sent a petition to the Post Master General (PMG), Chennai, about this, in 2015.” The PMG wrote back to Raja, stating that as per departmental norms, there should be a population of more than 3,000 people and the distance between any existing post office and the post office to be created should not be less than three kilometres. “Immediately, I approached the Perumbakkam Selection Grade Village Panchayat office to furnish the population details. The authorities in the office said that more than 35,000 people reside in Perumbakkam. The distance between the existing post office and the to-be-created post office is more than three kilometres. With these details, I once again took up the matter with the PMG, the Chief Post Master General (CPMG), Chennai and Senior Superintendent of Post Offices (SSPO), West Tambaram.” The PMG, CPMG and SSPO requested Raja to identify a space for setting up an NDSO. At the Gram Sabha meeting held that year on October 2, Raja submitted a petition to the Village Panchayat to identify a space for setting up an NDSO. A resolution was passed for opening an NDSO on a 300 sq.ft area behind the Public Distribution System (PDS) outlet located on Mettu Street, Perumbakkam. A copy of the passed resolution was submitted to the offices of PMG and CPMG, and petitions for the creation of a post office, were sent at periodic intervals between 2015 and 2019. “In 2019, the Assistant Superintendent of Post Offices, Chennai, spoke to me and asked whether space is available immediately for establishing a post-office. I took up the matter with the Panchayat, who pointed out that the allotted space needs to be spruced up. Until then, a temporary post office can function at a building located behind the Panchayat office building. Following this, I met the authorities concerned at the Directorate of Post Office, Chennai, and informed them about the availability of space on the premises of the Panchayat office building,” adds Raja. The authorities concerned agreed and advised the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Tambaram (West), to put a favourable note as the residents have identified the space for the creation of a post office. But, no action was taken in this regard for a year. In July this year, Raja, took up the matter with the Post Master General and the Chief Post Master General (CPMG), Chennai, through correspondence. He received replies stating that the Department of Posts will explore the option of setting up a post office in the Perumbakkam region. “At a Dak Adalat meeting, held on September 24 this year, I submitted a petition to the Dak Adalat urging that a post office be established. The petition was forwarded to Senior Superintendent of Post Offices (SSPO), Tambaram. Upon receiving the petition, the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices (SSPO), Tambaram, contacted me a week ago, and said that the request to open a NDSO had been sanctioned from the head post office. I also informed the SSPO about the space available on the premises of the Panchayat office,” says Raja. Now, the post office is coming up in a building located behind the Perumbakkam Selection Grade Village Panchayat office on a 310 sq.ft area. At present, work on sprucing up the premises by the Panchayat; and administrative works relating to the establishment of the facility by the Department of Posts are under way. “This is a huge victory for the members of Nesamani Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association and residents of Perumbakkam. I like to thank the authorities concerned in the Perumbakkam Selection Grade Village Panchayat and The Hindu Downtown for their support.” The post office will function from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Except for work on delivering posts (mail), the residents can use the office for all other (post office) works. Depending on the turnover, in a year or two, steps would be taken to upgrade the NDSO to a sub-office. Till then, the Medavakkam Pin Code number will be in effect in Perumbakkam region.  “Nesamani Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association has been pursuing this issue since 2015”
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A green initiative spreads its branches||There are many out there who would tell you that the COVID-19 pandemic has brought their favourite activity to a grinding halt. Thirty-six-year-old L.Thangapandian is not one of them. He used the lockdown to devote more time to his mission of planting saplings and caring for them. Thangapandian is engaged as an electrical contractor with a private company in Perungudi, and many of us in the office know of his love for environment. A pathway in the office resembles a mini-nursery as Thangapandian has lined the space with a variety of plants, with some of the saplings planted in discarded plastic bags or in PET bottles. Even coconut shells are used to keep saplings and he gifts these to colleagues and neighbours. Many of the plants at the corridor of the office are from Thangapandian’s collection. During the pre-COVID days, I got four saplings from his collection to plant at my gated community in Perumbakkam. Thangapandian points out that he had considerable time at his disposal during the lockdown as employees were working from home and so, he started planting saplings in and around Perungudi, Thoraipakkam and Karapakkam, focusing on areas that were short on greenery. He would plant saplings either after office hours or during the weekends. Thangapandian is an inspiration in other ways too. He collects the tea powder waste from our canteen to feed a small compost unit next to his chamber. The food waste generated from the office canteen is also sent here, and this way he makes sure biodegradable waste is managed on-site. When a colleague is celebrating their birthday, he would plant a tree in their name. Karapakkam, where he lives, is another area where many of the saplings planted by him are flourishing. Thangapandian also volunteers for lake clean-up events, and believes only trees around it can can help restore the green lung space. To encourage his green initiative, the office once sent out a circular to all employees appreciating his contribution. Those keen on planting and nurturing the saplings at Karapakkam / Perungudi can contact Thangapandian at98416 63374. He will be happy to help you in planting trees on weekends. (K.Satish Karthik is a resident of Radiance Mercury, Perumbakkam)  He collects tea-powder waste from our canteen to feed a small compost unit next to his chamber
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A bio-fence at Kotturpuram Urban Forest||Last Saturday, Nizhal, a trust that promotes concern for trees, planted more than 300 trees along the fence of the Kotturpuram Urban Forest, formerly known as Kotturpuram Tree Park. With unstinting efforts of hundreds of volunteers over the last 15 years, the Kotturpuram Urban Forest space has evolved. This green space represents a unique public private partnership (PPP) model and is a habitat for many uncommon and endangered species and associated fauna including insects, butterflies, birds and reptiles. It is slowly moving towards becoming a natural forest ecosystem. To support this process, Nizhal volunteers started creating a bio fence. This exercise, being carried out along one boundary of the urban forest, is aimed at protecting this biodiversity heritage along Riverview Road. The bio-fence will showcase a variety of tropical dry evergreen forest tree species The tree species that were planted include Konji, ‘viraali’, ‘veera’ ‘dharani’, ‘kaattu vrikshi ’, ‘kattu elumichai’, ‘nana pazham’, ‘sempulichai’, and ‘adathoda’. The initiative witnessed the participation of a good number of Nizhal volunteers, and community representatives from the Friends of Tree Park, including senior-citizens, and children. Shobha Menon, founder - trustee, Nizhal, says, “ Our plan is to showcase different tropical dry evergreen forest tree species as bio-fencing options. We will have name boards organised to create awareness about these species, for citizens across Chennai. We are planning to plant around 1,000 saplings for a stretch of about 790 meters. In the first phase, we have planted close to 400 saplings. This would be a model bio-fence that can be replicated at different locations. The green drive will be held during the weekends.”  “We are planning to plant around 1,000 saplings for a stretch of about 790 meters”
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘SWDs fail to check water stagnation’||Following the heavy downpour on October 29, some of the neighbourhoods in Velachery, including Udayayam Nagar, Dhandeeshwaram Nagar, Annai Indira Nagar, Bhuvaneshwari Nagar, Pillayar Kovil Street, Tansi Nagar and VGP Selva Nagar were flooded. These colonies have stormwater drains, which evidently did not serve their purpose. It is clear these drains were not cleaned and desilted before the onset of the north-east monsoon. We request the Greater Chennai Corporation to do the needful. S. Kumararaja is a member of Annai Indira Nagar Residents Welfare Association
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Children open the innings for their gated community||When children act precociously, they compel jaw-dropping attention. Now, specifically, can a child’s lisping lecture be ignored when it is directed at a parent and a neighbour and is about why waste should not be mixed, and that every bin has its own trash? Last year, at Casagrand Cherry Pick, a gated community with around 380 units, in Perumbakkam, grown-ups were subjected to such a pleasantly humbling experience. By getting children to learn and talk about solid waste management (SWM), their parents were indirectly being prepared for a community-based SWM mission. The soil of resistance was being turned over and broken up. This is how it all began. Srividya Giridharan, who now spearheads SWM initiatives at the community, and a few other resident-volunteers did not want Cherry Pick to be a laggard in waste management. But being in Perumbakkam had put the community at a clear disadvantage, as it had to look beyond the locality to watch best practices at close range. Srividya got in touch with Sumitha Iyer, Swacch Bharat lead with the Federation of OMR Residents’ Associations and whose community — The Central Park South (TCPS) — has won awards, including a green award from Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board for the year 2018-19, for its waste management initiatives. Watching the waste-management processes at TCPS was the best lesson Cherry Pick volunteers could have hoped for. “We knew we could introduce the processes, and prepare the house-keeping and facility management teams adequately for the various aspects of the work, but the idea of talking to residents about it was daunting. By February 2019, we were ready, having done all the groundwork, but that one hurdle remained to be surmounted,” recalls Srividhya. “Residents could agree with anything you tell them, at an intellectual level, but when they have to start segregating waste at the individual level, they may cite reasons for why it is not workable.” So, they decided to go to the children first. The children were put through primers about waste management concepts every weekend for nearly two-and-a-half months. “The youngest child was three years old, and there were teenagers. The average age group was seven to 12 years” says Srividya. So obviously, the volunteers would not drone on about waste management. Engaging the children took effort — in fact, great effort, as complex concepts had to be telescoped into the thirty-minute weekend sessions. “The children were taught the concepts largely through two-minute videos in a mini hall. They would also be given activities, making paper bags being one of them. In one activity, we got the children to prepare their own charts and walk around the community, which made it interesting for parents, and helped us engage with the community indirectly. The younger children would talk about what should be discarded and what should be recycled. There were also skits and narration by children on what should change,” elaborates Srividya, adding that such activities spread the word further around the community. The exercise worked at two levels — educating children about all that they needed to know about garbage, and partly educating and largely motivating the grown-ups subliminally to be ready for the challenge that lay ahead. The next stage And when the time arrived for the volunteers to deal with the grown-ups directly, Namma Ooru Foundation, a voluntary organisation engaged in environment conservation work, was invited to conduct a two-hour programme. “The team from Namma Ooru Foundation organised a hands-on session, and actually brought along a lot of trash to make the explanations lucid for the residents. Natarajan, founder of NOF presented a lot of statistics and made his arguments for source segregation compelling. He made the two-bin and one-bag concept clear to the participants,” says Srividya. Following this, the process of procuring the bins and bags was initiated. And then, focussed sessions with the residents — that is, the grown-ups — began. The power of volunteering Srividya points out that from the beginning they wanted to have at least one volunteer in every block. There are 14 blocks, and altogether, around 20 volunteers were on board, and a few of the executive committee members also added to that number. “We were clear the people should not duck out of attending the block-level sessions giving work or anything else as an excuse. So, we encouraged the block-level volunteers to take it floor by floor. So, they would say ‘Let residents of this floor meet at 3 p.m., on a Saturday.’ That way, we ensured that all residents heard the message.” Srividya says that the series of interventions had been effective, and only “10 percent to 15 percent of the residents needed hand-holding.” From her account, the volunteers’ commitment made a difference. “In every block, we needed to have a volunteer who would identify themselves absolutely with the cause. We wanted them to have a positive can-do attitude, understand that there would be challenges along the way, and that when they cropped up, they would cooperate and coordinate and do their work.” The volunteers did not have to wait long for their commitment to be tested. Srividya says that source-segregation went on stream towards the end of April, and in the early days, the difficulty in finding vendors to deal with the different types of waste led residents to question the effectiveness of the initiative. “The residents were willing to segregate waste, and were also doing it, but as the panchayat did not have a mechanism to process the wet waste, residents wanted to know what objective their source segregation was achieving. We had to tell them that they should make source segregation a habit, and when the vendors were identified, they would already be doing the right thing. Besides, we told them by choosing to segregate waste despite the challenges at the panchayat level, they were making sure that at least 60 percent of the wet waste went to the dumping ground without any plastics in it.” How they managed to find the vendors, especially those who would compost the segregated wet waste is another story. Cherry Pick has been a source of inspiration to other communities and neighbourhoods in Perumbakkam. However, they are now forced to retell their story to their own community, as the pandemic put a halt to its SWM initiative, and the volunteers may have to prepare many of the residents all over again.  In one activity, we got the children to prepare their own charts and walk around the community, which made it interesting for parents, and helped us engage with the community indirectly
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||When caution is at the top of the shopping list||If you have set foot again in your favourite mom-and-pop store and neighbourhood mall, it would not take long for you to notice that everything is a wee bit different. Or probably, a lot different. For one, there would not be too many pairs of feet sharing floor space with you. There would be those floor markings letting you know where to stand. With Deepavali approaching, many of these outlets are wooing customers but with a great deal of caution. Saheli at Cisons Complex in Egmore has introduced what it calls slots for customers who are keen on checking out the latest collection first-hand. “Each of our stores is 220 sq.ft in dimension and we do not want people crowding; footfall is slowly increasing, and so we have three to four slots a day and each customer is given a window of 45 minutes to one hour,” says Navin Jaswani, proprietor of Saheli, adding that they can accommodate two sets of customers at a time. What if there are walk-ins? “There is no window shopping as in the pre-COVID days, so those who come to the complex are serious shoppers and we do not want to lose out on them,” says Jaswani. Saheli has the advantage of having another store at the same complex, so customers either get to wait at its other outlet or they are requested to come after a certain time. The store has been functioning at the complex since 1992 and has a loyal patronage that keeps its business alive. “We have been knocking at our customer’s doors through mails on WhatsApp, not to spam them with the latest from our store but to keep them updated,” says Jaswani. There are certain customers, he says, who are not open to the idea of coming to the store. “We made a temporary studio set-up in the store where photographs are taken of clothes on a mannequin to suggest styles and fits and shared to give them a feel of how the attire would look,” he says. The selection is couriered or delivered to them. Rekha’s Boutique at Mookambika Complex in Alwarpet made use of the lockdown to revamp its store. G. Babu, partner, says it has made the store more spacious. The boutique has been engaging with customers via WhatsApp video calls that take them around the latest collection. There are outlets that have been subtly discouraging people from walking into the store. Thuli has two outlets — one at Vadapalani and the other at Adyar — and it has opened the former, knowing very well that the shop will garner much footfall during the festival season. The stores run on a different model where used clothes and merchandise are bought by the less-privelaged. Thuli is not encouraging new footfall. Those on its database are called to shop at the Vadapalani outlet, which on an average, is three to four families. Those wanting to give away their gently-used clothes have to ensure they are washed and ironed. Prisha, a beauty and cosmetic outlet at Alsa Mall in Egmore, has been doing a lot of deliveries. “When we have a shopper call us enquiring if we are open, we try to find out if they know what they want and suggest to them that they have the option of getting the item delivered,” says Anisha Nichani of Prisha. They are also seeing people pick up items for their neighbour staying in the same building. “Or, a person ordering for the entire building and asking us to bill it separately,” she says. “In fact, lockdown brought us a new set of customers,” she says. At the store, it has done away with testers given to customers who want to buy lipstick and foundations.  Footfall is slowly increasing, and so we have three to four slots a day and each customer is given a window of 45 minutes to one hour
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A waste management model that thrived during the crisis||When intense lockdown was in effect, many communities sloughed certain processes off their waste management programme and kept it barely functional. Often, these were partly essential processes. Sometimes, these were processes that lent the programme its uniqueness and effectiveness. CEEBROS Boulevard in Thoraipakkam is among communities that bucked the trend. Now, the 352-unit community won a green award from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board for the year 2018-19, and its waste management practices had a part in the recognition. So, was the community trying hard to keep its hallowed waste-management system running? That seems to be hardly the case, going by what Vinod Radhakrishnan, a member of the community’s Management Committee and who holds the house-keeping and garbage segregation portfolio, has to share about his team’s pandemic experience. The waste-segregation system kept running without a hitch due to its essential character. Before discussing what this means, here is an interesting fact that Vinod and his house-keeping and garbage segregation team noticed during the pandemic. Credit to the maids Early on, the community was led to appreciate the pivotal role maids had played in keeping the community’s famed waste-management model running efficiently. “During the pandemic there was a period of time when none of the maids were allowed into the building. So, it was the residents who had the responsibility of segregating the waste and bringing it down to a space called Green Space and deposit it in the various bins placed there. That is when we realised that the residents in some cases were oblivious to how the process was functioning because it was the maids who had been doing the segregation for them,” Vinod discloses. “Only then did we realise that the maids had played such an important role in the whole chain of events that helped the waste segregation process. It was good that this awareness dawned on us because the general feeling was that the maids were the ones who were not doing a whole lot of things the way they should be done, while the truth, as we found out, was that the maids were doing a lot of things right. And that when it was left to the residents to handle the process, not much segregation was being done. It was quite quite an eye-opener for us.” The gains The community follows what it calls a do-it-yourself model, which requires residents to drop off their segregated waste in the bins placed at the Green Space. There is no door-to-door collection. The community practices finer segregation whereby the recyclables are further segregated into more granular categories. “We were glad that we had a do-it-yourself waste management system in place. For, where associations that had a door-to-door collection system, everything went into total chaos,” begins Vinod, explaining that at one point, communities could not continue door-to-door collection of waste. He elaborates; “We were one of those lucky ones that were able to move from a door-to-door to a do-it-yourself model and that we were able to hold on to the gains and benefit from that during the pandemic. For, the system still ran. Had we not made the transition from a door-to-door pick-up model to a do-it-yourself model, we would have been caught on the wrong foot during the pandemic,”
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Programme on cancer awareness||In commemoration of National Cancer Awareness Day, ( November 7), the Comprehensive Blood and Cancer Centre (CBCC) - India has come up with an initiative that is working towards “cancer literacy”. The aim of the programme is to spread awareness about cancer and the importance of early detection. For details, call 9840263478 / 9944987138. To register log on to,https://bit.ly/3oxI548
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Store for senior citizens offers free booklet on patient care||Old is Gold Store, a showroom for senior citizens with branches in Adyar and Anna Nagar, has launched a range of products for its customers. It is also offering free e-booklets titled ‘Patient Home Care Guide’ and ‘Adult Diapers — A Handbook’ to readers of The Hindu . The store also offers free home safety assessment for elders. Example: if the bathroom is slippery, it offers a solution on how to make it safe for elders. It is collation of information based on knowledge gained over seven years of experience dealing with various situations and setting up an environment that allows for care at home with the right equipment and aids, says a press release. Some of the topics discussed in the guide include ‘Making your home elder-friendly’, ‘Maintaining Hygiene for patients’, ‘Prevention of Bedsores’, ‘The use of Adult Diapers’ and ‘Common home healthcare equipment’. For a free copy, WhatsApp “Home Care” or “Adult Diapers” to 98404 40505 For “Home Safety Assessment” call 98404 40505 or whatsApp “ HSA” to schedule a home visit. Website www.oldisgoldstore.com  It also offers free home safety assessment for elders
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Culinary workshop at Guindy||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on preparation of sweets and savouries on November 4 at its premises in Guindy. For details, call 044 - 2250 1960
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘OSR land on OMR waiting to be developed into playground’||Clean & Green Residents Welfare Associations of IT Corridor, Semmancheri, requests the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to commence the work on developing the open-space reservation (OSR) land, at Majestic Layout in Ward 200 at Zone 15 of GCC, into a playground at the earliest. “We learnt from Corporation officials that a fund close to Rs. 2.5 crore was allocated for this purpose early this year. However, the work has not started yet. The work was probably put on hold due to the pandemic. As we notice that many other pending works of the Corporation have resumed now, we want the playground work to be taken up at the earliest. Once developed, it would be the first full-fledged playground for residents of Old Mahabalipuram Road,” says G. Satish, founder of the associaiton. The Association has requested the Corporation that the upcoming playground should have facilities for playing football, volleyball, badminton and cricket. It also seeks an adequate number of wash rooms and a changing room. Further, the Association wants the Corporation to develop the OSR land at Naveen Building into a playground. “The Corporation has plans to convert this OSR land also into a playground. We have suggested that the Naveen Building facility should be meant for women, children and senior citizens. Here, we have sought volleyball and basketball courts. Also a skating-rink because many of us go to the Elliot’s Beach in Besant Nagar for skating,” says G. Satish.  “Once developed, it would be the first full-fledged playground on Old Mahabalipuram Road”
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Tree fall and the question of accountability||The State and the local body can be held responsible if a tree found on public property falls and causes a fatal accident or injures a person walking or driving down the road. The victim or the person’s family member can seek compensation by first lodging a complaint with the police, followed by written representation to the zonal officer and the area engineer of the Greater Chennai Corporation with sufficient proof of how the accident happened, says Somasundaram M of Consumer Association of India. The victim has to prove that the accident was not natural, and documental evidence like photographs or videos on what led to the accident will add merit to the case. “If the affected party thinks there is delay or they are being denied justice, they can approach the District Consumer Forum. One does nor need an advocate to file a case here and the judgement must be given within 90 days,” says the consumer activist. As per the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, he says, a person can appeal from any place for justice. If a tree had fallen on a vehicle parked in a public space, the person is not liable for compensation from civic authorities, he says. “Corporation is responsible for maintenance of trees on roads as well as on platforms, and not if you have parked your vehicle at an unauthorised space including the road in front of your apartment,” he says. Many victims seek insurance claims but that varies from company to company and the kind of insurance one is covered by.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Lifestyle brands greet at the doorstep||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Children open the innings for their community||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Local communities build cities: A case study from South Chennai||Just a “byte” away from the IT Corridor, Perumbakkam provides many IT professionals with a home address. With work allowed to be carried out from remote locations due to the pandemic, many techies and other professionals too have shifted to their home towns. A temporary dip in occupancy at gated communities in Perumbakkam is illustration enough. Srinivasan Subramaniam, solid waste management (SWM) lead at the Federation of Perumbakkam Residents’ Welfare Associations (FPRWA), counts this exodus among factors that slowed down “Thuimai Perumbakkam 2020”, kickstarted in mid-2019. “With many residents expected to return to the locality now, November holds some promise in terms of restarting SWM initiatives that are currently in suspension,” shares Srinivasan. From how Srinivasan chronicles events from mid-2019 to the time the pandemic struck, the locality seems to have gone into an SWM overdrive in a short period of time. “Our two demands with the panchayat are: Regular clearance of garbage, and treatment of the garbage that is cleared. There are problems in both. As yet, there is no composting facility in Perumbakkam. So, we decided that as a Federation, we would solve it ourselves as much as possible,” explains Srinivasan. “There are around 35,000 voters in Perumbakkam, and the population should be anywhere between 70,000 and 80,000. As an immediate measure, Perumbakkam, now a village panchayat, has to be upgraded as a town panchayat or a municipality. Understaffed and strapped for resources, it is struggling to meet the demands of waste management,” says N.K. Raja, secretary, Federation of Perumbakkam Residents’ Welfare Associations. A Perumbakkam Selection Grade Village Panchayat official has however stated that the panchayat is not understaffed in terms of solid waste management, and that sufficient vehicles are being pressed into service to carry out the work. Residents’ collective “Last year, we decided to initiate and drive solid waste management in Perumbakkam. In June 2019, we organised an SWM awareness event at the panchayat office, in association with Pasumai Vikatan. It sought to present the nitty-gritty of SWM to residents. We brought P. Natarajan, founder of environment conservation NGO ‘Namma Ooru Foundation’, to talk to the participants. Called ‘Thuimai Perumbakkam 2020’, the initiative set out with the objective of making Perumbakkam clean by the end of 2020. But the pandemic slowed it down. When we started the initiative, Casagrand Cherry Pick, a gated community, was carrying out source segregation massively at the community level. They were giving the dry waste to a vendor and wet waste to multiple vendors.” Srinivasan explains that an SWM core team was formed and it connected with various communities in Perumbakkam, encouraging them to emulate communities like Cherry Pick. It also encouraged residents of individual houses to hand over dry waste to a recycler and carry out home composting. “Last year, the initiative helped source home composting kits for 25 individual houses. Following our advice, residents of individual houses have enlisted the services of a dry waste vendor,” elaborates Srinivasan. “We went to many apartment complexes, and so additionally, six apartment complexes came on board, and they also started segregating waste. Dry waste was being handed over to a vendor. Wet waste was being given to the panchayat. As there was no compost yard, we requested the panchayat to establish one.” Until the time a compost yard comes up in Perumbakkam, the SWM team seeks to have stop-gap arrangements in place to have the wet waste composted, and make sure it does not go to the landfill. “We made an arrangement with a compost yard in Jalladianpet with some help from the Perumbakkam panchayat, to accept wet waste from a few of our societies,” says Raja. Jalladianpet comes under Ward 191 of Greater Chennai Corporation. “Near Varathapuram, there are two apartments, which together account for close to 100 flats. On our request, the Jalladianpet compost yard accepted wet waste from these communities on alternate days. With good intentions, they supported us. We just organised the transport,” says Srinivasan. “They were doing that for three months, and the pandemic put a halt to it,” says Raja, and adds, “We have a plan to contact the Sembakkam Municipality and request them to process the green waste from some of our communities, at their compost yard. We are also planning to approach the Semmancheri compost yard with a similar request. We would do this to manage the situation till we get our own compost yard.” Protest by residents Raja continues, “Meanwhile, the government sanctioned the construction of a micro compost yard at a cost of Rs. 35 lakh. The construction got under way behind the Perumbakkam panchayat office. Associations representing two neighbourhoods raised objections to the micro compost yard being set up at the said location, leading to the work being stalled.” A committee member of VGP Prabhu Nagar Residents Welfare Association, which represents a neighbourhood near this location, says, “Around the site of the micro-compost yard, there is a children’s play area, a gym and a community hall where functions are organised regularly, and there are houses nearby. How can a micro-compost yard come up at such a place?” Veera Subramanian V., secretary, VGP Prabhu Nagar Residents Welfare Association, says, “The panchayat has been dumping garbage behind its office. When they started this practice they said it would be a stop-gap arrangement. We took them at their word. But they did not keep their word. Though it is supposed to be a transit point for garbage on its way to be dumped elsewhere, the garbage just stays there, keeps piling up and is cleared once in four or six months, that too after many follow-ups. And now, they tell us a micro-compost yard is coming up. As of now, there is no sign of any proper segregation practice in place, and their assurances that having a micro-composting centre would not cause any problem to residents does not inspire confidence in us.” A move to have a bigger space for solid waste management, one near the Perumbakkam hill, ran into rough weather with the residents of Bollineni Hillside objecting to the choice of location. Following this, reportedly, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has written to the panchayat that they should be informed about any project that is planned close to areas that come under the protection of ASI. The panchayat official has confirmed receiving such a communication from ASI.  November holds some promise in terms of restarting SWM initiatives that are in suspension SrinivasanSubramaniam   There are around 35,000 voters in Perumbakkam, and the population should be anywhere between 70,000 and 80,000 N.K. Raja
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon notes on tree care||Sabeena Varghese, a resident of South Avenue, Srinagar Colony, is fed up following up with the Greater Chennai Corporation about having the trees in her neighbourhood trimmed to keep them from blocking the street lights. After repeated complaints, when the Corporation team did finally arrive at this neighbourhood in Saidapet, the results of the intervention were far from what Sabeena believes should have been done. “They just cut the branches that they could reach and I was advised that if they had to bring the more appropriate machine with an electric saw mounted on a crane, I had to write to GCC, which I thought was ridiculous as the tree is not inside any compound but on the road,” says Sabeena, a school teacher. Her point is that there obviously has to be more science attached to the process of tree-trimming than just lopping off branches within reach using a knife,    as the Corporation workers did. Following this fiasco, she sent a complaint by registered post to the GCC — Adyar zone, this time drawing attention to a neem tree outside her apartment premises that required immediate attention. “I also mentioned that a mobile crane was required to cut the tree branches as it was hugely overgrown and was obstructing street lights,” says Sabeena. A few others who have complained, either through the Corporation helpline number 1913 or by email, say the redressal mechanism relating to tree pruning and cutting leaves a lot to be desired. A. Shyam Kumar from Anna Nagar has made many representations to the GCC through various mediums about a tree precariously leaning in front of a transformer near the premises of a play school. “I have written to the GCC and the CM’s Cell but no action has been taken so far,” says Shyam Kumar. With intermittent rains hitting the city, the Greater Chennai Corporation’s helpline number 1913 is also witnessing a spurt in calls, especially from residents who see trees pruned, says a Corporation official in-charge of parks. The official says that most complaints are attended to, depending on the priority. “Complaints relating to tree fall are passed to the respective zones for speedy action and residents can follow up with the zonal officials,” the official adds. However, tree activists point out that Chennai has a lot to learn from other cities on how to maintain and care for trees. Bengaluru is among those Indian metros that have a dedicated Tree Authority that attends to such complaints from citizens. It also provides an avenue for residents to alert the authorities about illegal felling of trees in a neighbourhood. Tree audit postponed Citizens can play a role in tree protection by carrying out an audit of vulnerable trees and getting the authorities to take corrective steps. G. Mullaivanam, founder, Tree Bank, has postponed the Brown Tree project, an exercise he carries out once in five years to identify weak and dead trees in the city. “We were supposed to take up the survey of unsafe trees in February-March but due to lockdown we could not assemble our volunteers, so we plan to take it up next year,” he says.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Korattur subway opens for vehicular traffic||A decade ago, the nod for a Rs. 21.96 crore railway under bridge at Korattur was given. On October 28, the vehicular facility was opened, making the ordeal of having to take a five-kilometre detour to reach CTH Road a thing of the past for motorists. The new facility replaces the railway level crossing (LC No: 04) in Korattur. This railway under bridge a joint project of the Southern Railway and the State Highways Department, will provide easy access to areas in the northern part of the neighbourhood including Agraharam, Balaji Nagar, Sivalingapuram, Kavya Nagar, Saradha Nagar and Subbulakshmi Nagar. “We are glad that the railway under bridge opened before heavy rains as it is going to provide residents with easy access to neighbouring areas,” says V. Sampath, a resident of Korattur. Over the years, residents and motorists have had to take a detour of at least five kilometres while heading to many other parts of the city via CTH Road. With the inauguration of the railway under bridge — which is usually referred to as a subway — commuting challenges faced by motorists can be expected to come to an end as they can reach Anna Nagar in less than five minutes via Padi on Chennai–Tiruvallur High (CTH) Road. It also prevents motorists from the neighbourhood from using the Retteri route, which is mainly used by container lorries and is also prone to accidents. The two-way bridge is around 800 metres long and 30 feet wide. Basic facilities including concrete median, LED street lights, stormwater drains, reflectors and bitumen-topped service lanes are some of features provided in the railway under bridge. Staircases on the facility are also being built to enable users to reach the railway station safely. Additional motor pumpsets are also kept in the storeroom near the staircase for any emergencies arising due to the monsoon hitting the city. Earlier, the track portion of the new subway was done by the Southern Railways as it involves movement of trains. Rest of the work, including land acquisition on either side of the track outside the railway station where service roads and the subway would be connected with the residential areas, was undertaken by the State Highways. Four- track station Korattur railway station, located on Chennai Central – Arakkonam section, has four tracks with two of them being used for suburban rail network. The existing Foot Over Bridge (FOB) at the station is mainly used by commuters to reach the platforms at the station. Pre-COVID days, more than 40,000 commuters used to board trains at the Korattur railway station every day. On an average, around 260 trips are made by suburban trains on the western rail route between Chennai Central and Arakkonam, which is the last suburban railway station on the western part of the city. In fact, after Chennai Beach – Tambaram section, the Chennai Central – Arakkonam where the Korattur railway station forms part of the route is the busiest suburban rail route in the city connecting commuters as far as Tirutani, Tiruvallur and Arakkonam.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Vehicles put through a mud bath||Due to repairs carried out on the newly-widened stormwater drain on Third Main Road, between Ambattur Telephone Exchange junction and Nolambur, below the Chennai Bypass Road, a section of the road poses a challenge to motorists. With the onset of the north-east monsoon, Greater Chennai Corporation has not relaid the damaged portion. “At night, this stretch is a nightmare; we cannot see the damaged portion of the road clearly. Besides, container lorries and other large vehicles also ply on this road, which subjects it to further damage,” says B. Chandran, a motorist from Mogappair. Hundreds of container lorries and trailers go down Third Main Road in Ambattur to reach various parts of the city. Goods-laden lorries enter the industrial units in Ambattur, Pattaravakkam, Korattur, Mannurpet, Athipet and Ayapakkam. For regular motorists, the stretch signifies a short route to Anna Nagar and Tirumangalam from Ambattur, Mannurpet, Thirumullavoyal, J.J. Nagar and Maduravoyal. Motorists coming from the interior parts of Mogappair East, Ambattur, Padi, Korattur, Nolambur, Anna Nagar west use the road to reach places like Maduravoyal, Porur and Tambaram via the Chennai Bypass Road. The stretch is the only link to Chennai Bypass Road, which connects Puzhal with Tambaram. The repair works on the road have damaged the surface of the road, with the bitumen eroding away, and the road developing potholes. Due to an almost continuous flow of vehicular traffic, the potholes have only widened. Interestingly, unlike other stretches in Ambattur, Third Main Road comes under the limits of Small Industries Development Corporation (SIDCO) of the State government due to the presence of an industrial estate and also under the jurisdiction of Zone — 7 (Ambattur) Greater of Chennai Corporation in terms of its maintenance. It should be noted that Third Main Road in Ambattur along with other roads in the Ambattur zone got widened stormwater drains under the Integrated Storm Water Drain project last year. “Steps will be taken to relay the damaged portion of the stretch soon,” says a Corporation official.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Lifestyle brands greet at the door||If groceries can come to your doorstep, why not fabrics, furniture and footwear? That is the new shopping mantra adopted by retailers as they set up pop-up stores at gated communities to cash in on the festival season while ensuring shoppers’ safety. Jains Inseli Park at Padur will open its club house for Pantaloons today, where the brand will be showcasing its Deepavali collection. Over the last one month, the gated community has been playing host to one brand at a time, which includes Reliance Trends, Max and Oven Fresh. “This is a new shopping experience where the resident need not step outside the society,” says Lavanya Veera, secretary of Inseli Park Owners’ Association. She says the feedback has been encouraging and a few brands are in discussions with the Association to set up a shop on the premises in the coming weeks. MetroZone at Anna Nagar has had brands including Fab India, Max, Pantaloons and Bata wheeling into the community, with their mobile shopping-vans. In some societies, these brands get to have a presence on many of the floors, and this arrangement create a sense of shopping at a store. “I was in awe when Fab India spread its furniture series at our club house and displayed its men’s clothing in-between the furniture products. It was like walking into a store,” says a resident. The criteria adopted by retailers before setting up stalls at an apartment complex include a community with more than 250 occupied flats and more than 1800 sq.ft. of space to showcase the merchandise. An executive with Trends, who says that this is the first time they started going to communities, points out that the enthusiasm for in-community shopping is bound to wane, as people can now head to the stores itself. “All major outlets have reopened and some people want to venture out and shop, and so we are not seeing the same kind of response that we witnessed in June-July,” says the executive. The company has set up shop at 19 gated communities so far. The requirements have also changed. “During the lockdown, it was about offering the most essential merchandise. Now, we are required to create a store-like experience and offer niche collections,” he adds. Some concerns Some RWAs have raised concerns about signing up with brands to set up such stores. Prince Village — Phase I at Tondiarpet, for instance, recently decided not to allow brands as there had been a spike in COVID-19 cases in the neighbourhood. The Association did not want to be caught on the wrong foot by the virus. Jains Inseli Park only allows one stall at a time. “We don’t want people to crowd at the stall and we are not holding an exhibition, so we only permit one brand at the club house,” says Lavanya. Thermal screening, masks and sanitisers are a must at the venue. “We insist that not more than five people are allowed at the spot,” she adds.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Busy section of CTH Road gets a fresh coat of tar||The battered Chennai–Tiruvallur High (CTH) Road at Thirumullaivoyal junction has finally been relaid, which is a matter of big relief for motorists. The road-relaying work is carried out between Annanoor and Ambattur, a distance of around three kilometres, as part of the monsoon-preparedness work by the Highways Department. However, residents have raised concerns over how the work is being done. The road level is being raised by one foot. “The relaying work was being done without milling the damaged stretch. As a result, shops and other facilities on this section (around the Thirumullaivoyal junction) are at a lower level than the raised carriageway,” says S. Gunasekar, a trader in Thirumullaivoyal. Residents point out that the relaying work around the junction was done twice within a week after sudden showers last week washed the bitumen off the freshly-laid road and turned most of the relaid portion of the stretch especially around the Thirumullaivoyal junction potholed. As a result, the stretch was relaid for the second time in a week. Other works Prior to the lockdown, a new modern digital traffic signal with CCTV cameras was installed at the Thirumullaivoyal intersection of CTH Road and Cholambedu Road. The intersection with Kulakarai Street had a traffic signal for many years. Motorists going towards Ambattur can take a right turn at the intersection on Cholambedu Road to reach Ambattur, Korattur, Padi and Mogappair without getting caught in the traffic at Rakki theatre tri-junction near the bus terminus in Ambattur Old Town (OT). As a result, traffic would get hit at the Cholambedu intersection on CTH Road due to the lack of traffic proper regulation earlier, especially during rush hour. At present, Kulakarai Street covers the northern part of Thirumullavoyal including areas like SVT Nagar, Subramaniya Nagar, Thendral Nagar East, Masilamani Nagar, Lalithaammbal Nagar, Velammal New Town and Venketachalam Nagar abutting Puzhal lake. Cholambedu Road comprises areas on the south of the neighbourhood along Ambattur lake and Thirumullavoyal railway station. The CTH Road is a key link connecting two sides of Thirumullaivoyal. As a result, the flow of vehicular traffic at the two intersections on CTH Road is high.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Children open the innings for their gated community||When children act precociously, they compel jaw-dropping attention. Now, specifically, can a child’s lisping lecture be ignored when it is directed at a parent and a neighbour and is about why waste should not be mixed, and that every bin has its own trash? Last year, at Casagrand Cherry Pick, a gated community with around 380 units, in Perumbakkam, grown-ups were subjected to such a pleasantly humbling experience. By getting children to learn and talk about solid waste management (SWM), their parents were indirectly being prepared for a community-based SWM mission. The soil of resistance was being turned over and broken up. This is how it all began. Srividya Giridharan, who now spearheads SWM initiatives at the community, and a few other resident-volunteers did not want Cherry Pick to be a laggard in waste management. But being in Perumbakkam had put the community at a clear disadvantage, as it had to look beyond the locality to watch best practices at close range. Srividya got in touch with Sumitha Iyer, Swacch Bharat lead with the Federation of OMR Residents’ Associations and whose community — The Central Park South (TCPS) — has won awards, including a green award from Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board for the year 2018-19, for its waste management initiatives. Watching the waste-management processes at TCPS was the best lesson Cherry Pick volunteers could have hoped for. “We knew we could introduce the processes, and prepare the house-keeping and facility management teams adequately for the various aspects of the work, but the idea of talking to residents about it was daunting. By February 2019, we were ready, having done all the groundwork, but that one hurdle remained to be surmounted,” recalls Srividhya. “Residents could agree with anything you tell them, at an intellectual level, but when they have to start segregating waste at the individual level, they may cite reasons for why it is not workable.” So, they decided to go to the children first. The children were put through primers about waste management concepts every weekend for nearly two-and-a-half months. “The youngest child was three years old, and there were teenagers. The average age group was seven to 12 years” says Srividya. So obviously, the volunteers would not drone on about waste management. Engaging the children took effort — in fact, great effort, as complex concepts had to be telescoped into the thirty-minute weekend sessions. “The children were taught the concepts largely through two-minute videos in a mini hall. They would also be given activities, making paper bags being one of them. In one activity, we got the children to prepare their own charts and walk around the community, which made it interesting for parents, and helped us engage with the community indirectly. The younger children would talk about what should be discarded and what should be recycled. There were also skits and narration by children on what should change,” elaborates Srividya, adding that such activities spread the word further around the community. The exercise worked at two levels — educating children about all that they needed to know about garbage, and partly educating and largely motivating the grown-ups subliminally to be ready for the challenge that lay ahead. The next stage And when the time arrived for the volunteers to deal with the grown-ups directly, Namma Ooru Foundation, a voluntary organisation engaged in environment conservation work, was invited to conduct a two-hour programme. “The team from Namma Ooru Foundation organised a hands-on session, and actually brought along a lot of trash to make the explanations lucid for the residents. Natarajan, founder of NOF presented a lot of statistics and made his arguments for source segregation compelling. He made the two-bin and one-bag concept clear to the participants,” says Srividya. Following this, the process of procuring the bins and bags was initiated. And then, focussed sessions with the residents — that is, the grown-ups — began. The power of volunteering Srividya points out that from the beginning they wanted to have at least one volunteer in every block. There are 14 blocks, and altogether, around 20 volunteers were on board, and a few of the executive committee members also added to that number. “We were clear the people should not duck out of attending the block-level sessions giving work or anything else as an excuse. So, we encouraged the block-level volunteers to take it floor by floor. So, they would say ‘Let residents of this floor meet at 3 p.m., on a Saturday.’ That way, we ensured that all residents heard the message.” Srividya says that the series of interventions had been effective, and only “10 percent to 15 percent of the residents needed hand-holding.” From her account, the volunteers’ commitment made a difference. “In every block, we needed to have a volunteer who would identify themselves absolutely with the cause. We wanted them to have a positive can-do attitude, understand that there would be challenges along the way, and that when they cropped up, they would cooperate and coordinate and do their work.” The volunteers did not have to wait long for their commitment to be tested. Srividya says that source-segregation went on stream towards the end of April, and in the early days, the difficulty in finding vendors to deal with the different types of waste led residents to question the effectiveness of the initiative. “The residents were willing to segregate waste, and were also doing it, but as the panchayat did not have a mechanism to process the wet waste, residents wanted to know what objective their source segregation was achieving. We had to tell them that they should make source segregation a habit, and when the vendors were identified, they would already be doing the right thing. Besides, we told them by choosing to segregate waste despite the challenges at the panchayat level, they were making sure that at least 60 percent of the wet waste went to the dumping ground without any plastics in it.” How they managed to find the vendors, especially those who would compost the segregated wet waste is another story. Cherry Pick has been a source of inspiration to other communities and neighbourhoods in Perumbakkam. However, they are now forced to retell their story to their own community, as the pandemic put a halt to its SWM initiative, and the volunteers may have to prepare many of the residents all over again.  In one activity, we got the children to prepare their own charts and walk around the community, which made it interesting for parents, and helped us engage with the community indirectly
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||When caution is at the top of the shopping list||If you have set foot again in your favourite mom-and-pop store and neighbourhood mall, it would not take long for you to notice that everything is a wee bit different. Or probably, a lot different. For one, there would not be too many pairs of feet sharing floor space with you. There would be those floor markings letting you know where to stand. With Deepavali approaching, many of these outlets are wooing customers but with a great deal of caution. Saheli at Cisons Complex in Egmore has introduced what it calls slots for customers who are keen on checking out the latest collection first-hand. “Each of our stores is 220 sq.ft in dimension and we do not want people crowding; footfall is slowly increasing, and so we have three to four slots a day and each customer is given a window of 45 minutes to one hour,” says Navin Jaswani, proprietor of Saheli, adding that they can accommodate two sets of customers at a time. What if there are walk-ins? “There is no window shopping as in the pre-COVID days, so those who come to the complex are serious shoppers and we do not want to lose out on them,” says Jaswani. Saheli has the advantage of having another store at the same complex, so customers either get to wait at its other outlet or they are requested to come after a certain time. The store has been functioning at the complex since 1992 and has a loyal patronage that keeps its business alive. “We have been knocking at our customer’s doors through mails on WhatsApp, not to spam them with the latest from our store but to keep them updated,” says Jaswani. There are certain customers, he says, who are not open to the idea of coming to the store. “We made a temporary studio set-up in the store where photographs are taken of clothes on a mannequin to suggest styles and fits and shared to give them a feel of how the attire would look,” he says. The selection is couriered or delivered to them. Rekha’s Boutique at Mookambika Complex in Alwarpet made use of the lockdown to revamp its store. G. Babu, partner, says it has made the store more spacious. The boutique has been engaging with customers via WhatsApp video calls that take them around the latest collection. There are outlets that have been subtly discouraging people from walking into the store. Thuli has two outlets — one at Vadapalani and the other at Adyar — and it has opened the former, knowing very well that the shop will garner much footfall during the festival season. The stores run on a different model where used clothes and merchandise are bought by the less-privelaged. Thuli is not encouraging new footfall. Those on its database are called to shop at the Vadapalani outlet, which on an average, is three to four families. Those wanting to give away their gently-used clothes have to ensure they are washed and ironed. Prisha, a beauty and cosmetic outlet at Alsa Mall in Egmore, has been doing a lot of deliveries. “When we have a shopper call us enquiring if we are open, we try to find out if they know what they want and suggest to them that they have the option of getting the item delivered,” says Anisha Nichani of Prisha. They are also seeing people pick up items for their neighbour staying in the same building. “Or, a person ordering for the entire building and asking us to bill it separately,” she says. “In fact, lockdown brought us a new set of customers,” she says. At the store, it has done away with testers given to customers who want to buy lipstick and foundations.  Footfall is slowly increasing, and so we have three to four slots a day and each customer is given a window of 45 minutes to one hour
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A waste management model that thrived during the crisis||When intense lockdown was in effect, many communities sloughed certain processes off their waste management programme and kept it barely functional. Often, these were partly essential processes. Sometimes, these were processes that lent the programme its uniqueness and effectiveness. CEEBROS Boulevard in Thoraipakkam is among communities that bucked the trend. Now, the 352-unit community won a green award from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board for the year 2018-19, and its waste management practices had a part in the recognition. So, was the community trying hard to keep its hallowed waste-management system running? That seems to be hardly the case, going by what Vinod Radhakrishnan, a member of the community’s Management Committee and who holds the house-keeping and garbage segregation portfolio, has to share about his team’s pandemic experience. The waste-segregation system kept running without a hitch due to its essential character. Before discussing what this means, here is an interesting fact that Vinod and his house-keeping and garbage segregation team noticed during the pandemic. Credit to the maids Early on, the community was led to appreciate the pivotal role maids had played in keeping the community’s famed waste-management model running efficiently. “During the pandemic there was a period of time when none of the maids were allowed into the building. So, it was the residents who had the responsibility of segregating the waste and bringing it down to a space called Green Space and deposit it in the various bins placed there. That is when we realised that the residents in some cases were oblivious to how the process was functioning because it was the maids who had been doing the segregation for them,” Vinod discloses. “Only then did we realise that the maids had played such an important role in the whole chain of events that helped the waste segregation process. It was good that this awareness dawned on us because the general feeling was that the maids were the ones who were not doing a whole lot of things the way they should be done, while the truth, as we found out, was that the maids were doing a lot of things right. And that when it was left to the residents to handle the process, not much segregation was being done. It was quite quite an eye-opener for us.” The gains The community follows what it calls a do-it-yourself model, which requires residents to drop off their segregated waste in the bins placed at the Green Space. There is no door-to-door collection. The community practices finer segregation whereby the recyclables are further segregated into more granular categories. “We were glad that we had a do-it-yourself waste management system in place. For, where associations that had a door-to-door collection system, everything went into total chaos,” begins Vinod, explaining that at one point, communities could not continue door-to-door collection of waste. He elaborates; “We were one of those lucky ones that were able to move from a door-to-door to a do-it-yourself model and that we were able to hold on to the gains and benefit from that during the pandemic. For, the system still ran. Had we not made the transition from a door-to-door pick-up model to a do-it-yourself model, we would have been caught on the wrong foot during the pandemic,”
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Programme on cancer awareness||In commemoration of National Cancer Awareness Day, ( November 7), the Comprehensive Blood and Cancer Centre (CBCC) - India has come up with an initiative that is working towards “cancer literacy”. For details, call 9840263478 / 9944987138.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Store for senior citizens offers free booklet on patient care||Old is Gold Store, a showroom for senior citizens with branches in Adyar and Anna Nagar, has launched a range of products for its customers. It is also offering free e-booklets titled ‘Patient Home Care Guide’ and ‘Adult Diapers — A Handbook’ to readers of The Hindu . The store also offers free home safety assessment for elders. Example: if the bathroom is slippery, it offers a solution on how to make it safe or elders. It is a collation of information based on knowledge gained over seven years of experience dealing with various situations and setting up an environment that allows for care at home with the right equipment and aids, said a release. Some of the topics discussed in the guide include ‘Making your home elder-friendly’, ‘Maintaining Hygiene for patients’, ‘Prevention of Bedsores’, ‘The use of Adult Diapers’ and ‘Common home healthcare equipment’. For a free copy, WhatsApp “Home Care” or “Adult Diapers” to 98404 40505 For “Home Safety Assessment” call 98404 40505 or whatsApp “ HSA” to schedule a home visit. Website www.oldisgoldstore.com
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Yoga classes||Mogappair Panneer Nagar Manavalakalai Trust is conducting its monthly yoga foundation course from November 2 to 13; 6 P.M. to 8 P.M. Venue: Seethakathi Salai 4th cross St, Behind Velammal Matriculation School, Mogappair. For details, call 9444418241/ 9840861519
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Tree fall and the question of accountability||The State and the local body can be held responsible if a tree found on public property falls and causes a fatal accident or injures a person walking or driving down the road. The victim or the person’s family member can seek compensation by first lodging a complaint with the police, followed by written representation to the zonal officer and the area engineer of the Greater Chennai Corporation with sufficient proof of how the accident happened, says Somasundaram M of Consumer Association of India. The victim has to prove that the accident was not natural, and documental evidence like photographs or videos on what led to the accident will add merit to the case. “If the affected party thinks there is delay or they are being denied justice, they can approach the District Consumer Forum. One does nor need an advocate to file a case here and the judgement must be given within 90 days,” says the consumer activist. As per the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, he says, a person can appeal from any place for justice. If a tree had fallen on a vehicle parked in a public space, the person is not liable for compensation from civic authorities, he says. “Corporation is responsible for maintenance of trees on roads as well as on platforms, and not if you have parked your vehicle at an unauthorised space including the road in front of your apartment,” he says. Many victims seek insurance claims but that varies from company to company and the kind of insurance one is covered by.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon notes on tree care||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Children open the innings for their community||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Vehicles put through a mud bath||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Local communities build cities: A case study from South Chennai||Just a “byte” away from the IT Corridor, Perumbakkam provides many IT professionals with a home address. With work allowed to be carried out from remote locations due to the pandemic, many techies and other professionals too have shifted to their home towns. A temporary dip in occupancy at gated communities in Perumbakkam is illustration enough. Srinivasan Subramaniam, solid waste management (SWM) lead at the Federation of Perumbakkam Residents’ Welfare Associations (FPRWA), counts this exodus among factors that slowed down “Thuimai Perumbakkam 2020”, kickstarted in mid-2019. “With many residents expected to return to the locality now, November holds some promise in terms of restarting SWM initiatives that are currently in suspension,” shares Srinivasan. From how Srinivasan chronicles events from mid-2019 to the time the pandemic struck, the locality seems to have gone into an SWM overdrive in a short period of time. “Our two demands with the panchayat are: Regular clearance of garbage, and treatment of the garbage that is cleared. There are problems in both. As yet, there is no composting facility in Perumbakkam. So, we decided that as a Federation, we would solve it ourselves as much as possible,” explains Srinivasan. “There are around 35,000 voters in Perumbakkam, and the population should be anywhere between 70,000 and 80,000. As an immediate measure, Perumbakkam, now a village panchayat, has to be upgraded as a town panchayat or a municipality. Understaffed and strapped for resources, it is struggling to meet the demands of waste management,” says N.K. Raja, secretary, Federation of Perumbakkam Residents’ Welfare Associations. A Perumbakkam Selection Grade Village Panchayat official has however stated that the panchayat is not understaffed in terms of solid waste management, and that sufficient vehicles are being pressed into service to carry out the work. Residents’ collective “Last year, we decided to initiate and drive solid waste management in Perumbakkam. In June 2019, we organised an SWM awareness event at the panchayat office, in association with Pasumai Vikatan. It sought to present the nitty-gritty of SWM to residents. We brought P. Natarajan, founder of environment conservation NGO ‘Namma Ooru Foundation’, to talk to the participants. Called ‘Thuimai Perumbakkam 2020’, the initiative set out with the objective of making Perumbakkam clean by the end of 2020. But the pandemic slowed it down. When we started the initiative, Casagrand Cherry Pick, a gated community, was carrying out source segregation massively at the community level. They were giving the dry waste to a vendor and wet waste to multiple vendors.” Srinivasan explains that an SWM core team was formed and it connected with various communities in Perumbakkam, encouraging them to emulate communities like Cherry Pick. It also encouraged residents of individual houses to hand over dry waste to a recycler and carry out home composting. “Last year, the initiative helped source home composting kits for 25 individual houses. Following our advice, residents of individual houses have enlisted the services of a dry waste vendor,” elaborates Srinivasan. “We went to many apartment complexes, and so additionally, six apartment complexes came on board, and they also started segregating waste. Dry waste was being handed over to a vendor. Wet waste was being given to the panchayat. As there was no compost yard, we requested the panchayat to establish one.” Until the time a compost yard comes up in Perumbakkam, the SWM team seeks to have stop-gap arrangements in place to have the wet waste composted, and make sure it does not go to the landfill. “We made an arrangement with a compost yard in Jalladianpet with some help from the Perumbakkam panchayat, to accept wet waste from a few of our societies,” says Raja. Jalladianpet comes under Ward 191 of Greater Chennai Corporation. “Near Varathapuram, there are two apartments, which together account for close to 100 flats. On our request, the Jalladianpet compost yard accepted wet waste from these communities on alternate days. With good intentions, they supported us. We just organised the transport,” says Srinivasan. “They were doing that for three months, and the pandemic put a halt to it,” says Raja, and adds, “We have a plan to contact the Sembakkam Municipality and request them to process the green waste from some of our communities, at their compost yard. We are also planning to approach the Semmancheri compost yard with a similar request. We would do this to manage the situation till we get our own compost yard.” Protest by residents Raja continues, “Meanwhile, the government sanctioned the construction of a micro compost yard at a cost of Rs. 35 lakh. The construction got under way behind the Perumbakkam panchayat office. Associations representing two neighbourhoods raised objections to the micro compost yard being set up at the said location, leading to the work being stalled.” A committee member of VGP Prabhu Nagar Residents Welfare Association, which represents a neighbourhood near this location, says, “Around the site of the micro-compost yard, there is a children’s play area, a gym and a community hall where functions are organised regularly, and there are houses nearby. How can a micro-compost yard come up at such a place?” Veera Subramanian V., secretary, VGP Prabhu Nagar Residents Welfare Association, says, “The panchayat has been dumping garbage behind its office. When they started this practice they said it would be a stop-gap arrangement. We took them at their word. But they did not keep their word. Though it is supposed to be a transit point for garbage on its way to be dumped elsewhere, the garbage just stays there, keeps piling up and is cleared once in four or six months, that too after many follow-ups. And now, they tell us a micro-compost yard is coming up. As of now, there is no sign of any proper segregation practice in place, and their assurances that having a micro-composting centre would not cause any problem to residents does not inspire confidence in us.” A move to have a bigger space for solid waste management, one near the Perumbakkam hill, ran into rough weather with the residents of Bollineni Hillside objecting to the choice of location. Following this, reportedly, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has written to the panchayat that they should be informed about any project that is planned close to areas that come under the protection of ASI. The panchayat official has confirmed receiving such a communication from ASI.  November holds some promise in terms of restarting SWM initiatives that are in suspension SrinivasanSubramaniam   There are around 35,000 voters in Perumbakkam, and the population should be anywhere between 70,000 and 80,000 N.K. Raja
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon notes on tree care||Sabeena Varghese, a resident of South Avenue, Srinagar Colony, is fed up following up with the Greater Chennai Corporation about having the trees in her neighbourhood trimmed to keep them from blocking the street lights. After repeated complaints, when the Corporation team did finally arrive at this neighbourhood in Saidapet, the results of the intervention were far from what Sabeena believes should have been done. “They just cut the branches that they could reach and I was advised that if they had to bring the more appropriate machine with an electric saw mounted on a crane, I had to write to GCC, which I thought was ridiculous as the tree is not inside any compound but on the road,” says Sabeena, a school teacher. Her point is that there obviously has to be more science attached to the process of tree-trimming than just lopping off branches within reach using a knife,    as the Corporation workers did. Following this fiasco, she sent a complaint by registered post to the GCC — Adyar zone, this time drawing attention to a neem tree outside her apartment premises that required immediate attention. “I also mentioned that a mobile crane was required to cut the tree branches as it was hugely overgrown and was obstructing street lights,” says Sabeena. A few others who have complained, either through the Corporation helpline number 1913 or by email, say the redressal mechanism relating to tree pruning and cutting leaves a lot to be desired. A. Shyam Kumar from Anna Nagar has made many representations to the GCC through various mediums about a tree precariously leaning in front of a transformer near the premises of a play school. “I have written to the GCC and the CM’s Cell but no action has been taken so far,” says Shyam Kumar. With intermittent rains hitting the city, the Greater Chennai Corporation’s helpline number 1913 is also witnessing a spurt in calls, especially from residents who see trees pruned, says a Corporation official in-charge of parks. The official says that most complaints are attended to, depending on the priority. “Complaints relating to tree fall are passed to the respective zones for speedy action and residents can follow up with the zonal officials,” the official adds. However, tree activists point out that Chennai has a lot to learn from other cities on how to maintain and care for trees. Bengaluru is among those Indian metros that have a dedicated Tree Authority that attends to such complaints from citizens. It also provides an avenue for residents to alert the authorities about illegal felling of trees in a neighbourhood. Tree audit postponed Citizens can play a role in tree protection by carrying out an audit of vulnerable trees and getting the authorities to take corrective steps. G. Mullaivanam, founder, Tree Bank, has postponed the Brown Tree project, an exercise he carries out once in five years to identify weak and dead trees in the city. “We were supposed to take up the survey of unsafe trees in February-March but due to lockdown we could not assemble our volunteers, so we plan to take it up next year,” he says.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A Good Samaritan for these times||Recently, when EVK Sampath Road, off Poonamallee High Road, in Vepery was flooded after sudden showers resulting in bumper-to-bumper traffic, a six-foot-tall man with a thick moustache pulled up to the curb. Removing his brown shoes, polished to a glint, and then folding his trousers up to the knees, he took a long cane ( lathi ) from his vehicle and proceeded to attend to the inlets of the widened stormwater drain. He hunkered down to the job of manually unclogging the drain. In a short while, the rainwater that had accumulated on the stretch road drained and he left the spot. He is fifty six-year-old K. Pandivelu, Inspector (traffic wing) at Vepery Police Station. He is a familiar face in the neighbourhood, known both for his traffic regulation skills and the community service that he renders selflessly. During the pandemic, he has been activel enaged in COVID-19 relief work. “Being a farmer’s son, I have worked in the farmlands in my hometown as a boy. Cleaning a drain is like removing weeds from the paddy field. I do not feel awkward unclogging a drain,” says Inspector Pandivelu. A native of Salaiyur Koil village in Sivaganga district in Tamil Nadu, Pandivelu is a first-generation learner who had spent much of his early years in his village. He studied at a government school in the village before going in for higher education in the same district. He joined the police service in 1984. Apart from a two-year stint at Manaparai village in Tiruchirappali district, much of Pandivelu’s career has been under the Greater Chennai Police Commissionerate as traffic police officer. During the lockdown, along with his team of 40 traffic police personnel, Pandivelu organised many awareness campaigns on COVID-19 including street-corner meetings that had residents attending them, standing in the safety of their balconies. He has distributed cloth face masks, gloves, hand sanitisers and food packets to the poor and the homeless persons in the neighbourhood since July this year when he was shifted back from Tiruchirappali. Unlike the other police patrol vehicles that carry a bubble water container for the police team, Pandivelu has large cloth bags containing cloth face masks, gloves and hand sanitisers, to be given away for free to persons on the streets. The patrol vehicle also has an extra bag of food packets that are kept as a reserve for the poor and homeless who might have missed having even a single meal for the day.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Lifestyle brands greet at the door||If groceries can come to your doorstep, why not fabrics, furniture and footwear? That is the new shopping mantra adopted by retailers as they set up pop-up stores at gated communities to cash in on the festival season while ensuring shoppers’ safety. Jains Inseli Park at Padur will open its club house for Pantaloons today, where the brand will be showcasing its Deepavali collection. Over the last one month, the gated community has been playing host to one brand at a time, which includes Reliance Trends, Max and Oven Fresh. “This is a new shopping experience where the resident need not step outside the society,” says Lavanya Veera, secretary of Inseli Park Owners’ Association. She says the feedback has been encouraging and a few brands are in discussions with the Association to set up a shop on the premises in the coming weeks. MetroZone at Anna Nagar has had brands including Fab India, Max, Pantaloons and Bata wheeling into the community, with their mobile shopping-vans. In some societies, these brands get to have a presence on many of the floors, and this arrangement create a sense of shopping at a store. “I was in awe when Fab India spread its furniture series at our club house and displayed its men’s clothing in-between the furniture products. It was like walking into a store,” says a resident. The criteria adopted by retailers before setting up stalls at an apartment complex include a community with more than 250 occupied flats and more than 1800 sq.ft. of space to showcase the merchandise. An executive with Trends, who says that this is the first time they started going to communities, points out that the enthusiasm for in-community shopping is bound to wane, as people can now head to the stores itself. “All major outlets have reopened and some people want to venture out and shop, and so we are not seeing the same kind of response that we witnessed in June-July,” says the executive. The company has set up shop at 19 gated communities so far. The requirements have also changed. “During the lockdown, it was about offering the most essential merchandise. Now, we are required to create a store-like experience and offer niche collections,” he adds. Some concerns Some RWAs have raised concerns about signing up with brands to set up such stores. Prince Village — Phase I at Tondiarpet, for instance, recently decided not to allow brands as there had been a spike in COVID-19 cases in the neighbourhood. The Association did not want to be caught on the wrong foot by the virus. Jains Inseli Park only allows one stall at a time. “We don’t want people to crowd at the stall and we are not holding an exhibition, so we only permit one brand at the club house,” says Lavanya. Thermal screening, masks and sanitisers are a must at the venue. “We insist that not more than five people are allowed at the spot,” she adds.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A lockdown project||Seethamma Extension Welfare Association (SEWA) in Teynampet will soon turn one. Though much of this year was spent locked-down, residents see a silver lining to it. The lockdown helped the Association raise the bar in terms of safety and cleanliness. Last year, the Association got unauthorised college vans parked on our roads removed. This came as a big relief to residents as our streets were being misused by drivers who had parked their vehicles there, for carrying out unwholesome activities. Speeding and reckless driving make up an issue that we want to see addressed. Police personnel act upon our complaints. However, to find a permanent solution to this problem, we approached the Greater Chennai Corporation and police officials seeking their permission to install speed breakers. As a pilot study for evaluating their effectiveness and endurance, the speed breakers were installed on First Main Road in the first week of July. Speed breakers have enhanced road safety, particularly for pedestrians. Lane discipline has increased and overtaking has reduced significantly. The Association extends to five streets and not all may need speed breakers, so depending on feedback from residents we would execute the plan gradually. Next, on our list of improvements for the area was installation of CCTV cameras at the streets. The police helped us identify locations where the cameras could be fixed. We handled it as a special project and a “CCTV group” was formed for planning and to raise funds. We requested contributions from residents and the funds flowed in. But the COVID-19 crisis coupled with increase in prices of hardware caused a sizeable delay, and we found that we were short of funds. Finally, in September we completed installing 21 street cameras and two ANPR cameras that would focus on K.B. Dasan Road. One of the challenges in this project was providing an obstruction-free field of vision for the cameras, so we approached the AE-Parks and AE-Teynampet of the GCC for tree pruning followed by the clearing of the massive amount of debris in the streets. Beautification is an ongoing activity for us. We found that this initiative also prevented encroachments from returning. Some of these activities were shared and co-sponsored by residents proximate to the stretch. We are also looking for institutional sponsors to speed up our plans. We have exhibited ‘Clean Zone’ boards in prominent locations at all the streets. To communicate effectively with all the residents, we launched the SEWA Newsletter — the first issue was released by R. Nataraj, MLA.  (Bharath Srinivasan is secretary of SEWA)   Five streets come under the Association and not all of them may need speed breakers, so depending on feedback from residents we would execute the plan gradually
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Bazaar Road is a picture of squalor||On Bazaar Road in Mylapore, residents are treated to an unpleasant sight, day after day. Stray dogs and cattle feed on the leftovers lying around the bin and a foul smell hangs in the air. Residents want a permanent solution to this stubborn problem. “The foul smell that comes from the overflowing garbage bins is unbearable, and sudden showers have turned the spot slippery too,” says S. Kasinath, a motorist from Mylapore. Many motorists from Mylapore, Mandavali, Luz Corner and R. A. Puram use interior lanes including Bazaar Road to reach Thousands lights, Royapettah, Anna Salai, Nungambakkam, Ice House, Triplicane and Egmore. These narrow streets also connect key bus routes including Cathedral Road and Royapettah High Road with Peter’s Road thereby easing traffic flow in a few neighbourhoods. Residents point out that dumping of garbage has been increasing since August when lockdown restrictions were eased. They also complain that the garbage clearance is irregular. Residents and motorists point out that uncleared garbage poses a health challenge to everyone. In fact, they say mosquitoes have increased in the area especially at stretches that are near the canal. Regular disinfection of streets and lanes, carried out during the intense lockdown, is not happening with the same frequency in recent weeks. “Steps will be taken to remove garbage from the stretch regularly,” says a Corporation official.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A bio-fence at Kotturpuram Urban Forest||Last Saturday, Nizhal, a trust that promotes concern for trees, planted more than 300 trees along the fence of the Kotturpuram Urban Forest, formerly known as Kotturpuram Tree Park. With unstinting efforts of hundreds of volunteers over the last 15 years, the Kotturpuram Urban Forest space has evolved. This green space represents a unique public private partnership (PPP) model and is a habitat for many uncommon and endangered species and associated fauna including insects, butterflies, birds and reptiles. It is slowly moving towards becoming a natural forest ecosystem. To support this process, Nizhal volunteers started creating a bio fence. This exercise, being carried out along one boundary of the urban forest, is aimed at protecting this biodiversity heritage along Riverview Road. The bio-fence will showcase a variety of tropical dry evergreen forest tree species The tree species that were planted include Konji, ‘viraali’, ‘veera’ ‘dharani’, ‘kaattu vrikshi ’, ‘kattu elumichai’, ‘nana pazham’, ‘sempulichai’, and ‘adathoda’. The initiative witnessed the participation of a good number of Nizhal volunteers, and community representatives from the Friends of Tree Park, including senior-citizens, and children. Shobha Menon, founder - trustee, Nizhal, says, “ Our plan is to showcase different tropical dry evergreen forest tree species as bio-fencing options. We will have name boards organised to create awareness about these species, for citizens across Chennai. We are planning to plant around 1,000 saplings for a stretch of about 790 meters. In the first phase, we have planted close to 400 saplings. This would be a model bio-fence that can be replicated at different locations. The green drive will be held during the weekends.”  “We are planning to plant around 1,000 saplings for a stretch of about 790 meters”
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Crowning glory for dentist||Dentist Bhavna Rao from R.A. Puram finished second runner-up at the ‘Manappuram Mrs South India 2020’ held in Kerala. This is not the first time that she is making to the winners’ podium at a beauty pageant. In the Mrs. Chennai Pageant in 2017, she finished second runner-up. “The same year, I contested in Mrs. South, but did not win a title. Between 2017 and 2020, I trained hard with a rigorous workout regime, lost weight and followed a strict diet to again take part in pageants,” says Dr. Bhavna. She has also been in the winners’ circle in a ‘Mrs Tamil Nadu’ pageant. The contestants were judged on parameters like intelligence, talent and social commitment. Bhavna is also a Bharathanatyam artiste and has performed at sabhas. She has been learning dance from the age of seven. “I started learning from the late ‘Kalaimamani’ K. T. Sarasa and did my début performance under L. Muruga Shankari’s guidance. At present, I am learning from Gayathri Sashidaran,” she says. Bhavna also volunteers with ‘Shishu Shakthi’, a voluntary organisation that creates awareness about the importance of education. She has taken part in many blood and organ donation campaigns. “I am at good at multitasking and am also disciplined and systematic, which is how I am able to juggle many things,” she adds.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Children open the innings for their gated community||When children act precociously, they compel jaw-dropping attention. Now, specifically, can a child’s lisping lecture be ignored when it is directed at a parent and a neighbour and is about why waste should not be mixed, and that every bin has its own trash? Last year, at Casagrand Cherry Pick, a gated community with around 380 units, in Perumbakkam, grown-ups were subjected to such a pleasantly humbling experience. By getting children to learn and talk about solid waste management (SWM), their parents were indirectly being prepared for a community-based SWM mission. The soil of resistance was being turned over and broken up. This is how it all began. Srividya Giridharan, who now spearheads SWM initiatives at the community, and a few other resident-volunteers did not want Cherry Pick to be a laggard in waste management. But being in Perumbakkam had put the community at a clear disadvantage, as it had to look beyond the locality to watch best practices at close range. Srividya got in touch with Sumitha Iyer, Swacch Bharat lead with the Federation of OMR Residents’ Associations and whose community — The Central Park South (TCPS) — has won awards, including a green award from Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board for the year 2018-19, for its waste management initiatives. Watching the waste-management processes at TCPS was the best lesson Cherry Pick volunteers could have hoped for. “We knew we could introduce the processes, and prepare the house-keeping and facility management teams adequately for the various aspects of the work, but the idea of talking to residents about it was daunting. By February 2019, we were ready, having done all the groundwork, but that one hurdle remained to be surmounted,” recalls Srividhya. “Residents could agree with anything you tell them, at an intellectual level, but when they have to start segregating waste at the individual level, they may cite reasons for why it is not workable.” So, they decided to go to the children first. The children were put through primers about waste management concepts every weekend for nearly two-and-a-half months. “The youngest child was three years old, and there were teenagers. The average age group was seven to 12 years” says Srividya. So obviously, the volunteers would not drone on about waste management. Engaging the children took effort — in fact, great effort, as complex concepts had to be telescoped into the thirty-minute weekend sessions. “The children were taught the concepts largely through two-minute videos in a mini hall. They would also be given activities, making paper bags being one of them. In one activity, we got the children to prepare their own charts and walk around the community, which made it interesting for parents, and helped us engage with the community indirectly. The younger children would talk about what should be discarded and what should be recycled. There were also skits and narration by children on what should change,” elaborates Srividya, adding that such activities spread the word further around the community. The exercise worked at two levels — educating children about all that they needed to know about garbage, and partly educating and largely motivating the grown-ups subliminally to be ready for the challenge that lay ahead. The next stage And when the time arrived for the volunteers to deal with the grown-ups directly, Namma Ooru Foundation, a voluntary organisation engaged in environment conservation work, was invited to conduct a two-hour programme. “The team from Namma Ooru Foundation organised a hands-on session, and actually brought along a lot of trash to make the explanations lucid for the residents. Natarajan, founder of NOF presented a lot of statistics and made his arguments for source segregation compelling. He made the two-bin and one-bag concept clear to the participants,” says Srividya. Following this, the process of procuring the bins and bags was initiated. And then, focussed sessions with the residents — that is, the grown-ups — began. The power of volunteering Srividya points out that from the beginning they wanted to have at least one volunteer in every block. There are 14 blocks, and altogether, around 20 volunteers were on board, and a few of the executive committee members also added to that number. “We were clear the people should not duck out of attending the block-level sessions giving work or anything else as an excuse. So, we encouraged the block-level volunteers to take it floor by floor. So, they would say ‘Let residents of this floor meet at 3 p.m., on a Saturday.’ That way, we ensured that all residents heard the message.” Srividya says that the series of interventions had been effective, and only “10 percent to 15 percent of the residents needed hand-holding.” From her account, the volunteers’ commitment made a difference. “In every block, we needed to have a volunteer who would identify themselves absolutely with the cause. We wanted them to have a positive can-do attitude, understand that there would be challenges along the way, and that when they cropped up, they would cooperate and coordinate and do their work.” The volunteers did not have to wait long for their commitment to be tested. Srividya says that source-segregation went on stream towards the end of April, and in the early days, the difficulty in finding vendors to deal with the different types of waste led residents to question the effectiveness of the initiative. “The residents were willing to segregate waste, and were also doing it, but as the panchayat did not have a mechanism to process the wet waste, residents wanted to know what objective their source segregation was achieving. We had to tell them that they should make source segregation a habit, and when the vendors were identified, they would already be doing the right thing. Besides, we told them by choosing to segregate waste despite the challenges at the panchayat level, they were making sure that at least 60 percent of the wet waste went to the dumping ground without any plastics in it.” How they managed to find the vendors, especially those who would compost the segregated wet waste is another story. Cherry Pick has been a source of inspiration to other communities and neighbourhoods in Perumbakkam. However, they are now forced to retell their story to their own community, as the pandemic put a halt to its SWM initiative, and the volunteers may have to prepare many of the residents all over again.  In one activity, we got the children to prepare their own charts and walk around the community, which made it interesting for parents, and helped us engage with the community indirectly
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||When caution is at the top of the shopping list||If you have set foot again in your favourite mom-and-pop store and neighbourhood mall, it would not take long for you to notice that everything is a wee bit different. Or probably, a lot different. For one, there would not be too many pairs of feet sharing floor space with you. There would be those floor markings letting you know where to stand. With Deepavali approaching, many of these outlets are wooing customers but with a great deal of caution. Saheli at Cisons Complex in Egmore has introduced what it calls slots for customers who are keen on checking out the latest collection first-hand. “Each of our stores is 220 sq.ft in dimension and we do not want people crowding; footfall is slowly increasing, and so we have three to four slots a day and each customer is given a window of 45 minutes to one hour,” says Navin Jaswani, proprietor of Saheli, adding that they can accommodate two sets of customers at a time. What if there are walk-ins? “There is no window shopping as in the pre-COVID days, so those who come to the complex are serious shoppers and we do not want to lose out on them,” says Jaswani. Saheli has the advantage of having another store at the same complex, so customers either get to wait at its other outlet or they are requested to come after a certain time. The store has been functioning at the complex since 1992 and has a loyal patronage that keeps its business alive. “We have been knocking at our customer’s doors through mails on WhatsApp, not to spam them with the latest from our store but to keep them updated,” says Jaswani. There are certain customers, he says, who are not open to the idea of coming to the store. “We made a temporary studio set-up in the store where photographs are taken of clothes on a mannequin to suggest styles and fits and shared to give them a feel of how the attire would look,” he says. The selection is couriered or delivered to them. Rekha’s Boutique at Mookambika Complex in Alwarpet made use of the lockdown to revamp its store. G. Babu, partner, says it has made the store more spacious. The boutique has been engaging with customers via WhatsApp video calls that take them around the latest collection. There are outlets that have been subtly discouraging people from walking into the store. Thuli has two outlets — one at Vadapalani and the other at Adyar — and it has opened the former, knowing very well that the shop will garner much footfall during the festival season. The stores run on a different model where used clothes and merchandise are bought by the less-privelaged. Thuli is not encouraging new footfall. Those on its database are called to shop at the Vadapalani outlet, which on an average, is three to four families. Those wanting to give away their gently-used clothes have to ensure they are washed and ironed. Prisha, a beauty and cosmetic outlet at Alsa Mall in Egmore, has been doing a lot of deliveries. “When we have a shopper call us enquiring if we are open, we try to find out if they know what they want and suggest to them that they have the option of getting the item delivered,” says Anisha Nichani of Prisha. They are also seeing people pick up items for their neighbour staying in the same building. “Or, a person ordering for the entire building and asking us to bill it separately,” she says. “In fact, lockdown brought us a new set of customers,” she says. At the store, it has done away with testers given to customers who want to buy lipstick and foundations.  Footfall is slowly increasing, and so we have three to four slots a day and each customer is given a window of 45 minutes to one hour
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writers by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@the hindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature (article), which could serve as a point of reference for any write up you would like to send in to us. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. You quickly communicate the essence of the problem to the reader. c) News features have top be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph. Pack this section with as many facts as possible.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Clean up this mess’||In these times, it is important to maintain a high level of hygiene not only in our houses but also in our neighbourhoods. On a section of Bazaar Road in Mylapore, near a marriage hall, garbage bins are always overflowing and have now covered half of the narrow street. This is a cause for concern for those living in the area as it hinders vehicular movement on the narrow street. Recently, a garbage bin was overturned. Cows and dogs feed on the garbage and some people find this place a soft spot for open defecation in the morning. We residents would appreciate it if this issue is addressed. Priyanka Kochar Mylapore
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A waste management model that thrived during the crisis||When intense lockdown was in effect, many communities sloughed certain processes off their waste management programme and kept it barely functional. Often, these were partly essential processes. Sometimes, these were processes that lent the programme its uniqueness and effectiveness. CEEBROS Boulevard in Thoraipakkam is among communities that bucked the trend. Now, the 352-unit community won a green award from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board for the year 2018-19, and its waste management practices had a part in the recognition. So, was the community trying hard to keep its hallowed waste-management system running? That seems to be hardly the case, going by what Vinod Radhakrishnan, a member of the community’s Management Committee and who holds the house-keeping and garbage segregation portfolio, has to share about his team’s pandemic experience. The waste-segregation system kept running without a hitch due to its essential character. Before discussing what this means, here is an interesting fact that Vinod and his house-keeping and garbage segregation team noticed during the pandemic. Credit to the maids Early on, the community was led to appreciate the pivotal role maids had played in keeping the community’s famed waste-management model running efficiently. “During the pandemic there was a period of time when none of the maids were allowed into the building. So, it was the residents who had the responsibility of segregating the waste and bringing it down to a space called Green Space and deposit it in the various bins placed there. That is when we realised that the residents in some cases were oblivious to how the process was functioning because it was the maids who had been doing the segregation for them,” Vinod discloses. “Only then did we realise that the maids had played such an important role in the whole chain of events that helped the waste segregation process. It was good that this awareness dawned on us because the general feeling was that the maids were the ones who were not doing a whole lot of things the way they should be done, while the truth, as we found out, was that the maids were doing a lot of things right. And that when it was left to the residents to handle the process, not much segregation was being done. It was quite quite an eye-opener for us.” The gains The community follows what it calls a do-it-yourself model, which requires residents to drop off their segregated waste in the bins placed at the Green Space. There is no door-to-door collection. The community practices finer segregation whereby the recyclables are further segregated into more granular categories. “We were glad that we had a do-it-yourself waste management system in place. For, where associations that had a door-to-door collection system, everything went into total chaos,” begins Vinod, explaining that at one point, communities could not continue door-to-door collection of waste. He elaborates; “We were one of those lucky ones that were able to move from a door-to-door to a do-it-yourself model and that we were able to hold on to the gains and benefit from that during the pandemic. For, the system still ran. Had we not made the transition from a door-to-door pick-up model to a do-it-yourself model, we would have been caught on the wrong foot during the pandemic,”
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Programme on cancer awareness||In commemoration of National Cancer Awareness Day, ( November 7), the Comprehensive Blood and Cancer Centre (CBCC) - India has come up with an initiative that is working towards “cancer literacy”. The aim of the programme is to spread awareness about cancer and the importance of early detection. For details, call 9840263478 / 9944987138. To register log on to,https://bit.ly/3oxI548
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||MSME workshops||TANSTIA FNF Centre is conducting a series of workshops in November, which include workshops on how to make areca leaf plates, paper bags, and cloth bags; laundry and dry cleaning process; making detergent powder, phenyle, sanitizers, bathing soaps, and incense sticks. Besides, food-based workshops such as baking and confectioneries, preparation of sharbet, jams, pickles, soup powders and making various Siddha and Ayurvedic products will be conducted. Further, sessions on GST, income tax planning, procedures to avail a loan and government schemes meant for MSME, working capital management, will be held, says a press release The workshops will be conducted on the premises of TANSTIA-FNF Service Centre at B-22, Industrial Estate, Guindy. For details, call 97890 60133
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Culinary workshop by TNAU||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on preparation of sweets and savouries on November 4 at its premises in Guindy. For details, call 044 - 2250 1960
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Tree fall and the question of accountability||The State and the local body can be held responsible if a tree found on public property falls and causes a fatal accident or injures a person walking or driving down the road. The victim or the person’s family member can seek compensation by first lodging a complaint with the police, followed by written representation to the zonal officer and the area engineer of the Greater Chennai Corporation with sufficient proof of how the accident happened, says Somasundaram M of Consumer Association of India. The victim has to prove that the accident was not natural, and documental evidence like photographs or videos on what led to the accident will add merit to the case. “If the affected party thinks there is delay or they are being denied justice, they can approach the District Consumer Forum. One does nor need an advocate to file a case here and the judgement must be given within 90 days,” says the consumer activist. As per the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, he says, a person can appeal from any place for justice. If a tree had fallen on a vehicle parked in a public space, the person is not liable for compensation from civic authorities, he says. “Corporation is responsible for maintenance of trees on roads as well as on platforms, and not if you have parked your vehicle at an unauthorised space including the road in front of your apartment,” he says. Many victims seek insurance claims but that varies from company to company and the kind of insurance one is covered by.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Store for senior citizens offers free booklet on patient care||Old is Gold Store, a showroom for senior citizens with branches in Adyar and Anna Nagar, has launched a range of products for its customers. It is also offering free e-booklets titled ‘Patient Home Care Guide’ and ‘Adult Diapers — A Handbook’ to readers of The Hindu . The store also offers free home safety assessment for elders. Example: if the bathroom is slippery, it offers a solution on how to make it safe for elders.  Some of the topics discussed in the guide include ‘Making your home elder-friendly’, ‘Maintaining Hygiene for patients’, ‘Prevention of Bedsores’, ‘The use of Adult Diapers’ and ‘Common home healthcare equipment’. For a free copy, WhatsApp “Home Care” or “Adult Diapers” to 98404 40505 For “Home Safety Assessment” call 98404 40505 or whatsApp “ HSA” to schedule a home visit. Website www.oldisgoldstore.com  It also offers free home safety assessment for elders
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon notes on tree care||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||When caution is at the top of the shopping list||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Children open the innings for their community||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||a makeshift tent||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Local communities build cities: A case study from South Chennai||Just a “byte” away from the IT Corridor, Perumbakkam provides many IT professionals with a home address. With work allowed to be carried out from remote locations due to the pandemic, many techies and other professionals too have shifted to their home towns. A temporary dip in occupancy at gated communities in Perumbakkam is illustration enough. Srinivasan Subramaniam, solid waste management (SWM) lead at the Federation of Perumbakkam Residents’ Welfare Associations (FPRWA), counts this exodus among factors that slowed down “Thuimai Perumbakkam 2020”, kickstarted in mid-2019. “With many residents expected to return to the locality now, November holds some promise in terms of restarting SWM initiatives that are currently in suspension,” shares Srinivasan. From how Srinivasan chronicles events from mid-2019 to the time the pandemic struck, the locality seems to have gone into an SWM overdrive in a short period of time. “Our two demands with the panchayat are: Regular clearance of garbage, and treatment of the garbage that is cleared. There are problems in both. As yet, there is no composting facility in Perumbakkam. So, we decided that as a Federation, we would solve it ourselves as much as possible,” explains Srinivasan. “There are around 35,000 voters in Perumbakkam, and the population should be anywhere between 70,000 and 80,000. As an immediate measure, Perumbakkam, now a village panchayat, has to be upgraded as a town panchayat or a municipality. Understaffed and strapped for resources, it is struggling to meet the demands of waste management,” says N.K. Raja, secretary, Federation of Perumbakkam Residents’ Welfare Associations. A Perumbakkam Selection Grade Village Panchayat official has however stated that the panchayat is not understaffed in terms of solid waste management, and that sufficient vehicles are being pressed into service to carry out the work. Residents’ collective “Last year, we decided to initiate and drive solid waste management in Perumbakkam. In June 2019, we organised an SWM awareness event at the panchayat office, in association with Pasumai Vikatan. It sought to present the nitty-gritty of SWM to residents. We brought P. Natarajan, founder of environment conservation NGO ‘Namma Ooru Foundation’, to talk to the participants. Called ‘Thuimai Perumbakkam 2020’, the initiative set out with the objective of making Perumbakkam clean by the end of 2020. But the pandemic slowed it down. When we started the initiative, Casagrand Cherry Pick, a gated community, was carrying out source segregation massively at the community level. They were giving the dry waste to a vendor and wet waste to multiple vendors.” Srinivasan explains that an SWM core team was formed and it connected with various communities in Perumbakkam, encouraging them to emulate communities like Cherry Pick. It also encouraged residents of individual houses to hand over dry waste to a recycler and carry out home composting. “Last year, the initiative helped source home composting kits for 25 individual houses. Following our advice, residents of individual houses have enlisted the services of a dry waste vendor,” elaborates Srinivasan. “We went to many apartment complexes, and so additionally, six apartment complexes came on board, and they also started segregating waste. Dry waste was being handed over to a vendor. Wet waste was being given to the panchayat. As there was no compost yard, we requested the panchayat to establish one.” Until the time a compost yard comes up in Perumbakkam, the SWM team seeks to have stop-gap arrangements in place to have the wet waste composted, and make sure it does not go to the landfill. “We made an arrangement with a compost yard in Jalladianpet with some help from the Perumbakkam panchayat, to accept wet waste from a few of our societies,” says Raja. Jalladianpet comes under Ward 191 of Greater Chennai Corporation. “Near Varathapuram, there are two apartments, which together account for close to 100 flats. On our request, the Jalladianpet compost yard accepted wet waste from these communities on alternate days. With good intentions, they supported us. We just organised the transport,” says Srinivasan. “They were doing that for three months, and the pandemic put a halt to it,” says Raja, and adds, “We have a plan to contact the Sembakkam Municipality and request them to process the green waste from some of our communities, at their compost yard. We are also planning to approach the Semmancheri compost yard with a similar request. We would do this to manage the situation till we get our own compost yard.” Protest by residents Raja continues, “Meanwhile, the government sanctioned the construction of a micro compost yard at a cost of Rs. 35 lakh. The construction got under way behind the Perumbakkam panchayat office. Associations representing two neighbourhoods raised objections to the micro compost yard being set up at the said location, leading to the work being stalled.” A committee member of VGP Prabhu Nagar Residents Welfare Association, which represents a neighbourhood near this location, says, “Around the site of the micro-compost yard, there is a children’s play area, a gym and a community hall where functions are organised regularly, and there are houses nearby. How can a micro-compost yard come up at such a place?” Veera Subramanian V., secretary, VGP Prabhu Nagar Residents Welfare Association, says, “The panchayat has been dumping garbage behind its office. When they started this practice they said it would be a stop-gap arrangement. We took them at their word. But they did not keep their word. Though it is supposed to be a transit point for garbage on its way to be dumped elsewhere, the garbage just stays there, keeps piling up and is cleared once in four or six months, that too after many follow-ups. And now, they tell us a micro-compost yard is coming up. As of now, there is no sign of any proper segregation practice in place, and their assurances that having a micro-composting centre would not cause any problem to residents does not inspire confidence in us.” A move to have a bigger space for solid waste management, one near the Perumbakkam hill, ran into rough weather with the residents of Bollineni Hillside objecting to the choice of location. Following this, reportedly, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has written to the panchayat that they should be informed about any project that is planned close to areas that come under the protection of ASI. The panchayat official has confirmed receiving such a communication from ASI.  November holds some promise in terms of restarting SWM initiatives that are in suspension SrinivasanSubramaniam   There are around 35,000 voters in Perumbakkam, and the population should be anywhere between 70,000 and 80,000 N.K. Raja
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon notes on tree care||Sabeena Varghese, a resident of South Avenue, Srinagar Colony, is fed up following up with the Greater Chennai Corporation about having the trees in her neighbourhood trimmed to keep them from blocking the street lights. After repeated complaints, when the Corporation team did finally arrive at this neighbourhood in Saidapet, the results of the intervention were far from what Sabeena believes should have been done. “They just cut the branches that they could reach and I was advised that if they had to bring the more appropriate machine with an electric saw mounted on a crane, I had to write to GCC, which I thought was ridiculous as the tree is not inside any compound but on the road,” says Sabeena, a school teacher. Her point is that there obviously has to be more science attached to the process of tree-trimming than just lopping off branches within reach using a knife,    as the Corporation workers did. Following this fiasco, she sent a complaint by registered post to the GCC — Adyar zone, this time drawing attention to a neem tree outside her apartment premises that required immediate attention. “I also mentioned that a mobile crane was required to cut the tree branches as it was hugely overgrown and was obstructing street lights,” says Sabeena. A few others who have complained, either through the Corporation helpline number 1913 or by email, say the redressal mechanism relating to tree pruning and cutting leaves a lot to be desired. A. Shyam Kumar from Anna Nagar has made many representations to the GCC through various mediums about a tree precariously leaning in front of a transformer near the premises of a play school. “I have written to the GCC and the CM’s Cell but no action has been taken so far,” says Shyam Kumar. With intermittent rains hitting the city, the Greater Chennai Corporation’s helpline number 1913 is also witnessing a spurt in calls, especially from residents who see trees pruned, says a Corporation official in-charge of parks. The official says that most complaints are attended to, depending on the priority. “Complaints relating to tree fall are passed to the respective zones for speedy action and residents can follow up with the zonal officials,” the official adds. However, tree activists point out that Chennai has a lot to learn from other cities on how to maintain and care for trees. Bengaluru is among those Indian metros that have a dedicated Tree Authority that attends to such complaints from citizens. It also provides an avenue for residents to alert the authorities about illegal felling of trees in a neighbourhood. Tree audit postponed Citizens can play a role in tree protection by carrying out an audit of vulnerable trees and getting the authorities to take corrective steps. G. Mullaivanam, founder, Tree Bank, has postponed the Brown Tree project, an exercise he carries out once in five years to identify weak and dead trees in the city. “We were supposed to take up the survey of unsafe trees in February-March but due to lockdown we could not assemble our volunteers, so we plan to take it up next year,” he says.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Taking safety to a new level||An exercise to increase safety is under way on a section of Jawaharlal Nehru Main Road. Between the intersection at MMDA and the one at Vadapalani, the height of the concrete median is being raised. The exercise, which began a fortnight ago, seeks to prevent pedestrians from stepping over the median and crossing the road at undesignated points. The median is being raised to a height of four feet. The work is said to have been fast-tracked. “Pedestrians have been taking advantage of the low median to cross the road. Often, such pedestrians catch motorists by surprise, and the latter would have to slam on the brakes. There have been cases of motorcyclists skidding due to such situations,” says B. Naveen, a resident of Vadapalani. At present, pedestrian-crossings on J.N. Main Road are at major intersections including Ashok Pillar, Vadapalani junction, MMDA and CMBT bus terminus traffic spots. Pedestrians have to cross the road at these intersections but to save time, many throw caution to the wind and cross the road using the low median. As traffic police personnel are largely deployed at the intersections, pedestrians do this, with impunity. Besides, many MTC bus-stops are located on this road. And by trying not to miss the bus, pedestrians violate road safety rules. It may be noted that after the opening of the flyover at Vadapalani junction in November 2016, MTC buses skipped the flyover to be able to halt at the stops found on both service lanes of J.N. Main Road. However, following a news report in The Hindu Downtown in December 2016 about this, MTC directed its crew to take the flyover. “The work on raising the height of the median will be completed in a month,” says a State Highways official.  State Highways began this work a fortnight ago
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Lifestyle brands greet at the door||If groceries can come to your doorstep, why not fabrics, furniture and footwear? That is the new shopping mantra adopted by retailers as they set up pop-up stores at gated communities to cash in on the festival season while ensuring shoppers’ safety. Jains Inseli Park at Padur will open its club house for Pantaloons today, where the brand will be showcasing its Deepavali collection. Over the last one month, the gated community has been playing host to one brand at a time, which includes Reliance Trends, Max and Oven Fresh. “This is a new shopping experience where the resident need not step outside the society,” says Lavanya Veera, secretary of Inseli Park Owners’ Association. She says the feedback has been encouraging and a few brands are in discussions with the Association to set up a shop on the premises in the coming weeks. MetroZone at Anna Nagar has had brands including Fab India, Max, Pantaloons and Bata wheeling into the community, with their mobile shopping-vans. In some societies, these brands get to have a presence on many of the floors, and this arrangement create a sense of shopping at a store. “I was in awe when Fab India spread its furniture series at our club house and displayed its men’s clothing in-between the furniture products. It was like walking into a store,” says a resident. The criteria adopted by retailers before setting up stalls at an apartment complex include a community with more than 250 occupied flats and more than 1800 sq.ft. of space to showcase the merchandise. An executive with Trends, who says that this is the first time they started going to communities, points out that the enthusiasm for in-community shopping is bound to wane, as people can now head to the stores itself. “All major outlets have reopened and some people want to venture out and shop, and so we are not seeing the same kind of response that we witnessed in June-July,” says the executive. The company has set up shop at 19 gated communities so far. The requirements have also changed. “During the lockdown, it was about offering the most essential merchandise. Now, we are required to create a store-like experience and offer niche collections,” he adds. Some concerns Some RWAs have raised concerns about signing up with brands to set up such stores. Prince Village — Phase I at Tondiarpet, for instance, recently decided not to allow brands as there had been a spike in COVID-19 cases in the neighbourhood. The Association did not want to be caught on the wrong foot by the virus. Jains Inseli Park only allows one stall at a time. “We don’t want people to crowd at the stall and we are not holding an exhibition, so we only permit one brand at the club house,” says Lavanya. Thermal screening, masks and sanitisers are a must at the venue. “We insist that not more than five people are allowed at the spot,” she adds.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Residents execute a lockdown project||Seethamma Extension Welfare Association (SEWA) in Teynampet will soon turn one. Though much of this year was spent locked-down, residents see a silver lining to it. The lockdown helped the Association raise the bar in terms of safety and cleanliness. Last year, the Association got unauthorised college vans parked on our roads removed. This came as a big relief to residents as our streets were being misused by drivers who had parked their vehicles there, for carrying out unwholesome activities. Speeding and reckless driving make up an issue that we want to see addressed. Police personnel act upon our complaints. However, to find a permanent solution to this problem, we approached the Greater Chennai Corporation and police officials seeking their permission to install speed breakers. As a pilot study for evaluating their effectiveness and endurance, the speed breakers were installed on First Main Road in the first week of July. Speed breakers have enhanced road safety, particularly for pedestrians. Lane discipline has increased and overtaking has reduced significantly. The Association extends to five streets and not all may need speed breakers, so depending on feedback from residents we would execute the plan gradually. Next, on our list of improvements for the area was installation of CCTV cameras at the streets. The police helped us identify locations where the cameras could be fixed. We handled it as a special project and a “CCTV group” was formed for planning and to raise funds. We requested contributions from residents and the funds flowed in. But the COVID-19 crisis coupled with increase in prices of hardware caused a sizeable delay, and we found that we were short of funds. Finally, in September we completed installing 21 street cameras and two ANPR cameras that would focus on K.B. Dasan Road. One of the challenges in this project was providing an obstruction-free field of vision for the cameras, so we approached the AE-Parks and AE-Teynampet of the GCC for tree pruning followed by the clearing of the massive amount of debris in the streets. Beautification is an ongoing activity for us. We found that this initiative also prevented encroachments from returning. Some of these activities were shared and co-sponsored by residents proximate to the stretch. We are also looking for institutional sponsors to speed up our plans. We have exhibited ‘Clean Zone’ boards in prominent locations at all the streets. To communicate effectively with all the residents, we launched the SEWA Newsletter — the first issue was released by R. Nataraj, MLA.  (Bharath Srinivasan is secretary of SEWA)
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||As pipeline work crawls, streets turn muddy||With the onset of north-east monsoon, residents of Defence Colony in Ekkattuthangal are feeling the effect of a low-moving water pipeline work by Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB). Thanks to the recent showers, many streets in the neighbourhood have turned slushy and slippery. The work started a few months ago when the intense lockdown was in effect — low volume of vehicles on the streets provided a ideal situation for the work to be started. But there are still streets where the pipe-laying work is yet to be completed. Even on streets where the work got completed, construction materials such as long steel plates and cement pipes continue to occupy the footpaths. “As the streets are muddy, motorists and walkers find it risky to use it every time it rains. Poor illumination due to dim street-lights, these streets become even more unsafe at night,” says S. Prabhu, a resident of Ekkaduthangal. Besides Defence Colony, the work is meant to benefit Indira Nagar, Jafferkhanpet and Kalaimagal Nagar. According to Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) officials, even though pipeline-laying work has been completed on some streets, it will begin relayingthe streets only when the entire CMWSSB work in the colony is completed. Further, CMWSSB is required to issue a no-objection certificate (NOC) to GCC for the streets to be relaid. Earlier, the demolition of the narrow causeway under the bridge across the Adyar river in Ekkaduthangal had thrown traffic out of gear, due to the lack of plan about providing alternative route for motorists coming from Nandambakkam, Mugalivakkam and Moulivakkam via Defence Colony in Ekkaduthangal. The causeway was demolished to facilitate free flow of excess rainwater into the Adyar river. During the demolition, Fifth Cross Street, part of a key route connecting Ashok Nagar with Nandambakkam, Ramapuram and Porur via Defence Colony in Ekkaduthangal, was the most affected stretch. Now, Fifth Cross Street is one of the many lanes in the neighbourhood that has been taken up for the pipeline work. “Steps will be taken to complete the work at the earliest,” says a CMWSSB official.  “With poor illumination, these streets are even more unsafe at night”
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A Good Samaritan for these times||Recently, when EVK Sampath Road, off Poonamallee High Road, in Vepery was flooded after sudden showers resulting in bumper-to-bumper traffic, a six-foot-tall man with a thick moustache pulled up to the curb. Removing his brown shoes, polished to a glint, and then folding his trousers up to the knees, he took a long cane ( lathi ) from his vehicle and proceeded to attend to the inlets in the widened stormwater drain. He hunkered down to the job of manually unclogging the drain. In a short while, the rainwater that had accumulated on the stretch road drained and he left the spot. He is fifty six-year-old K. Pandivelu, Inspector (traffic wing) at Vepery Police Station. He is a familiar face in the neighbourhood, known both for his traffic regulation skills and the community service that he renders selflessly. During the pandemic, he has been actively engaged in COVID-19 relief work. “Being a farmer’s son, I have worked in the farmlands in my hometown as a boy. Cleaning a drain is like removing weeds from the paddy field. I do not feel awkward about unclogging a drain,” says Inspector Pandivelu. A native of Salaiyur Koil village in Sivaganga district in Tamil Nadu, Pandivelu is a first-generation learner who had spent much of his early years in his village. He studied at a government school in the village before going in for higher education in the same district. He joined the police service in 1984. Apart from a two-year stint at Manaparai village in Tiruchirappali district, much of Pandivelu’s career has been under the Greater Chennai Police Commissionerate as traffic police officer. During the lockdown, along with his team of 40 traffic police personnel, Pandivelu organised many awareness campaigns on COVID-19 including street-corner meetings that had residents attending them, standing in the safety of their balconies. He has distributed cloth face masks, gloves, hand sanitisers and food packets to the poor and the homeless persons in the neighbourhood since July this year when he was shifted back from Tiruchirappali. Unlike the other police patrol vehicles that carry a bubble water container for the police team, Pandivelu has large cloth bags containing cloth face masks, gloves and hand sanitisers, to be given away for free to persons on the streets. The patrol vehicle also has an extra bag of food packets that are kept as a reserve for the poor and homeless who might have missed having even a single meal for the day.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||From Jeeva Park to the terrace||I have often heard it said that gardening refreshes both the mind and the body, but I never thought of giving it a try. The lockdown changed that. I have been having my fitness walks at Jeeva Park for 25 years. These walks also met a social need, as I could interact with fellow walkers on many topics. As I am 74 years old, I am forced to stay at home. To beat boredom, I had to take up some activity. And it was gardening. First of all, I carried out some basic research and bought growbags from Amazon and manure from the nearby nursery along with seeds for greens, brinjal and tomato. I spend 30 minutes in the morning and evening nurturing these plants and am glad to be seeing the results. Most of the greens cooked at my home are freshly plucked from the garden. We want to increase our reliance on the terrace garden, and towards that end, I have started adding more varieties. Besides the terrace, I grow plants in my backyard. Now, I am also growing pumpkin, payaya and snake gourd. The leftover vegetable peels from the kitchen serve as manure. Watching the plants grow, every day, is a refreshing experience and tasting the harvest is a delight.  (K.C. Srinivasan Desikan is a resident of T.Nagar)
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Trash point’ on Nerkundram Pathai||Waste pile-ups can be seen along a nearly 200-metre stretch of Nerkundram Pathai, near the point where it intersects with Jawaharlal Nehru Main Road. According to residents, shopkeepers dump waste on this section in the evening hours. That conservancy workers clear the garbage only twice a week is another contributing factor, say residents. Due to pile-ups of waste, pedestrians are unable to use the road margins. “With the onset of the north-east monsoon, the place has become squalid, as leftovers constitute a major part of the waste. Besides, it provides a fertile ground for mosquitos to breed. The waste pile-ups also eat into the narrow carriageway, putting motorists at risk,” says K. Pawan, a resident of Vadapalani. At present, motorists coming from areas like Dhansingh Colony, Kumaran Colony, Gandhi Nagar and LIC Colony in Vadapalani use the stretch to reach Jawaharlal Nehru Main Road. The stretch also helps motorists reach adjoining localities like Chinmiya Nagar, Saligramam, SBI Colony, Virugambakkam and Koyambedu. Besides, Nerkundram Pathai is less congested than Arcot Road. Hence, many prefer it to the arterial road. Residents have also pointed out there is an electricity transformer nearby, and that any short circuit in the transformer during rains could spark a fire on the dumped garbage. During weekends, the volume of garbage that is dumped becomes higher. “Steps will be taken to fence the spot to prevent garbage dumping,” says a Greater Chennai Corporation official.  “Any short-circuit in the transformer during rains will spark fire on the dumped garbage”
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Kumaran Colony Main Road and its ‘overflowing cup of misery’||With the monsoon having set in, residents of Kumaran Colony Main Road in Vadapalani are bracing themselves for water-logged patches. On this road, even after a light downpour, there would be rainwater stagnati n. There are many other issues plague the road: Haphazard parking of vehicles. The road is lined with makeshift eateries and their customers park their vehicles on the road, which eats into the the road space. And then, live electricity cables can be seen hanging precariously. Besides, telecommunication cables string through the road. Further, there are many hygiene-related issues to be dealt with. Open urination is one of them. And then, a hotel nearby pumps sewage into the sewer manholes of the road. It is not unusual to see sewage overflowing on to the road. Though the Greater Chennai Corporation and Greater Chennai Police are aware of these issues, no remedial action has been taken. Priya Mohan is a resident of Kumaran Colony in Vadapalani
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Children open the innings for their gated community||When children act precociously, they compel jaw-dropping attention. Now, specifically, can a child’s lisping lecture be ignored when it is directed at a parent and a neighbour and is about why waste should not be mixed, and that every bin has its own trash? Last year, at Casagrand Cherry Pick, a gated community with around 380 units, in Perumbakkam, grown-ups were subjected to such a pleasantly humbling experience. By getting children to learn and talk about solid waste management (SWM), their parents were indirectly being prepared for a community-based SWM mission. The soil of resistance was being turned over and broken up. This is how it all began. Srividya Giridharan, who now spearheads SWM initiatives at the community, and a few other resident-volunteers did not want Cherry Pick to be a laggard in waste management. But being in Perumbakkam had put the community at a clear disadvantage, as it had to look beyond the locality to watch best practices at close range. Srividya got in touch with Sumitha Iyer, Swacch Bharat lead with the Federation of OMR Residents’ Associations and whose community — The Central Park South (TCPS) — has won awards, including a green award from Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board for the year 2018-19, for its waste management initiatives. Watching the waste-management processes at TCPS was the best lesson Cherry Pick volunteers could have hoped for. “We knew we could introduce the processes, and prepare the house-keeping and facility management teams adequately for the various aspects of the work, but the idea of talking to residents about it was daunting. By February 2019, we were ready, having done all the groundwork, but that one hurdle remained to be surmounted,” recalls Srividhya. “Residents could agree with anything you tell them, at an intellectual level, but when they have to start segregating waste at the individual level, they may cite reasons for why it is not workable.” So, they decided to go to the children first. The children were put through primers about waste management concepts every weekend for nearly two-and-a-half months. “The youngest child was three years old, and there were teenagers. The average age group was seven to 12 years” says Srividya. So obviously, the volunteers would not drone on about waste management. Engaging the children took effort — in fact, great effort, as complex concepts had to be telescoped into the thirty-minute weekend sessions. “The children were taught the concepts largely through two-minute videos in a mini hall. They would also be given activities, making paper bags being one of them. In one activity, we got the children to prepare their own charts and walk around the community, which made it interesting for parents, and helped us engage with the community indirectly. The younger children would talk about what should be discarded and what should be recycled. There were also skits and narration by children on what should change,” elaborates Srividya, adding that such activities spread the word further around the community. The exercise worked at two levels — educating children about all that they needed to know about garbage, and partly educating and largely motivating the grown-ups subliminally to be ready for the challenge that lay ahead. The next stage And when the time arrived for the volunteers to deal with the grown-ups directly, Namma Ooru Foundation, a voluntary organisation engaged in environment conservation work, was invited to conduct a two-hour programme. “The team from Namma Ooru Foundation organised a hands-on session, and actually brought along a lot of trash to make the explanations lucid for the residents. Natarajan, founder of NOF presented a lot of statistics and made his arguments for source segregation compelling. He made the two-bin and one-bag concept clear to the participants,” says Srividya. Following this, the process of procuring the bins and bags was initiated. And then, focussed sessions with the residents — that is, the grown-ups — began. The power of volunteering Srividya points out that from the beginning they wanted to have at least one volunteer in every block. There are 14 blocks, and altogether, around 20 volunteers were on board, and a few of the executive committee members also added to that number. “We were clear the people should not duck out of attending the block-level sessions giving work or anything else as an excuse. So, we encouraged the block-level volunteers to take it floor by floor. So, they would say ‘Let residents of this floor meet at 3 p.m., on a Saturday.’ That way, we ensured that all residents heard the message.” Srividya says that the series of interventions had been effective, and only “10 percent to 15 percent of the residents needed hand-holding.” From her account, the volunteers’ commitment made a difference. “In every block, we needed to have a volunteer who would identify themselves absolutely with the cause. We wanted them to have a positive can-do attitude, understand that there would be challenges along the way, and that when they cropped up, they would cooperate and coordinate and do their work.” The volunteers did not have to wait long for their commitment to be tested. Srividya says that source-segregation went on stream towards the end of April, and in the early days, the difficulty in finding vendors to deal with the different types of waste led residents to question the effectiveness of the initiative. “The residents were willing to segregate waste, and were also doing it, but as the panchayat did not have a mechanism to process the wet waste, residents wanted to know what objective their source segregation was achieving. We had to tell them that they should make source segregation a habit, and when the vendors were identified, they would already be doing the right thing. Besides, we told them by choosing to segregate waste despite the challenges at the panchayat level, they were making sure that at least 60 percent of the wet waste went to the dumping ground without any plastics in it.” How they managed to find the vendors, especially those who would compost the segregated wet waste is another story. Cherry Pick has been a source of inspiration to other communities and neighbourhoods in Perumbakkam. However, they are now forced to retell their story to their own community, as the pandemic put a halt to its SWM initiative, and the volunteers may have to prepare many of the residents all over again.  In one activity, we got the children to prepare their own charts and walk around the community, which made it interesting for parents, and helped us engage with the community indirectly
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||When caution is at the top of the shopping list||If you have set foot again in your favourite mom-and-pop store and neighbourhood mall, it would not take long for you to notice that everything is a wee bit different. Or probably, a lot different. For one, there would not be too many pairs of feet sharing floor space with you. There would be those floor markings letting you know where to stand. With Deepavali approaching, many of these outlets are wooing customers but with a great deal of caution. Saheli at Cisons Complex in Egmore has introduced what it calls slots for customers who are keen on checking out the latest collection first-hand. “Each of our stores is 220 sq.ft in dimension and we do not want people crowding; footfall is slowly increasing, and so we have three to four slots a day and each customer is given a window of 45 minutes to one hour,” says Navin Jaswani, proprietor of Saheli, adding that they can accommodate two sets of customers at a time. What if there are walk-ins? “There is no window shopping as in the pre-COVID days, so those who come to the complex are serious shoppers and we do not want to lose out on them,” says Jaswani. Saheli has the advantage of having another store at the same complex, so customers either get to wait at its other outlet or they are requested to come after a certain time. The store has been functioning at the complex since 1992 and has a loyal patronage that keeps its business alive. “We have been knocking at our customer’s doors through mails on WhatsApp, not to spam them with the latest from our store but to keep them updated,” says Jaswani. There are certain customers, he says, who are not open to the idea of coming to the store. “We made a temporary studio set-up in the store where photographs are taken of clothes on a mannequin to suggest styles and fits and shared to give them a feel of how the attire would look,” he says. The selection is couriered or delivered to them. Rekha’s Boutique at Mookambika Complex in Alwarpet made use of the lockdown to revamp its store. G. Babu, partner, says it has made the store more spacious. The boutique has been engaging with customers via WhatsApp video calls that take them around the latest collection. There are outlets that have been subtly discouraging people from walking into the store. Thuli has two outlets — one at Vadapalani and the other at Adyar — and it has opened the former, knowing very well that the shop will garner much footfall during the festival season. The stores run on a different model where used clothes and merchandise are bought by the less-privelaged. Thuli is not encouraging new footfall. Those on its database are called to shop at the Vadapalani outlet, which on an average, is three to four families. Those wanting to give away their gently-used clothes have to ensure they are washed and ironed. Prisha, a beauty and cosmetic outlet at Alsa Mall in Egmore, has been doing a lot of deliveries. “When we have a shopper call us enquiring if we are open, we try to find out if they know what they want and suggest to them that they have the option of getting the item delivered,” says Anisha Nichani of Prisha. They are also seeing people pick up items for their neighbour staying in the same building. “Or, a person ordering for the entire building and asking us to bill it separately,” she says. “In fact, lockdown brought us a new set of customers,” she says. At the store, it has done away with testers given to customers who want to buy lipstick and foundations.  Footfall is slowly increasing, and so we have three to four slots a day and each customer is given a window of 45 minutes to one hour
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Programme on cancer awareness||In commemoration of National Cancer Awareness Day, ( November 7), the Comprehensive Blood and Cancer Centre (CBCC) - India has come up with an initiative that is working towards “cancer literacy.” The aim of the programme is to spread awareness about cancer and the importance of early detection. For details, call 9840263478 / 9944987138. To register log on to,https://bit.ly/3oxI548
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A waste management model that thrived during the crisis||When intense lockdown was in effect, many communities sloughed certain processes off their waste management programme and kept it barely functional. Often, these were partly essential processes. Sometimes, these were processes that lent the programme its uniqueness and effectiveness. CEEBROS Boulevard in Thoraipakkam is among communities that bucked the trend. Now, the 352-unit community won a green award from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board for the year 2018-19, and its waste management practices had a part in the recognition. So, was the community trying hard to keep its hallowed waste-management system running? That seems to be hardly the case, going by what Vinod Radhakrishnan, a member of the community’s Management Committee and who holds the house-keeping and garbage segregation portfolio, has to share about his team’s pandemic experience. The waste-segregation system kept running without a hitch due to its essential character. Before discussing what this means, here is an interesting fact that Vinod and his house-keeping and garbage segregation team noticed during the pandemic. Credit to the maids Early on, the community was led to appreciate the pivotal role maids had played in keeping the community’s famed waste-management model running efficiently. “During the pandemic there was a period of time when none of the maids were allowed into the building. So, it was the residents who had the responsibility of segregating the waste and bringing it down to a space called Green Space and deposit it in the various bins placed there. That is when we realised that the residents in some cases were oblivious to how the process was functioning because it was the maids who had been doing the segregation for them,” Vinod discloses. “Only then did we realise that the maids had played such an important role in the whole chain of events that helped the waste segregation process. It was good that this awareness dawned on us because the general feeling was that the maids were the ones who were not doing a whole lot of things the way they should be done, while the truth, as we found out, was that the maids were doing a lot of things right. And that when it was left to the residents to handle the process, not much segregation was being done. It was quite quite an eye-opener for us.” The gains The community follows what it calls a do-it-yourself model, which requires residents to drop off their segregated waste in the bins placed at the Green Space. There is no door-to-door collection. The community practices finer segregation whereby the recyclables are further segregated into more granular categories. “We were glad that we had a do-it-yourself waste management system in place. For, where associations that had a door-to-door collection system, everything went into total chaos,” begins Vinod, explaining that at one point, communities could not continue door-to-door collection of waste. He elaborates; “We were one of those lucky ones that were able to move from a door-to-door to a do-it-yourself model and that we were able to hold on to the gains and benefit from that during the pandemic. For, the system still ran. Had we not made the transition from a door-to-door pick-up model to a do-it-yourself model, we would have been caught on the wrong foot during the pandemic,”
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writers by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@the hindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature (article), which could serve as a point of reference for any write up you would like to send in to us. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. You quickly communicate the essence of the problem to the reader. c) News features have top be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph. Pack this section with as many facts as possible.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||MSME workshops at Guindy||TANSTIA FNF Centre is conducting a series of workshops in November — the list includes how to make areca leaf plates, paper bags, and cloth bags; primers on laundry and dry cleaning process; how to make detergent powder, phenyle, sanitizers, bathing soaps, and incense sticks. Besides, food-based workshops such as baking and confectionery making, preparation of sharbat, jams, pickles, soup powders and making various Siddha and Ayurvedic products will be conducted. Further, sessions on GST, income tax planning, procedures to avail a loan and government schemes meant for MSME, working capital management, will be held, says a press release The workshops will be conducted on the premises of TANSTIA-FNF Service Centre at B-22, Industrial Estate, Guindy. For details, call 97890 60133
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Tree fall and the question of accountability||The State and the local body can be held responsible if a tree found on public property falls and causes a fatal accident or injures a person walking or driving down the road. The victim or the person’s family member can seek compensation by first lodging a complaint with the police, followed by written representation to the zonal officer and the area engineer of the Greater Chennai Corporation with sufficient proof of how the accident happened, says Somasundaram M of Consumer Association of India. The victim has to prove that the accident was not natural, and documental evidence like photographs or videos on what led to the accident will add merit to the case. “If the affected party thinks there is delay or they are being denied justice, they can approach the District Consumer Forum. One does nor need an advocate to file a case here and the judgement must be given within 90 days,” says the consumer activist. As per the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, he says, a person can appeal from any place for justice. If a tree had fallen on a vehicle parked in a public space, the person is not liable for compensation from civic authorities, he says. “Corporation is responsible for maintenance of trees on roads as well as on platforms, and not if you have parked your vehicle at an unauthorised space including the road in front of your apartment,” he says. Many victims seek insurance claims but that varies from company to company and the kind of insurance one is covered by.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Culinary workshop at Guindy||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on preparation of sweets and savouries on November 4 at its premises in Guindy. For details, call 044 - 2250 1960
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A session on how to make chocolates||A workshop on making chocolates will be conducted on November 7 at No: 20 Cresent Park Street, T. Nagar. Time: From 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. According to a press release, preparation of 12 varieties of chocolates will be demonstrated. Also the art of wrapping will be taught. For details, call 99402 69288.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon notes on tree care||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A Good Samaritan for these times||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Children open the innings for their community||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||eking out a living||
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Uncentred vista||After the 2019 fire that devastated Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris, an international competition was held to generate the widest range of ideas for its roof rehabilitation. With 30,000 people voting on the new vision, a public ballot was used to finalise the new design as transparently as possible, and the design submitted by two Chinese architects, Zeyu Cai and Sibei Li, was selected. Compare that to the manner in which the project for India’s new Parliament House, euphemistically called ‘a project that will become a symbol of national pride’, has been conducted. Cloaked in a veil of secrecy and mired in opaque processes, the project sailed through mandatory approvals and now even the tender for construction has been awarded. What most people don’t remember is that in 2008, the Delhi Government, in collaboration with Intach, began work on a detailed dossier to earn the prestigious Imperial Capital Cities status from Unesco. The dossier was submitted to UNESCO in 2012. However, when the time came for the final consideration in 2015, the government abruptly withdrew the application. While conservationists were left bewildered at the government’s about face, the real reason soon became clear. If the status had been granted at the time, it would have frozen all future development in the Central Vista zone, effectively preventing the government from unlocking the huge potential of this priceless real estate. Although the formal proposal for the revamp of the Vista and the project to build a new Parliament House came only in 2019, the Central government has been working behind closed doors from 2015 onwards. The first hint of the interventions only became known when the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) issued invitations to architects to submit financial and design bids for the proposed work in early September. The tender process was rushed through with a speed that is seldom seen in government work. No information Within six weeks of inviting bids (Sept 2, 2019), the tender was finalised on October 18, 2019. The criteria for eligibility disqualified firms below a certain fixed turnover, leaving only a handful of multinational and engineering companies to compete. Six bids were received, with each architect making a closed-door presentation to a select jury; eventually the project was awarded to HCP Design, Planning and Management Pvt. Ltd. of Ahmedabad with an architectural fee of nearly Rs. 230 crore. The deadline for the completion of Parliament House was fixed for March 2022, in time to mark the 75th year of independence, and the start of Parliament’s monsoon session. In a project of national significance, the government felt it owed no explanation to the public for either the process followed, or the criteria for selection. No exhibition of the proposed buildings was held, no data revealed, no models or drawings displayed so that citizens may comprehend the full scope of such a monumental change proposed in the city’s most visible public space and a space of national significance. The Central Vista, meanwhile, had already been accorded the highest Grade I heritage status by the Unified Building Bye-Laws of Delhi. Buildings with Grade I classification cannot be changed, and “no intervention can be made unless it is in the interest of strengthening and prolonging the life of the buildings”. Any redevelopment or alteration would have to follow due processes of the Heritage Conservation Committee, a committee that can only act after inviting and answering objections from the public. Demolition is not considered in the heritage agenda. However, to facilitate the large-scale demolitions proposed in the new Central Vista plan, the Heritage Conservation Committee made a distinction between pre-Independence and post-Independence buildings to redefine the status of ‘heritage’. Consequently, rock-solid post-independence constructions, built by Indian architects and engineers in the 60s, have been deprecatingly consigned to the hammer. The distinction permitted the demolition and replacement of buildings like Krishi Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan and Rail Bhavan, in addition to the National Museum and the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA). Only the existing Parliament building, the North and South Blocks, and the National Archives were spared on account of their pre-Independence stature. No debate preceded the decision nor did an impartial expert committee assess what constituted heritage, whether colonial or modern. Nor indeed was there any public consultation or announcement. The Grade I heritage status, it seems, was meant only for paper. Change in land use Once these closed-door decisions had been made, it was a matter of bringing the project to life. And the first task was the change of land use. A public notice was issued by the Delhi Development Authority proposing changes in December 2019, which, in effect, asked that the use of public open spaces such as a district park and children’s play area be changed for use as government offices. Challenging this, a Public Interest Petition — Rajeev Suri vs. the Union of India — was filed in the Delhi High Court in March 2020, stating that the land use change was illegal and violated Article 21 of the Constitution because it deprived citizens of their legitimate right to open green spaces. A second petition was filed by LokPATH, a citizen’s group that challenged the manner in which a public project of this scale was being conducted; yet another was filed regarding violations of the heritage status of Central Vista by a group headed by architect A.G.K Menon. The petitions were transferred to the Supreme Court and are now in the apex court’s domain. Still, given the project’s high priority, the wheels of approvals continued to turn despite the country being under lockdown. On April 22, the new Parliament building was granted environmental clearance from the Ministry of Environment, Forests & Climate Change. Without an environmental impact study, and despite over 1,200 recorded objections raised by citizens, the Central Vista Committee headed by the CPWD — despite the conflict of interest — issued a ‘No Objection’ certificate. A CPWD tender was hastily pushed through in a wholly opaque selection process. Although the matter is still sub judice and hearings are ongoing, the tendered project has already been awarded to Tata Projects Ltd with a 21-month construction deadline. It is disturbing but telling that a project of the scale, magnitude, public expense and national significance of the Central Vista can cruise through the strictest of constitutional guidelines, heritage laws, land use and environmental regulations, and city bye-laws, all in the time frame of a few months. Beyond the misappropriation of public funds and violations of statuary regulations, what does this say about the structure of public governance and the quality of life generated by such actions? Consider something else. When a public space has accrued through a slow additive process, with only a narrow-minded protection strategy and no future planning projection, perhaps the history of the Central Vista then is itself flawed. The original layout was formed from the vision of British architect Sir Edwin Lutyens, who combined institutions of governance with those of culture and the arts in a version of European Classicism that was spread along the broad three-kilometre sunny stretch of India Gate. Faceless modernism A faceless modernism came subsequently when an independent country needed to add departmental bureaucracy to the mix — what was referred to as ‘government-style bhawans’. In 1986, an international competition for the design of IGNCA was called, to fill the gaping hole across the National Archives and create a comprehensive cultural centre for the city. Only a third of that winning scheme was realised: the arts centre today is an incomplete residue of old barracks, a mud structure, and the partial granite addition. Across from IGNCA sits the new External Affairs headquarters, which in the Lutyens-Baker plan was designated for cultural activities. Designed and completed in 1995, the MEA project began as an architectural competition but was summarily dismissed by the then External Affairs minister and awarded to the CPWD. The architecture is in the PWD formula — a mix of sandstone and glass with a smattering of domes and arches. Given these piecemeal additions, the Central Vista has become not just a work in progress, but a work in incoherence. Thankfully, the place has remained free of the monolithic visions of Mussolini’s New Rome and Speer’s Berlin, the architectural gigantism and grim territorial finality of which make public life a monument rather than a space. The Vista’s most obvious architectural relative remains the Washington Mall, which in its last half a century has added a range of art galleries, museums and cultural institutions, becoming the most visible public space in the American capital. The Indian version — half baked, incomplete, jaded and unkempt, part-maidan, part-building — has at least so far remained true to the ways of Indian governance. In the final analysis, beyond the bickering and the lawsuits, the hasty sanctions and approvals, the Central Vista project is both the cause and effect of its own multiple failures. On the one hand, a preservationist view places a protectionist stranglehold on the site, forbidding a change of thinking; on the other is a professional imperative that demands a calculated display of correctness in the practice of public architecture. In the long perspective, however, the two still leave a great deal unsaid. Architectural future How does a country, unsteady in democratic principles and lacking blueprints of development, ensure a visible architectural future for itself? The concern for expressing the independence of institutions without their actual practice of autonomy, the apologetic insertions of culture in a largely bureaucratic mix, and the continual harking back to some selective aspects of urban history, only demonstrate the futility of the ideas expressed — tentative, incomplete, unmade and so, always unfulfilled. A passive society on the lookout for convenient symbols will continue to recall the great democratic stage sets of ancient Greece and Rome. Lutyens alluded to them in architectural forms that were British and regal, personalised to his own interpretation. The India of our time requires urban nourishment that may not be similarly embalmed in formal institutions, but that encapsulates art and music and history and beauty in a new and vivid experience. When the real city is fast becoming a place of temporal migratory displacement, the need to step outside the formalism of static architecture is an essential and altogether new resolve. Sadly, when change is invoked for its own sake; when symbols are called into convenient play without rationale, unaffected by the logistics of finance or need-based design, then designs follow neither the demands of public spaces nor the grim realities of annual budgets and global pandemics but set a course of their own pyrrhic making. The logic of their creation is fuelled by private nationalism, not public desire. It is here that the Central Vista project becomes a venture in self-doubt. The writer is an architect and sculptor. His recent bookDelirious Cityis a satire on urban life.  In a project of national significance, the government felt it owed no explanation to the public for either the process followed, or the criteria for selection. No exhibition of the proposed buildings was held, no data revealed, no models or drawings displayed   How does a country, unsteady in democratic principles and lacking blueprints of development, ensure a visible architectural future for itself? The India of our time requires urban nourishment in a new and vivid experience
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A terrible beauty||Early in Shuggie Bain , Scottish-American designer Douglas Stuart’s Booker-shortlisted debut, there is a scene that is this tender, frightening, hopeful and somehow profoundly sad novel in microcosm. The scene begins with 39-year-old Agnes Bain dancing with her five-year-old son (the eponymous Shuggie) in the Glasgow tenement flat they share with her parents, her two teenage children, and her philandering husband. “When she laughed, he danced harder... The happier she looked, the harder he wanted to spin and flail... Agnes threw her head back in peals of laughter, and the sadness was gone from her eyes.” Something contaminated They are “breathless from laughing” when they hear the heavy tread of Shuggie’s father, Big Shug, who has stopped by for a cup of tea during a break from driving his taxi. In an instant, the atmosphere changes, “as though it was not Shug but the cold Campsie wind itself that had arrived.” Agnes hides the empty lager cans that litter the room and lights a cigarette. She sings along to a lugubrious song, “her voice [cracking] with the poor me’s,” as she quite deliberately sets the cheap polyester curtains on fire. As the room burns, mother and son cling to each other: “together they watched all this new beauty in silence.” Readers too will frequently find themselves contemplating all this beauty as the novel burns around them, as the lives of Agnes and Shuggie seem always on the brink of being reduced to cinders and ash. A similar atmosphere of dreadful suspense — as if any moment one can go from dancing deliriously to setting one’s house on fire — pervades Real Life , Brandon Taylor’s Booker-shortlisted debut novel. Wallace, gay, black undergrad at a Midwestern university, lives a quiet, uneventful life, spending endless hours breeding nematodes. The largesse of American universities, flush with funding for biochemistry research, means that Wallace, unlike most students, doesn’t ever want for money. But when Wallace retrieves his “boxes of agar plates” from the incubator “the tranquil blue-green surface of the agar... was not so tranquil.” Wallace’s ruined plates are the first indication that beneath the placid surface of his life something contaminated roils. Later that same evening, as Wallace gets into bed with a colleague, he “could have wept for the boy he’d been at seven or eight, when he was touched for the first time, neither tenderly nor fearing that the touch might do him harm.” Water has an important role to play in Real Life . For instance, after sex with his colleague, Wallace fills himself to bursting with cold water, until he throws up, the vomit and reflux “churning and orange in the bowl”. Or the lake in his college town: of which he notes that there is “something slick in the water, something apart from the water itself, like a loose second skin swilling around under the surface.” A terrible violence was done to Wallace, and it is both a part of him and apart from him, like that “loose second skin”. His race, too, for his white colleagues, contaminates the water. It is not spoken about but it inflects (or, if you like, colours) every interaction. And the “most unfair part of it, Wallace thinks, is that when you tell white people that something is racist, they hold it up to the light and try to discern if you are telling the truth... It’s unfair because white people have a vested interest in underestimating racism... They are the fox in the henhouse.” Enormous heart Shuggie and Wallace share an intense wariness, a watchfulness that is the result of childhood poverty, of parents who failed them, of trauma that includes the forced outsiderness of being queer. Shuggie’s dearest wish is to keep his alcoholic mother together, alive, to bring a smile to her face. In a later scene reminiscent of the one in which Agnes sets the curtains on fire, Shuggie watches his mother ironing. She is pulling faces at him through the “hissing steam” and Shuggie, lying in “the close heat” of a three-bar fire, dreams of how “he never wanted this burning rain to end. How it would be better if they were stuck inside alone, where he could keep her safe forever.” But whatever their efforts to save other people, it is self-preservation that Shuggie and Wallace grope towards, how to overcome the horror of what was (and continues to be) done to them, and how to find a path towards love. Real Life is appropriately self-conscious about its modernist antecedents — Wallace seeks out To The Lighthouse after a literature postgraduate tells him it is his favourite novel — while Shuggie Bain is part of a rich seam of contemporary Scottish working class writing. Occasionally, Shuggie Bain , with its sentimentality and overwhelming squalor, can veer close to self-parody but is always pulled back from the brink by its enormous heart, by the enormous love that binds Shuggie to Agnes. Real Life is more enigmatic. Aptly for a novel in which water is practically a character, it is murky, slippery, its depths easy to underestimate. If the Booker Prize is awarded to either of these novels on November 19, it will have been a vintage year. The reviewer is a Delhi-based editor and writer.  Shuggie Bain Douglas Stuart Picador  Rs. 499    Real Life  Brandon Taylor Daunt Books  Rs. 599    Shuggie and Wallace share an intense wariness, a watchfulness that is the result of childhood poverty, and of parents who failed them
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Fruit of my labour||Until last Sunday, I didn’t know who or what a pomelo was. If you had asked me, I would have told you that it was perhaps a corruption of ‘Pamela’, a name made famous by iconic social activist Pamela Anderson. But the pomelo is actually a large, round fruit that can break your fingers. I know because I’m typing this with my little finger in a cast. It all began with an idea for a road trip. “The Deys own a pomelo orchard in Uttarakhand,” the wife said one morning. “Their daughter — the one doing MBA — wants to go and stay there but they don’t want her travelling alone.” Mask extremist “What’s a Pamela Charge?” I said. It’s possible I misheard because most Bongs would pronounce ‘Pamela’ as ‘pomelo’ and when my wife said ‘pomelo’, I automatically heard it as ‘Pamela’. “I said we’ll drive her there,” she said. “You did what?” “It would be a lovely drive to the hills. We’ll pick up a few kilos of pomelos. I haven’t had them in ages. The ones you get in Delhi are so expensive and no good.” And so, the following Sunday, four of us — the wife, myself, Kattabomman, and Suttappa Dey, the younger daughter of our neighbour, Mr. Dey — set out in my car for a pomelo orchard in the Kumaon foothills. “Four masked individuals setting out in a car at the crack of dawn. You look like a gang of bank robbers,” Mr. Dey said, cackling. “In which bank is your ill-gotten wealth?” I said. “We’re going there first.” “He’s joking,” the wife said, addressing Mr. Dey. What’s the difference between intelligence and wisdom? Intelligence is knowing what’s the right thing to do. Wisdom is doing it. For instance, I had the intelligence to know that embarking on a six-hour road trip with two women — of which one has a history of motion sickness and the other is an unknown quantity — is asking for trouble. But I lacked the wisdom to heed my intelligence. Suttappa was a mask extremist. The first thing she said to me was not “Good morning” or “Thank you for your kindness” but “Your mask is not fully covering your nose” — and this, when I was out of breath from loading her enormous suitcase into the boot. True to her name, she also turned out to be a chain smoker. Before even crossing Ghaziabad, we had taken half a dozen smoke breaks. I thought the wife would be worried we were exposing Kattabomman to a bad example. But she was happy with the frequent stops as they kept her car sickness at bay. So I also didn’t complain, even though the frequent halts were upsetting my driving rhythm. I initially said nothing when Suttappa made me stop near Moradabad and asked me to go buy a pack of cigarettes from a roadside paan shop. But when I handed her the pack, she recoiled in horror. “What are you doing?” she screamed. “What did I do?” I said. “You wanted me to buy cigarettes for you. You don’t want them now?” “Of course I do! But how can you hand them to me without first sanitising them?” Just Shuttuppa I don’t know what got to me — the younger generation’s extreme sense of entitlement or the extreme irony (of demanding sanitiser for cigarettes) or the two extremes fertilising each other on a national highway — I finally lost it. “Suttappa,” I said, “No more suttas for you. Just Shuttuppa and get in the carappa.” I threw away the pack of Wills I had purchased. She ran to pick it up, but didn’t smoke after that — either because the pack wasn’t sanitised or because I wouldn’t stop the car. Probably the latter. We made it to the orchard by late afternoon. There were stacks of pomelos all over the farmhouse. “Here, try it,” said Suttappa, tossing one at me. “Ouch!” I wasn’t prepared, and as I tried to catch it, the big fruit landed on my little finger. “You’ve broken my finger!” “It’s probably nothing,” she said, blowing smoke in my face from a freshly sanitised cigarette. Wife’s dreams of five kg free pomelos got swiftly squashed. She made the mistake of offering to pay, expecting Suttappa to demur. But the MBA student cashed in. “Alright,” she said, “These are ultra-premium pomelos, strictly for export. They sell for Rs. 2,000 apiece in Norway. But I’ll give you a discount. You can have five for Rs. 9,000. Here’s my Paytm number.” The wife settled for one pomelo, for which she shelled out Rs. 2,000. Suttappa sanitised the pomelo thoroughly before packing it. Perhaps because of the price, or because it looked magnificent, the wife lost all interest in eating it. Kattabomman suggested we paint a demon’s face on it and hang it above the main door. But his mother had other ideas. She had the pomelo framed in a glass box. It now occupies pride of place in the drawing room showcase.  “Four masked individuals setting out in a car at the crack of dawn. You look like a gang of bank robbers,” Mr. Dey said, cackling
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A reporter and a President||On January 28, 2020, at the President’s daily intelligence briefing, Robert O’Brien, Donald Trump’s National Security Adviser, warned his boss of a new virus infection that was spreading from China. “This will be the biggest national security threat you face in your presidency,” he said. Despite the warning, Americans went about their daily lives, writes Bob Woodward in his latest White House chronicle, Rage, “including more than 60 million who travelled by air domestically that month.” Woodward, the journalist who broke the Watergate scandal that led to the fall of President Richard Nixon in August 1974, confronted President Trump later about his early knowledge about the virus outbreak. “I wanted to always play it down,” Trump told him. “I still like playing it down, because I don’t want to create a panic.” Political thriller The question that is likely to haunt Americans is whether the administration did its best with that early warning to prepare the country for the deadly global pandemic, which has infected 8 million Americans and caused the deaths of over 220,000. There are several such moments in Rage , which puts the U.S. President in a predictable poor light. Woodward, who wrote Fear in 2018 about the first year of the Trump White House, builds on that account in Rage to offer a window into the thinking and working of President Trump. His smooth prose and engaging writing style make the book read like a political thriller with real-life characters. Woodward says he wrote the book based on “hundreds of hours of interviews with firsthand participants and witnesses to these events”. His sources are almost entirely anonymous. But the detailed descriptions of White House conversations and those encounters between officials such as former Defence Secretary James Mattis and Dan Coats, former Director of National Intelligence, suggest that they were among Woodward’s sources. He quotes Trump’s Cabinet members disparaging the President, like most other Trump White House books do. Mattis says, “The President has no moral compass.” According to Coats, Trump “doesn’t know the difference between the truth and a lie”. Anthony Fauci, America’s top Infectious Diseases doctor, says Trump’s attention span is “like a minus number”. Woodward took  18  on-the-record interviews with Trump over a period of seven months for the book. “This is all for serious history, Mr. President,” he tells Trump. But Trump comes out of these interviews as a self-obsessed, attention-seeking, boastful leader who doesn’t care for facts. In these interviews, Trump repeats his well-known foreign policy positions. “The world is taking advantage of us... we are the piggy bank that everyone likes to rob,” he told Woodward. He also thinks Barack Obama, his predecessor, was “highly overrated”. Insight on diplomacy While the book generally confirms what the public already knows about the Trump presidency, it also offers some insights into his foreign policy. In one of the interviews, Trump admits that the U.S. had come “really close to war with North Korea”. Woodward has got access to 25 previously unpublished letters between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. Both leaders seem thrilled about their meetings in the letters. “You meet a woman. In one second, you know whether or not it’s going to happen,” Trump tells Woodward about his meeting with Kim. In one letter, Kim writes, “I cannot forget that moment of history when I firmly held Your Excellency’s hand.” On Israel-Palestine, Woodward writes Trump had always supported Israel. But a meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Tel Aviv, in which the President was shown a video which then Secretary of State Rex Tillerson thought was “fabricated”, further strengthened Trump’s pro-Israel bias. The video, made of a series of spliced-together comments from Palestinian Authority president Mahmoud Abbas, sounded as if he was “ordering the murder of Children”. The next day when he met Abbas, Trump called him a “murderer and liar”. The book also shows that engaging with Russia’s Vladimir Putin was one of the priorities of Trump. One of the reasons why Tillerson, the former Exxon Mobil chief, was chosen as Secretary of State was his connections with Putin. The Russian President, according to Tillerson, had given up on Obama, who “doesn’t do anything he says he is going to do...I will wait for your next President.” Both Putin and Trump wanted a new beginning. But it didn’t happen, as the structural problems in U.S.-Russia relations continued to dominate ties. For Woodward, the old-school pro-establishment liberal who doesn’t hide his sympathetic views about generals, corporate America and the intelligence elite of the administration and bureaucracy, Trump is a misfit. “When his performance as President is taken in its entirety, Trump is the wrong man for the job,” Woodward writes in the conclusion. America will decide whether Trump will get a second presidency in a few days.  Rage Bob Woodward Simon & Schuster  Rs. 899
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘[I seek] ultimately to unmask societal lies’||When Austrian playwright, poet and novelist Elfriede Jelinek, who writes in German, won the literature Nobel in 2004, the citation recognised her “musical flow of voices and counter-voices in novels and plays that, with extraordinary linguistic zeal, reveal the absurdity of society’s clichés and their subjugating power.” Her latest play, On the Royal Road , a scathing indictment of ‘Trump the Emperor’, was recently released in English in the U.S. by Seagull Books and will hit Indian shelves later this month. In this e-mail interview, Jelinek speaks about writing, about writing Trump in the post-truth age, and about India. Excerpts: Your playAm Königsweg(On the Royal Road) was recognised as the ‘play of the year’ in 2018. How important is theatre for you? Is there a glass ceiling for women in theatre? Strangely, for me, writing for theatre has nothing to do with the practice of theatre. Rather, I use theatre as a kind of licence to write. Privately, I speak very little. But my language for the theatre is like an exhibiting, almost as in the visual arts. I exhibit texts which allow me to speak or, rather, I seize speech, even if it is not intended for me. It is always said that women talk incessantly, albeit in private; yet they are still not represented in public. So, then I speak through theatre and doing so, I am conscious that I am fighting for the right to speak in public. My theatre is language, and it is incumbent upon those staging it (directors, actors, designers) to make a play out of it, with which I don’t want to be held up in the urgent, urging flow of my speech. Thus, every one of my plays is many plays, because everyone can make their own out of it. What were your most important influences as a dramatist? Would you say scepticism with language is an element of your writing process, and is the ‘unmasking of consciousness’ still the core of your work? Yes, the persons in my texts speak by saying what they wouldn’t say explicitly otherwise. On the one hand this introduces the ceremonial, the festiveness of antique drama (which I use for my plays). On the other hand, by doing so, I can bring the social and political conditions and contingencies onto the stage. So, then I exhibit publicly what social forces shape the people, to which they are subjected, even though they are not conscious of it. (Perhaps one could say that I try to set a process of ‘making conscious’ in motion.) I am telling you and you tell it to the audience. My most important influence for this way of writing is probably Heiner Müller. He was the first one who broke the theatrical form, that is, the dialogical structure, and actually wrote prose or, plain and simple, texts. The dialogical form always seemed banal to me (and rather suited for film; although, of course, it produces magnificent plays); for me the text has to be everything, yes, despoiled shore, with flotsam and jetsam floating by, and the audience standing there with long poles, fishing for what they can use. In the world of this play, written after the triumph of Donald Trump, it is no longer possible to differentiate between ‘reality’ and the ‘reality show’. How can theatre contribute to a critical assessment of these trends in society? But there is no difference. As in Plato’s allegory of the cave, if such a comparison isn’t too presumptuous. What people see of each other and of themselves, imprisoned in their class, their status, their gender, is only what they see projected as shadows on the wall of the cave and this is the only reality or truth for the imprisoned. If such prisoners were taken outside to look at the light, they would resist. So it is naive to assume that one could see something like the truth in the constant clamour and drift of images bombarding us. And probably we wouldn’t even want it. This conditioning of the first nature (that is reality) by the second (all sorts of social manipulation we often aren’t even conscious of), this attempt to create out of language the conditioning of reality by whatever the rulers let us see (freely derived from Roland Barthes)... [I seek] to set in motion a process of demythologisation, ultimately, to unmask societal lies, if this does not sound too arrogant. The book outlines an unprecedented crisis of democracy by foregrounding an obnoxious Trump-like figure. As Gitta Honegger asks in her introduction, “Can the word still maintain a ray of hope amid this disfiguring, deadly violence of power?” Trump is clearly the product of broader historical trends — do you see possibilities of reason, freedom, viable alternatives today? It is always a problem for me when I am asked or expected to show utopias or at least other possibilities. I can’t do that, and I don’t see it as my task either. I try to find structures in reality (in the complex reality) and also exaggerate them in order to cut paths with a machete through the jungle, so to speak. Generalising does not mean simplifying to me. In this regard, the drama of ancient Greece has always offered me a model. In The Persians by Aeschylus, for example, the naval battle at Salamis is a historical event, but one that is reflected from all sides and commented on by the chorus as well. Thus, the defeated enemy is not flaunted, the event is not relativised, not thrown to the pigs or turned into one (Miss Piggy!); rather, it can lead to a new realisation, by giving the enemy a voice, thus returning his humanity to him. You stepped out of the Communist Party of Austria in the early 1990s. Why did that dream degenerate so rapidly? And was there a personal disillusionment? Yes, it was a personal disillusionment. Some of us who joined at that time left in direct response to the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia during the Prague Spring of 1968. We thought we could change the party and had to realise that this was not possible. We certainly were naïve. Nothing was left of the history-shaping force of the working class (which, in large part, is voting for Trump in the U.S., also a kind of farce). The early days of socialism in the Soviet Union, after the revolution, were a time in which science, technology blossomed to an unimaginable degree. Those hopes were betrayed. I would like to know if they always must be betrayed or if there could be a new socialism after all. At this time, however, I don’t see it. Your plays have focused on global events such as the financial crisis of 2008, the inhuman treatment of refugees, the Charlie Hebdo massacre… InRoyal Road, you specifically talk about ‘writing as a foreigner’. How do you understand this ‘outsiderness’ and how does it affect your writing? I’ve always been an outsider, already as a child, and only through writing did I realise later that this is the position from where one sees things the clearest. The ongoings in an anthill can only be seen if one distances oneself from it rather than sticking one’s nose right into it. The stranger, the foreigner, often sees more than the native, who might be too deeply rooted in the ground. And from the distance it is also possible to move the figures around like a god and arrange them in any experimental configuration that comes to mind. As for me, in the case of Donald Trump, Theodore Dreiser’s American Tragedy (which is often compared to Oedipus Rex ) turns into a farce, in which a guilty king loses every (even his arrogated) greatness, as I measure him against the ancient tragedy of King Oedipus and he becomes ridiculous, because he does not want to confront his guilt, let alone atone for it. Quite the opposite, he proudly brags about it and falsely turns it into his merit. He becomes a babbling puppet. I try to tear down the great while making the small great, similar to Brecht: The great doesn’t stay great nor the small, small. And, inevitably, do you have a perspective on today’s India? As a writer of political theatre, how do you look at political formations that today admire a Hitler or a Mussolini? Unfortunately, I cannot travel due to an anxiety disorder and therefore my knowledge of India is limited to what I find out from the media. Hindu majoritarian fascism is very worrisome to me. It is an enormous catastrophe in a country with so many cultures, religions, and languages, and, unfortunately, also castes. To me, the caste system seems to be India’s greatest tragedy; it is always described as insurmountable. As long as India does not in real practice abolish the caste system and as long as it tolerates ‘untouchability’, it cannot enter the circle of modern nations. It doesn’t count then (unfortunately, I am very rigorous in this matter), that great scientific and technological developments were accomplished here, so long as large groups of society are condemned to have no real rights.  Translated by Gitta Honegger.  Milind  teaches German language and literature at IIT-Madras; and Arati teaches German at VIT University, Vellore, and did her Ph.D on Jelinek at the Centre of German Studies, JNU.  Born in Mürzzuschlag, Styria, Austria, in 1946. Grew up in Vienna Graduated with an organist’s diploma from the Vienna Conservatory and studied art history and theatre at university, but had to drop out Published her first book, a volume of poems titledLisas Schatten (Lisa's Shadow), in 1967 Awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2004   It is naive to assume that one could see something like the truth in the constant clamour and drift of images bombarding us. And probably we wouldn’t even want it
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A voice for the islands||Samir Acharya. I was about half his age when I first met him. I was in my mid-20s, he was touching the half-century mark. It was two-and-a-half decades ago — 1994 or perhaps 1995 — and I was making my first trip to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. I have a surprisingly strong recollection of that first meeting. It was past dusk when we reached his shop in Middle Point, Port Blair. He was sitting, just as I would see him umpteen times in the years to follow, in his famous chair behind the working desk. There was the smoking cigarette, there were the hot samosas, and there were the steaming cups of coffee. And there was tremendous warmth, friendliness and respect. He was the first person of my father’s age who I did not need to address as ji , sir or ‘uncle’. We were on first-name terms from the moment we met. For him, of course, it could not have been otherwise. When he spoke, it was with childlike enthusiasm and passion, and when he listened it was with a combination of sage-like wisdom and a genuine desire to know. He made you feel like an equal and it afforded an immediate if strange sense of comfort and freedom. I was excited about the travel tips he gave me for the islands. I travelled widely and wildly then — down to Indira Point in the deep south, then back, and up north to Diglipur. I remember him telling me about the Jarawa and some of the threats being faced by the tribal reserve that had been created in their name. He even sent me with a government officer friend on a jeep journey to Kadamtala via the Andaman Trunk Road at a time when the Jarawa’s reputation as a hostile community was at its peak. The most interesting evenings in Port Blair were in his shop, with coffee, conversation and yes, those samosas. He wasn’t just a fountainhead of information about the islands; his interest in other matters — national, global, esoteric — was as deep as it was encyclopaedic. He read fiction with as much enthusiasm as he read history or scientific tomes. He received reading material from across the world — a pile of freshly arrived magazines, newsletters and newspapers could always be found on that corner of his desk. As I think back today, it becomes clear that remoteness and isolation are more a state of mind than of any physical or communication infrastructure. Sitting then in far-off Port Blair, 25 years ago, Acharya was more well-connected than anyone I knew. Vital battles He was far ahead of almost everyone on issues of environment, civic matters, and the rights of indigenous peoples. He was the first to oppose the introduction of exotic fish farming in the islands on the grounds of ecological concerns about the oceans. He argued tirelessly to strengthen the shipping services, reasoning that road-based transport would be a huge environmental and infrastructural liability in an island system. He wanted swimming to be made compulsory in the education system, and he wanted the spectacular biological diversity of the islands — the corals, forests, dolphins and turtles — to be an integral part of the school curriculum for a people who live surrounded by water. Acharya fought some of the most important environmental battles for these islands and was made to pay for it too, by a system that was hostile and a people who were both unable and unwilling to understand. In 2002, the Supreme Court, responding to an intervention filed jointly by his organisation, the Society for Andaman and Nicobar Ecology, the Bombay Natural History Society, and Kalpavriksh that I represented, passed landmark orders to protect the island’s fragile ecology and deeply vulnerable indigenous people. I was witness then to his own deep vulnerability and loneliness. There were accusations and threats and I realised how much courage it takes to be at the centre of it all, and in a small place where everyone knows everyone. We too were accused — the outsiders with no stakes intervening in the islands and the islanders. It was an immediate lesson on the futility of creating an insider-outsider dichotomy, which he understood well. Go-to person The tsunami of 2004 struck soon after, and he became, as in most situations, the go-to person for anyone wanting an independent insight into what was happening. His deep understanding of the islands and wide network meant he was a reliable source not just for the outsider but often for the administration and even the intelligence networks. I remember vividly the glee on his face one evening (a few years earlier) as I sat in his office with a prominent tribal rights activist from the mainland. He was on the phone with someone and looked hugely amused when the call ended. The man on the other side had been an IB officer asking if Acharya could provide him information on an activist who had just arrived in Port Blair that morning. He guffawed loudly and told us what he had said — “Yes, he is here and I am having an interesting chat with him.” There was childlike glee in his face. This joy of the unexpected, the thrill of a new exploration, the endless quest to know — this is what made him click. And the challenge of a good fight. He fought hard for what he believed in. The values were as important for him as the thrill of the fight itself. And that is a difficult combination to beat. Samir Acharya made his final journey in the middle of October this year. His was one of the most important voices for the Andaman and Nicobar islands for over three decades. The loss is a big one and irreplaceable.  The writer is a member of the environmental group Kalpavriksh and teaches at IIT-Bombay.  Acharya fought some of the most important environmental battles for these islands and was made to pay for it too, by a system that was hostile and a people who were both unable and unwilling to understand
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The trusting foreigner||I was about to board the Shatabdi Express on a chilly morning last December when a young foreigner came to me and said, “Could you please help me board the train as I am confused by the way these coaches are arranged?” “Sure,” I said and asked her the coach number. She gave me her phone, which had the ticket, and led the way. I was startled how can somebody give her phone to a stranger and walk away. It was the C5 coach and the seat was 21. I saw C6 and concluded that the next coach would be hers. Moreover, there was no queue at the door of C6, whereas a few people were trying to enter the next coach. So I told her, “Hey, let’s enter from here and we’ll head straight to the seat.”  We entered the coach unhindered and made our way into the next coach. We found out the seat in a breeze, and she kept her luggage on the overhead rack and sat comfortably. I was about to hand over her phone when a middle-aged woman appeared and said, “This is my seat.” I replied, “Aunty, I guess there’s some mistake as this is her seat. See this...” “This is E1,” the woman said with confidence. The girl remained puzzled as the whole conversation was going on in Hindi, with me waving her phone to the woman. Seeing our faces, the woman said, “The next one is E2, and then comes C5.” I said sorry and thanks to her, and then turned to the girl and regretted, “Well, we have entered the wrong coach. Let’s move on...” “No problem,” she got up, grabbed her luggage, and again we started trudging through the crowded aisle. Finally, we found her destination while I was wondering how stupid have I been. This haphazard arrangement of coaches was bound to embarrass me in front of a foreigner, but I should have at least checked the numbers. She settled down and thanked me. I said that it was not required; moreover, I was as clueless as she was. She giggled, “It happens...” Then I returned her phone and gave her a subtle warning, “You should not hand over your phone to strangers and walk away. Be careful!” “Oh! I’ll take a note of that,” she said with a serious expression on her face. After I took my seat, I began to reflect on how innocent and vulnerable this girl was. She was trusting strangers with her valuables and she had no knowledge of safety precautions needed in public places of this country which are not among the safest in the world. We often keep coming across news reports regarding breach of public safety in different crime episodes. It has become routinised, normalised, and trivialised. We need to reflect on what perception we are subconsciously creating for the world regarding our public safety, and also what kind of society is our ideal to live in and cherish. emailtoaakashbajpai@gmail.com
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||An economist’s lifelong quest for autonomy in a man’s world||The expansive blurb of Devaki Jain’s The Brass Notebook: A Memoir , with a Foreword by Amartya Sen, gives too much away in its enthusiasm for the ‘no holds barred’ account. The author, a Padma Bhushan awardee with well-recorded accomplishments in economics, writes as if she were talking animatedly to her readers. At the virtual book launch of the book on October 3, she laughingly said she would not advise anyone to venture into the writing of a memoir, but that hasn’t dimmed her effort. The title is a nod to Doris Lessing’s The Golden Notebook , and the author compares her own life to that of the brass often seen in south Indian kitchens. Quiet resilience  Those of us who are privileged to remember our grandmothers and great-grandmothers with some richness of memory will be able to relate easily to the early chapters, which include excerpts from a diary the author kept. From the “torment and confusion” of the young thoughts she shares, she goes on to be resolute in her life choices, including her marriage to (the now late) Lakshmi Jain, despite severe objections from her dearly loved father, a dewan to the Princely States of Mysore and Gwalior. Born to a life of some advantage, the author lays bare the inter-personal conflicts women often face in their quest for autonomy despite this. With matter-of-fact clarity, she also recalls child sexual abuse by a family member that was to terrify her; romantic encounters and a playful inner world of sexual desires; recurrent neuroses as a young mother and wife to a public figure; and the blow to her self-worth by the ‘vengeful wrath of a sexual predator’, an eminent Swedish economist she does not name. Still, it’s the luminous women of her family and their quiet resilience that she brings to life with particular care. Eventually, it was women from more impoverished circumstances that were to become the focus of her work as an academic and policy-maker hobnobbing with global figures. Photos of icons A section on photographs from her personal album features austere B&W images of early family life as well as later, grey-and-white-haired prints with icons such as Nelson Mandela, Julius Nyerere and Desmond Tutu. Her abbreviated notes on her professional life offer a concise summary of her work in interpreting data on women’s role in labour; travelling extensively to find stories that would serve as economic models and case studies; the celebrated “deep and long friendship” with Gloria Steinem, who introduced her to the term ‘feminism’; and documenting extensively the impact of poverty on women, despite never being “an influential academic economist”. As with many of her generation of ethically engaged nation builders, Devaki Jain witnessed, and offers through the lens of her particular, ‘game for anything’ perspective, some of the defining moments in the shaping of India as a nation of impossible contradictions and courageous hope. Open closed doors It seems appropriate then, to conclude with this quote by Moroccan writer and sociologist Fatema Mernissi, among the author’s many distinguished friends and associates, which she appends to the start of her memoir: “A woman can walk miles without taking one single step forward. As a child born in a harem, I instinctively knew that to live is to open closed doors. To live is to look outside. To live is to step out. Life is trespassing.”  The Brass Notebook: A Memoir   Devaki Jain   Speaking Tiger Rs. 599   It was women from more impoverished circumstances that were to become the focus of her work as an academic and policy-maker hobnobbing with global figures
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1November 1 is celebrated as Karnataka Rajyotsava or Kannada Day. It marks the date in 1956 on which all the Kannada language-speaking regions of South India were merged to form the state of Karnataka. It was then known by another name, and only on November 1, 1973, was it named ‘Karnataka’. The earlier name was changed because it was associated with the erstwhile principality. By what name was Karnataka known from 1956 to 1973? 2The Vijayanagara Empire was established in 1336 and lasted until 1646, outlasting the Mughal Empire. The empire’s vast legacy includes many monuments, architectural innovations, efficient administration techniques and patronage of fine arts that led to the evolution of Carnatic music as we now know it. The empire’s capital was a prosperous grand city on the banks of the Tungabhadra River. What city is this which is now a UNESCO World Heritage Site? 3Karnataka Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangha (KKGSS) is a manufacturing unit near Hubli in Dharwad. It was founded on Karnataka Day, 1957, with the goal of creating a federation to support the growth of khadi and give employment to rural youth. They produce clothes, bags, and paper but they are the only unit authorised to manufacture a particular item in the whole country. What item is this that government officials buy from KKGSS? 4The Oriental Research Institute (ORI) in Mysuru, founded in 1891, collects and exhibits rare manuscripts. One very rare manuscript they have is the Arthashastra, an ancient treatise on economic policy and military strategy. It was written by a scholar who was the guardian of Emperor Chandragupta Maurya in the third century BC. It was rediscovered in 1905 by R. Shamasastry of the ORI and published. Who is the author of this 2000-year-old manuscript which one can see at ORI? 5A plunge waterfall is one that drops vertically, and the Gersoppa falls on the Sharavathi River falls 830 feet, making it the second-highest plunge in India. Located in Shimoga district, by what name do we better know these falls? 6Karanji Lake in Mysuru is surrounded by a nature reserve and has multiple visitor attractions including a Regional Museum of Natural History. Its prime attraction is a huge cage-like structure which has an artificial waterfall and small lakes in which visitors can walk through and marvel at multiple species of animals. What attraction is this which is the largest of its kind in India? 7Peninsular Gneiss is a type of rock dating back to 2.5 to three billion years ago, which means these rocks originated millions of years before the dinosaurs. One of the most easily accessible of these is a hill which is found in a botanical garden situated in Bengaluru. This garden was commissioned by Hyder Ali and built by his son Tipu Sultan in the late 1700s. Its name refers to the red flowers that used to be in abundance and the fact that it was Hyder’s ‘beloved’ project. What place is this in which you can find these ancient rocks? 8The Gommateshwara statue is the world’s largest monolithic statue. It’s a 57-foot-high statue of Bahubali carved out of a single block of granite and can be seen from 30 km away. It symbolises peace, non-violence and simple living as practised by the followers of the religion Bahubali is a deity of. This statue is affiliated to which ancient religion? 9Mattur and Hosahalli are small neighbouring villages in Shimoga district which are known for their efforts to support a unique ancient form of singing and storytelling called Gamaka art. Mattur has around 5,000 residents who uniquely speak and conduct day-to-day conversations in an ancient language and not in Kannada. What language do the residents of Mattur converse in on a daily basis? 10The Bangalore Club is the oldest in the city, founded in 1868, initially for officers of the British Empire, and in 1946 it was opened to civilians. Among its many illustrious members have been the Maharajah of Mysore and a particular member who, according to an entry in the club’s ledger book from June 1899, still owes the club Rs. 13 in unpaid bills. This person had arrived in Bengaluru in 1896 as a young army officer and in 1899 left without paying his bills to fight in the North-West Frontier. Who was this defaulting member who eventually in 1940 was elected to the highest office in his country? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The rise of the Travancore tortoise||Madhuri Ramesh walked all day through the evergreen forest of Anamalai Wildlife Sanctuary, Tamil Nadu, looking in vain for Travancore tortoises. It was an odd pursuit in a jungle where other researchers sought large mammals, such as elephants, dholes, and lion-tailed macaques. She was on her own in her search for the four-kilogram plodders in the vast forest as no one could guide her. Even the indigenous residents didn’t recognise the species from the photographs she showed them, confusing it with the star tortoise of the dry forests. Discovering new information about a little-known species thought to be rare and nearly extinct serves to protect it better. But the endeavour puts a rookie biologist at a disadvantage. Ramesh would have to find adequate numbers of tortoises to fill her data sheets to graduate. She may have regretted letting her enthusiasm overrule cautionary advice from her teachers to find a more common species for her study. With time running out, Ramesh grew despondent. Then she teamed up with Ganesan, a legendary wildlife tracker who had worked with generations of researchers. When he found a few tortoises within a few days, she realised the scientific community had much to learn. The Travancore tortoise may be a denizen of the wet forest, but it isn’t just found anywhere in the jungle. It prefers the neighbourhood of brook beds, stream banks, and swamps. No wonder Ramesh hadn’t found one in all the days of trekking through the forest. Since the slow plodding reptile can’t outrun predators, it freezes in its tracks. The brown shell with black blotches tricks observers into seeing only dry leaves. It isn’t a creature of the night, nor is it active by day. It emerges from hiding late in the afternoon when the dull light works to its advantage. The combination of locality, colour, and time shrouds the species from inquisitive eyes. Barely there Ramesh stared at the spot where Ganesan pointed until her mind re-arranged the dry leaves to reveal the tortoise. It was days before she could locate one by herself. But she discovered she had a better chance of finding them by following their tracks, which were obvious to the naked eye but didn’t register in photographs. While Ramesh concentrated on finding these reptiles, she also had to have her wits about her to avoid close encounters with elephants, gaur, and sloth bears. On one occasion, she heard a crack like a snapping twig. Then she heard it again and again. She crept up to the sound and found a line of three tortoises, one ramming the behind of the rival ahead of it. Turning shades During the breeding season, which Ganesan described as the time when “rain drizzled like fluffs of silk-cotton wafting gently down from the canopy,” adult males spar by retracting their heads and slamming the front of their hard shells against each other. They also advertise their reproductive readiness by developing large pink circles around their eyes, “like badly applied make up,” says Ramesh. Looking around, the researcher found a female nearby, nonchalantly chewing on leaves and paying no attention to her suitors’ shenanigans. The thrill of witnessing this comical scene still delights her. Ramesh realised the Travancore tortoise has an acute sense of hearing. In the dry season, crisp leaves crackling loudly underfoot gave the creatures plenty of time to hide. “No one said it could hear so well or that it responds to sounds,” she says. Ganesan and Ramesh split up and searched separately. She resisted the temptation to stride through the forest and cover as much ground as possible. Walking gingerly and in slow motion, like a tortoise, was difficult. But her patience paid off. By the end of her six-month field season, after walking an average of 12 kilometres a day, even dreaming of tortoises in her sleep, she had data on 80 tortoises. The number was enough to show the population was large, and the species wasn’t in distress. And Ramesh graduated.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A gallery of bad feminists||Mistrustful of all things labelled ‘quintessential’, I warily picked up this book,  praised as a collection with archetypal millennial and urban women characters. I was in for a surprise. In Nisha Susan’s worlds of the thumri_girl and prince_nakshatram; @MaduraiMami and SirPachkao; the Kerchief Kumaris and hot-hot Vilas, you are indeed the protagonist, or their friend. You are the background noise, or the muse incarnate. Susan’s acute observations of life mean you’re seen. Susan’s economy with words and the mostly non-linear narrative require the reader to labour through the stories. A moment’s lapse and you’ve missed a name, a connection, a foible, an event, that elevates the story. The stories are best relished one at a time, haltingly soaking in the wit and candour. Her comedy is not just situational but comes at times from the absurdity of an entire premise. If you mistake Susan’s sincere treatment of the bizarre for seriousness, the joke is on you. In ‘Mindful’, for instance, Rhea lets her meditation app called Chill tell her, “Fix your head and you can fix your hair later.” In ‘All Girls Together’, Sheela, working on an anti-revenge-porn project, tries to identify body parts: “Was it a vagina? Or was it a piece of plastic?” Platonic relationships between women is a common thread. The women flit in and out as confidantes, friends and colleagues, always within reach in times of disaster. The two times Susan allows men to enter the limelight, she paints them in all shades of hyper-masculinity and misogyny. For Susan, the co-founder of the feminist website The Ladies Finger and of the 2009 Pink Chaddi campaign, the personal is the political. These stories are a continuation of her feminism, and her characters aren’t shy of political incorrectness. Roxane Gay, in Bad Feminist , writes that she would rather be a bad feminist than no feminist at all. “I embrace the label of bad feminist because I am human. I am messy... I’m not trying to say I’m right,” Gay writes. Susan’s women are just that.  The Women Who Forgot to Invent Facebook and Other Stories Nisha Susan  Context  Rs. 499
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Life is a typewriter||If you are someone who grew up in the 80s and 90s in South India, in a typical privileged caste Tamil household, this book is like hurtling through platform 9 and 3/4 into the land of bustling nostalgia. This might technically be a coming-of-age novel, but for me, it was a study of human frailty and our magnificent capacity for forgiveness, captured with a tenderness that is now rare in literature. Where this book converges with other coming-of-age tales are in its moments of angst — centred around belonging, friendship, identity, sexuality and language — particular to boyhood. But where it diverges is in Siddhartha Vaidyanathan’s willingness to explore the moments of monotony, of sameness, that define the angst. We meet the protagonist Karthik as he is about to step into a new school, the palpably stricter St. George’s Boys’ High School, and discover its ruthless layers. As Karthik navigates this world, fighting his loneliness, the confusing dynamics of loyalty in new friendships, and the demands of an unforgiving syllabus, he also discovers an unexpected ability in himself to slide past tight corners. To think that there is so much going on in the life of a 12-year-old boy is both revelatory and oddly reaffirming. Despite this detailed landscape of school life painted by Vaidyanathan, it is Karthik’s home life that is the real canvas of the book, especially Karthik’s relationship with his grandfather. It is where the more subtle power structures in relationships — as against the more open, boisterous ones in school — come into play. My favourite bit is the grandfather’s deep connection with his Remington Monarch typewriter, the repository of all words, old and new, that much later, also becomes the receptacle of Karthik’s grief. Much like the novel itself that leaves you not with a neatly tied-up end but with the possibility of multiple futures contained within every word. The reviewer edits an art magazine.  What’s Wrong with You, Karthik?  Siddhartha Vaidyanathan  Picador India  Rs. 599
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The Brazilian bomb||A friend sent a message some weeks ago to say that she was visiting us with Queen Victoria. The curious mind and idle fingers did a quick Google check, and found that the name referred not to the empress who was seldom amused, but to a kind of pineapple. The fruit was particularly juicy, and we gifted some from the hamper to a friend the next day. This friend responded by lending me her family’s favourite book of all time — a slim volume called And the Answer is a Pineapple: The King of Fruit in Folklore, Fabric and Food by Claudia Hyles. I took to it instantly, with its bright yellow cover and the picture on it — Mona Lisa holding a pineapple. Like a pine cone I must admit here that I’d never had a close relationship with the pineapple, which, as a fruit or a subject, hasn’t really captured my imagination. But this book opened up a whole new world of pineapple-related information and recipes. The name of the book itself is intriguing. I read the first few pages and found that it was a stock answer that the presenter of an Australian radio programme would give to any question from a listener that stumped him. “And the answer is a pineapple,” he would say. Hyles, who has lived in different parts of the world, collated interesting facts about the fruit from her various sojourns. The ananas sativus is believed to have originated in Brazil, from where it spread to other parts of South America, and was then carried to Europe. On November 4, 1493, Christopher Columbus — hopelessly lost in the West Indies and thinking that he had discovered India — was gifted the fruit by the local people of the island of Guadeloupe. “Explorers who arrived in the New World after Columbus wrote of the incomparable flavours of the pineapple, whilst in 1533 King Ferdinand of Spain received a letter from Oviedo with the first drawing of the fruit. Soon after this it arrived in Europe and took it by storm,” Hyles writes. The word ananas is from the Guarani language of Brazil. The Spanish thought the fruit was like a pine cone — a piña — and the English drew upon this imagery too. But in many places, including the Hindi-speaking world, the fruit is called ananas .  Symbol of hospitality I never saw the pineapple as a symbol of hospitality, but Hyles tells us how in the U.S. voyagers returning from the West Indies would bring the fruit home. This would be impaled on gate posts to symbolise the safe return of the travellers and as an invitation to friends to drop by. “Perhaps, this is the origin of the pineapple as a symbol of hospitality in this part of the world,” she writes. The Portuguese introduced the pineapple to India, and it was likely that travellers from elsewhere first saw the fruit here. “Guests of European tables in India certainly dined on them and perhaps they may have even slept under them — as printed images on the Palampore bed-covers and canopies in guest rooms,” she says. In Europe, pineapples were possibly first cultivated in Holland. But the first lot in England was grown by King Charles II’s royal gardener, the aptly named John Rose. More prominent, however, was the fruit produced in 1714 by the botanist Henry Telende, gardener to merchant-economist Sir Matthew Decker, at Richmond Green. I found (on the Internet) that a 1720 painting by Theodorus Netscher celebrated Sir Matthew’s much-prized pineapple while a 1787 oil by Thomas Stewart showed Rose presenting a pineapple to King Charles II. Who would have thought there was so much to know about the pineapple? No wonder the Australian radio presenter had that stock response to all enigmas. The answer, indeed, is a pineapple.  The Portuguese introduced the pineapple to India, and it was likely that travellers from elsewhere first saw the fruit here
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Tejas, from dream to reality||Leadership often harnesses the dreams of many; this cannot be understated when it comes to technology. The tension and the glory of leadership in the most controversial area of defence research form the core of V.S. Arunachalam’s fascinating account. During his career, he led programmes on several key technologies for the government of India’s defence research programme. The work involved had to maintain continuity across the tenure of several Prime Ministers from Indira Gandhi to Atal Behari Vajpeyi. From Temples to Turbines: An Adventure in Two Worlds is, therefore, a captivating story of Arunachalam’s course through the worlds of science and technology on the one hand and politics and public policy on the other. Miffed Russia The book begins with a description of the author’s early life and mentors, and ends with his experiences as a prominent official and adviser to the Government of India. In between, plays out the most interesting story of the building of the first indigenous light combat aircraft, now named Tejas. Arunachalam portrays Tejas as the combined dream of several engineers, scientists and air force personnel. The story of the realisation of this dream was not immediate but spanned decades. It is a story of having to overcome several obstacles and the author presents it in an engaging manner. The Russians were not pleased with this attempt on India’s part to become independent and the book documents an interesting incident of his meeting with the then Soviet defence minister Dmitri Ustinov. He recalls, “Ustinov was angry with me for going on an independent route. He was furious but the interpreter was embarrassed and hesitant — he moderated Ustinov’s anger in his translations. Ustinov complained that we would end up flying a kite called the LCA, and said if I were working in the Soviet Union he would have immediately dismissed me. Venkataraman [Former President R. Venkataraman, who was defence minister at the time] retained an angelic smile all along saying nothing.” This was after 300 scientists and engineers had been roped in under Arunachalam’s leadership into the project with the mission of designing and building indigenous aircraft for the Indian Air Force. He recounts: “When I mentioned Ustinov’s anger... to Rajiv Gandhi [then the Congress President], he humorously remarked that the same thought came to him and wondered whether Venkataraman would take advice from the Soviet Minister!” This underscores the amazingly delicate roots of sturdy technologies. Anecdotes about PMs, technocrats The book must be read equally for what it reveals about his interactions with Prime Ministers as for amusing stories about architects of defence technology programmes such as M.G.K. Menon and Raja Ramanna. To state one, the author had invited Raja Ramanna for dinner at his Lodhi Estate residence. Seeing that the gates were locked, Ramanna agilely jumped over the fence, causing alarms to ring and security personnel to rush after him. “It took us some time to convince them that he was not a stranger but the country’s foremost nuclear physicist,” recalls Arunachalam. Though it leaves out a helpful chronicling of dates to facilitate the reader’s journey, the book has much in store for those interested in India’s science programme.  From Temples to Turbines: An Adventure in Two Worlds V.S. Arunachalam Defence Research and Development Organisation, Ministry of Defence  Rs. 800
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Trick one||North’ s two-club bid was artificial, creating a game force. After a game force is established, a jump is no longer needed to create a force. South’ s jump to three diamonds showed a massive suit. It carried this message: “Look for slam if you want to, but we are playing in diamonds wherever we end up”. North believed him! When this deal was played in a money team game in South Florida, South won dummy’ s ace of clubs at trick one and played the ace and king of diamonds. That was the right play in the suit, but the queen didn’t fall. The losing spade finesse cost him a lot of money, as the opponents had stopped in game at the other table. There is a better line of play available, and we don’ t mean taking the diamond finesse. Can you spot it? South should not play the ace of clubs at trick one, but rather ruff in his hand. The ace-king of diamonds would reveal the trump loser. South can now cash the ace and king of hearts, discarding a spade, and ruff a heart. A trump to East’s queen now seals the deal. A spade or a heart from East ends the matter quickly, so East must play a club. South wins in dummy and ruffs a heart, establishing the fifth heart. The ace of spades is an entry to the heart and South has 12 tricks. We’re sure you played it just that way!
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Who is doing pole vault?||Respected Madam/Sir,  Big news is there. Big news means breaking news. World famous in Anna Nagar. Months and months of discussions and negotiations and all are now finished. Yesterday one family discussion took place in the dining room. Mrs. Mathrubootham and myself and both sons. Working from home son, whether you are remembering him, came to the dining room. Abroad son who is actually doing useful job did Zoom call from United States. Mrs. Mathrutbootham said hello welcome to family meeting. One important decision has been made. My son from the U.S. said on Zoom, excuse me internet connection is very bad. You are getting a live-in maid? It is a very good decision. Kamalam said, no no no. What is the need to waste money on maid and all. Zero work is there in the home these days. I can take care of everything. Maid and all what is the need to take the money and give it to someone else? U.S. son started shouting, sorry cannot hear properly did you say you have given all the money to someone else? Oh my god, appa must have done some stupidity on the internet no? Since 2005 I am saying don’t let appa on the internet, don’t let appa on the internet, disconnect, disconnect, he is useless. Whether anyone will listen? No. Ok fine. All money is gone or some money is still left? Madam/ Sir, I picked up laptop to throw it out of the balcony but Mrs. Mathrubootham immediately took my collar and put me back in the dining chair. She said, laptop is growing on tree in the balcony like karuveppilai or what? Wait for five minutes, connection will become ok. Zoom is like this only. Then Mrs. Mathrubootham made full announcement. She said family members today we have accepted offer from new buyer for the flat. After two-three months of negotiations, we have found good buyer and good price. After 30 years, we are going to leave this flat in one month’s time. Then after that there was total silence for five or six minutes. Total sentiments. Sentiments means sentiments like anything. Then slowly U.S. son is asking what about my brother? Mrs. Mathrubootham announced that work-from-home son is now shifting to his own flat nearby in Anna Nagar. Meanwhile, Mrs. Mathrubootham and myself, we are going to rent one flat nearby, one month is there to find flat. What is the hurry? Maybe we will find flat in this building only. Maybe we will go to new location. Both sons are sitting quietly. Maybe they are thinking of old memories and sentiments. Then Mrs. Mathrubootham said ok everybody no need for silence and all. It is like a new adventure. But first of all, we have to do packing like anything. Some almirah and all unopened since jambuvan period. What and all is inside who knows? But one month is there. No hurry. I said, Kamalam, whether we will find flat with space for all books and DVDs and all? She said, old man, you have 75 copies of Guns of Navarone , you please sit quietly and do some sentiments for family instead of DVD. I said ok fine, later don’t say that this is missing, that is missing and make it all my fault. Then son from U.S. is saying who is doing pole vault? Somebody is doing pole vault? Mrs. Mathrubootham said, ok old man take this laptop and throw it as far as you can out of the balcony. One less item to pack. Since I am throwing, I will write more next week only. Yours in exasperation, J. Mathrubootham
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Make Mottainai our mantra||I came across the word Mottainai in a book on Japanese management style, roughly meaning “what a waste!” In Japan, this word is used to encourage people to reuse and recycle. This concept is only now catching up in the western world, but was integral to the lives of those of us in India who grew up in the 1960s and 1970s. In school, we used to approach senior students after the annual examination to buy their textbooks. At home, the books of the older siblings were kept carefully for the younger ones. If anything was unavailable, a visit to the used book store usually helped. These days, most schools sell textbooks and notebooks for pricey sums. Children think it is below their dignity to buy used books. We even used to tear the unused sheets of our notebooks to use them for rough notes. Now all notebooks go to the scrap dealer. Much to my chagrin, I found that there were no takers for textbooks either. A used book shop told me that the syllabus keeps changing and hence there are no buyers for used books. Our generation grew up in an India where people had limited resources. It was fun to be the eldest child as the younger ones got only hand-me-downs, except on their birthdays and for major festivals. On birthdays, gifts were recycled and we would not mind it. I was an avid reader of Enid Blyton and some old copies of her works came to me as birthday gifts. Nowadays, choosing a present for a birthday party is a nightmare for parents. The parties are no longer simple affairs. It is as arduous as arranging a wedding. Back then, children walked, cycled or went by school bus to school. Now, many children are dropped off in chauffeur-driven fancy cars. Many of these children, however, stand around holding placards with the message “Save the environment”. From a frugal society, we have become a consumerist society driven by advertisements. The modern mantra is “buy”. Saving, recycling and repairing are alien to the present generation. Perhaps, it’s time to put the brakes on the rampant consumerism and make Mottainai our mantra. shobhaanand@yahoo.com
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The Cowherd Prince||Krishna Udayasankar  Ebury Press Rs. 399 In this prequel to theAryavarta Chronicles, Krishna, son of the cowherd, Nanda, is on the run, hunted by the tyrant king, Kans. The journey reveals Govinda’s true identity as a prince but also gives him a thorough knowledge of the murky secrets surrounding statecraft.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A Time for Mercy||John Grisham  Hodder & Stoughton Rs. 699 Deputy Stuart Kofer, a serial abuser, kills his girlfriend, Josie, in a drunken rage and is shot by her son, 16-year-old Drew. Cops are protected in Mississippi, and there’s little chance for Drew. Until defence lawyer Jake Brigance, whom we first met inSycamore Row, takes up his case.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The Economics of Small Things||Sudipta Sarangi  Penguin Random House  Rs. 299 Using a range of everyday objects, Sarangi offers easy lessons in economics. The book studies the development of familiar cultural practices from India and around the world and explains complex ideas from Game Theory to the Cobra Effect without depending on equations.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Behind the Enigma||John Ferris  Bloomsbury  Rs. 999 This authorised history of GCHQ, Government Communications Headquarters, Britain’s most secretive intelligence agency, is written with unprecedented access to classified archives. Today, amid terrorist and other threats, GCHQ continues to be the U.K.’s leading security agency.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The Tyranny of Merit||Michael J. Sandel  Penguin Random House  Rs. 799 A teacher of political philosophy argues that to overcome the polarised politics of the time, attitudes towards success and failure that have accompanied globalisation and rising inequality have to be rethought. Prof. Sandel offers an alternative way of thinking about success.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The Battle of Belonging||Shashi Tharoor  Aleph  Rs. 799 Exploring contested ideas of nationalism and belonging, Tharoor explains what nationalism is, what patriotism means and gives a view of the nature and future of Indian nationhood. He explains the ‘idea of India’ enshrined in the Constitution by India’s founding fathers.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3123||Across  1 Everyman would strain nerves around end of week (6) 4 A pair of clubs a nasty child hides in card game (8) 9 Arrogant and happy? Shame (6) 10 Some groceries: linguine and wine (8) 12 Mishmash of antipasti chewed (8) 13 Cycling minibike, removing outer layer, revealing swimsuit (6) 15 How Valentine is sent? Hatefully? Nay, on my soul! (11) 18 Appear insufficiently smart:university admitted against better judgment (5,6) 21 Carve end off rowing boat, gaining point (6) 22 Nasty niff in locations producing spurious medication (8) 24 Stated aim: very little weight gained (8) 25 With exercise unfinished, he washed his hands (6) 26 Also, audible breaths (bigger than average) (4-4) 27 Announced 1¢ grant (6)  Down  1 Hen told to produce eggs under pressure? It’s unfair (4,4) 2 The writer’s alternative online writing concealed: he’s not who he seems (8) 3 Parson’s tiny aunt displayed anxiety (4,2,4,5) 5 Primarily, area Pacific islanders abide? (4) 6 Chorus physician treated decide to call it a day (4,2,4,5) 7 Growin’ fruit (6) 8 Oddly, thing drains a lot of water (6) 11 Every so often, ask her to buy dust sheets (7) 14 Like beer? Rugby’s involved, usually (2,1,4) 16 Barge I’ve renovated, going on too long (8) 17 Note: Dutch left East Indies (improved, in my view) (2,1,3,2) 19 Out-of-it Australian skins up (6) 20 Kudos: you finally decoded puzzle (6) 23 Car manufacturer is crooked, we’re told (4)
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Manu’s legacy||Tamil Dalit leader and VCK MP Thol. Thirumavalavan led a State-wide protest to ban the ancient textManusmriti,arguing that it demeans and spreads hatred against women and certain castes. The protests attracted the support of rationalist and secular organisations across Tamil Nadu, and experts said the issue might have reinvigorated the anti-caste and anti-Brahminism ideals of the Dravidian movement.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||For sale||The Centre notified new land laws for Jammu and Kashmir, and removed the stipulation that only permanent residents can purchase land in the Union Territory. Political parties opposed the move, with National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah saying, “The amendments have put J&K up for sale.” Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said these were “nefarious designs to disempower and disenfranchise the people of J&K.”
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Stifling speech||Kerala’s CPI(M)-led government struggled to defend its move to criminalise anyone who threatens, insults or harms another’s reputation via “any means of communication”. Those convicted would face five years in prison or a Rs. 10,000 fine. Activists, scholars and the CPI decried the law as a threat to democratic liberties and freedom of the press.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Short term||A U.K. study that tested 3,65,000 people in England found that protective antibodies in response to SARS-CoV-2 fall rapidly after infection. Seasonal coronaviruses “can re-infect people after six to 12 months,” said professor Wendy Barclay, a virologist, adding, “We suspect that the way the body reacts to infection with this new coronavirus is similar.”
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Facebook fallout||Ankhi Das, Facebook’s head of public policy, who faced allegations of opposing the enforcement of hate-speech rules and of bias towards the ruling party, resigned. Dozens of human rights organisations and Internet watchdog outfits had asked that Das be placed on leave until the company completes its audit of India operations. Das will “pursue her interest in public service,” said the Managing Director, Facebook India.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Fast tracked||The U.S. Senate confirmed Amy Coney Barrett, 48, to the Supreme Court in a 52-48 vote along party lines, with Democrats united in opposition. Barrett will fill the vacancy left by liberal icon Ruth Bader Ginsburg, creating a 6-3 conservative majority in the top court for the foreseeable future. Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden criticised the hurried move to fill the seat ahead of the election as unprecedented.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Seminary bombed||At least eight students were killed and 136 others wounded when a powerful bomb exploded at an Islamic seminary on the outskirts of Peshawar, Pakistan. The blast took place during a special class by a prominent religious scholar at the Jamia Zubairia madrassa. Many of the wounded were in critical condition, said hospital authorities.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Terror list||Using the new provision to designate individuals as terrorists under UAPA, the Centre listed the names of 18 members of organisations including Lashkar-e-Taiba, Hizb-ul-Mujahideen and Dawood Ibrahim’s syndicate. Hizbul chief Syed Salauddin and 26/11 conspirators Sajid Mir and Yusuf Muzammil were among those named.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Defence pact||India and the U.S. signed a major defence agreement that will allow the sharing of intelligence, satellite data, and military technology. The Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) was finalised during the 2+2 talks between the two countries’ foreign and defence ministers. U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo signalled his support for India in the conflict with China and hit out at the Chinese Communist Party.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Ways of Dying||Various authors  Aleph Book Company Rs. 399 This is a collection of stories and essays on life’s only certainty, death. Amitav Ghosh writes about the assassination of Indira Gandhi, Mahasweta Devi on revenge in rural India, Atul Gawande on assisted suicide, and so on. Also featuring Premchand, Khushwant Singh, David Davidar.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The Haunting of H.G. Wells||Robert Masello  47North Rs. 129 (Kindle price) As the Great War begins, a strange story emerges from the Western Front — the story of St. George and a brigade of angels descending from heaven to fight beside the British troops. H.G. Wells, the most celebrated writer of the day, must find out the truth, and uncover a deadly plot in the process.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India’s potential participation in COVAX advance market commitment is under way’||With 11 COVID-19 vaccines having entered Phase-3 trials and six vaccines already approved for limited use, the next challenge is to support manufacturing and ensure that the vaccines are accessible, affordable and available to all people. Gates Foundation has committed over $650 million towards tackling COVID-19. The foundation has signed an agreement with Serum Institute to facilitate vaccine production, in which the foundation will provide at-risk funding of $300 million to manufacture up to 200 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines for India and low- and middle-income countries. The funding is being provided through GAVI.   Trevor Mundel,President of the Global Health Division, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, who has led the foundation’s efforts to support the development of diagnostics, therapeutics, and vaccines for the global response to COVID-19, explained in an email to The Hindu how the Gates Foundation is ensuring equitable distribution of vaccines within developed and developing countries.  Has India agreed to purchase vaccine doses through the COVAX facility? How many million doses of the vaccine will India get through COVAX? India is among the 92 countries that are eligible to access COVID-19 vaccines through GAVI’s COVAX Advance Market Commitment (AMC), a donor-supported mechanism that will help cover part of the cost of vaccines to ensure that all countries — not just wealthy countries — can access them. Discussions about the terms of India’s potential participation in the AMC are getting under way. What steps has the Gates Foundation taken to ensure equitable distribution of vaccines to developing countries, including those that have not expressed interest to purchase vaccines through the COVAX facility? The foundation is working on multiple fronts to help ensure equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines, because we know that COVID-19 anywhere means that COVID-19 could continue to spread everywhere. Earlier this year, we committed $100 million to GAVI’s COVID-19 Vaccine AMC, to finance COVID-19 vaccines for lower-income countries. Through our collaboration with GAVI and the Serum Institute of India, we are financing the manufacture of 200 million future vaccine doses for low- and middle-income countries. We are also funding research and development of vaccines that could be less expensive to produce or easier to distribute in low- and middle-income countries, such as those that only need one dose or do not require extreme refrigeration or freezing. Will countries have to wait to get the vaccines through COVAX even after paying up-front? No one knows yet which vaccines will prove safe and effective, which is why it’s important to scale up manufacturing capacity as much as possible now, so that no time is wasted once clinical trials are completed and regulatory approval has been given. The Gates Foundation envisions an equitable distribution of COVID-19 vaccines, and our efforts are focused on helping improve the chances that low- and middle-income countries have access to doses at the same time as wealthier countries. COVAX — an initiative led by GAVI, the vaccine alliance, WHO and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) — is one of the best ways to achieve this. Will the pre-defined number of vaccine doses that a country gets be related to the amount of funding that the country makes? No. For the Facility, participating countries will receive allocations proportional to their population, not their financial contribution. Even aftera financial commitment, will countries be assured of vaccine supplies if developed countries directly tie-up with manufacturers to secure supplies, as seen in the case of the U.S. getting most of Remdesivir? The purpose of the COVAX Facility is to avoid this type of situation, and the fact that so many countries have signed on shows that these countries see the value of joining forces to protect their own populations while making doses available and affordable in lower-income countries. How safe will COVID-19 vaccines be, since their development has been accelerated? What steps has the Foundation taken to address safety concerns about COVID-19 vaccines? While the current pandemic has created urgency to work as quickly as possible to develop safe and effective therapeutics, speed and science should never be at odds, especially when ensuring safety. The Foundation, along with the global community working to develop new tools to prevent and combat COVID-19, has stressed that it is crucial that decisions to approve COVID-19 vaccines are based on the results from rigorously conducted clinical studies. The Foundation is committed to ensuring the safety of individuals who will be receiving products that we have funded. All of the research that we fund follows regulatory protocols and ethical standards for safety. Additionally, 16 life sciences companies have all committed to adhere to strict scientific and ethical standards in product development and manufacture.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||What is the D614G mutation in coronavirus?||While novel coronavirus is undergoing many mutations, one particular mutation called D614G, according to a study, has become the dominant variant in the global COVID-19 pandemic.  What is the D614G mutation? When the virus enters an individual’s body, it aims at creating copies of itself. When it makes an error in this copying process, we get a mutation. In this case, the virus replaced the aspartic acid (D) in the 614th position of the amino acid with glycine (G). Hence the mutation is called the D614G. This mutated form of the virus was first identified in China and then in Europe. Later it spread to other countries like the U.S. and Canada and was eventually reported in India.  How is this mutation different? The D614G mutation is situated in the spike protein of the virus. “You can think of the spike protein as a massive ‘trimer’ assembly with three protein chains. Each protein chain has two sub-units (S1 and S2). The sub-unit S1 is the one that attaches to the host cells — Human ACE2 receptor,” says Dr. Lipi Thukral, Senior Scientist at CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) in an email to The Hindu.  “The S2 sub-unit mediates the fusion of the viral and human membranes. The D614G mutation is present in the sub-unit S1 of the protein and is also close to the S2 sub-unit. Therefore, it has an impact on the human cell’s interactions with both S1 and S2,” she added. “In simple words, this particular mutation aids the virus in attaching more efficiently with the ACE2 receptor in the human host, thereby making it more successful in entering a human body than its predecessors,” explains Dr. Saumitra Das, Director of the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in West Bengal. To provide a clear picture of how transmissible this particular mutation of the virus has become over time, a paper in the journal Cell says that the mutation was found in 10% of 997 global genome sequences before March 1, 67% of sequences between March 1 and March 31 and 78% of the sequences between April 1 and May 18.  What are the effects of the mutation? A preprint posted in medRxiv, which has not undergone peer-review, explains the sequenced genomes of 5,085 SARS-CoV-2 strains in Houston. By doing so, it discovered that not only did the D614G show increased infectivity but it also displayed greater ability at attaching itself to the cell walls inside an individual’s nose and throat, increasing the viral load. However, the paper could not establish any direct correlation between this particular genetic change in the virus and an increase in the severity of COVID-19 or its impact on a patient’s mortality. The patients seem to be exhibiting variable reactions to it depending upon their genetic constitution, age, exposure to other diseases etc. Researchers are still pondering over the effects of this mutation.  How prevalent is it in India? “The D614G mutation, which is the defining mutation for clade A2 of the virus, is indeed, quite prevalent in India,” Dr Anu Raghunathan, Senior Principal Scientist at CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory said in an email to The Hindu.  A study (a preprint posted on bioRxiv ) — which collected SARS-CoV-2-positive samples from the various States like Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh among others — reveals that the D614G was one of the most prevalent spike mutations even during the initial phase of the pandemic. Since then, D614G mutation’s ‘relative abundance’ has increased over time to 70% and above, in most States except Delhi, reports another pre-print in BioRxiv after analysing samples from 10 Indian States.  Can this mutation impact vaccine research? A paper in the journal, Nature, after conducting experiments on hamsters, concluded that this particular mutation may not reduce the ability of vaccines in clinical trials to protect against COVID-19 and that the therapeutic antibodies should be tested against the circulating variant of the virus before clinical development. “There is a need for extreme caution with premature inferences on mutations and their effects without supporting experimental evidence. This could result in a media frenzy and potentially undermine public confidence in vaccines,” Dr. Raghunathan states.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Spiral galaxy bars may prevent new stars||Stars are fundamental building blocks of galaxies. Galaxies themselves are of different types: star-forming spiral galaxies and non-star-forming lenticular and elliptical galaxies. In some spiral galaxies, the stars move in elongated orbits near the centre so that, from far, this portion appears like an illuminated bar. Nearly two-thirds of the disc galaxies in the local universe are found to have this bar structure. “Stellar bars in galaxies are clearly visible in early images taken by photographic plates, and are known from early observations,” says Koshy George from Ludwig-Maximilians University in Munich, Germany, who has recently co-authored a paper on barred galaxies. Role of bars The Milky Way is a barred spiral galaxy. Since not all spiral galaxies have bars, the role of bars – why they exist, what triggers their formation and whether they foster star formation are interesting questions. Some barred galaxies have shown a higher concentration of newly formed stars, suggesting that the bar nurtures star formation. The present work studies four such barred galaxies out of which three, in fact, appear to prevent stars from forming at their central region covered by the length of the bar. What causes a galaxy to be star-forming or not is a puzzle, with the prevailing idea being that star-forming galaxies are converted into non-star-forming galaxies through some mechanism. “[In this paper] we try to understand the role of the stellar bar in quenching star formation in the central region of spiral galaxies,” says Dr. George, about the paper accepted for publication in Astronomy and Astrophysics, in an email to The Hindu . The work is done in collaboration with scientists from Indian Institute of Astrophysics and Christ University, Bengaluru.  In three of the four galaxies, they find that the region covered by the length of the bar does not have enough gas (Hydrogen in the atomic form and molecular hydrogen, which is believed to condense and form stars). “We understood this observation as evidence for the bar redistributing the gas in the central region of these spiral galaxies,” says Dr. George. “This is almost like the whirlpool we see in rivers. There is a cavity formed in the central region with no gas and stars,” he explains. Too young The researchers do not see the same depletion of gas and stars in the fourth galaxy. The reason, they believe is that this galaxy does not have an old enough bar. “We believe it will take a few million years for the bar to evacuate the gas that forms stars,” says Dr. George. The bar is a complex and dynamic structure and the paper adds an interesting angle by suggesting this method in which it prevents star formation. “This is probably the tip of the iceberg. We are presenting this as a case for the first time in an evolutionary sequence of four barred galaxies. More statistical samples are needed (which is currently lacking) with new observations from radio to ultraviolet wavelength for more galaxies,” he says.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||How water bears survive lethal UV radiation||“I know an animal that can live in boiling water or in solid ice. It can go 10 years without a drop of water - the tardigrade or water bear. They have survived all five mass extinctions,” says Dr. Neil deGrasse Tyson in an episode of Cosmos: A Spacetime Odyssey.  Awestruck by this episode, Sandeep M. Eswarappa from The Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, started exploring these tiny creatures that are less than 1 millimetre long. His new paper shows that a tardigrade called Paramacrobiotus BLR strain (BLR for Bengaluru) has a protective fluorescent shield which helps it survive harmful ultraviolet (UV) radiation. Hunting for tardigrades It was an exploratory study, and the team hunted for tardigrades within the institute campus. About 1,300 species have been reported worldwide. “We knew we could find them on algae and similar vegetation, so we scraped off moss from the campus’ concrete walls and trees and tried to isolate the tardigrades. Though we collected nearly 100 samples, we finally succeeded in finding just one species,” says Harikumar R. Suma, who is the first author of the paper published in the journal Biology Letters.  The study found that Paramacrobiotus sp. survived beyond 30 days after 15 minutes exposure to germicidal UV radiation (one kilojoule per square metre). At this radiation dose, another species of tardigrade called Hypsibius exemplaris died within a day, and most of the roundworms were found dead within a week. When a four times higher radiation was given, about 60% of the Paramacrobiotus sp. survived beyond 30 days. To further confirm their findings, the team coated the H. exemplaris and roundworms with the fluorescent extract from Paramacrobiotus sp. Animals with the fluorescent coat were found to survive longer than the control animals without. But why does this protective coat show fluorescence? “In addition to the UV protective function, we speculate that the fluorescence might serve as a signal to other organisms around — like an indication: ‘Hey the tardigrade is glowing, there is UV radiation here, let’s get away’. It provides a survival advantage to these tardigrades by reducing competition,” explains Dr. Eswarappa. Evolved fluorescence The team writes that Paramacrobiotus could have probably evolved this fluorescence mechanism to counter the high UV radiation of tropical southern India. The UV dose in Bengaluru, where it was isolated, could go up to 4 kilojoule per square meter on a typical summer day. The paper adds, the “small fraction of non-fluorescent variants that co-exist in the same moss habitat may have other mechanisms to escape from UV radiation, for example, living deeper inside the moss where UV radiation cannot reach.”
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Moon mystique||What explains the anomalous localised magnetism seen on the Moon?  Though the Moon lacks a core dynamo magnetic field unlike the Earth, the lunar crust has a remnant magnetisation. But in some areas on the Moon, the localised surface fields extend to hundreds of kilometre and measure up to hundreds of nanotesla or higher. Apollo samples and the lunar crust studies have shown the magnetising field was as high as tens of microtesla before 3.56 billion years ago. Now researchers from Massachusetts Institute of Technology and other institutions have found ( Science Advances, October 2020) a possible answer for the long-standing mystery of the origin of the localised magnetic fields on the Moon. Magnetic fields on the moon may be the remnant of an ancient core dynamo. This might be the “only plausible source” of most magnetisation on the Moon, they say.  Based on computer simulations, the researchers say that the Moon must have had an internal core dynamo in the past. They arrive at this conclusion by ruling out the earlier notion that localised magnetisation was caused by impacts of massive bodies on the Moon surface. While such collisions and ejected material can transiently enhance the field inside the Moon, the resulting fields would be at least three orders of magnitude too weak to explain the localised magnetic field observed on the Moon’s surface. More research is needed to confirm exactly how the magnetic spots were formed.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||What is swinging U.S. polls on home stretch?||The story so far: November 3 is the final day of voting for elections to the U.S. presidency, 35 seats in the 100-member U.S. Senate and the 435-member U.S. Congress, besides to the post of governor in eleven States. Around 90 million voters have already used the early in-person voting or the mail ballot option to register their mandate. This is nearly 64% of the overall turnout in the 2016 U.S. elections. Voter enthusiasm in 2020 has led to one of the heaviest turnouts ever. What have the opinion polls been saying? Opinion polls across the country point to Democratic Party candidate Joe Biden leading nationally with a near 10-point advantage over Mr. Trump. But U.S. elections are not decided nationally — its electoral college system is an agglomeration of State-wise wins and losses and it is not enough for a candidate to win the popular vote nationally. He/she has to secure a majority (270) of the 538 electoral college votes (cumulatively added from each State). The winner in each State gets the full share of members to be added to the electoral college. This ensures that the area of contention in the election are the States, and a candidate has to win a plurality of them even if his overall vote share is higher than the opponent. The State-wise contests in the U.S. show a closer battle in some of the States — the swing States — compared to others, which could tilt the electoral college tally to either side. What are swing States? While the presidential elections allow for anyone to contest the polls, the bipolar nature of U.S. polity has made these elections a largely two-party affair, with third party candidates rarely acting as a spoiler in recent election cycles. States on the east and west coast with largely urban populations have tended to vote for the Democratic party, while those in the rural-dominated south, the south-west and the north-west have favoured the Republican party. These States are considered safe ones by the two parties. Other States that could possibly be won by either of these two parties are called ‘swing States’. In these States, the difference between the vote shares polled by them in both opinion polls as well as recent elections is low. Which are the States likely to ‘swing’ this election? States such as Ohio (with 18 electoral college votes), Iowa (6), Wisconsin (10), Michigan, (16) and Minnesota (10) in the mid-west, Florida (29) on the south Atlantic coast, Nevada (6) and Arizona (11) in the mountainous-west, Pennsylvania (20), New Hampshire (4) in the north-east, and North Carolina (15) in the south have had close elections in recent cycles and are perennial swing States, according to the data journalism website ‘fivethirtyeight.com’. In this election, Texas (38) and Georgia (16), in the south, have also showed a keen contest, and with a surge in Democratic votes, they have also joined the swing States. States in the east coast region — New York, New Jersey, Vermont, Connecticut, Rhode Island, some in the mid-west (like Illinois), the south (Virginia, Maryland, Delaware), the west coast (California, Oregon, Washington State), mountainous west (Colorado, New Mexico), besides Hawaii in the Pacific Island, are strongly Democratic-leaning, and it is quite a surety that these will return Mr. Biden as the winner with full electoral college votes. On the other hand, States in the deep south and the south — Oklahoma, Arkansas, Alabama, Kentucky, Louisiana, Tennessee, Mississippi, South Carolina; Wyoming, Idaho, Montana, Utah in the mountainous west, North Dakota, South Dakota, Kansas, Missouri, Indiana in the mid-west, besides Alaska in the Pacific — have favoured Republicans in the recent past and are expected to return Mr. Trump this time too.  Why are there going to be some close contests? Most voters in each State in the U.S. elections are categorised either as Democratic-registered or pro-Democrat, Republican-registered or pro-Republican, and independent/moderate voters. The Democratic Party, despite several factions and ideological divisions within, is broadly categorised as a socially liberal party, one that favours a greater role for the government in the economy, and is inclusive of progressive and moderate sections. Joe Biden, a moderate among Democrats, has secured support from the progressive wing as well. Support for the Democrats is more concentrated in urban areas, among voters with graduate education, and among racial and linguistic minorities ( African-Americans, Indian-Americans and Hispanics). But support from this coalition does not always translate into votes. Voters in urban areas, among minorities, and the youth tended to turn out in lower numbers relative to other sections. The Republican party is a broad coalition of socially conservative (including religious-minded voters, such as prominent evangelical sections), pro-business and fiscally conservative voters, who are typically employed in or own small businesses. It also comprises big capitalists who are unfavourable towards policies related to taxation and welfare. In the Trump era, the party has taken a “populist”, personalised turn, driven less by any clear ideology, but positioning itself as trade protectionist, opposed to racial justice within the U.S. and liberal institutionalism across the world, and at the same time, pursuing policies favouring big business interests. This has changed the profile of the average Republican voter and has come to include sections of working-class voters, while alienating moderate or somewhat socially moderate Republicans. The nature of the demography, the topography and the economy of the States has been an indication of voters’ political preferences. The aforementioned safe States for the Democratic Party are largely urban in terms of topography and more diverse in population, with economies that are reliant on secondary and tertiary sectors such as high-end manufacturing, technology and services, to provide employment. States that are favourable to the Republican Party include largely rural or agrarian areas, with an abundance of small businesses linked mostly to a less industrial economy, and comprising a larger White-proportion of the demography. In particular, the urban-rural divide offers a very clear Democrat-Republican divide. Swing States, particularly those in the mid-west, offer a combination of factors: urban and rural topographies within the State, unionised industrial bases and/or newly diverse populations which have made them competitive for both Democrats and Republicans. Suburban areas, which are neither politically nor geographically monolithic, as an aerial survey of landscapes recently published in the The New York Times pointed out, are areas where Democratic and Republican votes could overlap. Such areas are more abundant in swing States than in others. What happened in the swing States in 2016? What is the situation today? Mr. Trump’s surprisingly strong performance in the swing States delivered him the presidency despite losing the overall popular vote to Hillary Clinton in 2016. Victories in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin — States that were relatively Democratic-leaning — besides other swing States such as Florida and Ohio, settled the election for Mr. Trump as white voters  without a college education in suburban and rural areas, including white working class voters, chose Mr. Trump over Ms. Clinton. Opinion polls in these States, also turned out to be wrong, over-estimating support for Ms. Clinton. This was because the percentage of voters who recorded themselves as “undecided” was substantial, getting into two digits for some swing States. Many of them seemingly voted for Mr. Trump finally, rendering the opinion polls wrong. In 2020, however, the number of undecided voters in the swing States have been substantially lower in most opinion polls, pointing to more clear support for either candidate. Mr. Biden, for now, seems to have an edge over Mr. Trump in the swing States and beyond. However, if polling errors from 2016 were to be accounted for, the election is rendered much closer. In such a scenario, Mr. Biden would have to win a larger swing State, such as Pennsylvania (20 electoral votes), and a combination of other smaller ones to ensure a victory. Even so, the fact that there are pathways to a Trump victory suggests that the election cannot be called till all the votes are counted.
01 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Lockdown will not stop spread of virus, face mask best vaccine’||Delhi recorded 5,062 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 3,86,706, while the death toll reached 6,511 with 41 more fatalities reported in a single day. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that despite rising cases, it would be impossible to stop the spread of the virus with a lockdown and added that wearing a mask was the best “vaccine” against it. The number of new cases has been spiking in the Capital with 5,891 fresh cases recorded on October 30 — the highest spike so far. A total of 5,739 cases were recorded on October 29; 5,673 on October 28; and 4,853 on October 27 — all setting new record for number of new cases reported in Delhi. The number of new cases has been above 5,000 cases for four straight days now. ‘A lot was said’ “There were a lot of lessons from the lockdown, and a lot was said such as: after lockdown, the virus spread would stop; or high temperature would stop it. Did it stop? So, the lesson from that exercise has been that it is impossible to wipe away COVID-19 transmission through a lockdown as the virus has spread through the community,” Mr. Jain said, adding that many Delhiites were not following mask rules and strict action would be taken against violators. Saturday’s health bulletin stated there were 4,665 recoveries in 24 hours and there are now 32,719 active cases in the city. The number of tests conducted on Saturday was 44,330, which is lower than the number of tests conducted the previous day: 59,641. There are now 3,274 containment zones.
01 November 2020||Chandigarh,||‘Will not go with Punjab CM to meet President’||Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday rejected Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s appeal to all parties’ MLAs to accompany him to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on November 4 to request him to give his assent to the State’s amended farm laws. Dubbing the CM’s move as mere political drama, AAP senior leader and Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the party will not be a part of the delegation headed by the CM to meet the President. Governor yet to sign Mr. Cheema said the three farm Bills passed in the State Assembly by rushing amendments to negate the “controversial” Central laws were meaningless, asserting that these would not help protect the farmers’ interests. He said there was no point in meeting the President as the Punjab Governor has not yet signed the Bills. He alleged that Capt. Amarinder was trying to fool the people of Punjab, especially the farmers, by projecting himself as their champion. AAP MLA said instead of meeting the President, if the CM leads a delegation of all parties, to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the party would gladly accept the offer. ‘PM’s puppet’ “Had Amarinder decided to stage a dharna outside the Prime Minister’s residence to repeal the black laws, including the Air Pollution Ordinance, the AAP would have extended its full support to him,” he said in a statement here. Capt. Amarinder was a puppet in the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which was why he had not so far met either the PM or the Union Agriculture Minister and the Railway Minister alone or as a delegation against the black laws, he alleged. Notably, the CM had appealed to all the MLAs to stand up and be counted and rise above party lines in safeguarding the State’s interests which are being trampled upon by the Union government.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The amended land laws for Jammu & Kashmir||The story so far :On October 26, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) announced several amendments to land laws for the Union Territory of Jammu Kashmir (J&K), including the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act of 1970, which till now entitled only permanent residents to purchase or sell property in the former State, and the J&K Land Revenue Act, 1996. The MHA notification said the “Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Adaptation of Central Laws) Third Order, 2020 shall come into force with immediate effect and will encourage development in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir”. In August last year, the special status granted to Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 and Article 35A was revoked. Section 96 of the J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019 empowers the MHA to adapt and modify any law by way of repeal or amendment before the expiration of one year from the appointed day of the Union Territory of J&K, which is October 31, 2019. What are the changes? The MHA has amended sections of the J&K Land Revenue Act, 1996 and the J&K Development Act of 1970. The 1996 Act pertains to management of agricultural land and the 1970 Act deals with zonal development plans determining land use for public buildings, roads, housing recreation, industry, business, markets, schools, hospitals and public and private open spaces. According to the amendment to the Land Revenue Act, anyone from any part of the country can now buy land in J&K, including agricultural land. Though the amendments prohibit sale, transfer, mortgage and conversion of agricultural land to a non-agriculturist in the UT, it can still be allowed, “provided that the Government or an officer authorized by it in this behalf may grant permission to an agriculturist to alienate the land to a non-agriculturist by way of sale, gift, exchange or mortgage”. The government can allow the transfer of agricultural land to a public trust for charitable work, healthcare, education, industrial or commercial purposes. A Board of Revenue headed by a Financial Commissioner has been constituted and a fresh clause defining “agricultural land” as land which is used or is capable of being used for agriculture and allied activities, including fallow land, has been inserted. The amendment deletes the “permanent resident” provision in the 1970 Act that provided housing sites within the range of 25-30 square metres to permanent residents belonging to “economically weaker section” and “low income groups”. Now, economically deprived people from all parts of the country will be eligible for such housing sites. A fresh provision has been added, by which the government, on the written request of an Army officer not below the rank of a Corps Commander, may declare an area as a “strategic area” for direct operational and training requirements of the armed forces. It also creates the Jammu and Kashmir Industrial Development Corporation for establishing commercial centres and industries in the UT. The Corporation shall consist of twelve directors, four of whom could be nominated from the private sector with experience in “industry or trade or finance”. The Corporation will have the power to acquire movable and immovable property, and to lease, sell, exchange or transfer any property held by it. If the Corporation is unable to acquire land by an agreement, the government could order proceedings under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 and acquire the land for “public purpose”. No court can take cognisance relating to property vested in the Corporation, except when the Corporation files a complaint. No legal suit can be filed against officials of the Corporation without a prior notice of two months and not later than six months from the date of complaint. What amendments have been brought about in government land holdings? The Jammu and Kashmir Land Grants Act, 1960, which regulates grant of government land on lease and earlier applied to urban areas of Jammu, Srinagar and towns, will now be extended to the entire UT. The amendment omits the permanent resident clause to get government land on lease for “residential purposes”. The J&K Agrarian Reforms Act, 1976, which provided for transfer of land from big land owners to tillers, has been amended. The erstwhile agrarian reforms Act stated that only up to two kanals (0.25 acre) of land could be held per family for residential purposes. What about laws for Ladakh? The main political parties in J&K have questioned the land laws, and say the Centre engaged with Ladakh and not J&K on land laws and job protection. The laws for Ladakh have not yet been notified as local leaders have demanded inclusion in the Sixth Schedule (tribal) of the Constitution to protect their land from “outsiders”.  Under the new rules, the government may allow the transfer of agricultural land to a public trust for charitable work, healthcare, education, industrial or commercial purposes
01 November 2020||Bulandshahr,||Bulandshahr Sadar bypoll: realignments in U.P. likely||At Akbarpur Raina village in Gulaothi block of Bulandshahr, Chanderpal Singh Jatav is unequivocal in his assessment of Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati. She should “retire”, he says, and make way for Chandrashekhar Aazad as he could “protect Dalit pride” as she once did. He had lost his son in a freak accident and no political party could get him compensation. Now, he has pinned his hope on the Azad Samaj Party because he had seen its leader hitting the road for Dalit causes, including in the latest Hathras case where a Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped and killed by four upper caste men. With the Azad Samaj Party jumping into the electoral politics of Uttar Pradesh, in the patron-client pattern of politics in north India, the upcoming bypoll for Bulandshahr Sadar seat is presenting possibilities of a socio-political realignment in the State. In Mr. Singh’s outer courtyard, Mahendra Singh, once Ms. Mayawati’s point man in west U.P. and Delhi, is selling the Azad Samaj Party to a group of Jatavs. Invoking Bhimrao Ambedkar, he says political democracy without social democracy is meaningless. “She became U.P. Chief Minister four times. Did any Dalit get a licence or permit?” he asks. He reminds his listeners of the time under BSP founder Kanshi Ram when the party was flourishing in four States. “Now it has reduced to one. Who would take the responsibility?” he says. Face of coalition He admits the churning would take time. “This bypoll is about sending a message that the future of the Bahujan Samaj (referring to Muslims and Dalits) is with the Azad Samaj Party as Behenji (Mayawati) has made it amply clear that she won’t be part of any coalition that would be formed to take on the BJP in 2022. We want Mr. Aazad to be the face of the coalition against the BJP,” he asserts. In bucolic Bulandshahr, pride is what every political party is keen on preserving in the Sadar bypoll. The response to the newly promulgated farm laws is what one went looking for, but on the ground, farmers, particularly Jats, who own large tracts of land in the area, are more concerned about the lathicharge their leader Jayant Chaudhary received in Hathras when he went to meet the family of the victim. “Lathi is something we wield, how can we be at the wrong end of it?” says Virendra Singh, an aged farmer leader at the camp office of the Rashtriya Lok Dal. Old-timers in “farmer politics” advise the RLD vice president, who likes to present the educated face of farmers, to hit the street more often. They tell him to take a leaf out of Mr. Aazad’s book. They have had memories of the early 1990s when, in Gulaothi, Ms. Mayawati symbolically talked of signs of upper caste nails on the Dalit woman’s body. “Her speeches stoked fire that would burn anything that came in her way. Today, Mr. Aazad tries to create the same spell,” says a local RLD leader, working closely with Samajwadi Party-RLD candidate Praveen Kumar Singh. While at the SP-RLD meeting in Bhainsoli-Sharifpur village, the BSP is described as the “BJP ki beti ” (daughter of the BJP) for being afraid of the Central agencies and not being able to stand up for Muslims during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act-National Register of Citizens protests, at the BSP’s camp office in Upper Court area, party workers question the source of Mr. Aazad’s funding. ‘Propelled by BJP’ “Both ASP (Azad Samaj Party) and AIMIM (All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen) are being propelled by the BJP to cut into the BSP vote,” says Prem Pal Singh, president of the Shikarpur Assembly constituency of the party in the district. Finding it hard to defend their supremo’s absence from the rough and tumble of politics, BSP workers maintain that Ms. Mayawati is still the glue that could hold the Jatavs and Muslims together. “After the Hathras case, even the Valmikis will come into our fold as they have realised who shoved brooms in the hands of those who held pens in the Ramayana period (in a reference to the author of the epic),” says Mr. Singh. Her absence from Hathras is described as a way to keep herself away from physical harm. “ Sab pit rahe hain (Everybody is getting beaten up),” says Mohd. Lukman, a meat businessman. “And the media is not reporting ‘our stories’,” he adds. The fear is palpable at the BSP camp office. “If a BJP worker goes to a police station and says that this Muslim boy was staring at us, an FIR is lodged in no time,” claims Mr. Lukman. “We are being threatened with the NSA and the Gangster Act, but if we go with a complaint, we get a lesson in social amity from the SHO,” he adds. But Mr. Singh keeps reminding the workers not to share stories of fear with the media. “It gives strength to the BJP’s narrative,” he muses. And, perhaps, Mr. Aazad’s as well. Social activist Zaheeruddin, who has been working in the region for a long time, underlines that both the BSP and ASP have fielded Muslim candidates who have the image of a “ bahubali ” (strongman) in the area. “Both have made money through questionable means but the locals are in awe of them. If we find fault in others, we have to look within as well. In the long run, only a mohazaab (well-behaved) politician who has the support of both Hindus and Muslims could take on the BJP,” he says.
01 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to reopen schools after Nov. 15||With COVID-19 positive cases recording a steady decline over the past few weeks, the Odisha government on Saturday allowed to start the process of reopening schools for Class 9 to 12 in a graded manner after November 15. However, all academic institutions will remain closed till November 30. The State government revised the guideline for the month of November hours after it issued the first one. Initially, the government announced to open schools for higher classes from November 16. “The School and Mass Education Department may take appropriate decision with regard to the date of reopening of schools under its control in respect of 9th to 12th standard, in a graded manner, after November 15 in consultation with relevant stakeholders and issue necessary standard operating procedure (SOP),” says the guideline. Notwithstanding closure of academic institutions, the government has permitted certain academic activities such as conduct of examinations, evaluation and administrative activities. “School and Mass Education and Higher Education Department may permit teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to schools for online teaching, telecounselling and related works in areas outside containment zones only as per SOP issued by Union Ministries of Education and Health and Family Welfare,” the guideline says. Since the outbreak of COVID-19 in March, schools have remained closed. Teachers have been involved in evaluation of examination papers in some schools and door-to-door survey in COVID-19 affected areas. Online classes Online classes in Odisha have not been as successful as like those in other States due to poor internet connectivity in remote areas. School and Mass Education Minister Samir Ranjan Das had admitted that only 22 lakh out of 60 lakh students had access to online classes. The number dropped again as parents returned to workplace with the families’ only smartphones following lifting of lockdown. Apart from broadcast classes through televisions and online classes through smartphones and computers, the Department tried to rope in radio to reach out to students stranded in their villages. In anticipation of opening of schools, the School and Mass Education Department had started cleaning and sanitisation of classrooms during the past few days. Higher education institutions will be permitted to open only for research scholars and post-graduate students in science and technology stream requiring laboratory and experimental works. In another significant decision, the government has allowed local authorities including District Magistrates or Municipal Commissioners to open places of worship with appropriate restrictions based on local assessment of the situation and in due consultation with relevant stakeholders. International air travel, except as permitted by the Ministry of Home Affairs, will remain closed till November 30. Large social, political, sports establishment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other congregations will remain prohibited till November 30. Ceiling on number of persons for marriages and funerals is 200 and 50 respectively.
01 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||COVID vaccine trials at AMU medical college||One thousand volunteers have been invited to enrol in a series of large-scale clinical trials aimed at evaluating the safety and efficacy of Covaxine, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech-led Coronavirus vaccine at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JNMCH), Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). The clinical trials will begin from November 14 and continue till the end of January, an official release said. JNMC has enhanced the preparations for the trials after a nod from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). AMU received the confirmation to begin the clinical trials from ICMR on Friday after several days of correspondence, said Vice-Chancellor Tariq Mansoor. Appealing volunteers from all age groups and socio-economic strata to participate in the clinical trials, Prof. Mansoor said, “By volunteering for a trial or study, you get a chance to participate in groundbreaking research and contribute to developing better cures and treatment options. People from various backgrounds are invited to be part of the solution and help end the pandemic.” “An ethical committee comprising doctors, social workers and lawyers has already been constituted to manage the clinical trials,” said Shahid Ali Siddiqui, Principal, JNMC. During the human testing for vaccine, its efficacy will be evaluated in different ways. The earlier clinical trials will look for the production of antibodies against the virus, while the late-phase trials will evaluate whether it in fact prevents people from getting sick.
01 November 2020||New Delhi,||Water shortage: DJB V-C inspects treatment plant||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairman Raghav Chadha inspected the Sonia Vihar Water Treatment Plant (WTP) on Saturday and got water production restored to 70-80% capacity, the Board said. Water released from Haryana into the Yamuna led to an increase in ammonia levels which affected production of water at the Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi WTPs, said Mr. Chadha. This led to water shortage across the city. Mr. Chadha said the level of ammonia in water needs be less than 1PPM and DJB engineers were working on a war-footing to contain the situation and ensure affected areas get normal water supply at the earliest. After assuring 100% water production soon, Mr. Chadha held a high-level meeting with senior officials and engineers of the DJB, including Chief Engineer (Water). “Regular water supply in affected areas will resume soon and 100% water production will resume at Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi WTPs,” the DJB V-C said, adding: “We are in constant touch with the governments of Haryana and U.P. to help deal with the pressing situation and to ensure Delhiites do not have to face further problems due to water shortage.”
01 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for duping delivery boy of Rs. 1,700||A 24-year-old man was arrested for allegedly cheating a delivery boy of Rs. 1,700 in south-east Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar, the police said on Saturday. DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena said accused Vikash is a resident of Dakshinpuri. During enquiry, complainant Atul Bajaj said that he runs a grocery store at C-block Lajpat Nagar and on Tuesday, he received a call to deliver some items at an address in the same area. The shop owner then sent his delivery boy, Sandeep, to the mentioned address. “When Sandeep reached near the house, a man introduced himself as the driver of the house owner and asked him to handover the items,” Mr. Meena said. The accused took the items and Rs. 1,700 cash from Sandeep and asked him to wait till he comes back with Rs. 2,000. Sandeep waited for a long time but the man did not return following which he went back to the shop. During enquiry, it was found that the order was not made by the house owner. “The phone number was put on surveillance and CCTV footage of nearby areas was checked. The suspect was held from Dakshinpuri on Friday,” Mr. Meena said. Vikash told police that he has been committing crimes — snatching and theft — for the past two years as he had no jobs. He recently started cheating people using this modus operandi. “He used to book items as per his requirement, which was always less than Rs. 1,000 so that no one files a complaint against him,” Mr. Meena added.
01 November 2020||November 01 2020 00:00 IST,||High-tech transfers||The story so far: On October 27, India and the U.S. signed the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) during the third 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers of the two countries. This is the fourth and the last of the foundational agreements that both countries have concluded, starting with GSOMIA (General Security of Military Information Agreement) in 2002, LEMOA (Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement) in 2016, COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in 2018, and now BECA. What are foundational agreements? The United States enters into what are called ‘foundational or enabling agreements’ with its defence partners. These agreements govern the nature and scope of U.S. defence partnerships. Partners enhance the capabilities of the U.S. military in distant places through sharing information, platforms and logistics. The competitive advantage of the U.S. military is maintained primarily by the advanced technologies that the country develops continuously. The U.S. sells military equipment to other countries with strict control over their deployment and use. For instance, consider the B777-300ER aircraft that India bought from Boeing recently for the use of VVIPs. The sale of advanced communication and security systems on the aircraft — which are not commercially available — is made seamless by foundational agreements. The U.S. is also eager to advance ‘interoperability’ with defence forces of the countries that are its defence partners. Interoperability involves real-time coordination of forces. The U.S. has signed these foundational agreements with at least 100 countries, which mostly follow a standard text. Country-specific changes were made in India’s case in all four foundational agreements. What do these agreements do? The General Security of Military Information Agreement or GSOMIA, and its extension, the Information Security Annex (ISA) signed in 2019, allow military technology cooperation for the sharing of classified information between governments and companies in both countries. The LEMOA enables logistics support, say refuelling of planes or ships, supply of spare parts or maintenance to each other. For instance, U.S. Navy’s P8 aircraft landed in Port Blair last month for refuelling, under LEMOA. Even in the absence of this agreement, such cooperation can and has taken place between India and the U.S., but the agreement makes it seamless, and the accounting easier. The COMCASA allows Indian forces to procure advanced, secure communication equipment from the U.S. Such equipment was earlier denied for U.S. origin platforms such as C-17, C-130, and commercial systems were used in their place. Only after COMCASA was signed were the encrypted systems provided to India. The BECA enables exchange of geospatial information. Akin to a GPS that enables navigation, such exchange of geospatial information enhances the accuracy of a missile or the utility of a drone.   What is the strategic importance of these agreements?  Since the Civil Nuclear Agreement of 2005, the India-U.S. defence cooperation has been advancing at a rapid pace. The U.S. has relaxed restrictions on technology trade in India’s favour considerably, and India is designated a ‘Major Defence Partner’. Foundational agreements deepen defence cooperation, in trade and operation. India and the U.S. are also part of a broader shared vision for the Indo-Pacific region, where both countries, along with Japan and Australia, are increasing their military cooperation. U.S.-built platforms used by partner countries can talk to one another and share operational information.  Are there any concerns? Critics worry that tying itself too closely with the U.S. may limit India’s choices. The evolution of technology makes it inevitable that all military platforms will be integrated and networked in the future. The U.S. is very particular about the integrity of its networks, and pressure could mount on India to remain firmly in its camp. The U.S. is particularly irked by India’s continuing defence cooperation with Russia. India will be taking the delivery of Russian S-400 missile defence system next year, ignoring American objections. The U.S. could respond with sanctions. At any rate, it will not be possible to integrate Russian and American platforms, and this could throw up new challenges of military planning for India. The moot question, say experts, is whether India could ramp up its defence cooperation with the U.S. without ending up as its ally.  The Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement enables exchange of geospatial information. Akin to a GPS that enables navigation, such exchange of information enhances the accuracy of a missile or the utility of a drone
01 November 2020||New Delhi,||AAP demands civic bodies release pensions at once||The BJP-ruled municipal corporations should immediately release the pension of 24,000 people and stop doing politics over the issue, Aam Aadmi Party civic bodies’ in-charge Durgesh Pathak said on Saturday. Mr. Pathak said that the BJP ran the corporations for 14 years, but if control over them was given to AAP for a year, then there would be a marked change. This, even as the BJP accused AAP councillors of being corrupt and misusing their official powers. “The condition of the families of pensioners is very bad... people are taking loans and using up their savings for survival,” he said. “In Delhi, the BJP has been ruling the corporations for the last 14 years and in this time the party has completely ruined the civic bodies. Today, it is considered as the most corrupt department and most poorly governed,” he added. Meanwhile, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal alleging “massive illegal construction” on the property of a local AAP councillor in Chirag Delhi.
01 November 2020||New Delhi,||No deaths due to dengue this year: govt.||On the eve of the last week of its anti-dengue campaign 10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute , the Delhi government credited it with having ensured zero deaths due to the mosquito-borne disease so far this year. Health Minister Satyendar Jain tweeted: “Delhi people did it! No death due to dengue this year. There is also a sharp fall in number of cases compared to figures reported last year. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s campaign “10 hafte 10 baje 10 minute” has been made a success by you all [sic].” Last week, the government said the campaign got support from celebrities such as Shankar Mahadevan, who encouraged the citizens of Delhi to religiously follow the dengue prevention guidelines such as inspecting their residences for signs of stagnant water.
01 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Badal seeks relief package||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to direct the Union Finance Ministry to offer a comprehensive relief package for farmers. In a statement, Mr. Badal said the decision not to include the farming community in the ambit of the Centre’s scheme which seeks to provide ex gratia payment of the difference between compound interest and simple interest to borrowers for six months proved that policy makers were totally out of sync with grassroot realities. He said the farmers were expecting a complete waiver of crop loans and interest on tractor loans as well as loans taken for other allied activities. “It is shocking that instead of doing this, the Union government is not even ready to save them from compound interest being charged from them due to default in instalments.”
01 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU releases 4th cut-off list||Delhi University on Saturday released the fourth cut-off list for admission to various merit-based undergraduate courses. Students can seek admission online between November 2 and 4. The last date for payment of fee under the new list is November 6. Student pinning hopes on a fall in the required cut-offs were disappointed as several DU colleges started closing admissions under general category or announced marginal relaxation in cut-offs. Reserved category seats are still up for grabs in many colleges. Lady Shri Ram College, which had asked 100% score for three honours courses: political science, economics and psychology, closed admissions for economics in the fourth list and revised the cut-off for political science and psychology to 99% and 99.2%, respectively. In the third list, the cut-off for political science and psychology had been set at 99.25% and 99.5%, respectively. The university had earlier announced that it would be releasing five cut-off lists before the new session commences on November 18. After that, it would release special cut-off lists according to the seats left vacant. Admission under the fifth list will begin on November 9.
01 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man held for duping bank of over Rs. 2 cr.||A 40-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly duping a person and a bank of over Rs. 2 crore, the police said on Saturday. Joint Commissioner of Police (Economic Offences Wing) O.P. Mishra said the accused has been identified as Brij Gopal from Noida. Brij had taken three warehouses on rent from the complainant, an officer said, adding that on default of payment, a civil suit was filed against him. During the proceeding, Brij produced two sale deeds, claiming that he had purchased two pieces of land from one Sunil Kumar while the land belonged to the complainant’s father. On the basis of the forged sale deeds, he had also taken a loan of more than Rs. 2 crore from a bank. After enquiry, a case was registered on June 15, 2018, the officer said. During the probe, it was revealed that Brij made no payment to Sunil and it was a sham transaction. The address mentioned in the sale deed was incomplete, the police said. The accused induced the complainant to give his property on rent and later prepared forged documents. He further mortgaged the property with a bank.
01 November 2020||Guwahati,||No COVID test for dignitaries in Assam||The Assam government has decided to exempt foreign dignitaries and top officials from COVID-19 tests and quarantine upon their arrival in the State on official visits, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday. The administration has also given some relaxations to the commoners, exempting people testing negative for the infection in RT-PCR tests conducted within 72 hours before their arrival in Assam and locals returning within 24 hours of leaving the State from tests and quarantine, Mr. Sarma told reporters. The exemption will be subject to the production of satisfactory documents and verification of test results on the ICMR portal, he said. The exemption has been extended to foreign dignitaries and diplomats of all embassies and diplomatic missions, officials of multilateral funding agencies, besides those from investigating, intelligence and security agencies and Income Tax Department on official visits to Assam, the Minister said.
01 November 2020||New Delhi,||15 policemen receive medal||Fifteen officers of the Delhi Police Special Cell have been awarded the Union Home Minister’s Special Operation Medal on the occasion of birth anniversary of India’s first Home Minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Eleven of them were awarded for their role in ‘Operation PAMIR’ in which a team of the Special Cell had busted an international drug cartel. Operation PAMIR also uncovered a new modus operandi of using the land route from Afghanistan through Iran and then via sea to the ports of western India for narco-smuggling, it said.
