02 August 2020||New Delhi,||In U-turn, Gehlot now ready to accept rebels||In a reversal of his stand, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said if the Congress high command forgave the 19 rebel MLAs, including former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, then he would also welcome them back in the party fold. Mr. Gehlot had used harsh words against Mr. Pilot, calling him“nikamma”(useless) at a time when the Congress leadership was working hard to mend bridges with the rebel camp. In response to reporters’ queries, Mr. Gehlot said he would do whatever the Congress leadership wanted. He gave the party the credit for him becoming Chief Minister thrice. Returns from Jaisalmer Mr. Gehlot was on his way back to Jaipur after an overnight stay at Jaisalmer’s Suryagarh Resort, where legislators supporting him are staying. The Gehlot loyalists were shifted on Friday after an 18-day stay at Fairmont Hotel in Jaipur, after party leaders felt pressure was growing on them. The Assembly is scheduled to meet on August 14, and there is speculation that the number of legislators supporting Mr. Gehlot may have fallen below the crucial 100 mark. The Congress has 107 members and the BJP 72 in the 200-member Assembly. Mr. Pilot has the support of 18 legislators. Mr. Gehlot said, “We have no quarrel with anyone. In a democracy, fights happen over ideology, policies and programmes and not for toppling a government.” He urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to get the alleged attempt to topple his government stopped. “Modi should stop whatever is going on in Rajasthan,” he said.  Mr. Gehlot had, in a letter to Mr. Modi, made a similar request. He claimed that democracy was under threat in the country and Union Home Minister Amit Shah was after his government in the State. He reiterated his earlier allegation of the BJP’s attempts to buy Congress legislators, saying the “rate” for luring MLAS had gone up after the announcement of the Assembly session. Mr. Gehlot also accused BJP State president Satish Poonia of sidelining former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje. He commented that Ms Raje had “disappeared” from the scene. Mr. Poonia had mocked the Congress, asking if Gehlot loyalists would next move further westward across the border into Pakistan. ( With inputs from PTI )  In a democracy, fights happen over ideology, policies and programmes and not for toppling a government Ashok Gehlot Rajasthan Chief Minister
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||July sales hint at auto sector revival||Signalling a possible recovery from the COVID-19 induced shock for the automobile sector, the country’s largest car maker Maruti Suzuki posted a year-on-year growth of 1% in domestic wholesale sales in July, while Hero MotoCorp, the two wheeler market leader, inched closer to the dispatch numbers of July 2019. However, other manufacturers such as Mahindra and Mahindra, Honda Cars and Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) continued to post a double digit decline in domestic wholesale. Maruti Suzuki on Saturday said it had dispatched over one lakh units in the domestic market, with sales of mini segment cars (Alto and S-Presso) and utility vehicles (Gypsy, Ertiga, S-Cross, Vitara Brezza and XL6) rebounding by 49% to 17,258 units and 26% to 19,177 units respectively. FCompact segment car sales, which includes WagonR, Swift, Celerio, and Dzire, however, fell 10% to 51,529 units. Hyundai Motor India sold 38,200 units in the domestic market last month as against 39,010 units in July 2019, down 2%. Honda Cars India said it sold 5,383 units in the domestic market in July 2020 as against 10,250 units in July 2019. Rajesh Goel, senior vice-president and director, Marketing & Sales, Honda Cars India Ltd, said, “July was action packed for us as we launched 3 models — New WR-V, Civic BS-6 Diesel and All-New 5th Generation Honda City, which have helped us create excitement in the market and improve buying sentiment... We gradually ramped up our production to 60% of the pre-COVID level in July and despatched the entire available factory stock, registering a sequential growth of 285% over June 2020.” Mr Goel added that with the festive season coming up, the company is quite positive about the industry getting back on track gradually. Homegrown Mahindra and Mahindra posted a decline of 35% in total domestic sales at 24,211 units. While sales of passenger vehicles was down 34% to 11,025 units, that of commercial vehicles fell 18% to 13,103 units. ‘Growing trend’ “At Mahindra, we are happy to see a growing trend in our overall vehicle sales. It is encouraging to see that the enquiry and booking levels in July are significantly higher compared to June, both for Utility Vehicles and Small Commercial Vehicles,” Veejay Nakra, Chief Executive Officer, Automotive Division, M&M Ltd. said. The company had sold 8,075 passenger vehicles and 10,417 commercial vehicles in June. Likewise, TKM posted a 48% decline in domestic vehicle sales to 5,386 units in July as against 10,423 units in the same month last year. However, compared to June 2020, the sales were up 40% from 3866 units. Naveen Soni, Sr. Vice President, Sales & Service- TKM said, “Despite various challenges, the month of July witnessed better sales when compared to June. The first month post unlock (June) witnessed demand rekindling and retails being very good due to several factors including pending customer orders as well as pent up demand accumulated as a result of the extended lockdown” However, he added that in July, as a result of sporadic lockdowns and extensions being imposed in several parts of the country, led to a situation wherein business was closed in upto 20% of the market, in and around mid-July. Component supplies hit MG Motor India posted a 40% increase in retail sales at 2,105 units, up from 1,508 units in July 2019. Rakesh Sidana, Director- Sales, MG Motor India, said, “The overall market environment continues to be challenging filled with uncertainties due to variable lockdowns in various phases. The component supplies continue to remain impacted especially from the Chennai region... However, despite these challenges, our production has remained at similar levels in July as compared to June 2020 and We expect the situation to improve during the festival season.” In the two-wheeler segment, Hero MotoCorp sold over 5.14 lakh units in July 2020. “Despite the prevailing economic slowdown on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Company registered a sequential growth of 14% over the previous month (June 2020) and reached more than 95% of wholesale dispatch numbers of the corresponding month in the previous year (July 2019),” it said. Rival Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India said its total July dispatches stood at over 3.21 lakh units due to increasing demand for personal mobility. In July 2019, however, the company had sold over 4.89 lakh units.
02 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||11 killed as crane collapses at Hindustan Shipyard in Vizag||Eleven persons were killed on the spot when a crane collapsed and fell on workers at the Hindustan Shipyard Limited here on Saturday. All of the victims were employees and working at the site. While 10 bodies have been retrieved from the debris and identified, the body of the eleventh person is still to be retrieved. According to the district administration, among the 10 identified, four of them were permanent employees of HSL and six were from three contracting agencies. While two were from Lead Engineers, three were from Greenfields Corporation and one was from Squad 7. The crane that collapsed was a jetty level luffing 70 MT crane. The work on the crane reportedly commenced in 2009, when the contract was allotted to Mumbai-based Anupama Industries. The company left in 2012, leaving the work half done. Trial run As per sources in HSL, the work on the crane recommenced this year by another contracting firm, Greenfields Corporation, and Lead Engineers and Squad 7 were also involved in the work. The work was completed and trial run was being done for load bearing capacity for the last couple of days. After lifting about 50% to 60% of the load in the last couple of days, on Saturday the trial was being done for 100% capacity, when the crane buckled and collapsed. People who were standing below, seeing the crane collapsing ran to safety, said Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena. As per district officials, the deceased have been identified as Jagan, Prasad, Ramana and Satyaraju from HSL; Naga Devulu and Bhaskar from Lead Engineers; Venkata Rao, Siva and Chaitanya from Greenfields and P.B. Ratnam from Squad 7. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao said that he had spoken to the district Collector who sent team of officials to the spot. He said that he would take up the issue with Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy and see that the families of the deceased got adequate financial compensation. District Collector V. Vinay Chand, Commissioner of Police R.K. Meena, MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana rushed to the spot and held discussions with Chairman and Managing Director of HSL L.V. Sarat Babu. Meanwhile the gates of HSL were closed and no one was allowed inside. Scores of people including kin of the deceased gathered outside and blamed the management for not taking proper safety precautions.
02 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Surge continues in State with 1,129 fresh cases||The State on Saturday reported another 1,129 new patients to its COVID-19 case burden. The total number of cases reported by the State ever since the outbreak began is now 24,742. Community transmission becoming well established, 924 out of the 1,129 new cases are locally acquired infections. No source of infection could be established in 58 of these cases. Health-care workers continue to be affected in large numbers on a daily basis and on Saturday 24 of them tested positive. Eight more deaths which occurred in the State have been confirmed as due to COVID-19 and have entered the official records. The deaths reported include two from Ernakulam and one each from Malappuram, Kasaragod, Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, Kollam and Thrissur. The total official COVID-19 death toll in the State now is 81. On Saturday, 752 recoveries were reported. With 13,779 persons having reported recovered, the number of patients currently undergoing treatment in hospitals in various districts is 10,862. Thiruvananthapuram continued the trend of being at the top of all districts when it comes to new cases, reporting 259 on Saturday. All except four cases were locally acquired infections. The district continues to have the highest number of COVID-19 patients on treatment in hospitals at 3,167. In the rest of the districts, the number of active cases are well below 1,000. District-wise cases The new cases reported on Saturday are Kasaragod 153, Malappuram 141, Kozhikode 95, Pathanamthitta 85, Thrissur 76, Alappuzha 67, Ernakulam 59, Kottayam and Palakkad 47 each, Wayanad 46, Kollam 35, Idukki 14 and Kannur 5. The samples tested in the last 24 hours in the State is 20,518.
02 August 2020||New Delhi,||ICMR fast-tracks approvals for Israeli research coordinated by DRDO||The government has pulled out all stops to help Israel conduct COVID-19 research on patients admitted to four Delhi hospitals, including transfer of saliva samples and patients’ data to Israel, The Hindu has learnt. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is collaborating with Israel’s Directorate of Defense Research and Development (DRDD) to conduct trials on Indian patients that include an audio test, a breath test, thermal testing and a polyamino test to isolate proteins related to COVID-19. Ministry nod The trial obtained “expedited approval” by the Health Ministry’s Screening Committee (HSMC) chaired by Dr. Balram Bhargava of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on July 28, a day after the Israeli team had arrived in India. The decision is yet to be endorsed by the full committee that is expected to meet in August. Though the ICMR is the apex body for biomedical research and foreign-aided research in the country, the current trials will be controlled by the DRDO. The DRDO proposes to transfer 5,000 saliva samples to the Israeli defence team. The DRDO was forced to seek the approval of HSMC after the institutional ethics committees of two hospitals — Lady Hardinge Medical College and Hospital and Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital — where the patient samples are being collected, suggested that a final approval be obtained from the HMSC as the process involved “foreign collaboration.” The other two hospitals where the Israeli team will be conducting trials are Sir Gangaram Hospital and Lok Nayak Jaiprakash Hospital (LNJP). However, Principal Scientific Adviser K. VijayRaghavan had written to DRDO Chairman Dr. Satheesh Reddy on July 27 that scientific departments of the government do not require to go to the HMSC.  Mr. VijayRaghavan stressed that COVID-19 research can be carried out in consonance with the guidelines issued by a vaccine task force constituted by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) which enables the DRDO to take decisions on testing and sample sharing. He said the DRDO had the authority to decide the mechanism of conducting the experiments and what part of samples could be exported for collaborative research. Mr. VijayRaghavan said it was a “research validation” study for which RT-PCR tests may have to be done on the participants and the positive results may be communicated to the ICMR in a way that does not impact the speed of the research programme. While approving the trial on June 28, the ICMR chief expressed caution on handling of the saliva samples of COVID-19 patients as it may contain live virus and said as per 1997 guidelines for exchange of samples for biomedical research purposes, it was essential for information to be available in a central location — the ICMR headquarters.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Credit guarantee extended to larger firms, self-employed||The Centre has expanded its credit guarantee scheme for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to cover loans given to larger firms, as well as to self-employed people and professionals who have taken loans for business purposes, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Saturday. The Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme was rolled out in May as part of the Centre’s Aatmanirbhar package in response to the COVID-19 crisis. It has a corpus of Rs. 41,600 crore and provides fully guaranteed additional funding of up to Rs. 3 lakh crore. Eligible MSMEs had to have an annual turnover up to Rs. 100 crore, with outstanding loans of up to Rs. 25 crore as on February 29, 2020.  So far, banks have approved Rs. 1.36 lakh crore worth of loans to 40 lakh MSME units under the scheme. Over Rs. 87,000 crore had been disbursed, Financial Services Secretary Debashis Panda said. “Given that there was further headroom available, it was decided to expand the scheme. We expect that Rs. 1 lakh crore can be sanctioned to additional beneficiaries due to the expansion,” said Ms. Sitharaman, adding that the window would remain open for the original MSME beneficiaries as well. The scheme has been expanded to cover enterprises with a turnover up to Rs. 250 crore, with outstanding loans up to Rs. 50 crore. Individual beneficiaries include both professionals such as doctors, lawyers and chartered accountants, as well as self-employed people such as vendors or taxi drivers. The government had received feedback especially from non-banking financial companies that a large section of their clientele included such people, who had taken loans under their own names for business needs.  We expect that Rs. 1 lakh crore can be sanctioned to additional beneficiaries due to the expansion Nirmala Sitharaman Union Finance Minister
02 August 2020||New Delhi,||Only 1.7% of 35K domestic workers test positive in city||As many as 35,022 domestic and daily wage workers in the city have been tested randomly for COVID-19 so far and only 597 of them have been found to be infected — a rate of 1.7% — according to the Delhi government data accessed by The Hindu. Officials say the positivity rate is “low” and a “good sign”. ‘Revised plan’ The Aam Aadmi Party government had on July 8 released a ‘Revised Delhi COVID Response Plan (Modified)’ under which drivers, domestic workers, plumbers, electricians, carpenters, mechanics among others were enlisted under special surveillance group(SSG) and tested. Another group enlisted under the plan were people above 65 years of age and with comorbidities, termed as high-risk group (HRG), and they showed a higher rate of infection. Of the 12,457 elderly people tested for the virus, 525 were found COVID-19-positive, a rate of 4.2%, till July 29. A total of 64,649 people were enlisted under HRG and 51,376 people under SSG. Also, the modified plan directed officials to identify areas where isolated cases were being reported and 844 such areas were identified and more than 10.01 lakh people living there were screened. “Districts shall strive to undertake the screening of SSG wherever possible. Major points of conglomerations of SSG to be compulsorily covered," the plan said. “These workers interact with a larger number of people on a daily basis and if someone like them tests positive then the infection can spread. This was our idea behind putting them under a special group and testing them,” a health department official said. “Their low positivity shows that we are well placed in terms of our fight against the virus.” The district officials have so far organised camps in markets and other areas and people falling under SSG have been tested using rapid antigen tests. Commenting on the slightly higher positivity of senior citizens, the official said, “These people are more prone to get infections. So, considering that, it is also not a very high percentage.”
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. records 2.5 lakh virus cases, Chennai crosses 1 lakh||Tamil Nadu’s overall tally of COVID-19 cases surpassed 2.5 lakh on Saturday, as 5,879 more persons tested positive. The tally of patients in Chennai crossed one lakh. While 7,010 persons were discharged across the State, 99 deaths were recorded. With this, State’s toll has gone up to 4,034. The State’s tally surged to 2,51,738, of which 56,738 are under treatment. A total of 1,90,966 patients have been discharged. Chennai, with 1,074 fresh cases, touched 1,00,877, of which 86,301 have been discharged and 12,436 are under treatment. It accounted for 2,140 deaths. Of the 99 deaths, 27 occurred in Chennai. Ten patients each died in Coimbatore and Madurai. Among the deceased was a 26-year-old man from Ramanathapuram. He was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, with perforation peritonitis on July 29. But he died on July 30 owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome, COVID-19 pneumonia and perforation peritonitis. A 27-year-old woman from Chennai, who had systemic lupus erythematosus, deep vein thrombosis, right heart failure and hypertension, died at a private hospital on July 31. She was admitted with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for three days. Her death was due to cardio-respiratory arrest, right heart failure with pulmonary arterial hypertension and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 28-year-old woman from Madurai was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital on July 1. She had anaemia and died on July 4 owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome, COVID-19 pneumonia and anaemia. Four districts had 300-plus cases. Kancheepuram reported 368 cases, while Theni recorded 327 cases. Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur had 314 and 305 cases respectively. There were 286 fresh cases in Virudhunagar, while 242 persons tested positive in Thoothukudi and 240 in Tiruvannamalai. Coimbatore had 238 cases. Ten districts, including Madurai, Kanyakumari, Vellore and Cuddalore, had 100-plus cases. In addition, 57 returnees tested positive in the State. A total of 60,580 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. With this, 27,18,718 samples have been tested so far. Another private laboratory — Dharan Clinical Lab Services, Salem — was recently approved for testing. There are 59 testing facilities in the government sector and 62 in the private sector.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Cases, deaths continue to pile up quickly||India recorded 54,351 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and 838 deaths on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 17,50,971 infections and 37,398 deaths. Maharashtra (322 deaths), Tamil Nadu (99) and Karnataka (98) recorded the most fatalities, while Bihar (3,521 cases) and Telangana (2,083) registered new highs in daily infections.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||NEP drops Mandarin from language list||The National Education Policy (NEP) has dropped Mandarin (Chinese) from its list of foreign languages that can be taught in schools. The language was included in the draft policy released in May 2019, but is missing from the final document approved by the Cabinet this week. Senior officials told The Hindu that over the past year, consultations had been held between the Ministries of Human Resource Development and External Affairs, due to security concerns over teaching Mandarin to Indian students. “A choice of foreign language(s) (e.g. French, German, Spanish, Chinese, Japanese) would be offered and available to interested students to choose as elective(s) during secondary school,” said the draft Policy document. Mandarin is the language most commonly spoken in China. Over the course of a year of rising India-China tensions, that sentence was changed. “In addition to high quality offerings in Indian languages and English, foreign languages, such as Korean, Japanese, Thai, French, German, Spanish, Portuguese, and Russian, will also be offered at the secondary level…,” says the final version. Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare played down the change, pointing out that it is only a set of examples, not an exhaustive list of allowed languages. Schools are free to offer other languages, he said. Mandarin is not on the list of foreign languages offered at the Class X or Class XII level by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), which currently includes Tibetan, Thai, and Japanese, along with European languages such as Russian, Spanish, French and German. Other languages may be offered by schools as a third language option in Classes VI to VIII. The MEA did not respond to a query on whether it had initiated any move to drop Mandarin from the CBSE curriculum. However, an official aware of the conversations on the subject told The Hindu that the MHRD has had discussions with the MEA and the Indian Council for Cultural Relations over the past year and sought inputs on which languages were most important to retain in the curriculum. According to another official, there have been security concerns involving Mandarin language instruction in Indian institutions. The plan for teaching Mandarin in Indian schools and Hindi language instruction in Chinese schools was part of an Education Exchange Programme signed by both countries in 2006, which was renewed by Prime Minister Modi during his visit to China in 2015. The plan included a Memorandum of Understanding signed in 2012 by the then Indian Ambassador to Beijing (current External Affairs Minister) S. Jaishankar with Hanban, the official Chinese organisation that oversees Mandarin studies abroad. In 2014, the CBSE then introduced Mandarin in some schools, but the plan floundered due to unavailability of Chinese language teachers. “Since 2017, the government has systematically curbed annual scholarship programmes with China as well,” said Jawaharlal Nehru University Professor Hemant Adlakha. “All countries which consider relations with China crucial and/or important have learning of Mandarin at all levels,” he added, citing examples of the U.S., Australia, Japan and South Korea that offer Chinese at school level.
02 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Ex-Minister Manikyala Rao succumbs to COVID-19||BJP State general secretary and former MLA and Minister Pydikondala Manikyala Rao (60) died of COVID-19 at a private hospital here on Saturday. He is survived by wife and daughter. Rao was elected to the Assembly from Tadepalligudem in West Godavari in 2014 when his party was in alliance with the TDP. He was one of the two BJP MLAs (Kamineni Srinivas is the other one) who were inducted into the Cabinet. He held the Endowments portfolio. Manikyala Rao and Mr. Srinivas had resigned from the TDP Cabinet in March 2018 following a spat between the alliance partners over bifurcation issues. Manikyala Rao was admitted to a hospital at Eluru three weeks ago and later shifted to Vijayawada after his condition deteriorated. He had since been on a ventilator. Manikyala Rao had joined the BJP in 1989 after a long stint in the RSS, which began at a young age of 10. He was a photographer and did some businesses and organised social service activities before taking the plunge into politics.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Death blow||
02 August 2020||Mumbai,||9,601 new cases take State tally past 4.3 lakh||Maharashtra recorded 9,601 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, pushing its total case tally to 4,31,719. The State also reported 322 fatalities, taking its death toll to 15,316. Mumbai reported 1,047 new cases to take its case load to 1,15,331, while 45 more deaths pushed its toll to 6,398. “Of the total cases in the State, 1,49,214 are active cases,” State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. A total of 2,66,883 patients were discharged in the State on Saturday. A spike in fresh cases and deaths in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region saw its cumulative cases rise to 2,42,778, and death toll touching 9,766. Pune city recorded 1,441 new cases, while Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 797 fresh cases. Pune city reported 42 more fatalities, while 13 patients succumbed to the virus in Pimpri-Chinchwad. The cumulative tally and toll in the Pune division now stand at 1,05,359 and 2,830 respectively. The case load in Nashik division has reached 35,290 and its death toll has touched 1,215. Kolhapur division has so far reported 10,404 cases and 255 deaths, while Aurangabad division has reported 17,199 cases and 611 deaths till date. Latur division has so far recorded 5,825 cases and 245 fatalities, State health officials said. In Akola division, the case load surged to 7,753, while its death toll rose to 260. The cumulative case tally in Nagpur division has soared to 6,706 and its death toll stands at 85.
02 August 2020||Hyderabad,||TS sees highest single-day spike||Telangana crossed 2,000 COVID-19 cases in a single day for the first time after the pandemic broke out in the State. On Friday, 2,083 swab samples tested positive for coronavirus, and 11 more patients died. While 21,011 samples tested on July 31, results of 883 are awaited. The cases have been rising from July 21.
02 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Missing lawyer’s body found in tiles godown||The body of a lawyer who went missing from Khurja town in Bulandhshar on July 25 was recovered from a tiles godown in the town on Friday night, the police said. Three persons, including the unit owner, have been arrested.
02 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab spurious liquor death toll rises to 86||The death toll in the hooch tragedy in three Punjab districts — Tarn Taran, Amritsar (Rural) and Gurd-aspur — has risen to 86, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Saturday. He ordered an inquiry into the tragedy.
02 August 2020||New Delhi,||Second serosurvey begins in Delhi||A second serological survey, in which blood samples of random people will be taken to check how many have developed antibodies against COVID-19, began in the city on Saturday. A similar survey conducted from June 27 to July 5 had shown antibodies in 23.4% of the population.
02 August 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia asks Shah to allow hotels, weekly markets||Delhi’s Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah asking him to direct Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal to allow hotels and weekly markets to function in the city. “I  request you to direct L-G sir to immediately approve the CM’s proposal,” he wrote.
02 August 2020||Hyderabad,||01-Aug-Nearby-2||TRS working president and Minister for Industries, IT and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao said that the party was planning more welfare measures for its workers in addition to the insurance cover currently provided.
02 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Human rights panel books case against govt.||The Karnataka State Human Rights Commission (KSHRC) has booked a case against the State government over alleged negligence in dealing with COVID-19 patients, based on a complaint by former Congress Minister and the State Legislature’s Public Accounts Committee chairperson H.K. Patil.
02 August 2020||Chennai,||Action against hospital for excess billing||Though the T.N. government has capped COVID-19 treatment costs, a number of private hospitals continue to charge more. On Saturday, Be Well Hospitals in Kilpauk lost recognition as a COVID-19 facility for charging over Rs. 12 lakh from a patient.
02 August 2020||Chennai,||297 video lessons ready for Plus Two students||The School Education Department has prepared 297 video lessons, across subjects for Plus Two students. As part of the first phase of the'Veetupalli'initiative, 137 video lessons were given to students.
02 August 2020||Chennai,||State likely to be power surplus, says report||Tamil Nadu is likely to have a power surplus both in terms of overall energy requirement and peak demand for 2020-21, says a load generation balance report by the Central Electricity Authority, under the Union Ministry of Power. The report also points to a deviation in demand and supply position in April and May due to the lockdown.
02 August 2020||Chennai,||HC warns schools against collecting entire fees||The Madras High Court has warned private schools against forcing parents to pay entire fees in gross violation of the court’s July 17 interim order to collect only 40% of the fees for the present, in view of the lockdown.
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||In a spike, 2,083 test positive in Telangana||Telangana crossed 2,000 COVID-19 cases in a day for thefirst time. On Friday, 2,083 samples tested positive and 11 more patients died, Saturday’s data said. While 21,011 samples were tested on July 31, results of 883 were awaited. The new cases included 578 from Greater Hyderabad area, 228 from Rangareddy, 197 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 134 from Warangal Urban and 101 from Sangareddy. As of July end, 4,58,593 samples had been tested and 64,786 cases recorded. Of those, 17,754 were active while 46,502 recovered and 530 died. The cumulative test positivity rate was 14.12%. Of the 64,786 cases recorded from March 2 to July 31, the July number stood at 48,447 cases. While RT-PCR tests were increased from June 15, Rapid Antigen Tests were taken up from July 8. Andhra Pradesh’s tally of positive cases crossed 1.5 lakhs with 9,276 new infections. Deaths rose to 1,407 as 58 patients died in the past day, the Health Department said. While the case total stood at 1,50,209, the State reported the discharge of 12,750 patients. There were 72,188 active cases. The State totted up 20 lakh tests, the latest data being 60,797 samples in a day. The case numbers rose from one lakh to 1.5 lakhs in six days, during which period 53,911 cases and 366 deaths were reported. Nationally, while the State’s share of positive cases out of 16.95 lakh was 8.8%, its share of tests out of a cumulative 1.93 crore was 10.39%, official data said. Also, at 7.46% positivity rate the State was behind Maharastra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka with one-lakh-plus cases. Four districts reported at least 1,000 new cases each, led by Kurnool (1,234 cases, 6 deaths), Visakhapatnam (1,155, 8), Anantapur (1,128, 6) and Guntur (1,001, 7). Kerala’s new cases stood at 1,129, and total at 24,742. With community transmission, 924 of 1,129 new cases were locally acquired infections, and no source of infection was found in 58 cases. Among health workers 24 more were infected. Eight more deaths were recorded, two from Ernakulam and one each from Malappuram, Kasaragod, Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, Kollam and Thrissur. The official toll in the State was 81. Tamil Nadu’s overall COVID-19 tally passed 2.5 lakh cases on Saturday as another 5,879 persons tested positive. While 7,010 persons were discharged from hospitals, 99 persons died on Saturday, taking the State’s toll to 4,034. The total number of positives surged to 2,51,738, of which 56,738 were under treatment. Chennai, with 1,074 new cases, touched 1,00,877 cases and 12,436 persons were under treatment. The city accounted for 2,140 deaths.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Chennai, and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus)
02 August 2020||New Delhi,||4 former Ministers defend UPA-II govt.||Four former Union Ministers — Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor, Anand Sharma and Milind Deora, have come out in defence of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and the UPA-II government following the recent comments of the Congress’s Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Satav. The four warned that party leaders should not play into the hands of ideological opponents. At a meeting of the party’s Rajya Sabha members with its president Sonia Gandhi, Mr. Satav suggested that introspection in the party should begin from the UPA-2 period. He countered former Union Minister Kapil Sibal’s suggestion for an introspection and argued that introspection should begin from the UPA-2 period to analyse how the party fell to 44 Lok Sabha seats in 2014. Close to Rahul Mr. Satav is considered close to former party chief Rahul Gandhi and his comments are seen as a symptom of the deep divide between the old guard and the young that has nearly crippled the party. Mr. Tewari, who held the Information and Broadcasting portfolio in UPA-2, said in a tweet on Friday, that while the question, “was UPA responsible for decline in fortunes of Congress in 2014”, valid, an equally valid one to ask was if there was an internal sabotage, considering no charge against UPA has stood the test of law six years on. “BJP was out of Power for 10 yrs 2004-14. Not once did they ever blame Vajpayee or his Govt for their then predicaments. In Congress, unfortunately some ill-informed ones would rather take swipes at Dr. Manmohan Singh-led UPA government than fight NDA/BJP. When unity is required they divide,” he said. Mr. Deora said while demitting office in 2014, Dr. Singh noted that “history will be kinder to me”. “Could he [Manmohan Singh] have ever imagined that some from his own party would dismiss his years of service to the nation and seek to destroy his legacy - that, too, in his presence?” he asked. Mr. Tharoor said, “UPA's transformative ten years were distorted and traduced by a motivated and malicious narrative. There's plenty to learn from our defeats and much to be done to revive Congress. But not by playing into the hands of our ideological enemies.” Mr. Sharma said “Congressmen must be proud of the UPA’s legacy. No party disowns or discredits its legacy. Nobody expects the BJP to be charitable and give us credit but our own should respect and not forget.”
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC against contempt law||Senior journalists N. Ram and Arun Shourie and advocate Prashant Bhushan have jointly moved the Supreme Court against a law that allows criminal contempt action to be initiated on the “incurably vague” ground that a publication may tend to or even scandalise or lower the authority of a court of law. They said the contempt law in question was unconstitutional, rooted in colonialism and produced a chilling effect on free speech and expression. Their petition, filed through advocate Kamini Jaiswal, focuses on the legality of Section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Court Act. The section holds that it amounts to criminal contempt if a person publishes, by words spoken or written or by any other act, anything “which scandalises or tends to scandalise or lowers or tends to lower the authority of any court”. “‘Scandalising the court’ is rooted in colonial assumption and objects, which have no place in legal orders committed to democratic constitutionality and maintenance of an open robust public sphere,” the petition said. The legal provision is manifestly arbitrary, as what may or may not cause a scandal is subjective. The application of criminal contempt law on this basis would be incapable of being certain and even-handed, it contended. The Supreme Court recently began contempt proceedings against Mr. Bhushan for two of his tweets, one concerning a photograph of the Chief Justice of India and another containing the noted civil rights lawyer’s view on the functioning of the top court in the past few years. In back-to-back action, renewed hearings were also seen in another contempt case against the lawyer for his alleged remarks on the judiciary in an interview to Tehelka magazine. This case had been pending for eight years. The last hearing on it was in 2012. Now, both contempt cases have been listed on successive days in early August. The petition said criminal contempt action on the ground of scandalising or tending to scandalise or lower the authority of a court did not amount to reasonable restriction of free speech. In fact, the provision abridged the right to free speech and expression even in the absence of any tangible or proximate harm, it said.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||EIA draft translated into 3 languages instead of 22||With less than 10 days to go before public comments to the controversial Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, 2020 are closed, it emerges that the text of the notification has only been translated into three languages, instead of at least 22, official correspondence accessed by a Right To Information (RTI) request shows. In a June 30 order, the Delhi High Court had decreed that the draft be translated into “at least the languages mentioned in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution” within 10 days. There are 22 languages on that list. However, in spite of five reminders by the Centre to various States, the Centre got translations only in three languages — Marathi, Nepali and Odia — according to documents procured by environment activist, Vikrant Tongad. The draft was originally opened for comments from April 11 to June 11. This was later extended because of the lockdown. After large protests stating that the draft wasn’t widely circulated, and a petition in the Delhi High Court, this date was extended to August 11.
02 August 2020||LAKHIPUR,||Assam’s displaced get a taste of UN camps||Those displaced by the floods in Assam this year have had a taste of the kind of camps the United Nations runs for the Rohingya in Bangladesh, Kurds in Syria and other conflict refugees across the globe. The trigger for the “redesigning” of the flood relief camps was the 2018 flash flood in eastern Assam’s Golaghat district caused by the 25MW Doyang Hydroelectric Project in Wokha district of Nagaland. At the Baungaon Lower Primary School near Lakhipur, a circle headquarters in Goalpara district about 165 km west of Guwahati, seven-year-old Sushmita Hajong looks forward to the lessons anganwadi supervisor Sajeda Begum and her team imparts through songs and dances. Sushmita is one of 63 children and 11 infants at the school, a relief camp for residents of the submerged Dhamor Reserve village nearby. Music does not motivate 10-year-old Bibek Saha at the Nidanpur Adarsha Prathamik Vidyalaya relief camp 5 km from Baungaon a.k.a. Signboard, a name derived from a British-era signpost at a bifurcation indicating the road to Meghalaya’s Tura town. What animates him are building blocks in one of the rooms where they are allowed to be expressive. Children’s well-being “With COVID-19 in the backdrop, the floods in Assam have had a severe impact on children’s well-being and disrupted routine services for children and women. To address their specific requirements during such emergency, child-friendly spaces [CFS] were included as an integral part of the relief camp management system this year,” said Madhulika Jonathan, UNICEF’s Chief of Field Office in Assam. UNICEF provided technical support to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) in the development of the policy guidelines for managing the CFS. The blueprint mandated at least 7 square metres of space for each camp resident compared with 3.5 square metres earlier, along with sufficient toilets and sanitation facilities besides daily monitoring of health — weekly in the past — of the camp inmates. “We carried out swab sample tests of the relief camp inmates regularly. Thankfully, none tested COVID-19 positive,” said Varnali Deka, Goalpara’s Deputy Commissioner. M.S. Manivannan, ASDMA’s Chief Executive Officer said the CFS idea was first piloted during the 2019 floods. “The success of two camps each in Dhemaji and Lakhimpur districts made us implement CFS at all the 617 relief camps so far since May 22, when the first wave of floods struck Assam,” he added. According to an UNICEF field officer, the CSF idea germinated after the sudden inundation of almost 10,000 hectares in previously flood-safe areas of Golaghat district in 2018. “ASHA [accredited social health activist] and anganwadi workers were not aware that relief camps provide an opportunity to continue their regular services,” he said. Mr. Manivannan said the performance of the CFS and other first-time services such as mobile banking, free telemedicine consultations and free emotional counselling can only be assessed after a public audit. “We will go for a social auditing in flood-affected areas after the water recedes to find out how the relief camps were maintained, how the relief material was distributed, etc. This will be placed before the panchayats and the public for inputs,” he said  .
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||More welfare measures in store for TRS party workers, says KTR||TRS working president and Minister for Industries, IT and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao has stated that the party is planning more welfare measures for its workers in addition to the insurance cover being currently provided. Speaking at Telangana Bhavan, the party headquarters, here, after handing over the cheque for premium amount for providing insurance cover to party members on Saturday, Mr. Rama Rao said the party had reached the position in which it is today only due to the hard work, resolve and commitment of party activists. It had seen many ups and downs during its 20-year journey so far but building of the party was in progress so that it lasts at least for a century, he stated. From the situation of being thrown out of Jala Drushyam, where the party had its office after inception, the party had now reached a position to take care of its members. As part of providing insurance cover to the party members, Mr. Rama Rao handed over a cheque for Rs. 16.11 crore to the representatives of an insurance company on Saturday. Stating that the party had withstood time and tide, the TRS working president said its focus now was on the all-round development of the State. In spite of facing conspiracies to water down the movement for statehood, party founder and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had kept the morale of the party workers high by asking people to stone him to death in case he stepped aside from the Statehood movement at any point. Mr. Rama Rao said the party had transformed into a formidable political force with the help of party workers, supporters and sympathisers and it was time to repay with welfare and development programmes. He asked the party legislators to keep meeting with party ranks constantly, learn their problems and support those in need. The TRS working president said training programme for party workers was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic, and asked them to help people during the present crisis. He announced that the inauguration of party offices in districts would begin soon.
02 August 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,||Help pours in for Yadadri’s orphaned trio||Alair legislator and Telangana government whip G. Sunitha said the three children in Atmakur (M), in her Assembly constituency, who were orphaned after they lost their widowed mother last week, will be the State’s responsibility. “IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has given the assurance. The government will take responsibility for the three children and their education till they are able to manage on their own. The girl’s marriage, too, will be our responsibility,” she said on Saturday. Actor Sonu Sood was the first ‘responder’ to the children’s plight — he took to Twitter on July 31 to say: “They are no longer orphans. They will be my responsibility.” His assurance came as a reply to an electronic media outlet that tagged him to a screenshot of the eldest child, Manohar, 9, taking care of his two siblings, Yashwanth and Lasya. According to locals, the family’s head Gattu Sathaiah died last year, after which his wife Anuradha had to run the family by working in the fields. She passed away on Tuesday due to an unknown illness. Her last rites were performed with contributions and help from residents of the village. But after Mr. Sood’s promise on Friday, support kept pouring in for the siblings, who now only have their uncle, Mahesh. Financial aid The local police handed over Rs. 10,000 cash for the children’s immediate expenses while Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy gave them Rs. 50,000 along with promises of additional help. The third person in “taking full responsibility of the three” was Telugu film producer V. Venkata Ramana Reddy a.k.a. Dil Raju, who reportedly made the instant decision to adopt them at the behest of Minister for Panchayati Raj, E. Dayakar Rao. “When I requested, he called the gram sarpanch and adopted the three children immediately. The Minister phoned Dil Raju and congratulated for his action,” the Minister’s Twitter page stated.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tilak made freedom struggle truly Indian, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said freedom fighter Bal Gangadhar Tilak was the one who made the freedom struggle, started by the Congress, meaningful and truly Indian. Mr. Shah was addressing the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) online conference on Tilak, marking 100 years since his death on August 1, 1920. He urged the youth to study Tilak’s speeches and life for inspiration. “Those who know the Congress’s history and their work, will know this. If anyone made India’s freedom struggle Indian, it was Tilak,” he said. Citing his slogan, “Swaraj is by birthright and I shall have it”, Mr. Shah said the statement changed the freedom struggle, making the “Congress’s freedom movement” into a people’s movement. Tilak fought for Independence on one hand while campaigning against cow slaughter on the other. His influence was visible in the lives of Mahatma Gandhi, Veer Savarkar and Madan Mohan Malviya, he noted.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||‘U.P. govt. has not given its due to the Brahmin community’||Member of the Congress Working Committee and senior leader from Uttar Pradesh, Jitin Prasada speaks on his recent claims about Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s anti-Brahmin slant, construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya and the attrition rate in the Congress.  You have been in the news for your work with the Brahmin Chetna Parishad. Tell us about the reasons to start such an organisation? I began the Brahmin Chetna Parishad in 2017. As part of the organisation we did several meetings across Uttar Pradesh. We have revived our efforts because over the past two years there has been a spate of “Brahmin killings” in Uttar Pradesh. Before the pandemic hit, I had taken out Brahmin Chetna Yatra, as part of which I visited many districts, meeting the families of victims who are still struggling to get justice. Since the pandemic, we have been organising online meetings. From all these interactions, the feedback that I have received is an overwhelming feeling of resentment and insecurity. The Brahmin community feels that the present U.P. government has been meting out a step-motherly treatment to them. The government has not given it’s due to the community, it is all tokenism, be it postings of officers or giving politically irrelevant portfolios to those from the community. When you say that lately Brahmin killings are increasing, are you saying that it’s a deliberate act, since Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath belongs to the Thakur community? I will not go that far to say it is by design. The question is, there is an impression that this government is anti-Brahmin and that perception is only growing. How is it that the victims of recent crime incidents are only Brahmins? The statistics speak for themselves. Brahmins occupy the top most position in the caste hierarchy giving them an upper hand in every field. Why is there a sudden feeling of isolation? Historically, what you are saying is true, but I can tell you, in the past 30 years, there has been a steady decline. There is a huge section, who have been left far behind. The pyramid has now inverted. The community is politically marginalised and is economically weak. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to lay the foundation stone of Ram Temple on August 5. Is a celebration of the scale that is planned appropriate at the time of pandemic? The Congress party has welcomed the construction of the Ram Temple. It is a matter of faith; more so personally for me. I am happy that Ram Temple is being constructed. Pandemic doesn’t mean that the country has come to a standstill. I hope all necessary precautions will be taken. As a Minister in the UPA-II government, how do you react to the criticism that it was because of its functioning that the Congress was reduced to 44? I wasn’t a part of the meeting of Rajya Sabha MPs with Congress president Sonia Gandhi, so how can I authoritatively give my opinion on a comment, which I can’t be sure was actually spoken or is a piece of fiction. Out of your two close friends — Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sachin Pilot — one has already left the party, and about the other we are still not clear whether he will remain in the Congress. Why this sudden attrition in the party? I don’t know the reasons and I am sure it varies from case to case basis. You have to ask them the reasons for their actions. Are you also leaving the party? Has there been any meeting that I have supposedly attended or any anti-party activity or any statement given by me? I am not going to comment on speculation.  There is a growing impression that the Yogi Adityanath government is anti-Brahmin
02 August 2020||Khurja,||COVID-19 pandemic shatters Ceramics City’s traditional business model||“Nobody can beat me at it,” gushes 56-year-old Zahiruddin, as he explains the intricate floral patterns made of cobalt oxide on one of his blue pottery creations. Sitting in his modest house in Mohalla Punjabiyan, the hub of artisans in Khurja, Uttar Pradesh, the Shilp Guru awardee for 2017 is worried about the future of the micro-industry that feeds thousands in the sleepy town in Bulandshahr district. “With no melas and mahotsavs because of the lockdown, we have been reduced to living from hand to mouth,” he laments. The work, he says, has reduced to less than half. “It is a labour-intensive industry and many of our skilled labourers come from West Bengal and eastern Uttar Pradesh. With Khurja being declared a hotspot during the pandemic, most of them are not going to return anytime soon,” says Mr. Zahiruddin, who runs a small unit with his brother Raeesuddin. “It is a lifestyle product. Even when markets are opening up, nobody stops at our shop to even have a look,” he says. Till a week back, even most of the bank branches were not open, complains Ravi Rana, president of the Khurja Pottery Manufacturers’ Association. Azam Khan, assistant manager, District Industries Centre, Bulandshahr, says, as per records, Khurja has 250 registered ceramic factories. From high-end blue pottery and bone china to utilitarian insulators, they provide employment to at least 50,000 people, directly or indirectly. “The town generates a turnover of around Rs. 100 crore a year. Because of the pandemic, the manufacturing has been adversely affected and the output has reduced to 50%,” says Mr. Khan. New opportunity There is an opportunity in adversity. Sami Ahmed Khan of Mark Industries, which specialises in hand-painted stoneware crockery, says, with malls closed, local demand has reduced to less than half but the export business is keeping them hopeful. “Usually, Khurja products are in demand in England, Belgium and Germany. But this year, owing to a backlash against Chinese products, we are getting queries from the U.S. as well,” he says. “We can’t compete with China in terms of volume and are struggling to match Bangladesh and Sri Lanka in quality. China has a mechanised industry, while we have largely handmade products. When they are using hydraulic presses, we are still relying on jigger jolly machines. Still, the pandemic has provided us with a window to compete, provided we get government support,” says Mr. Sami. He says the State’s one district, one product scheme should not remain a mere lip service. “The GST on ceramic products could be brought down from 12% to 5% and the interest on loans could be waived for two-three years.” “We have been told that it is the time for online business and exports, something that many of us don’t understand or find feasible. The intermediary pays us the Khurja rate and keeps the ‘cream’ for himself. Why would an artisan spend 10 days on a vessel when he knows he won’t get the price for his art,” says Mr. Zahiruddin. Old-timers like Khursheeduzzmah, the last surviving National Award winner in town, has lost faith in the award itself. “Now you can get it made for a few thousand rupees and get a stall in a mahotsav,” he alleges. The potters also feel they are facing the brunt of the government’s proactive policy towards reducing pollution in the National Capital Region. The coal-fed brick chimneys that once dotted the town’s skyline have been reduced to derelict monuments. “Now the diesel-fed furnaces and the ones using rubber oil are also illegal and fetch heavy fines,” says Mr. Sami. The gas furnaces, he says, have yet to reach every lane that has a unit. “The worker should not suffer because of the complex web of pollution and labour laws,” he says. Mr. Khan maintains that they tried to involve the Public Works Department to use the waste product for the construction of roads. “The use of gas furnace work has multiplied but there are some issues over pricing. We are helping artisans to enrol online players. The artisans compare the gas price in Firozabad, not realising that a public sector company [GAIL] is providing the gas there, while in Khurja a private player [Adani] is the supplier. However, in recent months, there has been a degree of streamlining of rates.” L.P. Sharma, scientist-in-charge of Central Glass and Ceramic Research Institute, Khurja, says the institute is carrying out projects to make potters self-reliant in the country. “In Khurja, a project involving 200 potters for hotelware is under way,” he says.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Plea unilaterally listed by SC official’||Noted civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan has approached the Supreme Court for a declaration that a “defective contempt petition” against him was “unilaterally” listed by the court’s Secretary General for judicial hearing before a Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra. Mr. Bhushan said the action of the Secretary General was “illegal” and amounted to “usurpation” of the role of the Chief Justice of India as the ‘Master of the Roster’. “It has been categorically held that the Chief Justice of India is the master of the roster and enjoys the exclusive prerogative to constitute Benches and assign matters to Benches. It is submitted that the actions of the Respondent [Secretary General] amount to a usurpation of the powers of the Chief Justice and are therefore clearly unlawful being contrary to settled law as well as the Supreme Court Rules 2013,” the petition, filed by advocate Kamini Jaiswal and settled by senior advocate Dushyant Dave, contended. The “defective” contempt petition was filed by Mahek Maheshwari against Mr. Bhushan’s tweet on a photograph of Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on a motorbike. This tweet and another one by him about the Supreme Court led to Justice Mishra Bench initiating suo motu contempt proceedings against him on July 22. Two days later, the same Bench resumed hearings in a 2009 contempt case. This case concerned Mr. Bhushan’s remarks about the judiciary in an interview with Tehelka magazine. Mr. Bhushan wants both these orders to be recalled, or, in the alternative, be heard as and when physical court hearings resume. In his petition, Mr. Bhushan contended that the Supreme Court Rules, 2013, required the defective contempt petition to be returned to Maheshwari. Instead, the Secretary General placed the case before a Bench of Justices Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari for hearing. The Secretary General’s action was “unconstitutional, illegal, void and non est ”. He said the plea filed by Maheshwari was “defective” for it did not have the prior consent of the Attorney General or the Solicitor General.
02 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cong., BJP demand Pinarayi’s resignation||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition and the BJP on Saturday ratcheted up their demand for the resignation of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The parties have also independently announced a season of anti-government agitations in August to spotlight the alleged alliance of the Chief Minister’s Office with the international syndicate that smuggled gold in bulk into Kerala in air cargo consignments addressed to the UAE consulate here. The impending spell of agitations come against the backdrop of reports that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had broadened its probe into the gold smuggling racket to Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The agency, which was looking into the national security ramifications, had also inspected a training institute under the Ministry of Higher Education headed by K.T. Jaleel, bringing the Minister’s office awkwardly close to the high-profile probe. The Opposition parties had exploited the optics of Mr. Vijayan’s former Principal Secretary, M. Sivasankar, being questioned repeatedly by the NIA and the Customs to attack the government. State BJP president K. Surendran, who inaugurated a sit-in by O. Rajagopal, MLA, via video conference said the government was neck-deep in the smuggling case. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala will set the UDF agitation plan rolling by staging a sit-in at his residence here on August 3. NIA sleuths in Chennai Sleuths of the NIA probing the case landed in Chennai late on Friday and were conducting enquiries with some Customs officials here, police sources said on Saturday. Acting on a specific input, the team led by a DIG visited Bengaluru and then reached Chennai to make inquiries with the Customs officials. No arrests were made yet though there was information on searches being conducted at a couple of places, the sources said.  (With inputs from Chennai)
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amar Singh, man for all parties, dead||Rajya Sabha MP Amar Singh passed away in Singapore on Saturday after ailing for some time. He was under treatment at a hospital in Singapore for the last seven months after having suffered kidney failure in 2013. He is survived by his wife, Pankaja Singh, and daughters Disha and Drishti. Mr. Singh, 64, was born in Aligarh in 1956 and educated in Kolkata, with an early political career in the West Bengal Congress. As a Youth Congress member in the 1980s, he came into the orbit of then Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Vir Bahadur Singh, but it was a chance encounter with Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Mulayam Singh Yadav in 1996 on board a plane that changed his fortunes. The SP had just been formed and Mr. Yadav was Defence Minister in the Deve Gowda government. In the era of coalition politics, Mandal , Mandir and a liberalising economy, Mr. Singh’s talent in forging friendships across the political spectrum found full play. He was soon made a general secretary of the Samajwadi Party, and also rewarded with a Rajya Sabha berth in 1996. He also injected Bollywood glamour into the proceedings with his friendship with superstar Amitabh Bachchan. The apogee of his career was the 2008 trust vote faced by the Manmohan Singh-led UPA-I government, after its Left Front allies pulled out support over the Indo-U.S. nuclear deal. The SP’s 39 MPs were pledged to support the government after the party had a “change of heart” over the nuclear deal. The scene in Parliament on the day of voting in July, 2008, however, was unprecedented, with currency amounting to crores being displayed in the Well of the House, and the BJP accusing the Congress and its allies of trying to buy MPs. While the government survived, Mr. Singh was implicated in a legal case on the matter and even served some time in jail (though he was not convicted) in 2010. The rise of Mr. Yadav’s son, Akhilesh, and the resentment of a section of the SP saw Mr. Singh give up all party posts in 2011. The only leader to leave with him was actress and MP Jaya Prada, to whom he had been a mentor in her political career. He later formed his own party with Ms. Prada, and then joined the Rashtriya Lok Dal and lost in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. In 2016, he got his second wind and was partially reconciled with Mr. Yadav, who supported his Rajya Sabha election. It was clear, however, with the successive election of two full majority governments headed by Prime Minister Modi, that the era of political deal making was done, and with it, Mr. Singh’s unique talents had had their day.
02 August 2020||New Delhi,||Chidambaram backs Mehbooba’s decision||Senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram said he backs People’s Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti’s decision to reject the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) government’s offer to release her on the condition that she will not speak against abrogation of Article 370. Ms. Mufti is the only top J&K mainstream leader who remains behind bars under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA). On Friday, her detention was extended by three months for the second time. Mr. Chidambaram said on Twitter the detention extension under the PSA was an abuse of law and an assault on constitutional rights guaranteed to every citizen. “She rightly rejected the offer to release her on conditions which any self-respecting political leader would refuse. One of the reasons given for her detention — the colour of her party’s flag — was laughable,” he said.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Panel recommends lifting export ban on ventilators||A high-level Group of Ministers (GoM) has recommended that India lift the ban on the export of ventilators, a statement from the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. India’s “low case fatality rate” as well as “substantial growth” in the domestic manufacturing capacity were reasons for the ban to be lifted, the document notes. Banned in March The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) had banned the export of ventilators on March 24. “The Group of Ministers on COVID-19 has considered and agreed to the proposal of the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare allowing the export of Made-in-India ventilators. This decision has been communicated to the DGFT for further needed action to facilitate the export of indigenously manufactured ventilators,” the Health Ministry statement noted. According to the Ministry, the number of COVID-19 patients who had succumbed to the disease stood at 2.15% of the total confirmed cases. Only 0.22% of the active cases were on ventilators across the country and there were more than 20 domestic manufacturers for ventilators. “Now with export of ventilators having been allowed, it is hoped that domestic ventilators would be in a position to find new markets for Indian ventilators in foreign countries,” the statement added. Case Fatality Rate From June 18 to August 1, India’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) dropped from 3.33% to 2.15%, according to the government. However on June 18, there were only 13,856 confirmed cases and that number has increased by more than hundredfold today. The active cases, as of August 1, were 565,103 and that translated to 124,322 cases on ventilators, as per the Ministry’s own data. No numbers were shared by the government on how many patients were dependent on every ventilator and how these were distributed across the country.
02 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Toll in Punjab hooch tragedy rises to 86||The death toll in the hooch tragedy in three Punjab districts — Tarn Taran, Amritsar Rural and Gurdaspur — has risen to 86 so far, said Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday. Mr. Singh also ordered the suspension of, and inquiry against, seven Excise and Taxation Officers and Inspectors, along with two Deputy Superintendents of Police and four Station House Officer of Punjab police in the case. He also announced Rs. 2 lakh ex gratia compensation to each of the families of the deceased, most of whom are from Tarn Taran, which accounts for 63 deaths, followed by 12 deaths in Amritsar Rural and 11 deaths in Gurdaspur (Batala). Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said the police on Saturday arrested 17 more persons in connection with the case. According to the Excise Commissioner, though reports of the chemical analysis of the material seized in Friday’s raids were yet to come, a superficial check showed that the material was denatured spirit, generally used in the paint and hardware industries.
02 August 2020||KOCHI,||Gold price zooms amid market uncertainties||The price of gold has crossed the Rs. 40,000 mark for a sovereign (eight grams) as retail buyers of ornaments are putting a substantial portion of their lifetime savings into gold and big-time investors are betting big on a favourable outcome since the COVID-19 crisis is triggering lower expectations from assets such as crude, dollar, and government debts. Gold jewellery retailer Joy Alukkas says his business has seen a slowdown because of the pandemic, and not on account of the metal’s rising price. “Gold ornaments are being bought as usual.” Gold ornaments ensure future returns and take care of current requirements, he says, pointing out that Indian gold ornaments market mostly comprises seasonal household purchases, which have not been affected. V. Hareesh, head of commodity research at Geojit Financial Services, says COVID-19 has sparked a lot of uncertainties in the market and gold is being looked upon as a safe instrument to ensure future returns. Government measures to ease the economy, as seen in different parts of the world , result in appreciation in the price of assets like gold. The price of the dollar has been at a historic low, prompting investors to keep off it, he adds. Suresh Gopinathan, a chartered accountant and financial analyst in Kochi, says with the real rate of return nearly negative investors are betting on gold. Investment opportunities, including government debt, do not offer great consolation to the investor at present, he says. Warning sounded A market analyst in Kochi says gold prices are likely to climb in the current situation. There is an overall gloom. “The prospect of other assets making up for past losses is almost unthinkable now,” he says. However, retail investors in gold must realise that the price of the metal may not rise on these lines in the future, he warns. Unless another global crisis came around, a rate of appreciation of this nature is unlikely, he adds.
02 August 2020||Patna,||Flood situation worsens in Bihar; two more die||Floods claimed two more lives in Bihar on Saturday taking the death toll to 13, while the number of people affected by the calamity inched closer to 50 lakh as the waters of overflowing rivers reached fresh areas of the State’s northern part. According to the bulletin issued by the State disaster management department, two fresh casualties were reported from Muzaffarpur district. Earlier, Darbhanga and West Champaran had reported seven and four deaths respectively. The number of people affected by the floods, across 14 districts, stood at 49.05 lakh, up from 45.39 lakh on Friday. The number of affected panchayats too has risen to 1,043 from 1,012 on the previous day. According to the department, the State has received average rainfall of 768.5 mm. This has led to a rise in water levels of most rivers flowing through the State. More than a quarter of the affected populace resides in the three adjoining districts of East Champaran, Gopalganj and Saran, all of which fall in the Gandak basin. Other rivers which have been flowing above the danger levels at various places include Kosi, Budhi Gandak, Kamla, Bagmati and Adhwara.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||July sales hint at auto sector revival||Rajesh Goel, Sr. Vice President and Director, Marketing & Sales, Honda Cars India Ltd said, “July was action packed for us as we launched 3 models — New WR-V, Civic BS-6 Diesel and All-New 5th Generation Honda City, which have helped us create excitement in the market and improve buying sentiment...We gradually ramped up our production to 60% of pre-COVID level in July and despatched the entire available factory stock, registering a sequential growth of 285% over June’20.” Mr. Goel added that with the festive season coming up, the company is quite positive about the industry getting back on track gradually. Homegrown Mahindra and Mahindra posted a decline of 35% in total domestic sales at 24,211 units. While sales of passenger vehicles was down 34% to 11,025 units, that of commercial vehicles fell 18% to 13,103 units. “At Mahindra, we are happy to see a growing trend in our overall vehicle sales. It is encouraging to see that the enquiry and booking levels in July are significantly higher compared to June, both for Utility Vehicles and Small Commercial Vehicles,” Veejay Nakra, Chief Executive Officer, Automotive Division, M&M Ltd. said. The company had sold 8,075 passenger vehicles and 10,417 commercial vehicles in June. Likewise, TKM posted a 48% decline in domestic vehicle sales to 5,386 units in July as against 10,423 units in the same month last year. However, compared to June 2020, the sales were up 40% from 3866 units. Naveen Soni, Sr. Vice President, Sales & Service- TKM said, “Despite various challenges, the month of July witnessed better sales when compared to June. ” However, he added that in July, as a result of sporadic lockdowns and extensions being imposed in several parts of the country, led to a situation wherein business was closed in upto 20% of the market, in and around mid-July. Component supplies hit MG Motor India posted a 40% increase in retail sales at 2,105 units, up from 1,508 units in July 2019. Rakesh Sidana, Director- Sales, MG Motor India, said, “The overall market environment continues to be challenging with uncertainties due to variable lockdowns in various phases. The component supplies continue to remain impacted especially from the Chennai region... In the two-wheeler segment, Hero MotoCorp sold over 5.14 lakh units in July 2020. “Despite the prevailing economic slowdown on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Company registered a sequential growth of 14% over the previous month (June 2020) and reached more than 95% of wholesale dispatch numbers of the corresponding month in the previous year (July 2019),” it said. Rival Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India said its total July dispatches stood at over 3.21 lakh units due to increasing demand for personal mobility. In July 2019, however, the company had sold over 4.89 lakh units. Suzuki Motorcycle India Pvt Ltd said its domestic sales stood at 31,421 units last month, as against 62,366 units in July 2019, down 50%. But sales were up 37% from June 2020.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||ICMR fast-tracks nod for Israeli research||He said the DRDO had the authority to decide the mechanism of conducting the experiments and what part of samples could be exported for collaborative research. Mr. VijayRaghavan said it was a “research validation” study for which RT-PCR tests may have to be done on the participants and the positive results may be communicated to the ICMR in a way that does not impact the speed of the research programme. While approving the trial on June 28, the ICMR chief expressed caution on handling of saliva samples of patients as it may contain live virus and said as per 1997 guidelines for exchange of samples for biomedical research purposes, it was essential for information to be available in a central location — the ICMR headquarters. Delhi government has also waived the mandatory seven-day quarantine for the 35-member Israeli team. In a statement on Friday, the Israeli Embassy said the trials are being conducted on a large sample of patients in India and if the results validate the effectiveness of the tests, they would be mass manufactured in India and marketed to the world by Israel and India jointly. It said the trial of four different kinds of technologies that have potential to detect coronavirus in 30 seconds have started. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu have held three phone conversations since COVID outbreak to discuss mutual assistance.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||NEP drops ‘Chinese’ from language list||The National Education Policy (NEP) has dropped Mandarin (Chinese) from its list of foreign languages that can be taught in schools. The language was included in the draft policy released in May 2019, but is missing from the final document approved by the Cabinet this week. Senior officials told The Hindu that over the past year, consultations had been held between the Ministries of Human Resource Development and External Affairs, due to security concerns over teaching Mandarin to Indian students. “A choice of foreign language(s) (e.g. French, German, Spanish, Chinese, Japanese) would be offered and available to interested students to choose as elective(s) during secondary school,” said the draft Policy document. Mandarin is the language most commonly spoken in China. Over the course of a year of rising India-China tensions, that sentence was changed. “In addition to high quality offerings in Indian languages and English, foreign languages, such as Korean, Japanese, Thai, French, German, Spanish, Portuguese, and Russian, will also be offered at the secondary level…,” says the final version. Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare played down the change, pointing out that it is only a set of examples, not an exhaustive list of allowed languages. Schools are free to offer other languages, he said. Mandarin is not on the list of foreign languages offered at the Class X or Class XII level by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), which currently includes Tibetan, Thai, and Japanese, along with European languages such as Russian, Spanish, French and German. Other languages may be offered by schools as a third language option in Classes VI to VIII. The MEA did not respond to a query on whether it had initiated any move to drop Mandarin from the CBSE curriculum. However, an official aware of the conversations on the subject told The Hindu that the MHRD has had discussions with the MEA and the Indian Council for Cultural Relations over the past year and sought inputs on which languages were most important to retain in the curriculum. According to another official, there have been security concerns involving Mandarin language instruction in Indian institutions. Exchange programme The plan for teaching Mandarin in Indian schools and Hindi language instruction in Chinese schools was part of an Education Exchange Programme signed by both countries in 2006, which was renewed by Prime Minister Modi during his visit to China in 2015. The plan included a Memorandum of Understanding signed in 2012 by the then Indian Ambassador to Beijing (current External Affairs Minister) S. Jaishankar with Hanban, the official Chinese organisation that oversees Mandarin studies abroad. In 2014, the CBSE then introduced Mandarin in some schools, but the plan floundered due to unavailability of Chinese language teachers. “Since 2017, the government has systematically curbed annual scholarship programmes with China as well,” said Jawaharlal Nehru University Professor Hemant Adlakha. “All countries which consider relations with China crucial and/or important have learning of Mandarin at all levels,” he added, citing examples of the U.S., Australia, Japan and South Korea that offer Chinese at school level.  All countries which consider relations with China crucial and/or important have learning of Mandarin at all levels. Hemant Adlakha, Jawaharlal Nehru University professor
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Panel to probe complaints into private hospital billing||A committee consisting of senior Telangana government officials in would be formed to inquire into complaints of overcharging by private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment. Health Minister Eatala Rajender gave orders to this effect on Saturday, following a series of complaints and news reports related to the issue. He held a meeting in Hyderabad where officials informed him about the range of complaints, including private hospitals turning away patients citing unavailability of beds, collecting Rs. 3-4 lakh as advance for admission, Rs. 1-2 lakh a day for COVID-19 treatment and asking bills to be cleared before a body is handed over for last rites. On June 15, a government order had been issued, announcing the maximum rates chargeable by private hospitals for various services provided by them for COVID treatment. The charges ranged between Rs. 4000 and Rs. 9000 per day depending on the ward and ventilator support. Some services were excluded from the maximum rates such as charges for COVID testing, Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), high-end medicines such as immunoglobulins, high-end investigations such as CT-Scan, MRI, etc.  The Health Minister said the committee should ensure that the fixed rates are implemented, and that the government be regularly informed about availability of beds in private hospitals.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Credit guarantee for larger firms, self-employed||The Centre has expanded its credit guarantee scheme for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to cover loans given to larger firms, as well as to self-employed people and professionals who have taken loans for business purposes, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Saturday. The Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme was rolled out in May as part of the Centre’s Aatmanirbhar package in responseto the COVID-19 crisis. It has a corpus of Rs. 41,600 crore and provides fully guaranteed additional funding of up to Rs. 3 lakh crore. Eligible MSMEs had to have an annual turnover up to Rs. 100 crore, with outstanding loans of up to Rs. 25 crore as on February 29, 2020. So far, banks have approved Rs. 1.36 lakh crore worth of loans to 40 lakh MSME units under the scheme. Over Rs. 87,000 crore had already been disbursed, Financial Services Secretary Debashis Panda told journalists. “Given that there was further headroom available, it was decided to expand the scheme. We expect that Rs. 1 lakh crore can be sanctioned to additional beneficiaries due to the expansion,” said Ms. Sitharaman, adding that the window would remain open for the original MSME beneficiaries as well. The scheme has been expanded to cover enterprises with a turnover up to Rs. 250 crore, with outstanding loans up to Rs. 50 crore. Individual beneficiaries include both professionals such as doctors, lawyers and chartered accountants, as well as self-employed people such as vendors or taxi drivers.
02 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha’s virus cases jump 78% in July||Odisha, which was bracketed along with Kerala for tasting initial success in containing the COVID-19 pandemic due to some proactive steps, seems have lost the momentum with total positive cases swelling by more than four times in the month of July. At the beginning of July, Odisha’s total count was 7,316 while 5,353 patients had recovered. Active cases had then stood at 1,930 while 25 people had died of coronavirus. During July, the cases shot up from 7,316 to 33,479, registering a growth of 78.14%. The death toll also grew from 25 to 187 – a growth of 86.63%. What is worrying is the increasing local cases. On July 1, local cases constituted only 15.72%. It vacillated between 32-33% between July 4 and July 26. But after July 7, it has made a quantum jump to 38%.
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Honour for scientist||CSIR IICT principal scientist from the Department of Organic Synthesis and Process Chemistry Dr. Srihari Pabbaraja has been selected for CRSI bronze medal 2021 for his contributions on total synthesis of natural products and method development for new chemical entities. The bronze medal conferred by the Chemical Research Society will be presented at a symposium at IIT Guwahati.
02 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Human rights panel files case against govt.||The Karnataka State Human Rights Commission (KSHRC) has booked a case against the State government over alleged negligence in dealing with COVID-19 patients, based on a complaint by former Congress Minister and the State Legislature’s Public Accounts Committee chairperson H.K. Patil. The KSHRC, in its order, said: “It was alleged in the complaint that since a few months, people are dying due to COVID-19. More than 2,000 people are affected every day and 40 to 50 are dying daily due to the pandemic, but the government was not taking care and there was lack of sincerity amongst politicians and government officials.”
02 August 2020||New Delhi,||One ration card facility in 24 States now||Three more States —Manipur, Nagaland and Uttarakhand — and the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir will now offer the ‘one nation one ration card’ facility, Union Food Minister Ramvilas Paswan said on Saturday. With this, the facility was now available in 24 States, benefitting 65 crore ration card holders, he said. “The One Nation One Card scheme gives people freedom of mobility, they are no longer tied down to one single fair price shop,” Mr. Paswan said. He added that by March 31, all States would be covered under the scheme.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC steps in to support law student||The Supreme Court has stepped in to fulfil the ambition of Ankita Meena to finish her legal studies and have a shot at a career in law. A three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde made an urgent intervention in her favour and directed the University of Delhi to declare her results for two semesters. The results had been withheld for a year by the varsity because she did not have the necessary attendance due to her pregnancy. Ms. Meena, represented by senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy and a team of advocates Vivek Paul Oriel, Himanshu Dhuper, Ashish Virmani and Ruchira Goel, urged parity for their client. They said the results had been declared way back in July 2019 itself. Only Ms. Meena has been left behind.
02 August 2020||Mumbai,||sushant sister||Actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti on Saturday made an appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding justice for her brother who died last month, even as the Bihar Police team camping in Mumbai to investigate the case, has recorded the statements of six people, officials said on Saturday. Ms. Shweta posted a brief note on her social media handles, requesting the PM to look into the case and ensure there is no tampering with evidence.
02 August 2020||hyderabad,||New commandant of Air Force Academy takes charge||Air Marshal I.P. Vipin on Saturday took over as commandant of Air Force Academy at Dundigal from Air Marshal J. Chalapati who has proceeded to Southern Air Command at Thiruvananthapuram as Senior Air Staff Officer. Air Marshal I.P. Vipin was an alumnus of National Defence Academy at Khadakwasla, Defence Services Staff College at Wellington and National Defence College, New Delhi, where he served as senior directing staff. In his 38-year career in Air Force, he held a number of posts.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Air Marshal V.R. Chaudhari takes over as Western Air Commander||Air Marshal V.R. Chaudhari on Saturday took over as the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Western Air Command of the Indian Air Force (IAF). He took over command from Air Marshal B. Suresh, who superannuated from service on July 31. Air Marshal Chaudhari was commissioned into the Fighter Stream of the IAF on December 29, 1982. “He has flying experience of more than 3800 hours, including operational flying on MiG-21, MiG-23 MF, MiG 29 and Su-30 MKI fighter aircraft,” the IAF said in a statement.
02 August 2020||New Delhi,||National Education Policy needs closer scrutiny: K.V. Thomas||Senior Congress leader K.V. Thomas has called for a closer scrutiny of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, on which so far the Congress has not spoken out officially, apart from independent views of few leaders. Mr. Thomas, in a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, has urged her to form a committee, which can study the policy and come up with the party’s own vision document. He wrote that NEP 2020 requires closer scrutiny in terms of its implications for the “marginalised, disciplinary spaces, autonomy, and constitutional values”, among other things.
02 August 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal registers 48 deaths, 2589 new infections||West Bengal on Saturday recorded 48 more COVID-19 fatalities, its highest single-day spike yet, pushing its death toll to 1,629. The State also reported 2,589 new cases, taking its tally to 72,777, of which 20,631 are active cases. Of the latest victims, 19 are from Kolkata, 13 from North 24 Parganas district and six from Howrah district. With 2,143 more patients being discharged, the State’s recovery rate has improved to 69.41%. A total of 20,065 samples were tested across the State in the last 24 hours. Belur Math bars entry Authorities at Belur Math, the headquarters of the Ramakrishna Mission in Howrah district, said on Saturday that visitors will be barred from entering the temple’s premises from Sunday. An official said the decision was taken in consultation with the district administration following the rise in COVID-19 cases. Testing racket busted The Kolkata Police have arrested three people for allegedly running a COVID-19 testing racket. The police uncovered the racket after family members of a 57-year-old COVID-19 victim lodged a complaint against the accused. The test report provided by the accused showed that the victim had tested negative for the novel coronavirus. The police said two of the accused worked as contractual lab technicians at a State-run hospital, while the third ran a private laboratory in Kolkata.
02 August 2020||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao, kin interact with via videoconferencing||Poet Varavara Rao’s family had an interaction with him through videoconferencing after two weeks. Mr. Rao is being treated for COVID-19 at Nanavati Hospital. On July 28, the Bombay High Court permitted the family to meet him after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the Bhima Koregaon case told the court it had no problem with the family meeting or talking to him.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||It has taken 137 days for city case count to cross 1 lakh-mark||From the first COVID-19 case reported at Arumbakkam on March 17, it took 137 days for the tally to cross the one lakh-mark in Chennai on Saturday. The 15 zones have cumulatively reported 1,00,877 cases. City Health Officer Jagadeesan said, “The number of cases is declining in Chennai. The daily number has declined from [approximately] 2,300 to 1,074. But we have not reduced containment activity. We are continuing the same vigil. We cannot say the peak has come,” he said. Highest in Tiruvottiyur As many as 2,140 residents have died of the disease in the past 137 days in the 426 sq km of the city limits with a population of 87 lakh. The case fatality rate was around 0.7% during the initial days but rose to 2.1% after July. The case fatality rate is the highest in the Tiruvottiyur and Teynampet zones, touching 2.97%. As many as 321 residents have died in Teynampet and 109 in Tiruvottiyur. The number of deaths has been more than 200 in zones such as Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Anna Nagar and Kodambakkam. The Sholinganallur zone has registered the lowest number of deaths. The civic body reported 27 deaths on Saturday. 86,301 recover As many as 86,301 patients have recovered in the city in the past 137 days. A total of 12,436 patients are under treatment as on Saturday, a slight reduction from 12,774 on Friday. Hospitals discharged 1,385 patients and reported 1,074 fresh cases on Saturday. The highest number of active cases has been reported in the Kodambakkam zone, with more than 1,600. Zones such as Ambattur, Adyar, Teynampet, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar and Anna Nagar have reported more than 1,000 active cases. Valasaravakkam and Royapuram have registered less than 1,000. The other zones have 100-600 active cases. Manali registered the least number of active cases. The number of containment zones in the city is 56. The Kodambakkam zone has the largest number of containment zones, with 18 streets barricaded. Anna Nagar has barricaded 16 streets and Ambattur 17. Case clusters were reported in zones like Valasaravakkam, officials said.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private hospitals continue to charge in excess||On Saturday, nearly two months after the Tamil Nadu government capped treatment cost for COVID-19 at private hospitals, Be Well Hospitals, Kilpauk, lost its recognition as a COVID-19 facility for charging Rs. 12,20,000 for treating a patient for 19 days. The Health Department, which conducted an inspection, confirmed that the hospital charged in excess and suspended its classification as a COVID-19 facility. The individual’s treatment did not include any special medications as per the protocols laid down by the government. The Department noted that it had made it clear to private hospitals to display the treatment costs fixed by the government, while warning that action would be taken if there were complaints of overcharging. The State government capped the COVID-19 treatment cost on June 6. But a number of private hospitals across the State continue to charge in excess. Phone calls were made to a number of private hospitals across the State in July, enquiring about admission of COVID-19 patients and the treatment cost from the first week of July. The rates quoted by the representatives of these hospitals revealed that they charged more than the tariff fixed by the government. The Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services (DMS) has permitted nearly 170 private hospitals in the State to treat COVID-19 patients. The government classified the hospitals as Grade A1/A2 and Grade A3/A4, depending on their infrastructure and facilities. It fixed a maximum of Rs. 7,500 a day for the general ward in Grade A1/A2 hospitals, and up to Rs. 5,000 a day for Grade A3 and A4 hospitals, while a maximum of Rs. 15,000 should be charged for ICU in all categories of hospitals. Official sources said many hospitals, especially medium and large corporate hospitals, collected “exorbitant charges” from patients. “In fact, a few major hospitals demanded caution deposits running into lakhs from patients. Many of them charged more than 50% of the treatment cost fixed by the government, in excess,” an official source in the Health Department said. Recently, the bill of a private medical college hospital charging a patient Rs. 3.5 lakh for 15 days was widely shared on social media. Quite a few hospitals in Chennai remained tight-lipped about the tariff, insisting that the patient had to be examined to ascertain his/her condition, while a few others offered to send their own “isolation ambulance” to pick up patients or offered home care packages and made repeated calls seeking admission of patients. ‘Medical management’ At Gleneagles Global Health City, Perumbakkam, a representative said an isolation ward costs Rs. 10,500 a day, while nursing charges and doctors’ consultation fees were additional. “This is purely medical management, and we should not give out details on the room charges without knowing the patient’s condition,” he said. A representative of MIOT International, when asked about admission for a 75-year-old patient who tested positive for COVID-19, said, “If the patient is stable, the per day charge is Rs. 25,000. If oxygen support is required, it is Rs. 40,000 a day.” A representative of Muthu Hospital at Pulianthope said a normal ward costs Rs. 10,000 a day, while treatment at an ICU costs Rs. 20,000 a day. The hospital also offered to dispatch an “isolation ambulance” with a technician. At Billroth Hospital, the representative said the charges depended on the condition of the patient but an advance amount of Rs. 30,000 was a must. A Chennai resident, who recovered from COVID-19, said he spent Rs. 1.7 lakh for treatment in a common hall comprising 50 patients for 18 days at a private medical college hospital on the city’s outskirts. “My parents, who were at a COVID-19 care centre in another private medical college, paid Rs. 7,000 each for a week,” he said. ( Part 2-How does the   rest of the State fare? )
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. banks on rain to offset shortfall in Cauvery share||With about 20 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) falling short in the realisation of its share of Cauvery water in the last two months, Tamil Nadu is banking on this month’s rainfall in the river’s catchments in Kerala and Karnataka. This month, the quota for Tamil Nadu is 45.95 tmc ft. Unless the State receives a substantial flow in the coming weeks, managers of Mettur dam, which is the primary point of Cauvery water storage, will find it difficult to continue water release for more than a month.  The reason is the depleting storage. As on date, the dam has about 27.7 tmc ft. Given the present rate of discharge, the storage can last for 29 days, after allowing 5 tmc ft each for dead storage and drinking water requirements. In June and July, the State should have received a total of 40.43 tmc ft. Instead, it got only around 20 tmc ft. Karnataka’s reservoirs, too, received a little more than one-third of what they should have got in the two months. As against 120 tmc ft, they got around 45 tmc ft. Recalling that in August last year, Tamil Nadu got around 92 tmc ft, the managers are expecting similar realisation this time.  The major difference is that water release commenced in August 2019 after the dam began getting a heavy flow, whereas it started on June 12 this year. In fact, about 2.4 lakh cubic feet per second (cusecs) was recorded by the dam on August 12, 2019, the day before the dam was opened. But on Saturday morning, the inflow was a mere 4,118 cusecs.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Safety norms continue to be ignored at Kasimedu||The flouting of COVID-19 prevention norms, including physical distancing and personal safety, still remains a concern at the fish auction centre in Kasimedu wharf, where thousands gather every day. Throwing caution to the wind, people, including buyers and retailers, throng the auction centre during the early hours of the day to buy fish. Officials from the Department of Fisheries, the police and the Greater Chennai Corporation met with stakeholders and suggested that only wholesalers be allowed inside the harbour. After retailers protested, they were also permitted to enter between 3 a.m. and 8 a.m., provided they adhered to physical distancing and wore masks. However, on Saturday, retailers and buyers were seen without masks, and physical distancing was ignored. A senior police officer said around 120 police personnel were deployed from 2 a.m. onwards to regulate the crowd. “This everyday ordeal is too much for us. People must cooperate to ensure discipline,” a policeman said. The officer added that each day around 3,000 to 5,000 people visited, though permission was only given for 750. “No tests are conducted on the retailers. By the time the Corporation workers arrive, most of the retailers leave. Not even random tests are conducted,” a local activist said. “Many retailers are senior citizens and need help to even reach the wharf. We cannot turn them away,” a fisherman said.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||WRD starts work to reduce the bund height of Cooum||The Water Resources Department has initiated work to reduce the height of the Cooum’s bund to allow floodwater to flow into the river. It may be recalled that the department had raised the bund height to 3 m during the desilting and widening work carried out last year. One of the reasons cited for the exercise was the prevention of encroachments. Now, WRD officials said the height of the bund would be reduced to 1 m to match the road height. The road height being lower in places abutting the river, such as South Cooum Road in Pudupet and Swami Sivananda Salai, it hindered the flow of rainwater into the waterway. WRD plans to complete the work in two months. “We earlier levelled the bund after clearing encroachments in the city limits. This work will not affect the flood carrying capacity of the river,” an official said. The 9-km stretch between Choolaimedu and Napier bridge was being covered as part of the integrated Cooum River Eco-restoration Project. Several native species of trees, herbs and grass will be planted as part of the eco-restoration plan of the Chennai Rivers Restoration Trust. On stretches of the river choked by vegetation, like near Koyambedu flyover, officials said de-weeding was being carried out periodically. However, controlling the flow of untreated sewage into the river will be a permanent solution to the spread of water hyacinth as it thrives on nutrients found in wastewater.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s GST collections down by 24% in July||Tamil Nadu’s Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections declined 24% to Rs. 4,635 crore in July this year, compared to Rs. 6,084 crore in July 2019, according to data released by the Union Finance Ministry on Saturday. The decline was sharper in July than in the previous month. In June this year, the collections declined 15% to Rs. 4,976 crore from Rs. 5,881 crore in June last year. As the State’s GST collections continue to fall with the lockdown affecting economic activity and consumption, a senior government official said businesses continued to struggle because of the pandemic, and they were granted an extension of time. In June, a lot of taxpayers paid GST for February, March and April 2020, which got reflected in the June and July figures. Pointing out that compared to June, receipts from compensation and the Integrated Goods & Services Tax (IGST) had fallen, the official said, “We expect things to normalise in the coming months as consumption picks up.” The State government has been demanding that the Centre compensate the States for the revenue shortfall in keeping with its commitment and look for alternative sources of funds for the compensation. “One cannot lose sight of the fact that for the past four months, the country and the State have been battling COVID-19. So comparing these numbers does not make sense. We will have to accept the grim realities of lower revenue and higher deficits and take slow and steady steps towards recovery,” said K. Vaitheeswaran, a Chennai-based advocate and tax consultant.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wagtails, mynahs find new homes in parked buses||Wagtails and mynahs have found new homes in stationary State Transport Corporation buses at the Virudhachalam bus depot in Cuddalore district. Officials at the depot have decided not to disturb the birds that have laid eggs, and will not be undertaking basic maintenance work on the buses till the chicks leave the nests. “A pair of mynahs built a nest on the footrest. A few days ago, all the chicks left the nest. We took up maintenance work only after that,” said a mechanic. Since the buses have remained idle for more than three months, mechanics have been regularly checking the air pressure and ignition. “I spotted the nest when I went to clean the mirror. I informed the assistant engineer and he asked me not to disturb the birds,” said the mechanic. Wagtails have constructed nests on the mirror inside the bus and have laid eggs. Another pair is in the process of building a nest. “We will take up maintenance work on these two buses only after the chicks leave the nests,” said the mechanic, adding that he was coming across many more nests, even on trees, bushes and houses. “Three pairs of sparrows have built nests in my house. Maybe they are taking advantage of the absence of movement of people,” he said.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Power surplus likely in State in 2020-21||Tamil Nadu is likely to have a power surplus both in terms of overall energy requirement and peak demand for 2020-21, according to a load generation balance report by the Central Electricity Authority, under the Union Ministry of Power. The report also points to a deviation in demand and supply position during April and May, on account of the lockdown imposed due to COVID-19. According to the report, the State is expected to have an overall demand of 1,17,111 million units and the availability will be 1,25,117 million units, resulting in a surplus of 8,006 million units. Tamil Nadu is expected to see a peak demand of 16,800 MW for 2020-21, and the availability will be 17,448 MW, resulting in a surplus of 648 MW, it added. Other States that are expected to see a power surplus, both in terms of peak and overall power situation, include Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Goa, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura. For Tamil Nadu, the report forecast an overall requirement of 10,600 million units in April, but the actual requirement turned out to be 7,233 million units — nearly 32% below the forecast. Similarly, in April, the State saw a peak demand of 11,435 MW — again nearly 32% below the anticipated 16,800 MW. In May, the actual power demand fell sharply, compared to what was forecast by the report. For May, the State’s actual power requirement was 2,188 million units, nearly 79% below the projected 10,650 million units. Similarly, the actual peak demand was 3,821 MW, 77% below the forecast of 16,400 MW. The report said that with economic activity returning to its normal datum, the actual energy requirement and peak demand would track the trajectory of its forecast for 2020-21. It also noted that some of the planned outages of the generating units as per maintenance schedule of 2020-21, had not been undertaken by the utilities for April and May due to the lockdown. This maintenance schedule may be revised by utilities during the balance period of 2020-21, it added.  Demand met in 2019-20  Meanwhile, the report pointed out that Tamil Nadu was able to meet the energy requirement, with almost no gap (while there was just a 0.4% gap between actual peak demand and peak met) in 2019-20. The overall energy requirement in the State was 1,08,816 million units in 2019-20 and the energy supplied was 1,08,812 million units. The peak demand was 15,727 MW and peak demand met was 15,668 MW. Interestingly, the data showed that energy requirement was at 10,061 million units in April 2019 and 10,333 million units in May 2019 respectively and then saw a downward trend reaching 8,035 million units in December 2019. It recovered slightly, to touch 9449 million units in March 2020. Similarly the peak demand hovered around 15,680 MW in April 2019 and 15,544 in May 2019 and came down to 13,710 MW in December 2019. It touched 15,347 MW in March 2020.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State govt. creates temporary post of Special Senior Counsel||The State government has created a temporary post of Special Senior Counsel for Government and appointed former Advocate-General A.L. Somayaji to the post to deal with cases of “special importance and complicated nature”. It issued two Government Orders, one for the creation of the post and the other for the appointment. The first G.O. stated that the post will carry a monthly retainer fee of Rs. 75,000 and other remuneration applicable to the Advocate-General. Mr. Somayaji was the Advocate-General between March 2013 and August 2016, when Jayalalithaa was the Chief Minister. He was succeeded by Senior Counsel R. Muthukumaraswamy, who resigned on health grounds in August 2017. Law officers said the creation of the post of Special Senior Counsel did not come as a surprise since Mr. Somayaji appeared for the State in the Thoothukudi police firing case in May 2018 when Advocate-General Vijay Narayan was in the United States.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rejuvenation project at Sembakkam lake under way||Sembakkam lake, one of the most polluted waterbodies in the southern suburbs, will soon be restored. Work is in progress to desilt and remove accumulated wastewater in the lake near Chitlapakkam. The eco-restoration project is being designed and implemented jointly by the Nature Conservancy India, the Care Earth Trust and IIT-Madras with permission from the Water Resources Department. WRD officials said a portion of the waterbody’s bund was cut open to flush out accumulated wastewater. “ We need to dredge the lake and plug sewage inlets. A combination of wastewater treatment technologies will be used to rejuvenate the lake,” an official said. The condition of the lake, spread over 100 acres, deteriorated because of various issues, including proliferation of invasive species, dumping of solid waste and release of wastewater. Nisha Priya Mani, project manager, cities, Nature Conservancy India, said the low-cost technology would use sedimentation basins, oxidation ponds and construction of wetlands to treat wastewater. Plants belonging to the species Phragmites would be used for lake habitat restoration and water quality improvement, she said. According to the Care Earth Trust, a biodiversity survey identified 189 plant species and the lake was affected by invasive flora and fauna. Native plants and herbs will be planted thematically around and in the lake to create an eco-friendly recreational space. On the initiative, R. Venkatraman, president, Sarvamangala Nagar Residents’ Association, said that besides improving the lake, it was important to plug sewage inlets from areas such as Pallavaram and Tambaram. Encroachments in the lake’s periphery and water channels should be removed. Desilting work has slowed down now, he added. WRD officials said desilting work in the lake was expected to be finished before the onset of northeast monsoon.
02 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Acquiring Veda Nilayam will hamper inquiry into Jaya’s death’||Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s niece J. Deepa has moved the Madras High Court claiming that the State government’s move to acquire her aunt’s Poes Garden residence will hamper the Justice A. Arumughaswamy Commission of inquiry into her death since it was from that bungalow she was shifted to Apollo Hospitals on September 22, 2016. In an affidavit filed in support of her writ petition listed for admission before Justice N. Anand Venkatesh on Monday, Ms. Deepa, through her counsel G.J. Baskar Narayan, said: “The acquisition proceeding has to be stopped immediately, otherwise the evidence required by the honourable Justice Arumughaswamy Commission may be destroyed.” She contended that the State government cannot take two stands. “On one side, a Commission was appointed and on the other side, acquisition proceedings are taking place. If the latter persists, the former will fail. The attitude of the State government will definitely affect the course of such inquiry.” She also questioned the hurry with which the government was proceeding. The petitioner said that the State government was keen on proceeding with acquisition proceedings even when the entire world had been crippled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Pointing out that the government had decided to acquire even the movable properties in the bungalow, she said her ancestral “treasures” too were still there in the residence. She said that her great grandfather was a physician in the Royal Palace of Mysore and he had left behind many antiques, precious gems and jewellery with her grandmother Sandhya, who, in turn, had passed them on to Jayalalithaa. “The State government is going to make a big scandal out of our property and indulge in spoiling the reputation of my aunt,” she added. If those valuables were displayed for public view after converting the residence into a memorial, the petitioner feared that there could be a “State sponsored” robbery as had reportedly taken place in the Kodanad Estate, also owned by her aunt, in 2017, Ms. Deepa said.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK to study implications of NEP||The ruling AIADMK is expected to take some more time to study implications of the National Education Policy (NEP 2020) before coming out with its position on the development. Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan has convened a meeting of officials of his department on Monday, to discuss the matter. “I will apprise Chief Minster [Edappadi K. Palaniswami] subsequently,” he told The Hindu on Saturday. School Education Minister K. A. Sengottaiyan could not be contacted for his comment but he had on Thursday said that the government’s stand would be made known after talks with the Chief Minister. The AIADMK deputy coordinator, K.P. Munusamy, who recently took oath as Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha), said that the party leadership would make known its stand soon. “We can’t afford to be silent on this issue.” Many Opposition parties, led by the DMK, have demanded that the State government stick to two-language formula and reject the three-language formula proposed in the NEP 2020. In the meantime, Tamil Development Minister and the party’s deputy propaganda secretary K. Pandiarajan, in a tweet, hailed the policy. According to him, the NEP would facilitate making healthcare education “inclusive & integrative,” as allopathy doctors in future would have an understanding and respect for traditional Indian medical systems such as Siddha and Ayurveda.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Law varsity applications from Aug. 5||The Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University has announced that application forms for the five-year programme can be downloaded from August 5, from its website www.tndalu.ac.in Those who wish to come to the university in person to purchase application forms may do so from August 10. The last date to submit filled-in forms is September 4. The Registrar has said that admission details for the three-year and postgraduate programmes would be announced at a later date. Arts and science colleges A total of 3,12,883 aspirants have registered online for the 92,000 seats in 109 government arts and science colleges in the State.  Anna University has released the academic performance of its own departments, affiliated and autonomous colleges. Paid registration fee As of July 31, 1,00,893 of the 1,28,967 aspirants, who had registered for engineering counselling, had paid the registration fee.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Upgrade ESIC hospitals to AIIMS level, says HC||The Madras High Court has suggested that the Union Ministry of Labour and Employment raise standards of the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC)-run medical colleges and hospitals in the State to that of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) with the assistance of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The High Court’s first all-women Full Bench, comprising Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana, Anita Sumanth and P.T. Asha, made the suggestion while holding the provisions of the ESI Act applicable to both aided as well as unaided educational institutions since it was a socio-economic welfare-oriented legislation. Lack of infrastructure In its 90-page judgment, the Bench expressed dismay over lack of infrastructure and manpower in many ESIC hospitals. Since they were being run with contributions made by subscribers, they “cannot deny medical facilities to them on the pretext of shortage of staff,” the judges said.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New one-way rule at Anna Nagar from Monday||The traffic police have announced new one-way rule between Anna Arch and Anna Nagar Roundtana, which will be implemented on a trial basis for a week from Monday. The stretch of A Block 3rd Street connecting Crescent Road and 3rd Avenue will be made one-way. Route diversions Vehicles going from Anna Nagar Roundtana to Anna Arch will not be permitted on A Block 3rd Street, off 3rd Avenue. Vehicles coming from 4th Avenue (Shanthi Colony) to A Block 3rd Street and taking ‘U’ turn in the Shanthi Colony/3rd Avenue traffic signal to reach A Block 3rd Street will not be allowed. Vehicles plying from Crescent Road via A Block 3rd Street have to turn left towards Anna Arch. Vehicle coming on 4th Avenue and Anna Nagar Roundtana will be allowed to take ‘U’ turn at Government Yoga & Naturopathy Hospital. Vehicles plying from Roundtana to Crescent Road have to take 3rd Avenue, turn left on A Block 5th Street, proceed to A Block 11th Street and A Block 7th Cross Street (West). Vehicles plying from Anna Arch to Crescent Road have to touch Roundtana, take ‘U’ turn and then en route through 3rd Avenue, turn left on A Block 5th Street, proceed to A Block 11th Street and A Block 7th Cross Street (West).  The stretch of A Block 3rd Street connecting Crescent Road and 3rd Avenue will be made one-way
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Skin infections plague Perumbakkam residents||Residents of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenements have been struggling with skin infections for many years. They suspect that it is due to unclean water tanks and contaminated water. There are over 18,000 families residing in the Perumbakkam TNSCB tenements. “We have been facing this problem for the past two years. Residents, especially the children and elderly, have been getting rashes all over their bodies,” a woman resident said. Many residents suspect that it could be due of unclean water tanks. “They have never been cleaned properly. Especially during the pandemic, no one has come. The contract workers are demanding Rs. 50 from each house to clean the tanks,” said M. Tamilarasan, president, Nammal Mudiyum 18th Block, TNSCB Tenement Association. He said the water supply was also not proper. “We get it on alternate days. There are a lot of plumbing-related issues in the tenements,” he said. Sister Valarmathy, State coordinator, National Domestic Workers Movement, said residents have complained to her about the infection. “The Primary Health Centre should function 24 hours. There is only one doctor for 18,000 families. The facility should have doctors from all specialisations, including a dermatologist,” she said. Mr. Tamilasaran added that the locality should have an ambulance. A TNSCB official said the tanks were cleaned regularly. “If the residents have any complaints, they can approach us,” he added.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers carry out value addition to produce during the lockdown||The COVID-19 lockdown, in place since March 25, has not stopped farmers in dry areas of the State from carrying out value addition to their produce and earning additional revenue. As many as 634 tonnes of farm produce were procured from dryland farmers through 139 value-addition machinery units. About 1.4 crore litres of different types of oil (cold pressed gingelly or coconut oil) and 376 tonnes of dehusked pulses, millets and cattle feed, valued at Rs. 3.59 crore, were sold. This was made possible thanks to the State government’s programme — ‘Mission on Sustainable Dry Land Agriculture’. Oilseeds and pulses As part of the programme, value addition units such as millet processing units, oil expellers and cattle feed units are set up in rural areas, at a subsidy of Rs. 10 lakh per unit or 75% of the machinery cost, whichever is less. Apart from enabling farmers to earn additional revenue, the idea is to discourage those in dry lands from raising paddy, which will lead to the consumption of more water in deficit areas, and encourage them to go for oilseeds and pulses, a senior official in the Agriculture Department said. Pointing out that 242 units were established at a cost of Rs. 22.2 crore in the last three years, the official added that 100 more units would be commissioned soon. The Department also plans to set up value-addition centres in each of the 29 districts.  The idea is also to discourage farmers in dry lands from raising paddy, which will lead to the consumption of more water in deficit areas
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||297 video lessons ready for Plus Two students||The School Education Department has prepared 297 video lessons across subjects as learning resources for Plus Two students. As part of the first phase of the Veetupalli initiative, 137 video lessons were given to students as learning resources. Government and government-aided schools were instructed to transfer the video lessons to students’ laptops through hi-tech labs in schools when the distribution of textbooks took place for Plus Two students in July. In a circular, Director of School Education S. Kannappan issued instructions to all government school heads and teachers to download and access the required video resources. For the second phase, the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and Kalvi TV have together prepared these video lessons in 30 subjects. “The resources can be transferred on to the laptops of the students. Not more than 20 students can be asked to come to the school at any given point of time to get the resources on their laptops,” the circular read. The State government had earlier issued guidelines to be followed for the distribution of textbooks and officials have been asked to strictly follow them. Since the schools in Tamil Nadu remain shut, the School Education Department has been taking steps to ensure that students have access to resources and can continue learning. Students who are in quarantine or are living in containment zones have been asked to reach out to their teachers after their quarantine period ends.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI:,TAMIL NADU||Job for BSF jawan’s family member||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday announced that a government job would be given to one of the family members of BSF havildar S. Tirumurthi, who was killed when his rifle accidentally went off recently. Tirumurthi was from Pullavarayankudikadu in Needmangalam taluk in Tiruvarur district. In a press release, the Chief Minister said he had asked Food Minister Kamaraj to pay last respects to the deceased soldier on behalf of the government.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI:,TAMIL NADU||ISKCON competitions||The International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) will conduct online competitions from August 1 on the occasion of Sri Krishna Janmashtami, according to a press release. The last date for registration is August 9. Visithttp://www. iskconchennai.org/competitions fordetails.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal: help photographers and drivers||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Saturday urged the Central and State governments to help photographers and drivers affected by the lockdown. He said that the party’s labour wing would also extend support to them. In a post on social media, he said that drivers and photographers had lost their livelihood, and went on to criticise the Centre for its policies regarding repayment of loans. “After giving them time to pay back monthly EMIs, they are being burdened with interest payments for the same,” he said.
02 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schools warned against collecting over 40% of fee||The Madras High Court has warned private schools against forcing parents to pay entire fees in gross violation of its July 17 interim order to collect only 40% of the fees for the present, in view of the lockdown to fight COVID-19. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh took a serious view of the matter when a government counsel brought it to his notice that several parents had made oral complaints regarding demand for entire fees but were hesitant to lodge written complaints. He directed the School Education Department officials to conduct inquiries immediately and initiate appropriate action against schools that were collecting fees in violation of court orders. The Judge also called for a report from the Director of School Education by August 17.  ‘Initiate contempt’ If the court finds any violation after perusing the report, it would not hesitate to initiate contempt of court proceedings against the school management, the judge warned.
02 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Dead flies among samples tested to find cause of tiger deaths||The toxicology report of the poisoning of a tiger and tigress, within the limits of Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) near Coimbatore in April, has shed light on finer details of the killings. Dead flies found on the carcass of a wild boar, presumably kept as a bait for the two tigers, were also among samples collected by the veterinarians, for laboratory analysis. Toxicological analysis showed the presence of the same poison in the dead flies, samples of the wild boar and the two big cats, said an official, who was part of the investigation. “Even before autopsy, we suspected that poisoning could be the cause of death, as hundreds of dead flies were found on and around the remains of the wild boar. Some dead flies were taken as samples for test and results proved that the flies too died of the same poison, traces of which were found in samples taken from the remains of the wild boar and the big cats,” said the officer. Though the accused had claimed that they kept poison in the carcass of the wild boar, a clinical finding was required to confirm it. Decomposing carcasses of the tiger and tigress, aged around 10, were found at Pothamadai beat of Pollachi forest range of ATR on April 8. The department staff found the carcass of the tiger on the side of a stream in a forest area called Uppumanthittu of Pothamadai beat. The carcass of the tigress was found in a stream named Punganodai, on forest fringes, around one km away. The staff also found remains of a wild boar, flesh of which was found in the stomachs of the two big cats, during postmortem. The department arrested four persons, who according to officials, kept poison in the carcass of the wild boar. While P. Rasu and C. Karuppusamy, both residents of a village near Pothamadai, were arrested on April 16, two others — D. Vellingiri and M. Murugan — were held on April 23. The accused had claimed that they kept poison in the carcass of the wild boar to kill other wild boars that come to scavenge the remains to protect agricultural crops from them. The department also faced allegations that the four persons arrested were mere workers, thus sparing the real accused. Sources from Pollachi said that villagers levelled charges of corruption against an officer of ATR for alleged compromises made in the investigation. The department has denied the allegations.
02 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown extension disappoints trade, industry||As the lockdown has been extended till August 31, trade and industry associations here have appealed to the government to relax the e-pass system. In a memorandum submitted to the Coimbatore district Collector on Friday, the Federation of Trade Associations, Coimbatore, said this month too the e-pass system would be in force and it affected the business community. It took a long time for businessmen to get e-passes. The district administration should permit travel between districts by accepting basic documents such as GST certificate, financial statement, or invoice copy. Amirtharaj, a farmer at Kinathukadavu, finds it relatively easy to get workers for agriculture jobs. However, some farmers who grow groundnuts or onions get workers from other districts during harvest. With bus services suspended and e-passes not easy to get, these workers are unable to reach the farms. They try to reach the farms by vans, he said. Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president R. Ramamurthy said getting an e-pass had become difficult. There were several industries located in Sulur area. “These units come under Tiruppur district. Even the unit owners are unable to go to factories daily,” he said. E-passes are needed for migrant workers to return to Coimbatore, for maintenance personnel to travel to other districts to look at machines, and for unit owners to visit their factories located in adjoining districts. Probably, one-time pass can be given to some who need to visit the factories daily. They system of issuing passes should be made simple. Industries were unable to take up weekly maintenance work because of total lockdown on Sundays. The workers and employees involved in the work were unable to reach the units, Mr. Ramamurthy said. An official of the district administration said highest number of e-passes had been issued in Coimbatore. There were stringent norms to allow migrant workers to return to Coimbatore. In the case of industries, the administration issued passes for inter-district travel within the zone.
02 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Domestic helps bear the brunt during lockdown||It has been nearly five months since domestic help K. Vatsala, 51, paid the rent for her house at Muniappan Koil Street on Lawley Road in Coimbatore. Raising her 12-year-old daughter as a single mother, she has been out of job for nearly five months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. She was working at a house till March, when the house owner asked her to stop coming to work. “No one else is willing to employ me after this lockdown. They keep saying that they will do all the chores by themselves,” she told The Hindu on Saturday. Claiming that she has not received any groceries or cash assistance from the district administration so far, Ms. Vatsala said that she has been depending on her elder sister to feed herself and her daughter. “My daughter will enter Class VI now. If the schools reopen now, I will not be able to pay her fees,” she said. Like Ms. Vatsala, many women domestic helps have been reeling under financial pressure due to the pandemic. A. Radhika, district secretary of All India Democratic Women's Association (AIDWA), said that there are no specific welfare initiatives by the State government for those employed as domestic helps so far, such as welfare associations or pension benefits. A sample survey conducted by AIDWA in June with 53 domestic helps across Coimbatore district revealed that many did not receive their salaries for the months of March and April, when the nationwide lockdown was in force. When asked whether they received salaries for the month of March, 38 domestic helps said ‘no', 12 said ‘yes' and three said that they received a portion of their salary. Regarding April, 30 domestic helps said ‘no’, 22 said ‘yes’ and one said that they received a portion. A total of 34 out of the 53 women received salaries less than Rs. 5,000 per month, wherein 10 helps received less than Rs. 2,000 a month, the survey said. Among these helps, 33 women said that they are residing in a rented house. “The State government must come forward to introduce welfare measures for domestic helps such as cash assistance and pension,” Ms. Radhika said. When contacted, an official from the Department of Social Welfare from Coimbatore district administration said that there are no schemes for domestic helps yet, but individual grievances could be considered.
02 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ganga Hospital opens new ICU for burns cases||Ganga Hospital, Coimbatore, recently opened a new Intensive Care Unit (ICU) exclusively for burns cases. The burns ICU is housed in a separate section of the hospital in the burns unit. All the five ICU rooms have specialised burn beds with an inbuilt system for weighing patients and shower bath facility with temperature-controlled water for the patients. The rooms with double entry also have temperature controllers. S. Raja Sabapathy, director of Ganga Hospital and chief of Burns Unit, said in a statement that 70 lakh people suffer burns every year in India and 14 lakh of them die as per the National Burns Registry. Fatality in cases of burns is depended on the extent, severity and depth of burns. When the percentage of burnt area exceeds 10% in a child or 20% in an adult of the total body surface area, it is called major burns, he said. He added that the hospital will be able to offer focused quality care in the management of severe burns as it also has the largest functioning skin bank in South India.
02 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Winners of photography contest||The prize distribution ceremony for DJ Memorial Photography Contest (DJMPC) 2020 was held online here recently. The contest, organised annually by textile machinery manufacturer Lakshmi Machine Works (LMW) in memory of its former Chairman and Managing Director D. Jayavarthanavelu, saw its ninth edition this year. LMW’s Chairman and Managing Director Sanjay Jayavarthanavelu delivered a special address during the event, a press release here said. DJMPC 2020 saw the submission of 9,393 images from 2,223 participants across the world. Entries from contest participants were accepted under two categories: ‘Wildlife’ and ‘Sunrise/Sunset’. The participants registered and submitted through the online portalwww.djmpc.inbetween May 25 and July 5. A three-member jury panel adjudged the entries and chose Ramachandiran Govindaraj as the winner in the ‘Wildlife’ category and Suman Chakrabarty in the ‘Sunrise/Sunset’ category. Winners and runners up received prizes and eight other participants in each of the categories received certificates, the release said.
02 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore to get hi-tech Aavin parlour||Aavin Coimbatore, which sells nearly 1.60 lakh litres of milk a day in the district, has launched an online system for customers to get milk cards. With the threat of COVID-19 spread, customers need not visit the zonal offices.  Milk card They can apply for the card online (aavincoimbatore.com), make payments online, and get the cards, said General Manager of Coimbatore district Aavin, R. Ravikumar. Further, Aavin launched the sale of milk by-products through PDS outlets in the district from August 1. Customers could buy ghee and panneer through the outlets, he added. Aavin would soon establish a 24 X 7 hi-tech Aavin parlour at RS Puram. Minister SP Velumani laid foundation for the parlour recently. The parlour would be functional in eight months. With a built up area of 3,306 sq.ft, it would have seating, vehicle parking facilities and a children’s park. Customers who wanted to have Aavin ice cream, flavoured milk or other products need not go in for take aways. They could have the products at the parlour, Mr. Ravikumar said. In a release, the Minister said Coimbatore district had 346 milk producers cooperative societies through which 1.90 lakh litres of milk was procured a day. Total sale The total sale of milk a day was about 1.60 lakh litres. Products such as paneer, ghee, cheese, ice cream, and chocolate were also sold. About 200 retail traders and 20 wholesale dealers were appointed this year to sell Aavin products in the district. About 27 kiosks were set up at Rs. 5.5 lakh each across the district, he added.
02 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||36-year-old man arrested on murder charge||The Podanur police arrested a 36-year-old man on charges of murdering his wife’s co-worker, allegedly over the relationship he had with her. Esakki Lingam (21), a native of Thoothukudi who was working in a sweetshop at Kuniyamuthur, was murdered by Abubacker Siddique of Gandhi Nagar near Podanur in Coimbatore late on Thursday. The police said that Esakki Lingam and Siddique’s wife worked together in the sweetshop. Due to the lockdown, the sweetshop was closed and Esakki Lingam did not have a place to stay. Siddique allowed the youth to stay at his house after requested by his wife. According to the police, the youth had been living with the family for about four months and allegedly he had an affair with Siddique’s wife. The police said that Siddique had come to know about this and warned two of them of quitting the affair. On Thursday, Esakki Lingam’s relative Elisha Mary of Vilankurichi was informed that he died of epilepsy. She came to the house and informed the police after finding injuries on his body. During investigation, Siddique confessed to the police that he assaulted Esakki Lingam with a knife and chapatti roller, irked over the affair the youth had with his wife. He was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody late on Friday.
02 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Several eateries violating norms’||Several eateries and hotels located in the fringe areas of the city allegedly do not adhere to the precautions made mandatory by the district administration to control the spread of COVID-19. It is common to see huge crowds in some of the eateries at Vilankurichi and Kalapatti areas, says a resident of Villankurichi, who did not want to be named. While the spread of the virus is on the rise in Coimbatore, some of these hotels do not follow physical distancing, accommodate large number of people at a time, and do not follow the other precautionary measures, the resident said. An official of the district administration said steps will be taken for random checks of restaurants located in the fringe areas of the city.
02 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Senior neurologist M.B. Pranesh dies of COVID-19||Senior neurologist from Coimbatore M.B. Pranesh (83), who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at a private hospital here, died in the early hours of Saturday. People close to Dr. Pranesh said that he was undergoing treatment at PSG Hospitals for about a week. Sources with the hospital said that he had tested positive for COVID-19. He also suffered from bronchial asthma, they said. Dr. Pranesh did his MBBS, MD and DM from Madras Medical College. He worked at the Department of Neurology at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital till his retirement as professor. Post retirement, he worked as the Head of the Department of Neurology at KG Hospital for nine years and held the same post at the PSG Hospitals from 2004 to 2018. Many doctors from Coimbatore recalled him as a great clinician and teacher. Indian Medical Association (IMA), Coimbatore branch president C. P. Shanmugasundaram condoled his death. IMA branch secretary M. Doraikannan said that Dr. Pranesh’s biggest asset was over 1,000 doctors whom he taught and trained. As an author, he wrote in several medical journals and research publications. Dr. Pranesh is survived by wife Indira, retired professor of the Department of Pathology at CMCH, daughter Bhawani and son Ananth.
02 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Protest against EIA draft||All Progressive Movement, Coimbatore, staged a protest in Gandhipuram recently against the Central Government for releasing the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA). Members of Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam, Dravida Tamilar Katchi, Aathi Tamizhar Peravai, Thanthai Periyar Dravida Kazhagam and a few other outfits that form a part of the Movement staged the agitation to register their protest against the draft. Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam’s Coimbatore urban unit president M. Nehru Das said the draft, as released by the government, was anti-people, anti-environment and anti-democratic. The government should withdraw the draft failing which the Movement would intensify its protest, he added.
02 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||No penalty for delayed deed registration||To provide relief to industries affected by the lockdown, the State government has said that fines payable by them, exceeding Rs. 10, for delayed registration of Deposit of Title (DOT) deeds, stand remitted until March 31. Official sources in the Registration Department said a DOT deed could be registered after payment of a fee within four months from the time the document is written. If there is a delay, it can be registered in another four months by paying a penalty. The fine amount differs. With the new notification, industries do not have to pay the penalty if it exceeds Rs. 10. This is valid for applications from August 1 and those submitted earlier that are pending with the Department. “There is no exemption from the submission of DOT, which the industries have asked,” said P. Nallathambi, president of the Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association.
02 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Four held with ganja||The Ramanathapuram police on Saturday arrested four persons with 1.5 kg of ganja. A team of the police led by inspector M. Murugesan arrested the accused with the contraband.
02 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Labour shortage hits water supply scheme in Erode||Return of migrant workers to their native places and difficulty in mobilising workers from other States have led to delay in expediting the Rs. 484.45-crore Dedicated Water Supply Scheme that proposed to supply 81.10 million litres per day of water to the Erode Corporation. Work began in 2017 and was scheduled to be completed by 2019. However, various factors delayed the completion of works and Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD) Board, that is implementing the scheme, was given time till October to complete all works. Currently, service connections to 98,000 houses of the total 1.05 lakh houses have been completed while construction of four reservoirs of the total 21 reservoirs is in progress. The contractor, Larsen and Toubro, Chennai, had deployed around 900 workers of whom over 95% of the workforce was from north India. A senior engineer of TWAD Board told The Hindu that due to COVID-19 lockdown, most of them had returned to their native and efforts to mobilise workforce from Andhra Pradesh and other States also did not yield results. Efforts are on to mobilise workforce from various parts of the State after which ongoing works would be expedited, he added. The engineer said that testing of water pipelines in each area is in progress and all the works would be completed by the end of October. Raw water will be drawn from River Cauvery at Varadanallur village at Uratchikottai in Bhavani and treated and pumped to two sumps in the city. It will then be distributed to all the houses and commercial establishments in the 60 wards in the corporation limits.
02 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Congregations banned at temples in Erode for Aadi Perukku||The district administration has banned congregations for Aadi Perukku at Sangameswarar temple at Bhavani and Magudeswarar temple at Kodumudi on Sunday. District Collector C. Kathiravan said that since complete lockdown will be in place on August 2, public were not allowed to gather along River Cauvery to take bath on the occasion of Aadi Perukku . He warned that action will be taken against persons violating the order.
02 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Works to acquire land for road widening begin||With the four laning of Erode – Chithode section of State Highways 15 is to be undertaken, revenue officials held discussions on acquiring land and fixing value for it here recently. Under the Tamil Nadu Road Sector Project II, the 30.60-km highway from Erode to Gobichettipalayam is to be executed on Design, Build, Finance, Operate, Maintain and Transfer (DBFOMT) basis and tenders were already floated for four-laning of Gobichettipalayam – Chithode road at Rs. 220 crore. The road from Chithode to Veerappanchatiram has many educational institutions and commercial establishments. On Friday, preliminary works for the land acquisition process began with District Revenue Officer S. Kavitha inspecting the road at Veerappanchatiram and holding discussion with Erode Revenue Divisional Officer, Tahsildar and other revenue officials. Officials said that shops, houses and other establishments were present on the stretch and land acquisition had to be done for the project. Fixing of value for the land to be acquired was also discussed.
02 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Human chains formed||With children highly vulnerable to trafficking, Campaign Against Child Labour (CACL) – Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, an organisation that works for child protection, wanted the Trafficking of Persons (Prevention, Protection and Rehabilitation) Bill to be reintroduced in Parliament. On the occasion of World Day Against Trafficking in Persons 2020 that is observed on July 30, members of CACL and Childline 1098 formed human chains with placards against child trafficking at Erode Railway Station, Gobichettipalayam, Sathyamangalam, Nambiyur, T.N. Palayam and Perundurai. R. Karuppasamy, convener, CACL and Director of Rights Education and Development Centre (READ), said that 4,196 children are missing in the State in 2017 and only three perpetrators were convicted for human trafficking cases in the State. “Of the trafficked persons, 60% are children”, he added. He said that trafficked victims are subjected to forced labour and COVID-19 pandemic had increased the number of child labourers. “The purpose of forming human chain is to create awareness among the people so as to prevent school dropouts, child labour, child marriage and child trafficking”, he added.
02 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Since monthly maintenance work will be carried out at the following sub-stations, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on the given dates.  Suriyampalayam sub-station on August 3: Chithode, Rayapalayam, Sunnambu Odai Amaravathi Nagar, Thanneerpandal Palayam, R.N. Pudur, Konavaikal, Lakshmi Nagar, Kalingarayanpalayam, Perumal Malai, IRTT, Kumilanparapu, Chellapampalayam, Bye Pass Road, Ramanathan Nagar, Karumbukadu, Mamarathupalayam, Mettupalayam, Nochipalayam, Tayirpalayam, Semur, Soolai, Naripallam, Ellapalayam, Sottaiyampalayam, K.R. Palayam, Rasampalayam, B.P. Agraharam, Maravapalayam, C.S. Nagar, K.R. Kulam, Cauvery Nagar, Balaji Nagar, Manickampalayam, E.B.B. Nagar, S.S.T. Nagar, Velaan Nagar and Uthukadu.  Vendipalayam sub-station, August 4: Vendipalayam, Konavaikal, Molagoundampalayam, EDISSIYA Industrial Estate, Kollampalayam, Housing Unit, Nadarmedu (East area), Moolapalayam, Rita School area, Nochikattu Valasu, Jeeva Nagar, Sanjay Nagar and Cheran Nagar.  Kaspapettai sub-station, August 4: Veerapampalayam, Kurikaranpalayam, Sendur Garden, Moolapalayam, Muthusamy Colony, Rangampalayam, Senathipathi Palayam, Nochikattu Valasu, E.B. Nagar, Ragupathi Naicken Palayam, Anakal Palayam, Tirupathi Garden, Sadayampalayam, Mullamparappu and Chettipalayam.
02 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai records 166 new cases||Madurai district recorded 166 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total cases so far to 11,175. As many as 208 persons were discharged, taking the total number of discharged to 8,631. Ten patients succumbed, raising the death toll to 247. The number of active cases stands at 2,297. With five more deaths, Virudhunagar district registered 90 fatalities. It recorded 286 fresh cases, taking the total to 8,151. However, the number of patients who went home on a single day crossed the four-digit mark with 1,084 discharges, taking the total to 6,041. There are 2,020 active cases. Theni recorded 327 cases which took the tally to 5,355, and 299 patients were discharged. Dindigul had 81 cases, taking the total to 2,893, and there were 44 discharges. Ramanathapuram accounted for 38 cases, taking the tally to 3,293, and 86 were discharged. Sivaganga had 61 cases, raising the total to 2,426, and 85 were discharged while the total number of patients discharged stands at 1,957. While adding 800 COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday, the southern districts witnessed the loss of 17 lives. Thoothukudi recorded 243 cases, taking the total to 7,350 and the number of active cases to 2,119 after 337 patients were discharged. One patient, Deputy Inspector of Schools M. Dharmarajan, 48, died. Kanniyakumari recorded 198 cases, taking the tally to 4,891 and the number of active cases to 2,008 as 188 patients were discharged. Six patients lost their lives. With 181 new cases and six deaths, Tirunelveli’s active cases tally increased to 2,281 and the total so far to 5,393. Tenkasi had 178 new cases that jacked up its tally to 2,210 and active cases to 1,014. While 187 were discharged, four succumbed.
02 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Chennai police question Maridhas in Madurai||A team from the Chennai City Police on Saturday arrived in Madurai to question a vlogger, Maridhas, who has been accused by the News18 television group of fraudulently using an e-mail to spread fake news to harm the reputation of the news channel’s senior editors. The team seized a laptop allegedly belonging to him. The enquiry that began in the afternoon continued past 8 p.m. The Madurai City police had deployed police force outside his residence as a precautionary measure where some advocates had assembled. A police officer said that his laptop was seized in the presence of Revenue officials. The complaint against Mr. Maridhas was that he had posted a video on his YouTube channel alleging that News18 Tamil Nadu, has been running an anti-Hindu campaign. Subsequently, he also claimed through his Twitter handle post that the management of the channel had accepted his complaint and an enquiry had found his complaint to be true. Mr Maridhas was also accused of displaying an e-mail dated July 9 allegedly sent to him by Associate Executive Editor of the News18 Group, Vinay Sarawagi, that the management had accepted his allegations. Complaining that the e-mail was forged and fabricated, Mr Sarawagi had alleged that Mr. Maridhas was spreading fake news that harmed his and the channel’s reputation.
02 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Probe into multi-crore fraud on||The Organised Crime Unit of Crime Branch – Criminal Investigation Department has begun investigation into a multi-crore fraud of an online multi-level marketing company. Deputy Superintendent of Police M. Muralitharan has asked people who have invested in Click Advert Solutions and lost their money throughadsurf2earn.comto lodge their complaints with proof of documents. The company, operating from an office at Shenoy Nagar in Madurai and represented by James Moses Anthony, Gurunathan, F.L.S. Prabhakaran and Pushparaj, had been running a racket since 2009. The ‘investors’ were given user id and password and asked to log into the website and view 25 advertisement clippings that run for 30 seconds each every day and ‘earn rebates.’ The rebate, a certain percentage of the investment, was promised to be deposited into their bank account every week. If they introduced new viewers to the website, they were promised a commission of 1% to 5% . Lured by the ‘good returns on investment’ promised by the advertisements, people from many parts of the State parted with their money in the range of Rs. 100 to Rs. 5 lakh. Meanwhile, one Karthikeyan lodged a complaint with the Madurai City Police that he was cheated by that company. The case was subsequently transferred to OCU CB-CID by the High Court. Those who were cheated by Click Advert Solutions can visit the office of OCU CB-CID at No. 7 Kamarajar First Street, Chinna Chokkikulam, Madurai 625002. The officials can be contacted over 94981 06219; 94981 54859 and 94981 04022.
02 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC judge refuses to recuse from hearing granite firm petitions||Justice B. Pugalendhi of the Madras High Court has refused to recuse himself from hearing a batch of petitions pertaining to PRP Granite Exports. A group of advocates had made a request to place the petitions before some other judge, as Justice Pugalendhi had earlier represented the State government as Additional Advocate General against the granite firm in other cases. Rejecting the plea for recusal, Justice Pugalendhi observed that he failed to understand the merits in the request. The judge said that he, as a Special Government Pleader and Additional Advocate General, had appeared before the High Court and the Supreme Court, in matters pertaining to granite firms, but not in these pending petitions. An Additional Advocate General or a Special Government Pleader means an advocate appointed by the government to conduct cases for and behalf of the State in the court. The government based on merits hires advocates to represent it and personal motives cannot be attributed to such advocates. The relationship between the government and the law officers is that of a client and a counsel. Merely because the judge had represented several government bodies, as government counsel, that by itself cannot be a bar for this court from taking up any case filed by the government or against the government, the judge said. Every person appointed to be a judge of the High Court, at the time of swearing-in, have solemnly affirmed that they will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution as by law established and perform duties of the office without fear or favour and to uphold the Constitution and the law. Withdrawing from a case merely on a party’s request allows the parties to cherry pick a bench of their choice. If the plea is entertained and the court recuses itself from hearing, such an act, in the mind of this court, is a breach of the solemn responsibility, vested upon this court by the Constitution, the judge said.
02 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Suspended Head Constable moves High Court Bench seeking bail||Suspended Head Constable Murugan, an accused in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks, has filed a petition seeking bail before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. Murugan alleged that he was compelled by Inspector Sridhar and Sub-Inspector Balakrishnan to sign in the complaint against the father and son. With no other go, he signed the complaint. He said he was made to sign the complaint at around 8.15 p.m. on the day of the incident when he returned to the police station after conducting an inquiry in another case. He said he had nothing to do with the deceased except that he had signed the complaint against them. He said he did not touch them and was not involved in attacking the deceased. As a subordinate officer, he obeyed the instructions of higher officers, he said.
02 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||GRH gets medical equipment||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has sponsored a computer radiography machine along with a mobile X-ray unit for the COVID speciality ward of Government Rajaji Hospital. The equipment costing Rs. 15 lakh has been bought with the MP Local Area Development Fund. He said that since the speciality ward lacked X-ray facility, patients were taken outside the ward for the procedure. Now, X-rays could be taken in their wards and the result would be known instantly. He handed over the machines to the Resident Medical Officer R. Ravindran and Medical Superintendent C. Dharmaraj in the presence of Communist Party of India (M) district secretaries R. Vijayarajan and C. Ramakrishnan.
02 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||M. Phil., Ph. D. entrance test in September||Entrance exams for M. Phil. and Ph. D. courses of Madurai Kamaraj University will be held in September. The university has called for online applications in 51 Ph. D. and 48 M. Phil. subjects on July 19. The last date to apply for the test is August 10. In a press release, Registrar (in charge) V. S. Vasantha said based on the number of applications, the last date could be extended. The university was attempting to get a better grip on logistics as the government had extended the lockdown until August 31. In 2019, the university for the first time conducted the common entrance test online in partnership with a private firm. This year too, it is planning to conduct the test at a limited number of centres. “The test is usually held on a Sunday. However, since complete lockdown has been imposed on all Sundays, we had to conduct it on some other day. We will get some clarity on what the lockdown situation will be like as we want to ensure that students can travel comfortably if need be,” she said.
02 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 114.90 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 513 cusecs and a discharge of 125 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 30.54 ft. (71 ft.), with nil inflow and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 1,639 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Saturday was (in mm): Thekkadi 34.2, Periyar dam 32.6, Kodaikanal 15.2, Gudalur 7.3, Uthamapalayam 6, Shanmuganathi dam 5, Pulipatti 1.8, Chittampatti 1.6 and Melur 1.2. The water level in Papanasam dam stood at 58.65 feet (143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 819.10 cusecs and 454.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 62.35 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 12 cusecs and 75 cusecs of water was discharged.
02 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Day One of Unlock 3.0 sees many vehicles passing through U.T.||Though the influx of vehicles passing through Puducherry saw an increase on Day One of Unlock 3.0 on Saturday, marked by further easing of COVID-19 restrictions, police continued to maintain tight vigil at border points in the region. Police patrols, assisted by health teams, are monitoring the entry of passengers at the Gorimedu toll gate, which unlike other areas bordering Villupuram and Cuddalore that have porous borders, affords stricter regulation. “Vehicular traffic passing through Puducherry is from Chennai, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram. We are allowing entry for vehicles with e-passes, primarily pilgrims to places like Chidambaram and those seeking medical treatment in a city health centre,” said C. Maran, SP (East). There are also a significant number of workers from nearby places employed at factories in the city’s industrial estates who pass through the toll point regularly, he added. Clusters from functions “The real problem is not with the movement of people so long as they follow social norms. “Most of the recent clusters have come from social functions, where the limit on attendees was flouted and distancing was not maintained,” Mr. Maran said. The Revenue and Disaster Management Department on Saturday issued a notification on activities allowed under Unlock 3.0 guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs for Puducherry and Karaikal for the lockdown period ending August 31, excepting containment zones. Mahe and Yanam regions will adhere to the pattern of lockdown adopted in neighbouring Kerala and Andhra Pradesh.
02 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Cases nearing 1,000 in Puducherry||The COVID-19 death toll went up to 51 on Saturday with two elderly patients succumbing, even as active cases in Puducherry alone neared the 1,000-mark. The Health Department said both patients were 75 years old and hailed from Puducherry. A 75-year-old woman from Vaithikuppam passed away due to sudden cardiorespiratory arrest and viral pneumonia at IGMCRI, while another woman of the same age from Gandhi Nagar died of septic shock, severe COVID-19 illness at JIPMER. The Union Territory saw 139 new admissions and 85 patients discharged in the last 24 hours. The infection rate stood at 14.7% — 139 testing positive out of 945 samples. The fatality rate was 1.4%. Of the 1,357 active cases, including 223 patients in home isolation, the numbers in Puducherry alone stood at 998 cases. Sharp spike Yanam reported a sharp spike with 42 admissions, taking the total cases in the enclave to 89. In Puducherry, 336 patients are at IGMCRI, 351 at JIPMER and 311 in COVID care centres. There are 47 patients in the Karaikal GH and 89 in the Yanam GH. Currently, there are no active cases in Mahe. As many as 2,185 patients were treated and discharged, including 85 on Saturday. Till now 39,707 samples have been tested, of which 35,343 have been negative and the test results of 482 are awaited. The tally is 51 deaths and 1,357 active cases with a cumulative total of 3,593 cases and 2,185 patients discharged. Alternative sites Meanwhile, new hospitalisation sites for COVID-19 patients will be opened in Yanam, which is witnessing a spike. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao and Revenue Secretary T. Arun, who undertook an inspection of health facilities in the region, have directed officials to set up COVID care centres in schools and student hostels. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, who undertook a review meeting, noted that in spite of all-round efforts, the numbers were likely to double by August-end. While response systems are being strengthened, the spread could be effectively stopped only if people adopted an attitudinal change in their best self-interest, she said.
02 August 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Siddha treatment centres to come up in all districts||All districts in the State would soon have exclusive Siddha care centres for treating COVID-19 patients, Health Minister C.Vijayabhaskar said here on Saturday. Asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms are provided treatment at the Siddha care centres. So far about 75,000 patients have been treated under the Indian medicine system. “We have been offering integrated treatment to patients and Indian medicine systems play an important role in it. AYUSH doctors have been treating patients. We have established exclusive Siddha care centres for treating patients at 18 places. Soon we will extend the facility to all districts,” he told reporters after inaugurating a 100-bedded Siddha Care Centre for treating patients in Pudukottai. Traditional food items and herbal concoctions were being given as part of the treatment. “The diet and treatment system have been largely welcomed by patients,” he said and added that integrated treatment was being given to patients at the government medical college hospitals too. Earlier, he inaugurated 250-bedded exclusive COVID 19 block at the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital. He said Tamil Nadu had carried out the maximum tests for COVID 19 with as many as 26,58,138 persons tested till Friday. So far, 1,83,956 persons have been treated and discharged, which testifies to the effectiveness of the integrated treatment. He urged the public to approach hospitals even in case of mild symptoms such as fever, cold, cough, loss of sense of smell/taste, throat or body pain. Private hospitals had been instructed to continue to extend all medical services to the public. Private hospitals recognised for COVID 19 treatment have been told not to charge more from patients treated under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. Action will be taken if they charge more. The three-storey building at the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital, built at a cost of Rs. 25 crore, has been converted into an exclusive COVID 19 treatment facility. It will have 250 beds, of which 100 were oxygenated.
02 August 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Close to 1 lakh COVID-19 samples tested in Salem district||Close to 1 lakh COVID-19 samples have been tested in the district, according to health department officials. Health department officials said that sufficient tests are being conducted in the district to contain the spread of the COVID-19 disease. According to officials, until July 31, 99,500 swab samples have been tested in the district. On July 31 alone, 1,812 samples were tested and 123 persons tested positive. As on July 31, the district has 1,134 active cases undergoing treatment at various hospitals and COVID care centres and till date, 3,622 cases have been reported in the district. As many as 2,783 persons have been discharged. As on Friday, there are 62 containment zones in the district and 30,869 persons are in these containment areas. J. Nirmalson , Deputy Director of Health Services, said that sufficient tests are being conducted in the district. He said that on an average, about 2,000 samples are being collected for tests per day and the positivity rate in the district was 5-7%.
02 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Bakrid celebrations, a low-key affair in Salem||Bakrid celebrations were held in a low-key manner here on Saturday. As part of government restrictions to prevent spread of COVID-19, masjids here remained closed and police personnel were deployed at these places to prevent crowding. Families conducted prayers at their residences. S.R.Anwar, Muthuvalli from Salem Jamia Masjid Trust Board, said the celebrations were restricted to residences. Families conducted prayers at the terrace of their residences taking necessary safety measures.
02 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Youth celebrates birthday at Care Centre||A 25-year-old person admitted for treatment at the COVID-19 Care Centre at Pattukottai had a pleasant surprise on Thursday as the care centre authorities made arrangements to celebrate his birthday. The youth hailing from Pattukottai was lodged at the care centre after he tested positive recently.  Personal details When the care centre authorities went through the personal details presented by him at the time of admission, they came to know that July 30 was his birthday. Subsequently, the officials decided to organise a small event at the centre on Thursday to celebrate his birthday by cutting a cake. The event was held as planned after the district administration was convinced by the care centre officials by pointing out that such events would help ease the stress among the person concerned and as well as create an atmosphere where other inmates would feel that they have not been isolated from the society.
02 August 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Body of COVID-19 victim taken in a push cart||An aged woman, who died at her house in Gudalur had to be taken to the burial ground in a push cart as the ambulance failed to turn up on Saturday. Health officials said that five days ago, the woman complained of uneasiness and was admitted to the Primary Health Care Centre in Gudalur. After two days, she was discharged. During her hospitalisation, samples were taken for COVID-19 test. The results, which came later revealed that she was positive and within 24 hours she passed away. The relatives had sought the service of an ambulance but the vehicle failed to turn up even after 10 hours. The neighbours objected to the body being kept at home as they feared spread of the infection. Thus, a push cart was hired to take away the body. Health officials said that due to rise in COVID-19 cases there was shortage of ambulances.
02 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||CBI quizzes seven friends of Benicks at Sattankulam||The CBI, investigating the Sattankulam twin custodial deaths case, questioned the friends of J. Benicks, one of the deceased, at Sattankulam on Saturday. A team of CBI officers, which arrived at Sattankulam from Madurai around 12.30 p.m. on Saturday, questioned seven friends of Benicks, who were witness to the alleged custodial torture. During the four-hour-long inquiry, Manimaran, Rajaram and Ravichandran, all advocates, and Sankaralingam, Ravishankar, Sudalaimuthu and Nagarajan appeared before the investigators and shared the information about the reported custodial torture that led to the death of Jayaraj and Benicks, after being lodged in the Kovilpatti sub-jail. The CBI team conducted the questioning in the office of Mr. Manimaran, on the East Car Street in Sattankulam, instead of asking the witnesses to come to the Sattankulam police station. Earlier, with some of the CBI officers testing positive for COVID-19, the investigation into the case had suffered a setback.
02 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||CBI quizzes seven friends of Benicks at Sattankulam||The CBI, investigating the Sattankulam twin custodial deaths case, questioned the friends of J. Benicks, one of the deceased, at Sattankulam on Saturday. A team of CBI officers, which arrived at Sattankulam from Madurai around 12.30 p.m. on Saturday, questioned seven friends of Benicks, who were witness to the alleged custodial torture. During the four-hour-long inquiry, Manimaran, Rajaram and Ravichandran, all advocates, and Sankaralingam, Ravishankar, Sudalaimuthu and Nagarajan appeared before the investigators and shared the information about the reported custodial torture that led to the death of Jayaraj and Benicks, after being lodged in the Kovilpatti sub-jail. The CBI team conducted the questioning in the office of Mr. Manimaran, on the East Car Street in Sattankulam, instead of asking the witnesses to come to the Sattankulam police station. Earlier, with some of the CBI officers testing positive, the investigation into the case had suffered a setback.
02 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sharp increase in cases in 2 weeks||Tiruchi district has seen a significant rise in COVID-19 cases over the last fortnight. On July 13, the district had just 1814 cases but on July 31 the number has jumped to 4146. “The main reason for the spike in cases are the influx of travellers and increased testing,” said S. Sivarasu, Collector. While around 1,200 samples were tested on a daily basis in early July, the testing numbers have increased to 18,000 a day over the last week, he said. With the laboratory capacity being scaled up, conduct of fever camps and door-to-door testing has led to detection of more cases, he said. Quick containment in localities where patients test positive had ensured that local transmission does not occur. While workers at various showrooms tested positive earlier, bank employees, police personnel and daily wage labourers were among those who tested positive over the last few weeks. As on Saturday, the district had a total of 1309 active cases. Among them, 887 were residents of the city while 405 hailed from rural parts of the district. On Friday, 12 new containment zones were added in Ponmalai zone, three each in K. Abishekapuram zone and three in Ariyamangalam zone, said S. Sivasubramanian, City Corporation Commissioner. In Ponmalai, Gandhi street, Sagayamadha Kovil street, Nehru street, Bharathidasan Street, Subramaniya Nagar, Roja street, Saveriyar Kovil street, Gandhi street third, sixth and 10th cross, Amman Nagar and Pandiyan street were among those newly contained. K. Abhisekapuram has six containment zones - in Uyyakondan Thirumalai, Walajah road, Nawab Thottam, Pattabiraman street, Mudhaliyar street and Pandamangalam while Ariyamangalam which had no containment areas added three - Tharanallur, Sengulam Colony and Mamundi Street, on Friday. Srirangam zone continues to have no containment zones, Mr. Sivasubramanian said. Cases are on a decline slowly, said Mr. Sivarasu. “Even though people continue to travel to the district, revenue officials, health officials within the city and in the rural parts, are vigilant. The travellers are immediately sent to a quarantine facility and test samples are lifted,” he said.
02 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||No entry into bathing ghats today||The bathing ghats along the Cauvery river in the city would be out of bounds for people to celebrate the Adi Perukku on Sunday. No one will be permitted to perform puja at Amma Mandapam bathing ghat in Srirangam and other bathing ghats along the Cauvery, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramaniapuram said.  Barricades were put at Amma Mandapam, Ayyalamman and Oyamari bathing ghats.
02 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Streets around Gandhi Market to be made containment zone for 14 days||The Tiruchi Corporation on Saturday announced that streets surrounding Gandhi Market would be made containment zones for 14 days. The entry points to the streets were being barricaded from Saturday evening. The decision comes in the wake of vendors and residents in the area testing positive for COVID 19. Civic officials said 10 entry points of five streets - Nelpettai Road on both sides, Dharbarmedu near East Boulevard Road and near Krishmapuram road junction, Thanjavur main road near Eda street and near Palakkarai road, Palakkarai road near Vellamandi road junction and Gandhi Market and the fish market north and south gate would be barricaded. Shops except those selling essentials, including groceries and medicines, would not be allowed to open until August 15. “There has been a steady rise in cases in this locality and containment is required. Making the Biz Bazaar area a containment zone led to the drop in cases there,” said S. Sivasubramanian, Corporation Commissioner.
02 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||564 cases in central region||The central region on Saturday recorded 564 fresh COVID 19 positive cases though no the region recorded no deaths as per the State Health Department bulletin. Among the fresh cases, 167 patients hailed from Thanjavur, 136 from Tiruchi, 91 from Pudukottai, 45 from Tiruvarur, 37 in Nagapattinam, 36 in Karur, 32 in Ariyalur and 20 in Perambalur. In Thanjavur, three workers at a private hospital, five staff nurses of the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and an office assistant of the Village Administrative Office in Vilangudi were among those who tested positive. The others included patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses and contacts of local cases. In Tiruchi, 136 patients tested positive. Meanwhile, 79 patients from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and 14 people from the COVID Care centre in Khajamalai were discharged. A total of 91 people from Pudukottai and 45 people from Tiruvarur tested positive. In Nagapattinam, four healthcare workers, one Armed Reserve police personnel from Nagapattinam, a Revenue Inspector posted in Kaanoor Check post, a sanitary worker in the Mayiladuthurai Government Hospital and a policeman from the Nagapattinam police station were among those tested positive. In Karur 36 patients tested positive while 18 patients were discharged. A total of 32 patients tested positive in Ariyalur. The total number of cases in the district is 950. Meanwhile, 158 new throat swabs were lifted and sent for testing. In Perambalur, 20 tested positive for the viral infection. Including these patients, a total of 497 patients have tested positive in the district so far, of which 192 are active cases.
02 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Whatsapp groups created||Teachers of Class X and Plus Two in government schools in Tiruchi district have created Whatsapp groups class-wise to clear doubts in content delivery of television classes. The lessons are being aired on Kalvi TV since mid-July. Video lessons contributed by teachers are broadcast through the State-run channel for two-and-a-half hours during weekdays and also uploaded to the free laptops provided to students. As the government has extended the lockdown till August-end, teachers have reconciled themselves to adapting to changes in the system of teaching-learning, according to a functionary of a teachers’ organisation. Teachers’ organisations are also understood to have mooted the idea of conducting classes under shift system so that students of each level get to attend school for at least two days in a week. Senior officials of the School Education Department point out that while it is possible for teachers to follow safety norms, the same cannot be said of students. “It is simply not possible to restrict the movement of students in schools. The risk cannot be taken,” a senior official said.
02 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BDU VC spells out dos and don’ts of online classes||Most colleges affiliated to Bharathidasan University are in a state of readiness to conduct classes online from August 3. Over 100 principals of affiliated colleges have been oriented further on the course of action at a virtual meeting convened by Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar. The college heads have been told to prevail upon their teachers to upload video lectures on their websites as also the university portal. “The students will have the opportunity to source video lectures for common content delivered by teachers of other colleges also,” he said. A proposal to avail services of Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable Television Corporation to reach out to students in remote areas without Internet connectivity will be placed before the Higher Education Department for consideration. The classes will be conducted online for second and third year students of UG programmes, M.C.A. degree course and second year PG programmes from August 3 and from August 19 for first-year students. The principals have been advised to maintain a directory of mobile numbers and e-mail addresses of students and attendance list for every session. The college heads have assured the university that ICT infrastructure facilities in the college will be put at the disposal of teachers. The methodology of conducting practical sessions e and demonstrations online have also been discussed.Continuous assessments, periodic tests and seminars will have to be conducted online and award of marks must be properly documented, the VC said.
02 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t permit trials of Bt brinjal’||The Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) has urged the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister not to give no-objection certificate for taking up field trials of Bt brinjal in the State. “To our surprise, the Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee(GEAC) has recently granted permission to undertake Biosafety Research Level (BRL) - II tests of Bt brinjal, a genetically modified (GM) crop in your State. The trials are also allowed in some other States,” N.S.Parthasarathy, State general secretary, BKS, said in a representation to Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami.
02 August 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Case against 8 policemen||The CB-CID’s Organised Crime Prevention Unit has registered case against eight policemen including a Deputy Superintendent of Police for allegedly assaulting an advocate in 2017. Advocate Rajarathinam alias Chemmani from Pazhavoor filed a complaint with the Radhapuram police on November 5, 2017 accusing a group of policemen attached to the same police station of assaulting him at the police station after forcibly taking him from his house the previous day. Based on the Community Service Register, separate investigations were conducted by the Sub-Collector, Cheranmahadevi, and also the police, who subsequently submitted their reports to the Home Department. Meanwhile, Mr. Chemmani approached the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court seeking registration of FIR against the policemen. And, the Court directed the CB-CID to register case against – Deputy Superintendent of Police, Valliyoor Kumar, Inspector of Police, Panagudi, Stephen Jose, Sub-Inspector of Radhapuram police station Palani, Sub-Inspectors of Pazhavoor police station Vimal Kumar and Mohammed Shamseer, Special Branch constables Chelladurai and Sagar and a yet to be identified policeman. Against this backdrop, the CB-CID’s Organized Crime Prevention Unit has registered case against the 8 policemen.
02 August 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Woman murders husband||The Ambasamudram police arrested a woman for murdering her husband who, after consuming alcohol, tortured her and the children and threatened to kill them. Police said lorry driver Kumar, 42, of Subramaniapuram under Ambasamudram police station used to torture his wife Esakkiammal, 34, and the children under the influence of alcohol. When he, as usual, started beating his wife and the children on Friday evening, Esakkiammal resisted. At one point, Kumar threatened that he would kill the children. An enraged Esakkiammal attacked her husband with a grinding stone. Kumar suffered grievous injuries and died on the spot.
02 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Detained under Goondas Act||Tiruppur City Police has said that 21 accused were detained under the Goondas Act till July-end. The latest accused was S. Ramprabhu, 24, who was charged of murder and attempts to murder and remanded in judicial custody, a release said. He was detained as per the orders of Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan and the detention orders were served to the accused at the district jail on Thursday.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore crosses 5,000 mark, death toll jumps to 64||Coimbatore district on Saturday crossed 5,000 mark in terms of total number of COVID-19 cases with 238 persons testing positive on Saturday, taking the tally to 5,059. The death toll in the district saw a steep jump from 54 to 64 with the department confirming that 10 persons died in the district in the last several days were COVID-19 positive. As per the bulletin issued by the Health Department, eight persons died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) in three days -- a 48-year-old man on July 29, four patients on July 30 and three patients on July 31. Two patients aged 79 and 63 died at private hospitals on July 23 and 26. On Saturday, 216 persons were discharged from various hospitals in the district. The 238 new cases reported on Saturday were from Malumichampatti, Rathinapuri, Avarampalayam, Thudiyalur, Chinnavedampatti, Vadamadurai, Vellakinaru, Raja Street, Cheran Ma Nagar, R.S. Puram, Ammankulam, Selvapuram, Sivanandapuram, Pollachi, Somanur, Saravanampatti and Mettupalayam. Majority of the cases were reported from the limits of Coimbatore Municipal Corporation. In Krishnagiri, 74 cases were reported on Saturday, taking the total count to 1, 042. As on Saturday, 69 persons were discharged and over 480 were under home treatment. In Dharmapuri, . a 42-year-old man and a 54-year-old woman were traced to contacts with infected persons. In Salem, 51 cases were reported. According to health department officials, 50 cases are indigenous and one returned from Maharashtra. Namakkal district reported 32 cases. A section at the office of Superintendent of Police in Namakkal was closed for disinfection after three police personnel tested positive. Tiruppur district reports 36 cases Tiruppur district reported 36 fresh cases, taking the district’s tally to 909 cases. Among the cases were a 22-year-old migrant worker from Bihar, a 31-year-old health inspector at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital and a 68-year-old man, who was the Executive Officer of Komaralingam Town Panchayat. Out of the 909 cases, 581 have recovered and 317 are active cases. Tiruppur district reported 11 deaths as on Saturday. Erode tally touches 732 cases Erode district reported eight new cases taking the district’s tally to 732. While seven cases were reported in corporation limits, one was in Perundurai. A total of 28 persons were discharged on Saturday, 172 persons continue to be under treatment. Nine deaths were reported, so far in the district.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bank officers demand need-based wage policy||Bank officers have sought need-based wage policy, not linking it to profitability of the banks or its paying capacity.  ‘Negotiations on for two years’  G.V. Manimaran, general secretary of All India Nationalised Bank Officers Federation, told The Hindu that the wage negotiations between Indian Banks’ Associations and nine unions - four representing the officers and five representing the employees - is on for two years now. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed recently on some of the basic issues. However, the MoU did not address the demands of the officers. Further, one union/association did not sign the agreement and two more claim that they were not privy to all the discussions and were forced to sign. In such a situation, the legal validity of the MoU is under question. The MoU should be scrapped, he said. Mr. Manimaran said that according to universal practice, the bank officers should get need-based pay that is not linked to the profitability or business of the bank. Since, the government has said that scale one bank officers are in the same rank as grade A officers of the government, their wages should be equal. Further, increment should not be linked to the business of the banks. Finally, the pension paid should be updated regularly, he said. These demands of the bank officers should be addressed, he added. S. Jagathrakshakan, MP, has also written to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman recently in this regard.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu’s case tally crosses 2.5 lakh, Chennai’s 1 lakh||Four districts had 300-plus cases. Kancheepuram reported 368 cases, while Theni recorded 327 cases. Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur had 314 and 305 cases respectively. There were 286 new cases in Virudhunagar, while 242 persons tested positive in Thoothukudi and 240 in Tiruvannamalai. Coimbatore had 238 cases. Ten districts, including Madurai, Kanyakumari, Vellore and Cuddalore, had 100-plus cases. In addition, 57 returnees tested positive in the State. A total of 60,580 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. With this, 27,18,718 samples have been tested so far. Another private laboratory — Dharan Clinical Lab Services, Salem — was recently approved for testing. There are 59 testing facilities in the government sector and 62 in the private sector.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ban on movement of heavy vehicles on road overbridge||Movement of heavy vehicles has been barred on the road overbridge on Salai Road near Fort railway station in the city. The corporation has completed temporary repair work on the approach road of the bridge, which suffered heavy erosion during rain last month. The eroded portion has been reinforced with hundreds of sandbags and casuarina poles. Though the damage was initially considered to be minor, it was later found to be unfit for traffic. So, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian ordered closure of the bridge for temporary restoration work. The Corporation has now decided to reopen the bridge for small vehicles such as cars, two-wheelers and autorickshaws. In order to prevent the entry of heavy vehicles such as buses and lorries, iron bars have been put up across the road. Heavy vehicles can not be allowed on the bridge as the approach road has suffered major damage, Mr. Sivasubramanian said. There is no option other than to construct a new RoB and approach roads. Till then, heavy vehicles will not be permitted. The question of diverting heavy vehicles does not arise at the moment as bus services have been grounded. Once bus services resume, they will be diverted via Karur Bypass Road to reach Chathiram Bus Stand from Thillai Nagar and Woraiyur and in the return direction. A proposal, sent to the State government to transfer Salai Road in the city from the Corporation to State Highways, is under consideration. A scheme for a new road with ROB can be drawn up based on the outcome of the proposal, the civic chief added.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation delegates building plan approval powers to zonal assistant commissioners||Coimbatore Corporation has empowered zonal assistant commissioners with the powers to give building and planning permission for buildings measuring 2,000 sq.ft. In an order issued on Friday, Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath said he had delegated the authority to the assistant commissioners. To monitor process The zonal assistant town planning officers would monitor the submission of building and planning applications, the payment of fee, etc. Besides, he also empowered the zonal offices to act against unauthorised buildings and buildings built in deviation of rules. This would mean that persons looking for planning approval for buildings – both residential and commercial – measuring up to 2,000 sq.ft. could now get the approval from zonal offices and need not go the Corporation head office in Town Hall. Those seeking to build residential buildings over 2,000 sq.ft. but less 7,000 sq.ft. would have to go the Town Hall office. And, those looking to build residential buildings measuring over 7,000 sq.ft. and commercial buildings over 2,000 sq.ft should approach the Local Planning Authority, Coimbatore.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Exempt small commercial buildings from building completion certificate’||The purpose for which the State Government framed the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019 would stand defeated if it did not exempt small commercial buildings from building completion certificate. The rules at present exempted residential buildings measuring up to 12m height with not more than three dwelling units (houses) or measuring 750sq.m., which was aimed at helping the people. The Government also exempted all industrial units from the process. Coimbatore Consumer Cause said in its letter that the Government not extending the exemption to commercial buildings, including small one-room ones that usually house automobile mechanics, small shops, hairdressers, tea stalls, tailors, etc. forced the owners to approach the local body concerned for building completion certificate to get power connection. “It is near impossible for owners of such small commercial buildings to get plan approval and then building completion certificate from the local body concerned. Therefore, they are unable to get new power connection from Tangedco, which follows the rules,” the organisation’s secretary K. Kathirmathiyon said in the letter. The Rules said that persons constructing residential buildings measuring over 12m height or with more dwelling units or over 8,000 sq.ft. or any commercial building should approach for building completion certificate the competent authority that approved the building plan. For residential buildings that are not exempted, the buildings would have to approach the local planning authority for plan approval and completion certificate as well. For commercial buildings measuring not more than 2,000 sq.ft. the buildings will have to approach the local body for plan approval and the certificate. And, for those measuring more, it is the authority. He said the purpose for which the Government framed the rules was to prevent construction of unauthorised, illegal or unsafe buildings. The Government should consider granting the exemption to small commercial buildings, say up to 1,000 sq.ft. and while doing so it should ensure that the exemption must be for a building as a whole even if there were multiple floors with each having a separate plan approval.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Kodiveri anicut into two canals||Water was released from Kodiveri anicut into Kalingarayan canal and Arakankottai – Thadapalli canals on Saturday to benefit 24,504 acres in the district. School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan and Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan opened the sluices at the Kodiveri anicut in the presence of Collector C. Kathiravan, MLAs and other officials. Earlier, water that was released from Bhavani Sagar Reservoir reached the anicut. Mr. Sengottaiyan told mediapersons that water will be released for 120 days till November 28 in the canal and asked farmers in Gobichettipalayam and Anthiyur blocks to utilise the water judiciously. He said that a proposal is with the government to concrete floor the Thadapalli and Arakankottai canals at a cost of Rs. 147 crore. The Minister added that Rs. 20 crore Kudimaramathu works are in progress in the district.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||27 teams participate in Smart India Hackathon||One hundred and sixty-four students grouped in 27 teams from across India would battle it out online over the next four days to find solutions to six problem statements at the Smart India Hackathon 2020, which began here at the Sri Krishna College of Engineering and Technology, a nodal centre. A release from the institution said the Ministry of Human Resource Development through the All India Council for Technical Education conducted the hackathon, for which the Bihar Government and Department of Science and Technology had provided problem statements. At the inauguration at the college, Sakthi K. Kathiresan, Director of Delivery – Europe, Advanced Technology Centres in India, Accenture, said the hackathon was a platform bringing together government, academia and industry to work towards industrial prosperity and national development. The ideas and solutions that the students had offered in the last three hackathons was commendable. In fact, many organisations had started implementation of the ideas that were demonstrated at the hackathons. Mr. Kathiresan also said that 5G would play a significant role and lead to new innovations in communication. And, in this data would rule the world. Kanchan Khedkar, Associate General Manager, Human Resources, HCL Technologies, said the hackthon was a wonderful idea as it brought together industry, institutions and government. At a time when COVID-19 pandemic had affected the world, virtual platform played an important role in connecting people. S. Malarvizhi, Chairperson, Sri Krishna Institutions, presided over the programme. K. Sundararaman, CEO, Sri Krishna Institutions, welcomed the gathering. The release said two of the 27 teams were from Coimbatore and competed from the college. The result would be declared on August 5. Earlier in the day, Union Minister of Human Resource Development Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank inaugurated the programme online from New Delhi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the participating students in the evening. In his interaction with participants across the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to M. Shwetha, a fourth year M.Sc. student of Sri Krishan Arts and Science College. The student spoke about her problem statement – health card for embankment. She said she would use machine learning to study breach pattern in embankment to predict breaches so that governments could act in time to prevent flooding. PSG College of Technology student M. Kundan also got an opportunity to interact with Mr. Modi. He said he was developing a chatbot to receive complaints from people so that they would not have to go to police station. The PM suggested that Mr. Kundan develop the chatbot in regional languages as well and provide audio input facility as well.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chennai police team questions YouTuber Maridhas in Madurai||A team from the Chennai city police on Saturday arrived in Madurai, to question a vlogger Maridhas, who has been accused by the News18 television group of fraudulently using an e-mail to spread fake news and harm the reputation of the news channel’s senior editors. The team seized a laptop allegedly belonging to him. The enquiry that began in the afternoon continued past 8 p.m. The Madurai city police had deployed police force outside his residence, as a precautionary measure, where some advocates had assembled. A police officer said that his laptop was seized, in the presence of revenue officials. The complaint against Mr. Maridhas is that he had posted a video on his YouTube channel alleging that News18 Tamil Nadu, has been running an anti-Hindu campaign. Subsequently, he also claimed through his Twitter handle post that the management of the channel had accepted his complaint and an enquiry had found his complaint to be true. Fake news Mr. Maridhas is also accused of displaying an e-mail dated July 9 allegedly sent to him by Associate Executive Editor of the News18 Group, Vinay Sarawagi, that the management had accepted his allegations. Complaining that the e-mail was forged and fabricated, Mr. Sarawagi had alleged that Mr. Maridhas was spreading fake news that harmed his and the channel’s reputation.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Mobile stroke unit’ comes to the rescue of senior citizen||An ambulance dedicated for stroke patients helped in transporting a senior citizen, who suffered stroke recently. Named ‘mobile stroke unit’, the ambulance service by Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital (KMCH) attended to a 77-year-old woman at Chinnavedampatti on July 21. According to a press release, the woman’s son called the helpline of the mobile stroke unit at 6 a.m. after she suffered a sudden acute stroke. The special ambulance, staffed with a nurse, paramedic, emergency personnel and computed tomography technologist, reached the patient’s house and treated her prior to her admission at KMCH. The woman was discharged shortly, according to the release. The ambulance helpline is 95665 95665.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Swami Dayananda Saraswati 90th jayanti event to go online||The 90th Jayanti of Swami Dayananda Saraswati will be celebrated online on August 8 and 9, according to Aim for Seva Trust. The trust runs chatralayams (hostels for students) in rural areas of the country including Tiruvarur and Thanjavur districts, a press release said. Elaborate arrangements have been made for the celbration to be held from 6 p.m. to 7-30 p.m. on August 8 and 9. Followers of Swami Dayananda Saraswati and others who wish to witness the events are requested to register their names through the link provided inwww.aimforseva.in Webcast Webcast of special pujas to be held at the birthplace of Swami Dayananda Saraswathi at Manjakudi in Tiruvarur district on August 8 and at Adishtanam in Rishikesh on August 9 has also been arranged, the press release added.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till August 1   No. of cases on Saturday: 238 No. of persons tested +ve so far: 5,059 Indigenous cases: 5,021 Imported cases: 38 No. of active cases: 1,750 Persons recovered: 3,245 No. of persons died: 64      Persons tested positive so far: 909 Indigenous cases: 901 (36 new cases on Saturday) Imported cases: 8 Persons recovered: 581 Deaths: 11 Active cases: 317
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two suffer burn injuries||Sankareswari, 16, and her cousin Vignesh, 15, sustained burn injuries in a fire accident at a house in Vettrilaiyoorani under Vembakottai police station limits on Saturday afternoon. Police said that S. Jayarani, 35, had been illegally making crackers at her house. While some workers including school-going children were involved in making crackers, a fire suddenly erupted in the work area. The children sustained burn injuries. The police have booked Jayarani in this case.
02 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Id celebrations toned down in Belagavi||Id-ul-Adha was celebrated in a simple manner across the district due to the rising COVID-19 scare and restrictions imposed by the State government and district administration. The Idgah committee had framed rules as per the government protocol and distributed pamphlets and sent messages to each masjid committee. The prayer timings were staggered and multiple prayers were held. Each time, a batch of 50 were allowed into mosques. Volunteers tested everyone with thermal scanners before letting them in. Prayers offered Hafiz Abdul Razak, who spoke at the Friday mosque, urged the faithful to pray for the quick recovery of all infected persons and for the end of the epidemic. Abdul Gafar Gheewala, chairman of the district Waqf board, congratulated volunteers who were helping the affected persons in their homes. In Hukkeri, former vice-chairman of the town municipal council said that families were forced to spend the day at home, due to the rising scare of the epidemic. We have not invited guests or relatives to our houses. We celebrated the festival among members of the immediate family. But that is to ensure the disease does not spread, he said. Open air prayers were cancelled after the government banned all outdoor gatherings.
02 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Medical students asked to vacate hostel after one tests positive||An order from Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences, asking all medical students to vacate the hostel due to rising number of COVID-19 infections on the campus, has been criticised. Warden of the Sushruta hostel issued an order to students asking them to vacate the hostel immediately. The order, issued on Thursday, said: “One of the postgraduate students has tested positive. All inmates have to vacate the hostel with immediate effect till further orders. This is to prevent the spread of the disease to others. The inmates have to make their own arrangements.” Members of the Karnataka Resident Doctors Association sent a letter to the government criticising the sudden order and the lack of alternative arrangements for them. “The hostel wardens have asked us to vacate without prior notice. Where shall we go if asked to leave immediately? When a resident doctor tests positive, it is the responsibility of the institute to take care of him or her. The institute should handle the situation properly. It cannot ask us to make our own arrangements. The institute knows how to get the hospital work done by resident doctors. But it does not care for us. It is a sad state of affairs,” said a member of the association. Some members shared a copy of the hotel warden’s order on social media. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said he would discuss the issue with BIMS director Vinay Dastikop. “We will surely help the junior doctors and students and find a solution to their problems. We will consider their demand of providing them an alternative place to stay,” he said.
02 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Number of containment zones in city crosses 20,000 mark||The city has had a total of 21,863 containment zones, including 13,494 which are active as of Saturday. As the number of such zones are increasing by the day, many citizens and residents’ welfare associations want the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to reassess what falls within such a zone. The highest number of active containment zones is in the South zone at 4,100, while Dasarahalli zone has the least at 363. Residents pointed out that they have to endure much hardship and inconvenience when a positive case is detected in their locality or apartment block, and want the civic body to instead enforce home quarantine of affected families more strictly. A resident who lived in the containment zone said her house was sealed after her neighbour tested positive for COVID-19. “Around five houses on our road were sealed and we were not able to go outside even to get groceries. The civic body did not supply them to us. After a few days, one of the residents in our area broke the seal and ensured that there was space for one person to step out to buy essentials,” said the resident who was living in a containment zone for two weeks in Basaveshwaranagar. As of Saturday, there were as many as  13,494 containment zones in the city, as per the BBMP war room data. Many of the containment zones have been unsealed after no fresh COVID-19 cases were detected. Demarcating them Currently, a containment zone within the BBMP limits is part of the street if a case is detected in an independent house. If a case is detected in an apartment then, the containment zone is that particular floor where the person tested positive resides as well as the immediate floors above and below. If a case is detected in a slum, areas sealed include the street of the affected residence and the immediate street on either side. Residents pointed out that with the rising number of cases, maintaining such containment zones for a fortnight is not feasible. With 1,852 new COVID-19 positive cases reported on Saturday in Bengaluru Urban, the total numbers of cases stands at 57,396. A member of Whitefield Rising said that with the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases, there was a need for a better rationale to seal down communities. “You cannot close down a community. There is a need for better monitoring of home quarantine in the residence when a person is tested positive,” the member said. Many RWAs also told The Hindu that local officials at the ground were not strictly complying with the definition. They said that in some instances, officials continued to follow the old definition of containment zones and were sealing an entire block of an apartment if a positive case was reported. Following this, many residents in containment zones are vacating their houses and are choosing to live with relatives or friends until the seal is lifted. A senior BBMP official said that they were mulling over the idea of reducing the size of the containment zone in apartments and individual houses. “In slums as there is almost no space in the dwellings, we had decided to retain the definition but want the size of the containment zone to be reduced in individual houses and flats,” the official said.
02 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Will have to strike a balance between fighting pandemic and policing’||A 1990-batch IPS officer, Kamal Pant , took charge as the new Police Commissioner of the city on Saturday. He plans to improve the police response time to citizens’ woes, increase accessibility, and continue the fight against narcotics. While acknowledging the limited resources on hand to fight cybercrime, which is only growing by the day, he said he was not averse to partnering with the city’s tech giants if required. Excerpts from an interview.  You have assumed the leadership of the city police at time when the pandemic is on the rise and personnel are becoming victims of the virus. How do you intend to take the fight forward? The city police and my predecessor have done an excellent job when they were pushed to the frontlines of the fight against COVID-19. The police are generally tenacious and quickly adapt to new situations, which is evident during the pandemic. We have to now learn to live with the virus and this battle will be a prolonged one. A large part of my tenure will likely be dominated by the pandemic. While the recent months were focused mostly on fighting the virus, we have now opened up, protests have resumed and so should regular policing. The challenge will be to strike a balance between fighting the pandemic and policing. We will issue new SOPs if required.My deep respect goes to those who laid down their lives in this fight. Keeping the morale of the force high will be my priority. What will be your philosophy on policing? My philosophy will be to take the police to the citizens’ doorstep, and not just be accessible. I will be available to citizens at the zonal DCP offices for two hours at a pre-scheduled time, frequency of which I will work out shortly. Any citizen can walk in and talk to me. I will also work to strengthen community policing and get our officers to be part of residents’ welfare association (RWA) and mohalla meetings regularly. Presently, the Hoysalas, which were intended as first responders, are being used for a variety of services, including for bandobast . I want to redeploy them exclusively as first responders to call-ins by the citizens, a practice common in other metro cities. What are your priorities? The city is known for its law and order and peace, which will be preserved at any cost. Safety of women, children, and senior citizens will be a top priority, followed by measures to curb the mushrooming menace of drugs and cybercrime in the city. The fight against narcotics is a commitment to our children and future generations and it has been a priority for the State government as well. We have come a long way in the case of cybercrime in the city. With the new CEN [Cyber Crime, Economic Offences and Narcotics] stations, an unprecedented number of cases are being registered, but the resources are so overwhelmed that we are lagging behind in investigations and prosecutions. The pandemic has onlyincreased the digital component of our lives, making us more vulnerable to cybercrime. If need be, we will partner with tech giants of the city to strengthen our resources in battling cybercrime.  In the last one year, there have been two cases where the police were busted for corruption. How will you, with a long record of anti-corruption investigations, check corruption in the force? I will not comment on specific cases. But I will make one thing clear — professionalism and professional integrity will be appreciated and any deviances will be appropriately dealt with, without any leniency.  If need be, we will partner with tech giants of the city to strengthen our resources in battling cybercrime
02 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP Commissioner to address plaints against private hospitals||In the backdrop of citizens’ complaints about private hospitals refusing admission citing shortage of beds or overcharging, the State government has promulgated an Ordinance on setting up a separate registration and grievance redressal authority for medical establishments in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) limits. Under the new Karnataka Private Medical Establishments (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, which was approved by the Governor on Friday, the BBMP Commissioner will have full powers under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments Act. Prior to this, the powers were vested with the Deputy Commissioner of Bengaluru Urban. Sources in the State government said the move would help smoothen coordination of health facilities in Bengaluru. Recently, the State Cabinet approved handing over administrative control over primary health centres and hospitals coming under the Bengaluru Urban Zilla Panchayat to the BBMP Commissioner. Five-member team According to the Ordinance, the registration and grievance redressal authority shall have a five-member team. The chairman of the authority shall be the BBMP Commissioner. Other members will include the Chief Health Officer (Public Health), the president or the secretary of the Indian Medical Association, the State Head and the Joint Director of AYUSH, and a woman representative when the authority deals with grievance redressal. Barrage of complaints Over the past few weeks, there have been a growing number of cases where COVID-19 patients and their family members were forced to run from pillar to post trying to secure a hospital bed. Some had knocked on the doors of more than a dozen hospitals only to get a bed with the intervention of officials or elected representatives. A BBMP official said the move would help them monitor private hospitals efficiently. Complaints have been filed against several private hospitals as they had not handed over 50% beds under the government quota. “The complaint was filed under the Disaster Management Act. We can now address complaints under the KPME Act itself,” the official added. The BBMP had recently issued show-cause notices to 291 private hospitals and temporarily cancelled the licences of a few as they had not complied with the government’s orders.
02 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rainfall 20% deficient in south-interior areas||Districts in south-interior Karnataka (SIK) accustomed to heavy rainfall during the monsoon have seen a deficiency in the same, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Bengaluru. C.S. Patil from IMD, Bengaluru, said that districts such as Hassan, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada and Shivamogga saw around 20% deficiency during June and July since the monsoon set in, while other districts received normal rainfall. As per the national data, Karnataka has overall received normal rainfall in June and July. According to data released on Friday, the IMD had said that the country had received 44.7 cm rainfall until July 30 as opposed to the historical normal of 44.3. The centre has also forecast that monsoon rains in August and September are likely to be more than anticipated - 104%. This also applies to Karnataka, with SIK in particular being expected to recover from the deficiency, said Mr. Patil. “This week, rainfall in the Western Ghats and coastal areas will increase. The deficiency was because this year, the low pressure system didn't fall over Bay of Bengal. If wind speed increases, then there is good rainfall, but this year wind speed was not achieved. Interior Karnataka received good rainfall,” he added. According to the IMD forecast up to August 3, rain or thundershowers are very likely at most places over coastal Karnataka, SIK and North Interior Karnataka.
02 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||History-sheeter murdered; gang rivalry suspected||A history-sheeter was murdered by unidentified assailants in Kumbalgod police station limits, on the outskirts of the city, on Friday night. According to thepolice, the victim, Sunil, 30, was a resident of Besthamanahalli in Anekal taluk and was a suspect in several cases in Attibele police station limits. “The incident took place around 8 p.m. on Friday close to a hotel near Mysuru Road. Sunil was attacked while he was getting into his car after having dinner. He was dragged by five to six people and was attacked with swords and other weapons,” said a police officer. Sunil’s driver who attempted to save him was also attacked. He is being treated in a private hospital at Jigani. The police suspect gang rivalry as the motive and are searching for the assailants.
02 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Theatre group’s plea on aid||Members of Samudaya Karnataka, a theatre group, on Friday, submitted a memorandum to the Director, Department of Kannada and Culture, seeking financial aid for artistes who are in crisis due to COVID-19. They also sought the appointment of the director for the Kannada Language Chair at JNU, New Delhi. According to a release, S. Rangappa, the director, said that the government, as a first instalment had distributed Rs. 2,000 to all eligible artistes. However, he would try to extend this benefit for another six months.
02 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||FIR against Sakra Hospital||An FIR has been filed against the Sakra Hospital at Devarabisanahalli for allegedly not providing information to the officials about availability of beds for COVID-19 patients, and about the virus-infected patients treated between July 23 and 29. According to the FIR filed by the Marathahalli police, the hospital management was directed by the special officers and the nodal officer concerned to provide the information when the officers visited the hospital on July 29. However, the information was not provided to the government. The FIR has been filed under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, against the head of the hospital Deepak Balani, and two others — Deepthi, and Deepak Agarkad.
02 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Conduct door-to-door survey’||As Bengaluru city continues to significantly contribute to the huge surge in COVID-19 cases in the State, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad on Saturday directed booth-level teams to conduct house-to-house surveys. At a meeting with teams in Radhakrishna Temple ward, he asked for such teams to be formed as soon as possible with the available human resource, volunteers, and government officials in the locality. They have been instructed to keep records of vulnerable population through the survey, identify people with SARI, ILI, and co-morbidities, and senior citizens.  Home isolation He added that whenever a person tests positive, the feasibility of the house should be assessed for home isolation. Contact tracing should be carried out immediately for both primary and secondary contacts, and the teams should monitor the home isolation patients, avoiding visits, and instead using phones as the preferred mode of contact, he said. He also directed the teams to monitor home quarantine of primary contacts.
02 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2 policemen injured in attack||Two Bengaluru north division policemen were attacked with a dagger and other weapons by two history-sheeters at Gulpet in Kolar district on Friday night. The police personnel fired at the two in self-defence but the accused escaped. “They threatened a passing motorcyclist, took his bike and rode off,” a senior police official aid and added that the injured personnel were being treated in hospital. Acting on a tip-off, the police team had gone to Gulpet to arrest the two who are allegedly wanted in over 40 cases.
02 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Appointed BEL Director (Finance)||Dinesh Kumar Batra assumed charge as Director (Finance) of the Navratna Defence PSU Bharat Electronics Ltd. (BEL) on Saturday. As per a statement, Mr. Batra is an alumnus of Harcourt Butler Technical University (HBTU), Kanpur, Indian Institute of Foreign Trade (IIFT), Delhi, and Management Development Institute, Gurgaon. He joined BEL at its Ghaziabad Unit in 1984 and in a career spanning over 35 years, served the company in various capacities in Ghaziabad, Delhi, Pune and Bengaluru.
02 August 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Wow! It’s a labour of love||A paddy field on an elevated place, resembling the popular symbol of love, at Bamikonda near Samse in Mudigere taluk has attracted many people. Recently, the photos of the field went viral on social media, prompting people to enquire about the location. The paddy field, about an acre, is amidst lush green hillocks. For years it has remained the same. Krishna Gowda, an owner of the land, said it was during the days of his grandfather Naggappa Gowda that the field was prepared for paddy and since then, the family maintained that shape. “It has been like that for more than 100 years. My father Veerappa Gowda and grandfather worked hard to make the land cultivable and kept the shape like that,” Krishna, 50, told The Hindu.  Now, three brothers, Suresh, Krishna and Vishwanath, look after the field, besides a coffee plantation. They till the land traditionally, with no machinery. Moreover, they cannot take machines to the field as there is no proper road. The road connectivity to Bamikonda, a hamlet of five houses and a homestay, is itself poor. “In the last four years, many people have visited our field to spend some time and take pictures,” said Mr. Gowda.
02 August 2020||Chitradurga,KARNATAKA||30-year-old land dispute comes to a head||A 30-year-long dispute between two communities over cultivating a grazing land (gomala) at Hosa Rangapura in Chitradurga reached its peak recently when members of one community let a herd of cattle to graze on ragi sown by the other. While the Madigas (SC) who cultivated the land are worried about the crop loss, the Nayakas (ST) maintain that the former had no right to till the grazing land. After the Nayakas allegedly let their cattle to feed on the crop on July 26, the Madiga families staged protests in Chitradurga. The district administration has intervened and deployed police to avoid clashes in the village, as it had happened over the same issue in 2010. The issue has a history dating back to 1990 when 22 SC families began to cultivate 15 acres and 32 guntas of grazing land in the village. They had submitted applications seeking grant of the same land repeatedly. However, their pleas were rejected by the Taluk Bagair Hukum Committee in 2010. They were also allegedly assaulted by Nayakas in the same year, leading to a series of protests under the banner of Swabhimani Dalit Shakti in October 2010. No alternative S. Shivalingam, the president of the organisation who led the protest then, told The Hindu, “The SC families have been cultivating the land for 30 years as they have no alternative land to till. Then Revenue Minister Karunakara Reddy told the families to give up this land assuring them grant of an alternative land. We said we would continue to till the same till the alternative was granted,” he said. Noted writer and thinker Anand Teltumbde had visited the village during the protests. The Revenue Minister’s promise was not fulfilled. Meanwhile, the Taluk Bagair Hukum Committee was reconstituted and the new committee allowed the families to cultivate the land, but did not grant them land, citing that it needed clarification from the government. This was challenged by the Nayakas. Chitradurga DC Vinoth Priya, in her order in February 2019, withdrew the permission citing that the said land was required for the cattle. “The issue went to the land tribunal, which also upheld the DC’s order. Now, we have taken the issue to the High Court. The matter has not come up for hearing due to the lockdown over COVID-19,” said Mr. Shivalingam. Subsistence farming As they have done over the years, they sowed ragi and incurred the wrath of the Nayaka community. “We appealed to the police and district administration to protect our crop, but that did not happen. All these years we have been growing ragi, which is our food. For the rest of our needs we work in others’ farms as daily wage workers,” said S.T. Maruthi, one of the youth who led the protests. Mr. Maruthi and other families agree that they do not own the land, but ask what gave the other community the right to destroy their crop. Bhanu Prakash, an advocate and resident of the village from the Nayaka community, argues that the families had no right to cultivate the land. “The DC has rejected their appeal and the same has been upheld by the tribunal,” he said. There are around 300 head of cattle in the village and they require grazing land, he argued. Chitradurga tahsildar J.C. Venkateshaiah maintained that the land belonged to the government and nobody would be allowed to cultivate it. “The families had no right over the land. The police have booked a case against those who cultivated the land,” he said.
02 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Cases on the rise in Hassan, Chikkamagaluru||The number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 has been on the rise in Hassan. On Saturday alone, 144 persons were tested positive for the infection, increasing the total number to 2,275. The number of deaths increased to 63, including two reported on the day. So far, 1,022 have recovered from the infection, while 1,190 are undergoing treatment. As many as 10 people are in the intensive care unit. Among the fresh cases, two were reported in Alur, three in Arkalgud, nine in Arsikere, 15 in Belur, eight in Channarayapatna, 94 in Hassan, 11 in Holenarsipur, and two in Sakleshpur.  The total number confirmed cases crossed 1,000 in Chikkamagaluru district on Saturday. With 56 fresh cases reported on the day, the total number stands at 1,046. So far, 21 people have died of the infection in the district. Among the cases reported so far, 440 have recovered and 585 are undergoing treatment. Of the fresh cases reported on the day, 30 are from Chikkamagaluru, nine from Kadur, eight from Tarikere, one from Mudigere, three from N.R. Pura, and five from Ajjampura taluk. Lab inaugurated The laboratory to test the samples collected for COVID-19 was inaugurated at the district hospital. Minister for Tourism C.T. Ravi and others participated in the event.
02 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Death toll touches 100 in Kalaburagi||With the five new deaths, the COVID-19 fatalities in Kalaburagi district, which reported India’s fist COVID-19 death in the second week of March, reached 100 on Saturday. It is the fifth district to touch the 100-mark after Bengaluru (1,056), Mysuru (151), Dakshina Kannada (148) and Dharwad (139). As per the media bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, a 40-year-old woman with diabetes, a 65-year-old woman, a 65-year-old man with hypertension and diabetes, a 36-year-old man, and a 59-year-old man were the latest victims of the pandemic in the district. The district also reported 219 new cases taking the total number of positive cases to 5,529. As many as 130 patients have recovered from the infection bringing down the total number of active cases to 2,597. Ballari district which saw a high number of positive cases in the last few days reported 269 new cases taking the total number of infected persons in the district to 6,672. Bidar reported four new deaths and 52 new cases, taking the death toll in the district to 79 and total positive cases to 2,263. Three of the four who died of COVID-19 in the district were above the age of 60 (63, 65 and 70) and one was 40. In Koppal, two people died and 107 tested positive for the disease. A 60-year-old woman with diabetes and a 70-year-old man with no known comorbidity were the latest victims of COVID-19 in the district. With the new cases, the total number of positive cases in the district rose to 1,185 and the death toll to 21.
02 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Advanced firefighting vehicle commissioned||The Kalaburagi Airport has commissioned an advanced firefighting truck. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has purchased the vehicle from Rosenbauer, an Austria-based fire-service manufacturer, for Rs. 6 crore. Umesh Jadhav, MP, inaugurated the vehicle at the airport. The eight-wheel drive version accommodates 6,000 litres of water and 800 litres of fire extinguishing agents and runs at a speed of 121 kmph. The 3,000 litres pump output in less than one minute and spraying water up to 65 metres of distance are its special features.
02 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CET: 260 students from Kerala turn up for Kannada exam||A total of 260 of 362 Kannada speaking students from Kerala turned up for the Kannada language exam held as part of the Common Entrance Test for Horanadu and Gadinadu Kannadigas here on Saturday. The test was held between 11.30 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. The Kannada test is written by candidates claiming eligibility for government seats under Horanadu and Gadinadu Kannadiga clauses and whose mother tongue is Kannada, Tulu, or Kodava. This is the first time the test is being held at centres outside Bengaluru. Students, including several who are studying in pre-university colleges of Mangaluru, started to come from Kasaragod around 8 a.m. The district administration took services of 12 buses of private educational institutions to bring the students from Talapady check-post, on the borders with Kerala on the National Highway 66, to Ramakrishna Pre-University College, which was the examination centre. Students had to show e-passes issued by the Kasaragod district administration at the Kerala State check-post and subject themselves to thermal scanning before boarding buses. While all students wore masks, a few among them travelled wearing PPE kit. Members of Dakshina Kannada Pre-University Principals’ Association were actively involved in bringing the students in buses and dropping them back to the check-post. Seven buses were used for the purpose. The test paper was based on Class 4 level of Kannada and minimum of 12 out of 50 marks is necessary to be eligible for allotment of seats in the two categories. The Kasaragod district administration has asked the students who appeared for the test and the accompanying parents to remain under home quarantine for seven days and undergo antigen test on August 5. Shobith Kumar, a resident of Adyanadka and an aspirant for seat in engineering, said: “We need to bear with these norms if we need a seat (under Gadinadu category) here.” Mr. Kumar is among the many students from neighbouring Kasaragod district, who wrote the Kannada test on Saturday. Students had mixed reaction for the test. While Katija Mushi from Kumbla and Ammen from K.C. Road found it easy, Fathima from Kasaragod found it tough.
02 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ivan D’Souza tests positive||Former MLC Ivan D’Souza on Saturday tested positive to COVID-19 and has got admitted to a private hospital in the city. He had attended several programmes, including those with Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar during the latter’s visit to Mangaluru on Friday and Saturday. Mr. D’Souza told The Hindu he underwent a COVID-19 test on Tuesday along with his wife who had fever and the result was negative. Since the result was negative, he participated in various programmes. However, he underwent another test on Friday after being a little suspicious. The result came positive on Saturday, he said. Till Saturday afternoon, he was busy attending programmes, including seeing off Mr. Shivakumar at the airport. Mr. D’Souza said he has communicated the matter to the concerned and those who attended programmes with him may have to undergo home quarantine. He had also attended Mr. Shivakumar’s press conference on Friday that was attended by MLA and former Minister U.T. Khader, former Ministers B. Ramanath Rai and Vinay Kumar Sorake, KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed, DK Congress president K. Harish Kuamr and others. ‘No symptoms’ The former MLC said he had no symptoms and was doing fine at the hospital. Even his wife was doing well, he added.
02 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||12 deaths, 275 new cases in DK and Udupi||While 12 COVID-19 patients with comorbidities died, 275 new cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Saturday. Six persons died in Dakshia Kannada and this took the number of COVID-19 deaths to 159. As many as 139 persons tested positive. Of this, 91 were from Mangaluru, 19 from Bantwal, 14 from Belthangady and nine from Puttur. With discharge of 54 persons, the number of active cases rose to 3,008, said a bulletin from the Dakshina Kannada district administration. With 136 new cases, the active cases in Udupi rose to 1,811. Of the 136, 65 were from Udupi, 37 from Kundapura, 33 from Karkala, and one from Davangere. Six COVID-19 positive patients, who had comorbidities, died and this took total number of deaths in Udupi to 35.
02 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Increasing berry drop leaves coffee growers in Kodagu district in distress||After facing two tough years of devastating floods and landslips, Kodagu coffee growers’ difficulties haven’t stopped yet. Reports of berry drop have been the source of distress this year. Continuous rains in some parts of Kodagu since the last week of June has led to berry dropping. Excessive drop will cause loss to the already troubled growers. Fertilizer supply The apparent short supply of fertilizers has exacerbated the problems of growers who were looking for manuring the plants during monsoon break. Manuring at this stage is expected to help plants fortify roots and lessen the drop. “Short supply of fertilizers and a liquidity crisis among growers has delayed application of manure,” a planter claimed. Bose Mandanna, a leading planter from Suntikoppa and former vice-chairman of Coffee Board, said he noticed a change in rainfall pattern this year with monsoon being unusually fragmented. The monsoon has not evenly covered Kodagu and some areas received heavy to very heavy rains while others are getting less. This led to berry dropping, especially in Bhagamandala and Birunani areas, which saw heavy downpour, he explained. Coffee berry dropping has occurred when there are nearly two months of rains left. “Berry dropping is not much in my area but is more in areas known to get heavy rains. It happens in my area too but it is yet to begin. In this condition, plants cannot sustain excess moisture, resulting in a condition called cold feet. Berries dropping to the ground can be reduced when nitrogen-based fertilizers are applied in the monsoon break,” Mr. Mandanna said. Growing problem In recent years, the problem of berry dropping in moisture-rich estates has become worse. “I can attribute this to changing weather patterns. Some areas have experienced a cloudburst-like situation. The unevenly distributed rains are contributing to this phenomenon putting growers’ in jeopardy,” says M.C. Kariappa, chairman, Codagu Planters’ Association (CPA). He said the extent of loss cannot be estimated at this point. Berry dropping has been reported from the estates between Madikeri and Bhagamandala, Birunani, Napoklu and Kakkabbe. Bhagamandala and Napoklu and their surrounding areas have been receiving incessant rains since the onset of the monsoon. Madapura, Surlabbi and Garwale areas also have reported berry drop.
02 August 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Bringing back the old charm of Kodagu oranges||Besides coffee and spices, Kodagu is known for its oranges. But, the last two years of devastation triggered by floods and landslips affected the crop, causing losses to growers. In a bid to expand the crop which is primarily cultivated amidst coffee plantations, the Department of Horticulture has produced over 54,000 orange saplings for distribution among growers to be planted this year. These saplings were produced at State-run horticulture farms across Kodagu. “We have set a target of increasing the crop size by at least 10% a year. The department has eight farms where the saplings of Kodagu oranges were carefully produced to expand its area of cultivation. Kodagu’s climatic condition is unique and the oranges grown here come with a lot of pulp and also taste good,” said Shashidhar, Deputy Director of Horticulture, Madikeri. The area of cultivation has come down over the years for various reasons, including diseases and fall in prices with lack of marketing networks. It has fallen to less than 5,000 hectares and the yield has also been falling because of climate change. Subsidy is offered to growers to boost cultivation of the fruit, also called the Coorg Mandarin. Appanna, a progressive farmer from Gonikoppal, has over 100 orange trees and was harvesting over two to three tonnes a year. “I suffered losses because of excessive rains. I used to harvest 30-40 kg from each tree but the yield fell to less than 10 kg and the fruit quality had also dropped,” he explained.
02 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Former Ministers attack govt.||Former Minister H.C. Mahadevappa has demanded a judicial probe into the alleged corruption by the State government in purchasing COVID-19 equipment and also sought a White Paper on the issue. At a joint press conference with another former Minister and MLA Priyank Kharge in Yadgir on Saturday, he demanded that a High Court judge probe the issue. “Both the Union and State governments have failed to deal with the pandemic. Infected persons are dying without proper medical care. Private hospitals are denying treatment despite suggestions. Instead of attending to such serious issues and ensuring proper healthcare, the State government is involved in corruption,” he alleged and added that around Rs. 2,000 crore was estimated to be misappropriated.  Mr. Kharge said the State government mishandled the pandemic and misled people. He said the Congress, as a responsible Opposition party, has extended cooperation to the government to handle the pandemic. “But, what has the State government done? It purchased medical equipment, including PPE kits, at higher prices. It was more than double when compared to other States which purchased the same at lower prices from the same companies.” He also targeted the government for focusing only on Bengaluru and appointing eight Ministers for supervising it and neglecting the rest of Karnataka. “The entire State has been drastically affected by the virus, with thousands getting infected and a number of patients dying everyday. However, the government has not been providing good facilities,” he added.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pious followers||
02 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Heavy rain in Alappuzha||The Alappuzha district administration on Saturday opened a relief camp in Kuttanad taluk following heavy rain in the last couple of days. Officials said that five members of a family including a pregnant woman and three children were shifted to a camp started at Ward 7 in Kavalam grama panchayat. Water levels Officials added that they were closely monitoring water levels in various rivers in Kuttanad following an increased inflow of water from the eastern side. Meanwhile, the Irrigation Department has opened Thottappally pozhi mouth to ensure smooth flow of floodwaters from Kuttanad into the sea. Prior to the breaking of the pozhi mouth, the Department had deepened and widened the pozhi. The weather agency has declared ‘yellow alert’ in Alappuzha on August 2 and 3. Officials said that a total of 412 buildings were identified in six taluks for use as relief camps if needed. This included 111 structures in Karthikappally, 80 in Chengannur, 85 in Cherthala, 54 in Kuttanad, 45 in Mavelikara and 37 in Ambalappuzha. Control rooms have been opened at collectorate and taluk headquarters. The following are the contact numbers- 0477 2236831 (Alappuzha collectorate), 0477 2702221 (Kuttanad), 0479 2412797 (Karthikappally), 0477 2253771 (Ambalappuzha), 0479 2452334 (Chengannur), 0478 2813103 (Cherthala) and 0479 2302216 (Mavelikara).
02 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha has 65 new cases, 100 recoveries||The district reported an increase in COVID-19 positive cases and recoveries on Saturday. While 65 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, 100 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease made a full recovery. The 65 fresh cases include 46 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, three cases with unknown sources of infection and a health worker. Eight persons who came from abroad and seven from other States also tested positive for the virus. From Cherthala Of the total contact cases, at least 23 cases were reported from Cherthala taluk, including 11 from Kadakarappally, five from Kuthiathode, three from Arthunkal, two from Cherthala and one each from Panavally and Pattanakkad. Six people each from Alappuzha and Chettikkad, two each from Katoor, Punnapra and Thekkekara and one person from Mararikulam, Pathirappally, Pallippad, Karuvatta and Ambalappuzha also contracted the disease through contact on Saturday. Sources of infection of a 63-year-old man native of Alappuzha, a 38-year-old man hailing from Purakkad and a 79-year-old woman from Muhamma are untraceable. The health worker hailing from Alappuzha who was found to have contracted SARS-CoV-2 is an employee of a private hospital in Kozhikode. ITBP personnel The 100 recoveries include 12 Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel at Nooranad and 54 who contracted the disease through contact. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 699. Meanwhile, disease control and prevention measures have been tightened at Leprosy sanatorium at Nooranad after a person was diagnosed with COVID-19. R. Rajesh, MLA, said that steps were taken to place all inmates in isolation. Mr. Rajesh said that so far 84 antigen and 51 RT-PCR tests had been conducted at the Leprosy sanatorium.
02 August 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Cop succumbs to COVID-19||T.V. Ajithan, a police officer, who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 died at the Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kottayam, on Friday. Ajithan, 55, from Poochapra, near Thodupuzha, was serving as Grade Sub-Inspector at the special branch. A diabetic, his is reported to be the first case of a police officer succumbing to COVID-19. He was shifted to the Kottayam MCH after his condition worsened. On Friday, he suffered a cardiac arrest. Ajithan, who served in the control room and was staying at the police quarters at Cheruthoni, contracted the infection from his wife. 14 new cases The district reported 14 new cases on Saturday. Seven cases were through contac. Source of infection in two cases is unknown.
02 August 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Webinar for goat farmers||The Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University is organising a webinar on ‘Goat farming on profitable basis’ from August 3 to August 8. Vice Chancellor M.R. Saseendranath will inaugurate the programme at 3 p.m. on Monday. Farmers can attend the programme through Zoom application. To join the Zoom meeting, visit:https: //zoom.us/j/9496303980. The meeting ID is 949 630 3980.
02 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam records 59 fresh cases||A total of 59 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Saturday. Of them, 38 acquired the infection through local contact, while 21 persons came from outside the State. An 80-year-old and an 85-year-old, both residents of a home at Thrikkakara for the elderly and destitute, have tested positive. Four Navy personnel and a doctor at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital have also tested positive here. Ten persons from Fort Kochi and two from Palluruthy have tested positive. The other positive cases were registered from Kunnathunad, Binanipuram, Vengola, and Thiruvaniyoor. A total of 32 patients have recovered from the illness. Nine patients admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, are in critical condition. FLTCs For asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients, a total of 8,694 beds are ready at 141 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) in the district. At the nine FLTCs that are currently functioning, 563 of the 1,167 beds are occupied, leaving 604 beds vacant. A home for the destitute and elderly at Thrikkakara, where residents had tested positive earlier, has been converted into an FLTC where 40 persons are currently being monitored. At S.D. Convent at Chunangamveli, which was also converted into an FLTC after members of the institution tested positive, 11 persons are receiving treatment. The other FLTCs are at Adlux convention centre at Angamaly where 132 out of 300 beds are occupied, CIAL convention centre where 145 out of 250 beds are occupied, Rajagiri hostel where 20 out of 158 beds are occupied, a school at Keezhmad where six out of 100 beds are occupied, NUALS at Kalamassery where 119 out of 150 beds are occupied, and EMS Town Hall at Perumbavoor where 53 out of 85 beds are occupied. The district administration aims to set up 10,000 beds at FLTCs. Transportation plan A transportation plan has been prepared by the district administration to facilitate the transport of asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic COVID-19 positive patients to FLTCs without delay, and their subsequent transport to a COVID hospital, if necessary. Each FLTC is required to have three vehicles, including an ambulance and two double-chambered vehicles, at the ready, managed by the civic body. Arrangements to conduct antigen tests will also have to be made at FLTCs. A mobile medical team will be available in every taluk for emergency care. Each FLTC will be attached to one of the two COVID hospitals — MCH or the facility at Njarakkal — to which patients will have to be shifted if symptoms become severe. Collector tests negative District Collector S. Suhas’s test results have returned negative. He was tested after a member of a club who had donated items last week to the FLTC at Vazhakulam tested positive. Members of the club and the Vazhakulam panchayat president had visited the Collectorate where the items were handed over, said a panchayat official.
02 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Start-up develops augmented videoconferencing app||When an online job fair organised by a Bengaluru-based stock market training institute featuring over 30 corporates gets under way on August 7, it will be a recognition for a Kochi-based startup. For, the organisers will be using Fokuz, a videoconferencing platform developed by Skyislimit Technologies, for conducting interviews and group discussions. Available across Android and iOS devices and Windows and MacOS-driven computers, Fokuz offers diverse features such as live connectivity to social media handles, file sharing and generation of automated email report on the meeting, complete with the user name, browser details, IP address, time spent by each participant and the location of every participant. Free for 2 months Developed in about four months, it was launched a month ago and is for free for two months. It already boasts over 7,000 downloads and 6,000 active users across the world. “We already had a module for videoconferencing on a limited scale in one of our already existing products. As remote working became the norm in the wake of the pandemic, we chiselled and developed it into a full-fledged videoconferencing platform,” said Manodh Mohan, CEO of the startup. More innovative features, including the two - Virtual Workspace and Fokuz Smart Assistant – for which patents had already been applied for, will be added shortly. The idea is to turn the app into an Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning-driven virtual business centre bringing together a host of functionalities, giving organisations access to high quality smart meeting spaces.
02 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Maharaja’s retains its popularity among aspirants||The pandemic crisis has not dampened the growing demand for undergraduate and postgraduate programmes offered by Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam. Instead, the rush for the courses seems to have spiked compared to last year. Around 14,400 aspirants had applied for a total of 694 seats for various undergraduate programmes as on Saturday. The online admission window, which was opened on July 15, will close by August 3. The corresponding figure at this stage of admission last year was around 13,500. Maharaja’s is the only autonomous college in the government sector in the State. The BA programme in English emerged as the most-preferred course, going by the number of applications. As many as 4,790 candidates applied for the course. The intake for BA English is 25. The undergraduate programme in economics (BA Economics Model 1) came second, with 3,950 candidates applying for 50 seats. B.Com (Finance and Taxation) continues to be among the sought-after programmes. As many as 3,410 candidates applied for the course. “The steady demand for undergraduate and postgraduate programmes is a testimony to the continuing efforts to elevate the academic and infrastructural capabilities of the prestigious institution,” said P.K. Raveendran, chairman of the college governing council. Among science programmes, B.Sc Chemistry had the highest number of applicants, with 3,210 candidates applying for 36 seats. The B.Sc Zoology programme was at the second position, with 2,970 aspirants applying for the course, followed by B.Sc Physics (2,780), B.Sc Botany (2,710), and B.Sc Mathematics (2,040).
02 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||General Hospital depts. closed after five nurses test positive||Five nurses at the Ernakulam General Hospital have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, forcing the closure of the gynaecology and orthopaedic departments in the hospital. District Medical Officer N.K. Kuttappan said that the primary contact list and entire list of staff members who would have to go into quarantine was being prepared. New patients would no longer be admitted to the two wards and tests would be conducted among all those at the hospital who might have been exposed, he said. Sources said that three patients who had been admitted in two separate wards in the hospital had tested positive in the past two weeks. Additionally, a patient in the orthopaedic ward had tested positive on Friday. Two of the patients had tested positive after their discharge and had later informed the hospital, they said. It was the staff members on the contact lists of these patients who had tested positive. Since two different sets of staff members had been exposed in the two wards, layering of staff or deploying another set in their place, would no longer be possible, officials said. The cardiology department and general ward were closed last month after patients and staffers were exposed to two patients.
02 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Emptied by COVID, homestays find the going tough||The homestay sector, which along with Ayurveda and backwaters played a key role in putting Kerala on the 10 best global destinations list of Lonely Planet, is short of breath. Pre-COVID figures put the number of homestays in Kerala at over 1,500 and 500 of them are classified by tourism agencies based on the amenities they provide. “Most homestays in locales like Wayanad and Idukki managed to weather the COVID-19-induced storm since their owners have at least 50 cents of cultivable land, where they grew vegetables, tapioca and other essentials. But homestays at heritage zones in West Kochi, on the Marari beach, and numerous other spots are severely affected since they are situated in three to five cents of land,” says M.P. Sivadattan, director, Kerala Homestay and Tourism Society (Kerala HATS). Most of the homestay owners are elderly couples who invest their life savings in getting their house readied as good lodges for tourists. The nil foreign tourist inflow to the State now has hit them hard, but it is not just them who are left in a quandary. The maids and other staff for cleaning and cooking have found themselves out of work since March. Declaration of several containment zones in Fort Kochi and Mattanchery areas has made matters worse. “Those who used to make a living out of the homestays such as autorickshaw and car drivers, stage artistes, make-up artists, and tour guides too are hit. Old homestays that were high in demand for shooting films do not have any takers now,” Mr Sivadattan says. Making things further tight is that the homestays, though locked down, have to pay commercial tariff towards fixed charges of power, water, etc.  Some homestay owners have found a way to sustain in the crisis by trying to rent out their facility to returnees to Kerala who have to be on quarantine. But they are stopped by neighbours. “Sadly, people in quarantine are considered as COVID-19 carriers,” said a homestay owner. Some respite A few homestays have opened the gates for foreign tourists stranded here. Among them is a facility run by Ashley Edwin Philip and Sheeba Ashley in Fort Kochi. “The tourists there participated in cooking classes and spent time playing indoor games,” says Ms. Ashley. A homestay owned by Dhanesh P.S. in Cherai came to the rescue of an elderly couple from the U.K. stranded in Kerala following the lockdown. The couple took to farming vegetables and plantain in the homestay compound during their month-long stay here.
02 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Alungal Devassy, socialist leader, dead||Senior socialist leader Alungal Devassy died here on Friday. He was 82. He was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city for age-related ailments. The swab tests conducted after his death had revealed that he was infected with SARS-CoV-2. The last rites will be held as per COVID-19 protocols. Mr. Devassy had entered politics through the Independent Student Organisation while he was studying at Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam, and Government Law College, Ernakulam. He was secretary of the Yuvajana Sabha and State joint secretary of the Socialist Party. Mr. Devassy had also served as leader of trade unions in FACT and Apollo Tyres.
02 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Action against 58 ATMs for rule violation||The Ernakulam rural police have initiated action against 58 ATM centres in the district on the charge of violating the COVID-19 protocol. The police are now set to issue notice against the banks concerned. The move is part of a special drive by the police based on reports that ATM centres were flouting the pandemic protocol. The drive found that neither were hand sanitisers being provided nor physical distancing norms maintained in many centres.
02 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Keep health workers safe: SHRC||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has asked the State government to look into the allegations that health-care workers and their supporting staff are treated indifferently and insensitively by some private hospital managements and file a report in 30 days. It has also directed the government to ensure that all of them are provided PPE (personal protective equipment) kits, face masks and gloves immediately.
02 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||35 more on list of patients in Kollam||A total of 35 persons from the district, including a health worker, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. While 27 patients contracted the virus through contact, five are from abroad, and two had travelled from Rajasthan and Nagaland. The health worker, a 32-year-old Kulathupuzha resident, have been working at a private medical college in Kollam. The district currently has 8,367 persons under observation and the number of samples collected is 29,486. While 632 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 6,985 primary and 1,972 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. The recovery rate remains higher than fresh cases with 53 patients testing positive.
02 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam bypass will be made four lane: MP||The Kollam National Highway (NH) bypass will be widened into four lane as a standalone project and Union Minister Nitin Gadkari has given an assurance in this regard, N.K. Premachandran, MP, has said. Mr. Premachandran said here on Saturday that the decision was taken at a high-level meeting attended by him that discussed the development of the bypass. Within 10 months of its inauguration, 214 accidents had been reported from the 13-km stretch that touches three important National Highways — NH 66, NH 183 and NH 744. Opened in 2019 The bypass was thrown open for traffic on April 19, 2019. At a press meet here on Saturday, Mr. Premachandran said: “While 18 people lost their lives, 194 suffered injuries in the accidents. A report about this was submitted pointing out road widening as the only possible solution. The project was given priority considering the bypass as one of the high-risk black spots.” Mr. Premachandran had also informed the authorities concerned that implementing the project along with the expansion of NH 66 will cause further delay, resulting in more accidents. “The project will also solve the traffic congestion at Ayathil and Kallumthazham junctions permanently,” Mr. Premachandran added.  Within 10 months of its inauguration, 214 accidents have been reported on the 13-km stretch
02 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Fresh dispute crops up in KC(M) over right to issue whip for Rajya Sabha bypoll||After a brief lull, another dispute has cropped up in the Kerala Congress (M) with party working chairman P.J. Joseph asserting his right to issue a whip to party legislators in case of a byelection for the Rajya Sabha seat left vacant by the death of M.P. Veerendrakumar. Talking to mediapersons here on Saturday, Mr. Joseph said a contest was most unlikely but the United Democratic Front would soon take a decision on its candidate for the bypoll. “Rajya Sabha seats are usually decided without elections. But if a different situation arises, whip will be issued to the party legislators,” he said. The statement by Mr. Joseph comes even as confusion reigns over the political position of the rival group led by Jose K. Mani after its exclusion from UDF meetings. According to its leaders, the party is yet to decide on whether to align with any coalition or not and will come out with a decision at an appropriate time. Dismiss At the same time, they sought to dismiss the rights of Mr. Joseph to issue whip to their legislators as Roshy Augustine had already been appointed as its Assembly Chief Whip. “The Election Commission of India (ECI) has categorically stated that the status quo should be maintained in case of a split within political parties,” said N. Jayaraj, MLA and a Mani group leader. In November last, the Mani group had approached the Assembly Speaker seeking to dismiss any claims by Mr. Joseph and his faction for the parliamentary party leader or the parliamentary party whip as these appointments were unlawful and hence void. Alleging that Mr. Augustine was arbitrarily replaced as party whip solely for proclaiming his allegiance to Mr. Mani, it had also urged the Speaker to maintain the status quo until the ECI pronounced a final order on the dispute regarding the party symbol `two leaves'.
02 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||47 more cases in Kottayam||As many as 47 people including a resident doctor at the Government Medical College in Kottayam tested positive here on Saturday. Of these, 38 were contact cases. Ettumanur municipality, a COVID-19 cluster, reported nine cases while Changanassery, another cluster, witnessed two cases. Cases were also reported from Kottayam, Kumarakom, Kurichy and Madappally areas. Fifty seven people recovered from the disease. Total active cases in Kottayam is 557.
02 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||SHO under suspension||Ratheesh Kumar, the station house officer (SHO) and inspector at the Manarcad police station, Kottayam, has been placed under suspension in connection with a probe into an alleged nexus between the police and a gambling racket in Kottayam. The case pertains to the surfacing of an audio clip that revealed a conversation between the suspended official and the accused in a gambling case, identified as K.V. Suresh alias Malam Suresh. On July 11, the police had busted a gambling racket operating inside the club run by the accused and seized Rs. 17.88 lakh. The police also took 43 persons into custody.
02 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||95 cases in Kozhikode, total lockdown today||Kozhikode district reported the highest spike in the number of COVID-19 cases on Saturday with 95 persons being declared infected with SARS-CoV-2. One person died at the Government Medical College Hospital. The deceased, aged 45, belonged to Poovattuparamba in Peruvayal grama panchayat in the district. He was admitted to the hospital with multiple medical problems on July 15, a bulletin said. Apart from COVID-19 pneumonia, he had coronary artery disease, and chronic kidney disease, the release said. A total lockdown will continue on Sunday in Kozhikode district, the district administration said. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has urged the people to be on the alert against the pandemic until a vaccine is developed. She was opening a COVID-19 treatment facility with 100 beds and 17 intensive care units set up by Iqraa Hospital. Ms. Shylaja said that medical teams had been deployed in coastal regions and the clusters there had been sealed in view of the possibility of a rapid spread of infection there. Meanwhile, District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said that 65 of the 95 fresh COVID-19 cases in the district were through local transmission of the infection. The source of infection of five others was not known and the rest had returned from either abroad or other States. Forty-nine persons were cured of the infection. Thirty-two of the fresh cases through local contact were from within the corporation limits and belonged to Beypore, Cheruvannur, Vellayil, Cherootty Road, Medical College premises, Thondayad, and Panniyankara. The total number of active cases in the district was 746.
02 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cop accused of beating up wakf official, cleric||Leaders of various socio, cultural and religious organisations have sought a department-level inquiry into the incident in which a police officer from the Kuttiyadi station was accused of beating up a muthawalli (custodian of wakf) and a Muslim cleric of Maruthongara Juma Masjid on the charge of violating the COVID-19 protocol. The complainants, N. Shereef and Sulaiman Musliar, who reportedly sustained injuries in the attack on Friday, also submitted a complaint to the District Police Chief (Kozhikode Rural), seeking action against the police official. Mr. Shareef, who was also admitted to the Kuttiyadi Government Hospital following the incident, said the police officer behaved “cruelly” when the two of them were pasting some public notices near the masjid for restricting the entry of the faithful to the spot in view of the COVID-19 protocol on Friday. He alleged that the officer showered them with abuse and caned them recklessly. In his complaint to the District Police Chief, Mr. Shareef said the police officer caned even the 65-year old cleric. “We have been in support of all the preventive measures announced by the government in its fight against the pandemic. The police action was quite unexpected,” he said. Meanwhile, the Kuttiyadi police denied the involvement of any police officer in the incident. They claimed that the two complainants were only asked to comply with the social distancing protocol.
02 August 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Pandemic claims 2 lives in Palakkad, 1 in Malappuram||Two persons died of COVID-19 in Palakkad and one in Malappuram since Friday night. A 34-year-old woman from Vaniyamkulam near Ottapalam, who was a cancer patient, died at the District Hospital in Palakkad on Friday night. An 80-year-old man from Pokkupadi near Pattambi died while undergoing treatment for renal failure at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur. The death of an 82-year-old man from Peruvallur in Malappuram raised the district’s toll to 13. Meanwhile, 47 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Saturday. While 22 of them were infected through local contact, 13 came from abroad and eight from other States. The source of infection in four cases could not be traced. The district recorded 42 recoveries on Saturday In Malappuram As many as 141 people were confirmed to have contracted Covid-19 in Malappuram on Saturday. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that 84 of them had got the infection through local contacts. The source of infection for 10 of them, including a health worker, could not be traced. Seventy-four of the new cases contracted the virus from those who had tested positive for Covid-19. When 29 came from other States, 28 came from abroad. The number of recoveries in Malappuram on Saturday was 36. In Kasaragod The spike in local transmission cases in the district has put the Health Department and the district administration in spot. On Saturday, as many as 153 persons tested positive for the virus. They include 151 cases through contact, while two came from other states. In Thrissur As many as 76 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Saturday. There are at present 490 active cases in the district. The number of positive cases reported so far stands at 1,533. A person, who died in Irinjalakuda on Friday, was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. With this, the number of deaths in the district has reached eight. Fifty-three persons contracted infection in the district through contact. The source of infection in two cases is yet to be identified. Chandran, 59, of Chelur, Irinjalakuda, was under treatment for lung cancer. He was tested positive posthumously. He died on July 31. In Wayanad The number of COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Wayanad district, as 44 persons, including three health workers and a civil police officer, tested positive for the virus on Saturday. All patients, except two, contracted the infection through local contact, District Medical Officer R. Renuka said. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district has now gone up to 670, of which 318 have been cured, she added. Thirty-one cases were reported from the Valad area in Thavinhal grama panchayat. As many as 351 persons are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district. A civil police officer also tested positive. District Police Chief R. Ilango said the department had prepared the primary and secondary contact lists of police officials, and their samples would be tested on Monday.   (With inputs from Malappuram, Kasaragod, Thrissur and Wayanad bureaus)
02 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||6 forest officials transferred||As protests continue to rage over the mysterious death of 41-year-old Mathai at Kudappana allegedly while in the custody of the Forest Department, six officials attached to the Chittar Forest Station here have been transferred to different stations in view of ‘administrative exigencies’. In an order issued by the Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, the Deputy Range Forest Officer in Chittar has been transferred to Pachakkanam under the Ranni division. The remaining five officers, including a section forest officer, three beat forest officers and a tribal watcher, were transferred to various stations by the Divisional Forest Officer, Ranni. Sources said these officials had been part of a team that took the victim into custody and were on compulsory leave following protests by local people. Body in morgue The relatives of the victim, however, vowed to continue the protests till the guilty were arrested. The post-mortem examination of the body was held at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam. The body is now kept at the mortuary of a private hospital in Ranni. “We will not perform his last rites until the family gets justice,” said Sheeba, wife of the deceased. She said the body was handed over to the family based on a primary report that attributed the death to drowning. Mathai was found dead in a well near his residence on July 28, hours after being taken into custody by forest officials for allegedly damaging a camera installed by the department on the forest fringes. While a special investigation team led by Chief Forest Conservator (Southern Circle) Sanjayan Kumar confirmed the death as a case of suicide, Mathai’s kin claimed that the forest officials had thrown him into the well after beating him to death. The family alleged that Mathai was taken into custody without adhering to the relevant protocols.
02 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||85 test positive in Pathanamthitta||85 people including 12 who landed from abroad tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Saturday. According to officials, 59 contracted the virus through local transmission while 14 people came from other States. Meanwhile, two limited clusters of COVID-19 have developed at Kottangal and Kuttappuzha. While the Kuttapuzha cluster reported at least 17 cases, in the Kottangal cluster four cases were reported. The contact source of about seven persons are yet to be ascertained. Meanwhile, 42 people recovered. The district currently has 469 active cases.
02 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Active cases cross 3,000 in capital||The COVID-19 situation in the capital district remained grim with the number of active cases crossing 3,000. With 259 people being diagnosed with the disease on Saturday, 3,167 were currently convalescing in various hospitals and COVID-19 first-line treatment centres in the district. Among the new cases, 241 people contracted the infection through local transmission. Fourteen health workers have also tested positive. A total of 168 people recovered from the illness on the day. The COVID-19 death toll in Thiruvananthapuram rose to 13 after the death of a 62-year-old Nedumangad native was officially recorded. He died on July 30 shortly after he was shifted to the COVID-19 ward of the MCH after testing positive for SARS-CoV-2.  First in Rajaji Nagar Eight people were newly diagnosed among the 50 tested at the Thekkumoodu bund colony in Kunnukuzhy, another 12 people tested positive at the nearby Pattom bund colony. Two junior health inspectors and five contingent staff for sanitation work at the Jagathy health circle officer of the city Corporation also tested positive. One of the infected, a Rajaji Nagar resident, is the first person to be diagnosed with the infection in the colony. He has been admitted in an FLTC, his family has been shifted to an institutional quarantine centre in the Government Women’s College to minimise the possibility of a spread in the crowded colony. All of the sanitation staff in the current shift, numbering around 20, have gone into quarantine. The health circle office will be disinfected on Sunday and the staff from the other shift will start working from Monday. Three police officers attached to the Chirayinkeezhu, Varkala and Anjuthengu police stations tested positive. Migrant workers positive Two workers each in the laboratories attached to the State Secretariat and the Legislative Assembly have also been diagnosed with COVID-19 . Thirty-nine migrant workers who were part of a group engaged by a firm for construction on the premises of the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology tested positive. The workers from Bihar were in quarantine since their arrival on July 28. The district administration has declared a new containment zone in Udiyankulangara ward of Chenkal grama panchayat. Containment zones were withdrawn in the Cheruvakkal, Ulloor, Njandoorkonam and Powdikonam wards of the Corporation, and Kothakulangara, Attukal, Panavoor and Vazhode wards of Panavoor grama panchayat.
02 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Non-COVID care hit at MCHs||The surge in COVID-19 cases has once again left non-COVID-19 patients in the lurch in medical college hospitals (MCHs) and other public sector tertiary-care centres. As government MCHs, which cater to a chunk of the population from the lower economic strata requiring tertiary-care treatments, are getting filled with COVID-19 patients, the care requirements of the non-COVID clientele are either being shunted to private hospitals or getting postponed indefinitely. Access issues Apart from access issues and delays in treatment, outbreak of COVID-19 inside the non-COVID pool in hospitals has put treatment on hold in many places with the entire clinical departments being shut down. “COVID-19 has eclipsed everything else. The number of outpatient departments catering to chronic diseases has been restricted and surgeries are delayed or postponed indefinitely. While we cannot ascertain the numbers, the delays have been affecting the treatment outcomes besides aggravating complications,” a senior doctor in the Thiruvananthapuram Government MCH says. There are many doctors who feel strongly that the MCHs, which handle complex tertiary-care treatments on a daily basis, should not have been made COVID hospitals. Many doctors in key clinical departments such as Nephrology, General Surgery, Gastroenterology and Urology, who see patients with malignancies or pre-malignant conditions, say they are quite concerned how the reduced access to treatment can affect the treatment outcomes. “The beds for non-COVID patients have been cut, various departments have to share wards and operation theatres and the nursing staff have been diverted for duty in COVID ward. The waiting period for various surgeries has gone up indefinitely and it is not like our patients can afford to go to private hospitals,” the senior doctor adds. Case of capital Non-COVID patients are also being shunted to private hospitals. In Thiruvananthapuram, where the surge in COVID-19 has seriously affected hospitals and health-care workers, the government has directed the MCH administration to shift most of its non-COVID care, except emergencies, to the private health sector, it is learnt. Doctors say this will compromise the care of poor patients who cannot afford to go to the private sector. Most of the private hospitals are unhappy with the rates of the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhati and it is likely that many poor patients will be either turned away or have to find funding elsewhere to finance their care.
02 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police officers above 50 to be off the field||The death of a police officer in a hospital in Kottayam on Saturday following complications caused by COVID-19 has prompted State Police Chief Loknath Behera to order police officers above the age of 50 years off the field. Instead, he has deployed them for office duty to lessen their chance of exposure to the coronavirus. An initial report indicated that T.V. Ajithan, 54, the intelligence officer stationed in Idukki, contracted the infection from his wife. However, the police top brass does not want to leave them to any risks. Mr. Behera also ordered officers with chronic health conditions such as diabetes, asthma and cardiac ailment off the field irrespective of their age. Immuno-compromised officers under treatment for other diseases should not report for duty and could work from home, if required. As of Thursday, 95 police officers have tested positive for COVID-19. The police closed their State headquarters here till August 3 for cleaning after an officer staffing the reception desk developed COVID-19. The spate of anti-government agitations in July drastically escalated the risk faced by officers. Law enforcers tasked to police the demonstrations exposed themselves to the risk of contagion greatly. Several officers who grappled with the protesters on the street and herded them later tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. At high risk An official said officers cooped up in crowded and climate-controlled control rooms faced a high risk of infection. Most worked for long hours and handled the same set of telephones and other communication equipment. A senior official said the breach of physical-distancing norms on a large scale, as witnessed during political protests, funerals, weddings, prayer meetings, and supermarkets was perilous to police functioning in the long run. If the public did not observe the COVID-19 protocol, the coronavirus would incrementally whittle down the number of officers available for law and order duty in Kerala, he said.  Safety of lawkeepers State Police Headquarters shuttered till August 3 for sanitising  An officer at the reception tests positive for coronavirus
02 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU not to hold PG practicals on Aug. 5||The University of Kerala has backtracked on its decision to commence practical examinations for postgraduate (PG) students on August 5 following concerns raised by the teaching community. The move is against the backdrop of students from far-off places claiming hardships in reaching their colleges and many institutions being taken over by the government to be utilised as institutional quarantine or reverse quarantine centres While the University had earlier decided to permit students to submit projects either online or offline by August 10, colleges were also allowed to conduct both comprehensive viva-voce and project viva-voce in a similar manner. However, the decision to conduct the practical examinations led to widespread anxiety. G. Nagendra Prabhu, Assistant Professor, PG Department of Zoology, S.D. College, Alappuzha, said the plan to hold examinations at a time when several parts of the State, particularly the southern districts over which university’s jurisdiction extended, were reeling under COVID-19 created panic among large sections. “The practical examinations of science subjects such as chemistry, physics, botany, zoology, and mathematics are lengthy and involve several students and teachers. It would have been difficult to ensure physical distancing. Besides, many students from northern districts fear for their safety if forced to travel,” he said. In containment zones According to Reshmi V., Head of the Department of Zoology, SN College, Cherthala, most PG students had opted for the theory examinations in their home districts that were outside the university’s jurisdiction. Some students were residing in containment zones. Besides, the college had been designated a reverse quarantine centre. Considering that each practical is four hours long and that there were three practical papers and a viva-voce for each of the two PG batches, the examination process would require at least seven days. This would require many students to find accommodation in hotels, lodges, or elsewhere. The university has now instructed the chairpersons of the Board of Examiners of each subject to create timetables by factoring in the situation that could vary from one place to another. Sources said a tentative deadline of September end or October has been set for completing the valuation of PG theory and practical papers.
02 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Food kits for coastal residents||The city Corporation will provide food kits to the residents of Poonthura and surrounding areas of the capital’s coastal region to help them tide over the crisis following the COVID-19- induced lockdown and ban on fishing. Addressing a press meet here on Saturday, Mayor K. Sreekumar said the Corporation’s food kits, to be distributed through Consumerfed, would be supplied two weeks after the State government’s food kits were distributed. “The Corporation will distribute food kits, each worth Rs. 1,000. The kits will have rice, pulses, oil, soaps, and other items of daily use. Since the State government is already distributing food kits, our initiative will begin two weeks after that,” said Mr. Sreekumar. Plea for contributions The Mayor requested the public to be part of the initiative to help the people residing in the coast. People may contribute through the websitewww.donatetmc.in. Contributions can be sent to the Consumerfed’s account in the Palayam branch of the Federal Bank (A/C no 10210200020231, IFSC FDRL0001021). The civic body is also planning to launch an e-commerce portal to sell home-made products by city residents. Haritha Karma Senas will take care of the distribution of the products. Mr. Sreekumar said the initiative was being taken up because quite a large number of people who had lost their jobs during the lockdown had begun making products such as pickles at home to survive. The Corporation would help the market and sell the products. For information on selling products in the portal, contact 9895532192.
02 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||95% of private buses withdraw services||Only 5% of the 12,500-odd private buses were on the road on Saturday with operators withdrawing the remaining buses claiming its was not viable to operate services suffering loss. Buses did not operate in majority of the districts, including Kollam, Ernakulam, and Kozhikode. In Malappuram, only 2% of the 1,300-odd buses operated. In Kasaragod, all 380 buses were off the road. The operators had submitted Form G to the Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) concerned by Friday as decided by the Joint Action Committee, the apex body of associations of bus operators, not to pay road tax and retain the permits and thereby evade government action. They are demanding diesel at subsidised rate or at reduced price and waiver of road tax during the pandemic period to continue bus operations. The government’s decision to extend the payment of road tax for the quarter beginning August to October 14 did not deter the operators. “This will not solve the crisis faced by us as we have to pay the road tax on October 14 for the buses that have submitted Form G and not plying and road tax again in November for the next quarter,” Lawerence Babu, chairman, Joint Action Committee, said from Kollam. The proposal to waive road tax and encourage more buses to operate also did not get the nod. “The government would have got Rs. 6 to 7 crore towards sales tax from the sale of diesel if at least 15% of the buses are on the road,” he said.
02 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 2 cr. siphoned off from treasury account||Senior treasury officials and the police have begun a detailed probe into an incident in which a senior accountant at the Additional Sub-Treasury, Vanchiyoor, here managed to siphon off Rs. 2 crore from the Special Treasury Savings Bank (STSB) account of the District Collector. The officer has been placed under suspension pending an investigation into the embezzlement. The Vanchiyoor police have registered a case on the basis of a complaint lodged by the sub-treasury officer. M.R. Bijulal, senior accountant, Sub-Treasury, had illegally transferred Rs. 2 crore from the STSB account of the Collector to his Treasury Savings Bank (TSB) account on July 27, according to a report submitted by the District Treasury Officer to the Director. Bijulal had used his own user ID and password for activating the transfer. He then used the user ID and password of a sub-treasury officer who had retired on May 31 to get the transaction approved. On transferring the money to his account, Bijulal moved Rs. 60 lakh from it to another TSB account in his name. He had made several withdrawals from the account, an internal investigation revealed. For specific purposes The STSB account of the Collector is maintained for specific government-related purposes. The fraud had come to light when senior officers examined the daily register of payments and receipts. Bijulal had also managed to erase the debit from the STSB account of the Collector, sources said. A.M. Jafar, Director of Treasuries, issued orders on Saturday placing Bijulal under suspension pending an investigation. Meanwhile, District Collector Navjot Khosa said in a statement here on Saturday that no losses had been reported from the STSB account. However, the accused had misused government funds. The Joint Director, Treasuries, has been directed to conduct a detailed probe. Further, the Collector has also sought urgent measures to plug loopholes in the system to prevent the recurrence of such incidents.
02 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cyber Cell recovers stolen money||The City police recovered close to Rs. 1 lakh in two separate attempts made by fraudsters to siphon off money from people. A Pattoor native received a message asking her to dial a number if she wanted to continue to use Paytm. Despite not having a Paytm account, she dialled the number and as per instructions, downloaded a remote control application that enabled the fraudsters to access her phone. From her account Rs. 75,000 was transferred, but the police recovered Rs. 61,385. A Kannammoola native lost Rs. 32,577 after revealing his OTP number to a ‘representative’ of a credit card company. His money was recovered entirely.
02 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New SASO||Air Marshal J. Chalapati took over as Senior Air Staff Officer (SASO) at a function held at the Southern Air Command (SAC) on Saturday. Air Marshal Chalapati was commissioned in the IAF in 1983.
02 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Change in timings for Plus Two digital classes||There will be a change in the timings of telecast for Plus Two and anganwadi sessions on the KITE Victers channel as part of the General Education Department’s First Bell digital classes from Monday. Plus Two classes that are being telecast from 8.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. will now be shown from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m. Kilikonchal, a programme for anganwadi children produced by the Women and Child Development Department and KITE, will be telecast at 10 a.m. instead of 8 a.m. The change followed constant requests from viewers to reschedule the classes for the younger children to a slot convenient to them, KITE chief executive officer K. Anvar Sadath has said. There will be no change in the timings for the other classes or their daily repeats.
02 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sports webinar||The State Council of Educational Research and Training will organise a national webinar on Google Meet on the topic ‘The world of sports, post-COVID’ at 10 a.m. on Monday. Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K. will inaugurate the webinar. SCERT Director J. Prasad will preside.
02 August 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Shops at CIAL to offer budget-friendly snacks||There are many budget airlines in the country, but refreshments are not that budget-friendly. Even normal tea and coffee will cost a minimum of Rs. 100. But Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) is setting an example by serving tea and snacks at Rs. 15 and coffee at Rs. 20 thanks to intervention by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on a complaint from Thrissur District Congress Committee (DCC) general secretary Adv. Shaji J. Kodankandath. Since passengers have to report hours ahead of the flight departure, many, especially the elderly and children, invariably buy tea, coffee, or snacks from shops inside airports, noted Adv. Kodankandath. Mostly, shops at airport terminals charge 10 times higher than normal prices for items sold. “Those running shops inside airports charge exorbitant rates at their own whims and fancies. Their justification for it is that they have to pay huge rent for the spaces occupied,” he said. Airports are run with taxpayers’ money. So, every airport should have at least one shop selling tea, coffee, and snacks at reasonable prices to protect the interests of the common man, he urged in his letter to the PMO. Thanks to the PMO’s intervention, the CIAL authorities have ensured that tea and snacks are available at select shops at the airport at reduced rates.
02 August 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Distinguished Scientist of ISRO||Dr. P.V.Venkitakrishnan has been promoted as Distinguished Scientist of ISRO. This is the highest grade in ISRO and is equivalent to the Cabinet Secretary grade. At present, Dr. Venkitakrishnan is serving as Director, Capacity Building Programme Office in ISRO, Bengaluru. He completed his graduation in mechanical engineering from the Government Engineering College, Thrissur, and hails from Pazhayanadakkavu, Thrissur.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Calling loyal clientele||
02 August 2020||CHINTALAPUDI (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight held for theft at liquor shop||Eight persons, who allegedly committed theft in a wine shop at Yerraguntapalli village, Chintalapudi mandal in the district on July 16, were arrested by the police on Saturday.  Similar thefts The suspects, all natives of Krishna and West Godavari districts, broke open the locks and took away liquor stocks, worth about Rs. 3.11 lakh, said Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik. During questioning the accused, Bandi Venkatesh alias Srinu and Nallagonda Suresh, reportedly confessed to have committed similar thefts at Dwaraka Tirumala, Musunuru and at Hanuman Junction, along with other accused, said Jangareddygudem Deputy Superintendent of Police M. Snehita. Jangareddygudem CI B.N. Naik said the police recovered 351 liquor bottles, worth about Rs. 1.66 lakh, and three two-wheelers from their possession. They were produced in Chintalapudi court, Mr. Naik said.
02 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uneasy calm in Chittoor dist. as cases cross the 12,500-mark||With no respite from increasing COVID-19 cases, Chittoor district registered over 1,000 cases from Friday night till Saturday morning, taking the tally beyond the 12,500-mark, including 110 deaths in the last three months. District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) M. Penchalaiah said the district was heading towards the peak stage, which is expected around early October. He urged people to strictly adhere to guidelines and not to move out without masks. “We have taken all the precautionary measures to curtail the growth rate, and to some extent we have succeeded in keeping the spread under control since a couple of weeks. Still, the cases continue to mount, causing concern among the public and the officials as well,” the DMHO said. No dearth of medicines Dr. Penchalaiah said there was no dearth of emergency medicines, ventilators at the hospitals at Chittoor, Tirupati, Kuppam and Madanapalle. “People who complain of any symptoms would be immediately attended to by the field staff as and when the information reaches the control room. We have sufficient stocks of emergency medicines for the treatment. I request the public not to panic, as the death rate too has been drastically curtailed, and the morbidity is hitting only those with multiple complications,” the official said. Cases spike in Tirupati The COVID-19 Task Force officials at Tirupati said the urban and rural limits of the Tirupati Municipal Corporation witnessed a spiralling rise in COVID-19 cases, with 580 cases on Saturday morning, with Srikalahasti recording 49 cases, followed by Puttur, Renigunta and Chittoor with 24 cases each. While the eastern mandals of Varadaiahpalem, Satyavedu, Pichatur, Nagari and Nindra continued with two-digit figures daily, the virus spread has considerably been less in the western mandals, some of which had registered single-digit cases. The mandals of B. Kothakota, Gurramkonda and Kalikiri of Madanapalle revenue division have come out with just single case each on Saturday. Woman dies The death of a 60-year-old woman due to in Tirupati on Friday turned into a moving episode. The woman’s son, who runs a voluntary organisation, kept travelling all over the district, creating public awareness on the virus, apart from distributing masks and prompting people not to create obstacles in cremation of victims. A fortnight ago, he tested positive to the virus, and after a few days, he was shifted to a corporate hospital in Chennai. His mother, who was believed to have contracted the virus, was going undergoing treatment in Tirupati, and died on Friday night. The task force officials performed her cremation at Tirupati, without the presence of her son.
02 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recovered woman ‘ends life’||A 70-year-old woman, Lakshmi Devamma of Kampalle village of Ramasamudram mandal, who recently was discharged from the COVID hospital in Tirupati, allegedly committed suicide by hanging on Friday night. According to the police, the woman who had a travel history to Tamil Nadu tested positive to the virus three weeks ago. She was admitted to a COVID hospital in Tirupati, and was discharged after she tested negative for the virus a week ago. As per her wish, she was brought to her son’s house at Kampalle. Knowing that she was discharged from the hospital after COVID-19 treatment, neighbours reportedly stopped talking to her. Stigma Unable to stay alone, and to bear the stigma of being a COVID-19 case, she allegedly resorted to the extreme step in her room, when other family members were asleep. The police shifted the body to area hospital for autopsy and registered a case. Those with suicidal tendencies an dial 100 for help and counselling.
02 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Time to dispel myths around COVID-19’||Amid the uncertain times of the pandemic that continues to instil a sense of anxiety and fear among people, stories of frontline administrators who have battled and recovered from COVID continue to raise a flicker of hope. District Collector and Incident Commander I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has led from the front till the second week of July when he, along with his family, tested positive. After 14 days of home isolation, Mr. Samuel Ananda Kumar resumed work on Saturday and shared his experience on combating the virus. ‘Not life-threatening’ “COVID-19 is not a life-threatening disease that it is made out to be. By following a few simple precautions, we can overcome the disease. My family and I have only followed the protocol of isolating ourselves, regularly checking temperature and oxygen levels and doing simple breathing exercises,” said the Collector at a media conference held here on Saturday afternoon. Medical kits The Collector also launched a medical kit which contains vitamin C, vitamin D, zinc sulphide, MVT, santistiser and disposable masks. For those with symptoms, another kit consisting of tablets- Azithromycin, Paracetamol, Citrizen, Pantrozol, and CPM syrup is recommended. He said that the district has till now registered 17,600 cases but a 85-90% of them had not showed any symptoms. But even then, it is recommended that those with temperature above 100 degrees celsius and sugar levels above 200 and oxygen levels below 90 are advised treatment. “We are witnessing a spike in cases, but we have also intensified testing. On Friday, we tested 7,817 samples out of which 1,001 samples tested positive. We are conducting screening at triage centres and advising home isolation to asymptomatic cases, while referring those with symptoms and with comorbid conditions to hospitals,” said the Collector. He also said that there is an urgent need to dispel many myths around the disease, including unnecessary apprehensions over burial of bodies, and added that the district administration would launch a massive campaign in the coming week to sensitise people to put an end to destigmatisation and to raise awareness over the protocol to be followed during home isolation.
02 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to ink MoU with ISB||The Government of Andhra Pradesh will enter into an MoU with the International School of Business (ISB) to speed up governance and improve delivery of various welfare schemes, said Minister for Industries, IT and Skill Development Mekapati Gowtham Reddy. Skill development programmes The MoU will be signed on August 5 in the presence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The State government is also toying with the idea of tying up with Amazon Inc to boost skill-based training programmes. Special Chief Secretary, Industries, Karikala Valavan, Commissioner, Industries, Subramaniyam and others were present.
02 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘E-Rakshabandhan’ launch tomorrow||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch ‘E-Rakshabandhan’, an innovative virtual cyber crime awareness programme of the A.P. CID and the A.P. Police, on Monday. The Cyber Peace Foundation will join the CID in the awareness campaign. The month-long programme aims at bringing awareness among the people, especially women, youth and children, on cyber crimes. As a part of it, daily webinars would be conducted, where experts would speak on different types of cyber crimes. People can watch the programme live on the APCID YouTube channel.
02 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Farm implements for hire at RBKs’||Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu on Saturday said farm implements would be given on hire at the centres to be set up at the YSR Rythu Bharosa Kendras to minimise the input costs. At a review meeting with the officials of the Agriculture Department here, Mr. Kannababu said, “The idea is to ensure the availability of implements at affordable rent. It helps in minimising the input cost.” Stating that youth would be roped in to man the centres at the RBKs , the Minister said, “Each centre will be equipped with implements worth Rs. 15 lakh. Bank loans will be arranged to enable the youth to purchase the implements. In East Godavari district alone, 1,129 such centres will soon be opened.” Cultivator cards Mr. Kannababu also said that 68,578 Crop Cultivator Rights Cards (CCRC) had been issued to the tenant farmers in the district. Registration must This would enable them to obtain crop loans from banks, besides making them eligible for benefits under government schemes and crop insurance. The Minister directed the officials to ensure that all the farmers registered their crop details on the e-Panta portal. District Joint Director (Agriculture) K.V.S. Prasad and Deputy Directors V.T. Rama Rao and S. Madhava Rao were present.
02 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP grabbed land for Amaravati: Kannababu||The Telugu Desam Party government , during its tenure, had forcibly taken over the lands of several farmers for the establishment of the capital city of Amaravati by setting fire to the standing crops, Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu alleged here at a press conference on Saturday. Addressing the media here, Mr. Kannababu said, “TDP president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu should introspect whether Amaravati was selected based on a referendum.” Welcoming the establishment of three capitals, the Minister said, “Amaravati is a real estate venture designed by the TDP during its term. That is why it is opposing the proposal to allocate lands for the poor in Amaravati.” Seeks apology Districts such as East Godavari did not receive any project during the TDP’s term despite claims that it had adopted the decentralised development model. “Mr. Chandrababu Naidu owes an apology to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan for his remarks against the assent given to the capital Bills.”
02 August 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA conducts last rites of virus victim||After Anantapur MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy spent more than two hours in the COVID-19 wards of Anantapur Government General Hospital, speaking to positive persons to instil confidence among them, on Saturday it was the turn of Kurnool MLA M.A. Hafeez Khan to turn a role model in caring for the dignity of those succumbing to the virus. Wearing a PPE, Mr. Khan along with municipal corporation staff carried the body of a positive person in a casket up to the spot where it was to be laid to rest. He accompanied the body in an ambulance and later paid respects to the departed soul by saying prayers and conducting all the rituals as per their religious beliefs. The death rate among COVID-19 patients is very low and one of the lowest in the world, hence none should get frightened or get tensed even if they contracat the virus, he appealed to people after the rituals. “Kurnool Municipal Corporation has been taking care of the dead in best possible ways and final rites were being performed as their religious beliefs even if the family members feared coming closer to the body,” he pointed out. He reminded people of adhering to all protocols in day-to-day life so that they could be safe. Tally Meanwhile, on Saturday, Kurnool again saw the highest single-day spike in cases with 1,234 cases reported taking the total to 18,081 cases. The silver lining, however, is the number of discharged persons overtaking the active cases, against 8,586 active cases, 9,294 persons were discharged with 201 deaths including six fatalities in the last 24 hours.
02 August 2020||Nellore,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex gratia given to kin of fire accident victim||District Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu on Saturday handed over an exgratia of Rs. 35 lakh to the family of a worker who succumbed to burns sustained in a fire accident in a pharma unit at Chandrapadia, near Vinjamur. Speaking on the occasion, he said a member of the family of the deceased would be provided with a job and a house site. Three others, who sustained injuries, were provided Rs. 7 lakh each. A committee had been constituted to probe the cause of mishap and recommend steps to prevent recurrence of such industrial mishaps, the Collector said. Reservation YSR Congress Party MLA M.Chandrasekar Reddy said the government had ensured reservation of 75% jobs for local persons in industries.
02 August 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,146 new cases in Nellore, Prakasam||The coronavirus cases continued to rise unabated in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as four more persons-- two each in Prakasam and SPSR Nellore district died in the last 24 hours. Nellore district’s toll stood at 44 whereas the tally climbed to 8,578 with 599 new patients. Prakasam reported 547 cases taking the tally to 5,255 while the death toll mounted to 65, a health bulletin released by the State Government said. In a positive development, 443 patients were discharged from COVID-19 hospitals in both the districts. In Ongole, the total number of positive cases shot up to 1,081 as 126 more patients got infected during the period. Other places with high incidence of coronavirus included Kandukur with 628 confirmed cases, Chirala with 416 and Markapur with 588. Addanki reported 16 cases taking its count to 132. Kurichedu, where 11 tipplers died after consuming hand sanitiser, reported nine fresh cases. New cases came also from different parts of the district including Tangutur(12), Thallur(8), Santhamagalur(7), Podili(7), Singarayakonda(6), Parchur(5), V.V.Palem(5), Chimakurthy(5), Pamur(4), Gudlur(3), Karamchedu(3), Korisapadu(3), Ulavapadu(3) and Peddaraveedu(2).
02 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown-hit weavers in Prakasam knock on Centre’s doors for support||Handloom weavers from Amodagiripatnam, Ayodhya Nagar, Nulumillu Centre of Vetappalem mandal in Prakasam district staged a demonstration on Saturday urging the Union Government to provide a hand-holding support for them to survive in the the times of the pandemic. The weavers, led by National Federation of Handlooms and Handicrafts president M. Mohan Rao, raised slogans demanding an assistance of Rs. 3,000 for six months and supply of essential commodities, including rice, to the weavers some of whom were living a hand-to-mouth existence owing to the COVID-induced lockdown. They demanded that the Centre allocate Rs. 5,000 crores for supply of free dhoti and sari to 23 crore BPL families, to ensure regular work to weavers through cooperative societies and to start procurement and market support scheme, besides waiving loans of cooperative societies and Individual weavers. ‘Compensation for wage loss’ The weavers should be provided with NABARD Refinance Scheme for the revival of the handloom sector. The government should earmark Rs. 500 crores from PM Cares Trust or under “Atmanirbhar Bharat” to compensate for wage loss to the handloom weavers and also provide Rs. 2,000 crores to procure piled-up fabric stock with cooperative societies and master weavers. They wanted the Ministry of Textiles to reserve 24,000 tonnes of silk yarn from Central Silk Board and State Silk Boards to ensure the key raw material to weavers. Moratorium on GST The government should consider giving loan to handloom weavers under MUDRA scheme between Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 1 lakh at a concessional 3% interest rate. They also wanted a three-year moratorium on GST on handloom and handicraft products.
02 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spl. investigation team to probe Kurichedu tragedy||Police on Saturday constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the death of tipplers after consuming a hand sanitiser at Kurichedu, near Darsi in the Prakasam district. Superintendent of Police Siddarth Kaushal, who visited the spot, said Markapur Officer on Special Duty (OSD) K. Chowdeswari would head the SIT. It will go into the family background of the deceased and also the quality of the sanitiser, source of its ingredients and the licence of the manufacturer. The SIT will also report on any such cases in other States and the procedures being followed at the de-addiction centres in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The other members of the SIT are Darsi Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) K. Prakasa Rao, Markapur DSP G. Nageswara Reddy, Darsi CI Md. Moin, Podili CI V. Sriram and Addanki CI I. Anjaneya Reddy, a press release said.
02 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Custodial death: SI arrested||Chirala II Town sub-inspector K. Vijay Kumar was arrested on Saturday for ‘negligence’ leading to the alleged custodial death of Dalit youth Y. Kiran Kumar, who was picked up for not wearing a mask in Chirala, which is a COVID-19 hotspot. South Coastal Zone Inspector General of Police J. Prabhakar Rao reviewed the progress of the probe in the case here. He found the SI responsible for the offence under IPC 304A (causing death by negligence). Kiran Kumar died while undergoing treatment in Guntur on July 21 for a head injury he sustained while in police custody.
02 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will wage a legal battle for capital: JAC||Members of Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti Joint Action Committee(JAC) wearing black dresses staged demonstration here on Saturday in protest against Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan’s nod for the Decentralisation and CRDA repeal Bills. Lamenting that the Govenor had not taken the State’s future into consideration while giving his assent, samiti members led by their leader Ravula Padmaja shouted slogans in support of retaining Amaravati as the one and only capital of the State. They paid floral tributes to farmers champion and veteran parliamentarian Acharya N.G. Ranga. ‘Short-sighted decision’ They would now wage a protracted legal battle for justice to the farmers who parted with their land holdings for a larger cause, said samiti leader K. Kusumakumari. The ruling YSR Congress Party would pay a heavy political price for its short-sighted decision, contended Telugu Desam Party Prakasam district general secretary G.V.Raj Vimal.
02 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Step towards equitable development: Dharmana||MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao on Saturday said that establishment of three capitals would prevent the Telangana type of agitations in the future as they would ensure the overall development all the regions in the State. Youth would not curse anyone since their welfare and progress would be taken care of with the equitable development all the regions, he told the media here. “The government has adopted all the procedures in passing the capital Bills. The three capitals and formation of new districts will take the administration to the doorstep of people,” he added.
02 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to clear coin stock||TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy on Saturday urged bankers to help the temple administration in clearing coins worth Rs. 4.33 crore piled up in its coffers. At a meeting, Mr. Reddy said the coins had accumulated as periodic clearing did not happen during the past four months due to COVID-19 crisis. He urged them to suggest the modalities to be worked out in disposing of the accumulated stock.
02 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Now, a dedicated COVID-19 call centre||As part of disseminating information on COVID-19, a 24x7 call centre started functioning at Shilparamam in Tirupati on Saturday. The call centre works under the aegis of the COVID-19 coordination committee. Government whip and TUDA Chairman Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy, in his capacity of the committee’s chairman, formally inaugurated the call centre. People in and around Tirupati can dial 7799511003/4/5/6 to get their grievances redressed or doubts clarified. Health tips Health tips can also be had over telephone by dialling the call centre. SETVEN Chief Executive Officer Muralikrishna Reddy, Additional District Medical and Health Officer Aruna Sulochana, IMA COVID-19 district coordinator D. Srihari Rao, IMA women’s wing president P. Krishna Prasanthi, IMA Tirupati chapter president Ravi Raju and others took part. “The call centre registered a good response on the first day, with 132 callers dialling the number and getting suggestions from the six medical professionals. Most of the queries were on the care to be taken while in home isolation,” Mr. Bhaskar Reddy said.
02 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Decentralisation will ensure development’||YSR Congress Party leaders and cadres welcomed the Governor’s assent to the AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and AP Capital Region Development Authority Repeal Bills - 2020, and said that the decision would pave the way for all-round development of the State. Led by MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy, party leaders gathered at TUDA Circle and garlanded the statue of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy and hailed the decision as a people’s victory. Mr. Reddy took out a procession amidst the beating of drums along the arterial roads of the city. Speaking on the occasion, he said the passage of the bill would augur well for the State in establishing an executive capital in Visakhapatnam and a judicial capital in Kurnool, even while retaining the legislative capital in Amaravati region. “With this, the fruits of development will be shared across the State, thus ensuring balanced growth and development,” he said. He thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for taking a progressive stand and hailed the ‘path-breaking decision’ to place the State on the fast-track to progress.
02 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s COVID tally crosses 1.5-lakh mark||The State’s tally of COVID-19 positive cases has crossed the 1.5 lakh-mark on Saturday morning with the detection of 9,276 new infections. The number of deaths also increased to 1,407 as 58 patients died in the past 24 hours, according to the Health Department's bulletin. While the overall tally stands at 1,50,209, on the brighter side, the State saw a record number of recoveries in a day with the discharge of 12,750 patients. This has increased the recovery rate to 51% with a total of 76,614 recoveries against 72,188 active cases. The State also crossed the 20 lakh-mark in the number of tests as it tested 60,797 samples during the past 24 hours. The number of cases increased from one-lakh to one and a half lakh in just six days, during which period 53,911 cases and 366 deaths were reported. Test share While the State’s share of positive cases in the country's tally of 16.95 lakh is 8.8%, its share of tests in the country's tests of 1.93 crore is 10.39%, as per the Health Department data. Also, at 7.46% positivity rate the State is behind all the States of Maharastra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka that crossed one-lakh cases tally. The State’s COVID death rate is 0.94% and the tests per million ratio has gone up to 37,689.  New cases and deaths Four districts reported at least 1,000 cases each in the past day. They are Kurnool (1,234 cases, 6 deaths), Visakhapatnam (1,155, 8), Anantapur (1,128, 6) and Guntur (1,001, 7). They are followed by Chittoor (949, 6), East Godavari (876, 8), Nellore (559, 2), Kadapa (547, 1), West Godavari (494, 3), Srikakulam (455, 4), Prakasam (402, 2), Krishna (357, 3) and Vizianagaram (119, 2). All the persons who have tested positive after coming to State from other countries and States have recovered and discharged. No new imported cases were reported. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (21,271), Kurnool (18,081), Anantapur (15,827), Guntur (15,669), West Godavari (12, 804), Visakhapatam (11,920), Chittoor (11,327), Kadapa (8,423), Nellore (7,875), Krishna (7,200), Srikakulam (7,025), Prakasam (5,569) and Vizianagaram (4,323).
02 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police to support plasma therapy campaign||Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang on Saturday said that the police will support the plasma donors’ campaign taken up by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Police personnel who have contracted the virus and recovered will support the plasma therapy to help save COVID-19 patients, Mr. Sawang said on Saturday. Speaking at a virtual workshop jointly organised by the A.P. Police and Apollo Hospitals from the A.P. Police Headquarters, the DGP said that as many as 3,600 police personnel of different ranks were infected with COVID-10, of which 893 recovered and resumed their duties. Dr. K. Hari Prasad, president Apollo Group (Hospitals Division), in his inaugural address explained how a team of expert doctors were treating patients and observing patients and different case studies across the world. Deputy Inspector Generals (DIGs), Superintendents of Police (SPs), Additional SPs, and doctors who were treating the policemen suffering from coronavirus in different districts attended the webinar. Sai Harinath, a doctor, while explaining the symptoms in infected patients, gave tips to the policemen on prevention and treatment. Dr. K. Subba Reddy elucidated on symptomatic and asymptomatic cases and the need for retesting the patients after 17 days. Another doctor, Vishnu Rao, gave a presentation on paediatric and pregnant women patients. A team of doctors from Dr. Rangaraya Medical College, Kakinada, participated in the virtual meeting. Earlier, Mr. Sawang launched a Police COVID-19 Helpline and patients can dial 18005323100 for online treatment. Additional DGP (Law and Order) Ravi Shankar Ayyannar, IG (Welfare) P.V.S. Ramakrishna, IG (Training) N. Sanjay, DIG (Technical Services) G. Pala Raju and other officers participated.
02 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||95% beneficiaries receive pension at their doorstep||In all, 58.49 lakh beneficiaries in the State received their social security pension under the ‘ÝSR Pension Kanuka’ at their doorstep on Saturday. Village / ward volunteers numbering 2.68 lakh started the exercise across the State at about 6 a.m. and disbursed pensions worth Rs. 1,398.68 crore. Nearly 50% of the disbursement was completed in the first two hours, and by 5 p.m., 95.44% of the beneficiaries received their pension. Officials said that 58.49 lakh of the total 61.28 lakh beneficiaries received pension on the first day of the month. The government released Rs. 1,478 crore for the purpose. The CEO of Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty, P. Raja Babu, said that due to the existing pandemic, the biometric process had been replaced with geo-tagging for the disbursement process. Nearly 6,734 beneficiaries had opted for pension through portability and 1,458 pensions were put on hold as the beneficiaries had been stranded due to the lockdown. Another 1,52,095 beneficiaries, who were unable to collect their pension for various reasons for the last six months, would receive it this month. Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy said the government had sanctioned 2,20,385 new pensions this month, and had allocated additional funds of Rs. 51.67 crore for the purpose. Pension for artists He said those who had applied for pension in July were identified and given pension cards within 10 days. The Minister said the beneficiaries who received a monthly pension of Rs. 2,000 from the Brahmin Corporation were brought under the ÝSR Pension Kanuka scheme from this month and were given a pension of Rs. 2,250. Similarly, artists who received pension from the Department of Culture in the past had also been brought under the scheme, he added.
02 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Real-time availability of beds goes online||The Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare has made public the real-time availability of beds in government and private COVID hospitals across the State on its COVID dashboard. The details of ICU beds, non-ICU beds with oxygen supply line (O2 general beds), non-ICU beds without oxygen supply line (general beds) and ventilators have been made available on the link dashboard.covid10.ap. gov.in/ims/hospbed_ reports/. One has to directly use the link to access the data. Auto upload The Department further announced that it is the real-time data that gets updated automatically every time a COVID patient is admitted or discharged from the hospital. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has asked the State government to provide hospital beds information online recently. According to the data provided, of the 38,657 beds available in State, 24,738 were not occupied as of Saturday evening. Among them, 2,583 of total 4,211 ICU beds were available. Similarly, 10,510 O2 general beds of the 17,236 were available and 11,645 of 17,210 general beds were available. Apart from the beds, of the 1620 ventilators in the State, 1,171 are not being used currently. Across the State, there are 72,188 COVID patients and only 13,919 of them are being treated at the COVID hospitals. Rest of the 58,269 asymptomatic patients are being treated at COVID Care Centres or at their homes.
02 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP, BJP cheated people: CPI(M) leader||CPI(M) capital region committee convener Ch. Babu Rao said the ruling YSRCP and BJP have together cheated people, particularly farmers, by first promising them that the capital would remain in Amaravati and now indulging in politics of expediency in the guise of decentralisation. Mr. Babu Rao said the YSRCP, TDP and BJP had arrived at a consensus on Amaravati on the floor of the Assembly and each one of them went about implementing their secretive agendas, leading to the breaking up of the capital. He pointed out that the then Leader of the Opposition Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had endorsed the proposal to develop Amaravati as a greenfield capital city. ‘Arbitrary and undemocratic’ The manner in which the Bills were passed in the Assembly and the Governor gave them his assent was arbitrary and undemocratic, he said, seeking to know whether the future governments would keep the ‘three capitals’ intact. He said if the present government was convinced of massive irregularities having taken place in Amaravati, it should have booked criminal cases and punished the guilty, instead of bringing whatever development happened in the last five years to a naught.
02 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel to study police dept. needs in Vizag||An eight-member committee headed by Visakhapatnam Police Commissioner R.K. Meena will study the requirements of the police department in Visakhapatnam, the administrative capital. Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang constituted the committee. The orders were issued on July 31. Officer on Special Duty (OSD-Planning) will be the convener of the committee. The committee comprises IGP (Training), IGP (Personnel), IGP (SIB, Intelligence), IGP (Provisions and Logistics), DIG (Technical Services) and DIG, Visakhapatnam Range. The panel will study the overall prospective requirement of police such as additional manpower, creation of additional posts, infrastructure and logistics in the administrative capital.
02 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Manikyala Rao mourned||BJP national president J.P. Nadda tweeted that former Minister P. Manikyala Rao, who succumbed to COVID-19 on Saturday, would be remembered for his selfless service to people. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan also expressed shock over the death of former Minister and BJP leader P. Manikyala Rao Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock over the death of Manikyala Rao, and directed that his body be cremated with official honours. Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, BJP State president Somu Veerraju, and former State BJP president Kanna Lakshminarayana condoled Manikyala Rao’s demise.
02 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mixed response to COVID recruitment drive||The recruitment drive taken up by the district administration for the selection of healthcare professionals and technicians to work at COVID treatment centres has evoked mixed response. Applications The administration received 1,828 applications for 1,222 posts on Saturday, and none applied for 155 posts of specialist doctors. For the post of general doctors, 138 professionals, including 20 MBBS doctors, 262 BDS doctors and 138 Ayush doctors have applied. Similarly, for the 277 Staff Nurse posts, 440 professionals applied. The posts of 57 data entry operators received 579 applications, the highest. Temporary jobs District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz said the applications would be forwarded to the district selection committee and interviews would be conducted. Call letters would be given on August 5, he said. The recruitment is on a temporary basis for six months.
02 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,155 new cases take district tally to 12,332||As many as 1,155 new COVID-19 cases were reported from Visakhapatnam district, taking the tally to 12,332 on Saturday. Three more persons succumbed to the coronavirus taking the death toll to 94. This is for the third time, the district has reported more than 1,000 cases in a day in the last 10 days. On a bright side, 528 persons, who were undergoing treatment have been discharged from COVID-19 hospitals and COVID Care Centres. As per the district COVID-19 bulletin, the total number of active cases is 8,172 and discharged is 4,066. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, the total number of clusters in the district is 847. Among them, the very active clusters are 325. The active and dormant clusters are 145 and 377 respectively. Already, 39 clusters have been denotified, he said. By the end of June, the total number of cases reported from the district was 900 and five persons died due to COVID-19. In July, 10,277 positive cases and 86 deaths were recorded. The district started to witness very steep rise in cases from July 22. Till July 21, the total number of cases was 2,741. On August 1, the number stands at 12,332. Since July 21, the number of cases reported from the district is 9,591. Officials say that since there is an increase in the number of tests conducted in the district, the spike is reported. At present, tests are being conducted at Primary Health Centres (PHCs), Sanjeevani buses, COVID-19 designated hospitals and private hospitals. A large number of people are allotted home isolation. Only critical cases are being shifted to hospitals. A senior doctor from the district said that August will be much worse. “There is severe community transmission in the district and it is very important to take precautions if you are going out. People above 50 years of age are advised to stay indoors. For information regarding tests in Visakhapatnam, citizens can contact Control Room 0891-2501233 or 0891-2501244. The State Government has also updated the information regarding the availability of beds in the districts in the COVID-19 dashboard on Saturday.
02 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fourth industrial accident in Vizag within three months||The accident at Hindustan Shipyard Limited here that claimed 11 lives has been the fourth industrial accident in the city since May this year. On May 7, 12 persons died over 580 were hospitalised in LG Polymers styrene monomer vapour leak incident. On June 29, two persons died and four were injured due leak of hydrogen sulphide at Sainor Life Science at Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City, and on July 14, one employee had died and one was injured in Visakha Solvents in JNPC due to fire in the reactor. Negligence: Left parties CPI (M) State secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao told The Hindu that it was clear case of negligence, as adequate precautions were not taken, since the crane had been under construction for such a long period. CPI State secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy demanded an independent judicial inquiry and said that the string of industrial accidents in the last four months called for some accountability in industrial safety. All the Left parties and trade union leaders, including Neerukonda Ramachandraiah from INTUC, demanded that the family of the deceased be paid Rs. 1 crore as compensation, as it was paid in the case of LG Polymers. They demanded that the people responsible in HSL be arrested. The union leaders questioned the design of the crane and raised doubts on why it took 11 years to complete a 70 MT level luffing crane and if there was some kind of urgent pressure to complete and commission it. Oldest shipyard HSL is the oldest shipyard in the country founded by industrialist Walchand Hirachand in 1941 under Scindia Steamship Navigation Company. In 1961, the shipyard was nationalised and renamed Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL). In 2010, HSL was transferred to the Ministry of Defence. The Malkapuram police are investigating the incident, said Commissioner of Police R.K. Meena.
02 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU law college’s platinum jubilee meet on August 4||Marking the occasion of 75 years of its establishment, Dr B.R Ambedkar College of Law, Andhra University, Visakhapatnam, is conducting an online platinum jubilee meeting on August 4 at 10 a.m. According to the release from Andhra University officials, Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu, who is distinguished alumnus of the college, will participate in the meet. Many more alumni will be also attending the online event. Principal S. Sumitra has invited all the alumni of the law college to participate in the meeting through Google meet or YouTube.
02 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gudivada objects to Naidu’s remarks on decision to form three capitals||Coming down heavily on Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N. Chandrababu Naidu, YSR Congress Party MLA Gudivada Amarnath has said that he and his son Nara Lokesh, who are opposing the initiative of overall development of the State don’t have the right to enter north Andhra and Rayalaseema. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, he said that Mr. Naidu in his emotional reaction to the Governor’s approval to three capitals Bill described it as a ‘Dark Day’ in the history of the State. Mr. Amarnath questioned why Mr. Naidu is getting emotional when all the districts are going to be developed with the government’s decision.
02 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telemedicine launched at railway hospital||Telemedicine has been made operational at the Divisional Railway Hospital of Waltair division in the city to take medicine to the far-flung areas of the division. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava said that telemedicine shall increase timely access to appropriate professional medical interventions and faster access to services that may not be available in far-off places. B.B. Samanta, Chief Medical Superintendent of the Railway Hospital, gave a demonstration on the effectiveness of telemedicine. Railway persons can avail this facility with 8688407744, 8688407745, the dedicated telemedicine helpline phone numbers of Waltair division.
02 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Take part in Rakshabandhan online tomorrow’||Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy has advised the students of Andhra University and affiliated colleges to participate in launch of e-Rakshabandhan by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy scheduled on August 3. He said that the programme aimed at ensuring the safety of women and children in cyberspace. In a release on Saturday, Mr. Prasada Reddy said that the month-long innovative programme aimed at bringing awareness among people, especially women, youth and children. As part of the e-Rakshabandhan, daily webinars will be conducted. Cyber crime experts will speak on different types of crimes. People and students can watch these programmes live on APCID YouTube channel, he said. Competitions to students and FM Radio talks are also included in the programme. For further details, the students can visit Andhra University website.
02 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP cadres upbeat over three capitals decision||Cadres of the ruling YSR Congress Party organised victory rallies at S. Kota, Saluru, Kurupam and other places on Saturday, hailing the Governor’s assent to a Bill making Visakhapatnam the executive capital of the State. Sringavarapukota MLA Kadubandi Srinivasa Rao offered ‘palabhisekham’ to the statue of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy at Kothavalasa junction, and said that his son Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was taking historic decisions to develop the North Andhra region on the lines of his father who had allocated huge funds for irrigation and industrialisation. “With the development of the Bhogapuram international airport and industrialisation in 500 acres of specified land at Bhogapuram, investors will flock here in no time. Many IT companies will also come forward to set up their units very soon,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao. Backward Classes Hakkula Sadhana Samiti’s district president Gorle Suribabu said that people of the region will be thankful to Mr. Jagan for taking steps to establish the capital in Visakhapatnam. He also said that this step in the State would enable many youngsters to get jobs locally and prevent migration of people to different parts of the country.
02 August 2020||Vizianagaram/Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP activists stage protests||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) activists organised protests at various places of Srikakulam and Vizianaagaram districts on Saturday to oppose move to create three capitals. The party leaders came on to streets to stage protests in Vizianagaram, Bobbili, Parvatipuram, Srikakulam and Palasa. Party MLC Dwarapureddy Jagadish strongly objected to issue of immediate gazette notification soon after getting consent from Governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Treetop meeting||
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waiting for good samaritans||
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Watchful protectors||
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS sees highest single-day spike||Telangana crossed 2,000 COVID-19 cases in a day for the first time after the pandemic broke out in the State. On Friday, 2,083 swab samples tested positive for coronavirus, and 11 more patients died. While 21,011 samples tested on July 31, results of 883 are awaited. The cases have been rising from July 21. July horror The new 2,083 cases include 578 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, 228 from Rangareddy, 197 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 134 from Warangal Urban and 101 from Sangareddy. By the end of July, 4,58,593 samples were tested and 64,786 cases were recorded. Of those, 17,754 are active cases while 46,502 have recovered and 530 died. The cumulative test positivity rate is 14.12%. Of the 64,786 cases recorded in the State from March 2 to July 31, 48,447 cases were detected in July, making for 75% of the total cases. One of the reasons for the high number of cases is that the number of tests to detect coronavirus was also increased. While RT-PCR tests were increased from June 15, the testing scale increased after rapid antigen tests were taken up from July 8. Around 4.58 lakh tests had been conducted till the end of July. Of those, 3.7 lakh or 80.6% of the total tests were conducted in July alone.
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bestow special care on elders: Governor||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has called for bestowing special care upon elders during the COVID-19 pandemic. “They took care of us with a lot of affection and love. It is now our responsibility to serve them with special care and attention to enable them to cope up with the pandemic conditions,” she added. Participating as chief guest in the semi-annual virtual summit of the Metropolitan Asian Family Services (MAFS), Chicago, USA, from the Raj Bhavan, here, she stated that with the co-morbid conditions, elders were at a greater risk and ‘we all need to give them special attention and care for their protection’. Referring to some instances, where senior citizens were kept away from families in the misconstrued practice of social distance, the Governor advised against any such social isolation of elders. Stressing the need to create better understanding of the pandemic, she said this would help them come out of depression and face it with a right approach. “It is high time that we shall extend better medical care, communication, motivation and psychological and emotional support to our elders,” she said. Dr. Soundararajan called for increased importance to geriatric studies and care on a par with paediatric care. The Governor appreciated the efforts of MAFS founder Santosh Kumar for her dedicated service to elders in the USA for past 28 years. US Congressman Danny K Devis, MAFS president Firdaus Jafri, Sher-e-Kashmir Agricultural Science and Technology vice-chancellor J P Sharma, Dr. Vijay Prabhakar, and Dr. Srinivas Reddy spoke during the virtual summit.
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Opposition spreading misinformation’||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) legislators have decried the Opposition parties for trying to brand the party government in the State as anti-Dalit although the government has been supporting both Dalit and tribal communities in their efforts to scale the Mount Everest. Talking to newspersons here on Saturday, party legislators Balka Suman, Kale Yadaiah, Guvvala Balaraju and M.S. Prabhakar criticised the Opposition parties for running a misinformation campaign against the TRS party and government. They stated that the welfare schemes being implemented for Dalits in Telangana were not being implemented in any other State in the country. Stating that the Dalit candidates who contested the last Assembly elections on TRS tickets had won with huge majorities, they said it proved that the community was strongly behind the party. They were given tickets even in general seats too. The TRS government had also introduced reservation for Dalits in agriculture market committees, they noted. However, unable to digest such a massive support of Dalits to the government, the Opposition parties were trying to attribute the incidents of killing of Dalits to the ruling party. They reminded the Opposition leaders that the incidents of Chundur and Karamchedu were still fresh in the memory of Dalits although they took place decades ago. The TRS legislators suggested the Congress and BJP leaders to look into the atrocities being committed on Dalit and tribal communities in the States ruled by them. On the incident in Gajwel constituency, the TRS leaders said the government did not resume the land of the Dalit farmer there for construction of Rythu Vedika and B. Narsimhlu who had ended his life had participated in the ground-breaking ceremony of the Rythu Vedika. In fact, it was the previous Congress government that had resumed the Dalits’ land for construction of a sub-station there. They alleged that the Congress leaders living in Hyderabad were trying to spread COVID in the name of visiting districts without any valid reason. They stated that atrocities on Dalits were highest in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana.
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR’s silence on RLIP intentional, says Uttam||There is a major conspiracy behind Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s silence on the grave injustice in the making in the form of Andhra Pradesh’s plans to divert 8 tmc ft of Krishna water everyday from Srisailam reservoir, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has alleged. “Seeking postponement of the Apex Council meeting slated for August 5 to a date after August 20 by Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao in the name of Cabinet meeting is also part of that conspiracy to do injustice to Telangana in the matter of Krishna waters, one more time,” the TPCC chief said in a press conference on Saturday. Although the Congress party had raised the issue of AP’s plans to take up Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP) and expansion of Pothireddypadu head regulator to enhance its water drawal capacity to 80,000 cusecs from 44,000 cusecs to divert a total of 8 tmc ft of Krishna water every day, the Telangana Chief Minister, who he said often claims to be the saviour of State’s interests, had been neglecting it intentionally from day one, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy remarked. Speaking along with “Krishna Jalala Parirakshana Committee” convenor T. Rammohan Reddy, Mr. Uttam Reddy said when Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao could heap Rs. 1 lakh crore debt on the people in the name of Kaleshwaram why he was not completing projects in the Krishna Basin, particularly Palamuru-Rangareddy and Dindi Lift Irrigation schemes meant to quench the thirst of parched lands of South Telangana. He stated that AP’s plans to divert 8 tmc ft of water everyday from Srisailam would render a death blow to the riparian rights of people in South Telangana as diversion of such huge quantity of water everyday would leave no water even for Nagarjunasagar project. Besides, the diversion plans also have the potential to render the existing Kalwakurthy lift irrigation scheme, which draws water from Srisailam, useless. The TPCC chief alleged that Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao had sought for a date after August 20 for the Apex Council meeting only to allow AP complete the tenders process for RLIP. Neglect of South Telangana in the matter of judicious share in river waters would also make statehood to Telangana meaningless as it was one of the three planks of the movement. The Congress party would intensify struggle to protect Telangana’s interests in the matter of river waters, in case the State government failed to play its role, he noted. Meanwhile, former TPCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah also faulted Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao’s silence on the AP’s Krishna water diversion issue. He suggested the Chief Minister to convene a meeting with irrigation experts, engineers, intellectuals and opposition parties for a united struggle against AP’s plans.
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Be more vigilant, says Kishan||Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy visited Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) COVID care centre and hospital at Gachibowli here on Saturday, inspected the infrastructure and interacted with patients. After going round the hospital, he held a review meeting with doctors and staff to take stock of the situation. Later, he visited Ayurvedic Hospital at Erragadda and interacted with COVID warriors, doctors and healthcare workers, and people visiting the centre for tests. The Union Minister inspected the facilities available for COVID patients at Gandhi Hospital. He then interacted with patients, doctors, nursing staff and other healthcare workers to know the current state of affairs, including availability of beds and medicines, there. Speaking after the visit to hospitals, the Union Minister stressed the need for tracing, testing and treatment on a large scale to combat the pandemic. The Union Minister cautioned people that coronavirus infection would be more severe in the coming days. Advising people to be more cautious on the spread of coronavirus in the coming days, Mr. Kishan Reddy said since there was no cure for COVID, the only way left was to be safe by following the rules and regulations informed by the State and Central Governments from time to time to keep coronavirus at bay.
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Donate plasma, save lives’||Plasma therapy is raising hopes in treatment of COVID-19 patients. But the challenge lies in convincing the patients, who recovered from coronavirus having contracted it, to donate their plasma, say doctors. With no vaccine or specific drug available as of now, doctors are doing their bit to save lives of coronavirus-affected persons. As attempts to treat the virus-affected patients by administering plasma therapy yielded positive results in some cases, the concept gained popularity. Even Gandhi Hospital superintendent Raja Rao, attending the hearing of a PIL plea through video conference, told the Telangana High Court on June 18 that five patients were recovering from coronavirus following plasma therapy. Convalescent plasma therapy involves extraction of plasma from a person who recovered from the virus. The plasma extracted from recovered persons contains anti-bodies of the virus. On transfusion to the patient, these anti-bodies help him or her recover, say the doctors. Unfortunately, not many persons, who had recovered from coronavirus, are coming forward to donate plasma. The recovered persons have their own apprehensions and misgivings about the donation of plasma. “Will giving plasma weaken me further?” is the main doubt expressed by a considerable number of persons who were approached for plasma donation. “No harm is done to persons who donate plasma. I appeal to all persons who recovered from coronavirus to come forward to donate plasma,” says NIMS liaison officer and doctor Martha Ramesh. Vouching for plasma therapy, the doctor said those donating plasma were becoming warriors of COVID-19 and helping society as a whole. Cyberabad police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar took up a campaign persuading persons who recovered from coronavirus to put their best foot forward. For this, the Cyberabad police formed a dedicated wing. Volunteers from Society for Cyberabad Security Council, voluntary organisations Robinhood Army and Youngistan joined this unit. Having collected database of coronavirus-recovered persons, these volunteers are persuading them to extend helping hand to other patients by donating plasma. “Volunteers are calling up nearly 1,000 persons on an average daily,” says Cyberabad Traffic Police Additional DCP Praveen Reddy. Not all of them are eligible for donation of plasma. Persons with co-morbidity conditions, senior citizens and women are not supposed to donate plasma. Nearly 50 to 80 of those 1,000 patients are giving their consent. The campaign started by Cyberabad police nearly 10 days ago is already showing positive signs with some of the plasma recipients witnessing improvement. Mr. Sajjanar said people requiring plasma or ready to donate plasma could contact 94906 17440 or donateplasma.scsc.in for help. Police would connect the persons donating plasma to patients and arrange transport, he said.
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ajay Misra lauded for role in success of TS energy sector||The managements of power utilities in the State have lauded the role of Ajay Misra, who laid down office as Special Chief Secretary (Energy) on Friday on attaining the age of superannuation, in the success story of the energy sector of Telangana. He was given a grand farewell at a function organised in the Vidyut Soudha here on Saturday. Chairman and Managing Director of TS-Genco and TS-Transco D. Prabhakar Rao said Mr. Misra had played a crucial role of liaisoning with the State and Central governments and coordination with the power utilities with patience and perseverance. As Special Chief Secretary of Energy Mr. Misra had understood the difficulties of the power utilities and cooperated in resolving them from time to time helping the utilities’ progress and improved services to consumers. The farewell was organised by TS-Genco, TS-Transco and the two discoms. Responding to the warm farewell accorded by the officials and employees of the power utilities, Mr. Misra said his role as the Special Chief Secretary of Energy during the last three years of his career was satisfying and of the 25 department he worked with in his career, he spent more time in Energy department compared to other departments. He complimented that starting from CMD Prabhakar Rao every official and employee of the utilities had been working with commitment. Along with Mr. Prabhakar Rao, CMD of Southern Discom G. Raghuma Reddy and CMD of Northern Discom A. Gopala Rao, Joint MD of TS-Transco C. Srinivasa Rao, several directors of the four power utilities and other senior officers felicitated Mr. Misra as part the farewell.
02 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bakrid celebration muted in State||Id-ul-Adha, also known as Bakrid, was celebrated in a low-key manner on Saturday on account of COVID-19 pandemic. All Eidgah across the State remains off limits for the public, as the Minorities Welfare Department did not allow special prayers or congregations, fearing transmission of the deadly virus. The historic Mecca Masjid, which usually witnesses tens of thousands of worshippers on the occasion, was also closed to the public. Similarly, Shahi Masjid in Public Gardens was off limits for the public. People either prayed at home or in smaller neighbourhood mosques, even as most followed physical distancing norms. Ablutions were performed at home as mosque management had closed ablution places and toilets.  Sheep sale While the sheep market began with a slow start, sales picked up late on Friday night. Many took to online booking, slaughtering and distribution of sheep and sheep meat. Prayers were held in two spells due to the fact that mosque management committees did not wish to take any chances with the spread of the virus. Across the city, the usual Id greeting of hugging each other was not seen much as a precautionary measure. Meanwhile, there was a shortage of butchers as they usually come to the city from Mahabubnagar, Rangareddy and Vikarabad districts and charge anywhere between Rs. 600 and Rs. 1,000. Due to high demand, local butchers charged Rs. 1,200 to Rs. 1,500 to clean sacrificed animals and cut the meat.
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call for Palamuru-RR water to ayacut by next year||The elected representatives of erstwhile Mahabubnagar district, including ministers Singireddy Niranjan Reddy and V. Srinivas Goud, have resolved to start giving water to the ayacut under Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation scheme from 2021 at any cost. The two ministers, some legislators, MPs, Zilla Parishad chairpersons and other officials along with Principal Secretary (Irrigation) Rajat Kumar inspected the ongoing works on the project at the take-off point at Yedula tunnel and reservoirs at Narlapur and Yedula and other works. Later, they reviewed the progress of the project with irrigation department officials. Legislators C. Laxma Reddy, B. Harshavardhan Reddy, G. Jaipal Yadav, S. Rajender Reddy, V.M. Abraham, Marri Janardhan Reddy, Guvvala Balaraju, M. Anjaiah Yadav, Chittem Rammohan Reddy, A. Venkateshwar Reddy, K. Damodar Reddy, K. Narayana Reddy, MPs P. Ramulu and M. Srinivas Reddy and others attended the review. Speaking at the meeting, Mr. Niranjan Reddy asked officials to clear the pending relief and rehabilitation payments pertaining to Yedula and Narlapur villages. He asked the engineers to fix a time-frame for completion of every component of work and examine the possibility of taking up distributaries and minor distributaries under the MG National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Further, he asked the engineers to impound Yedula reservoir with Kalwakurthy lift water through its distributary D-5 and link all drinking water schemes in combined Mahabubnagar to water from the Palamuru-Rangareddy project. Mr. Goud told the engineers to keep all the legislators informed about the progress of the project works through the whatsapp group. District collectors of Nagarkurnool and Wanaparthy L. Sharman and Shaik Yasmin Basha, chief engineer of the project V. Ramesh, advisor to government on lift irrigation projects K. Penta Reddy, Nagarkurnool ZP chairperson P. Padmavathi and others participated in the meeting.
02 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Suspecting COVID infection, elderly couple ends lives||A sexagenarian couple was found dead at their residence in Punjagutta on Saturday. Y.V. Naidu (63) and his wife Y.V. Laxmi (60), who were suffering from fever and cold for the past few days, suspected of contracting the deadly coronavirus, committed suicide by consuming poison, Punjagutta ACP M. Thirupathanna said. “Suspecting that they were infected with the virus and it would spread to their children and grandchildren, who visit them frequently, the couple resorted to the extreme step in the late hours of Friday,” he said. Around 11.30 a.m. on Saturday, when their younger son Nagaraju went to see them, the door was locked and there was no response even after repeated knocks. “When he checked the room from a window, he saw his parents lying on the floor, and broke open the doors and found them dead,” the ACP said. In a suicide note purportedly left behind, Laxmi stated that they thought they had been infected with COVID and feared they might infect other family members, and so, they were ending their lives, Punjagutta inspector M. Niranjan said. Based on the complaint lodged by Nagaraju, a case was registered and the bodies were sent to Osmania General Hospital for autopsy.  (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||E-audit of accounts of gram panchayats||In tune with the recommendation of Fifteenth Finance Commission (FFC) that at least 20% of gram panchayats go for online audit for release of Central funds every year, the State government has decided to go a step ahead and conduct the exercise in 30% villages from Monday. Director of State Audit department M. Venkateswara Rao told The Hindu that the objective in taking up audit in 30% villages this year was to ensure completion of 100% audit of accounts of panchayats for 2019-20 in three years. Next year another 30% villages will be included and, in the third year, 40% villages will be covered, he said. Explaining the process of audit, Mr. Rao said it was time-bound where the panchayats would be asked to furnish the accounts on a fixed day. The intimation to panchayats, records and audit objections would go online. On fulfilment of objections, the audit report would be communicated to panchayat secretary. The grants of FFC from the next instalment would be released on compliance of the process. The FFC had mandated online audit to maintain transparency and proper check in upkeep of records. It asked the State governments to take up the programme from August 3 to October-end. In Telangana, the Panchayat Raj and State audit departments had released guidelines for panchayat secretaries and district-level auditors and trained 350 audit officers for the purpose.
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSWREIS students bag awards for entrepreneurship ideas||Nine students of the Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TSWREIS) bagged cash awards for their innovative entrepreneurship ideas in a virtual online competition “Business Ideation Festival”. First prize in women’s empowerment of Rs. 10,000 was bagged by Armoor college students Suma Naaz, Dasari Saileela and Sokkam Apoorva. Second prize in ‘Call a friend’ of Rs. 7,000 was bagged by Nalgonda college students S. Sirisha, K. Anusha and K. Soni. Third prize of ‘Furniture upcycling’ of Rs. 5,000 was bagged by Vikarabad college students C. Soujanya, E. Vani and Y. Krupa. “TSWREI and TTWREI Societies have been promoting business entrepreneurship and skill development programmes to develop entrepreneurship mindset among young women of social and tribal welfare residential degree colleges with the support of government,” said secretary R.S. Praveen Kumar.
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NGO donates flasks to transgender patient||On Bakrid morning, a Hyderabad-based NGO received peculiar request: a transgender woman with COVID-19 admitted at Gandhi Hospital was in need of a thermos flask to get partial relief from constant cough. The 36-year-old transgender woman who suffers from HIV-AIDS too tried to get the flasks through friends or acquaintances but could not. Members of Helping Hand Foundation, who are involved in assisting COVID-19 patients and suspects, gave her two flasks. A resident of Hyderabad, she was diagnosed with COVID on July 26 and was under home quarantine. After suffering from health complications due to HIV, she got admitted to Gandhi Hospital on Friday. However, she was constantly coughing. During home quarantine, she used to boil water and consume it. Trustee of the NGO Mujtaba Hasan Askari said they received a request from a well-wisher that the patient was in need of a thermos flask. “Our volunteer went to deliver two flasks with hot water. After facing some resistance from cops, the volunteer was allowed. This simple act of kindness in these trying times of pandemic brought a smile back to her. We promised to get the flask refilled with hot water everyday,” he said. “I received two flasks from them,” she said.
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sumit Deb is new CMD of NMDC||NMDC director (Personnel) Sumit Deb on Saturday assumed charge as chairman-cum-managing director of the public sector iron ore mining major. He succeeds N. Baijendra Kumar who had retired. Mr. Deb brings with him vast knowledge gathered through his experience at Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL) and NMDC. Joining NMDC as general manager (Commercial) in 2015, Mr. Deb became the ED (Personnel and Administration) and in 2019, assumed charge as director (Personnel). He was heading various functions of Personnel and Administration, Human Resource Development, Law, Corporate Communications, CSR and Rajbhasha. Mr. Deb said that under the leadership of Mr. Kumar, “We established NMDC as a clear industry leader and positioned the company for strategic diversification and continued profitable growth. We are at the cusp of an incredible opportunity, and I am focused on driving growth and value creation.” Stating it to be an honour to lead the Navratna company, he said, “I look forward to continuing to execute our strategic plans and achieve our financial objectives.” A graduate in ME from Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Mr. Deb joined RINL as a management trainee and served in various capacities.
02 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held for ‘harassing’ advocate||A 23-year-old youngster was arrested by the Rachakonda Cyber Crime Police on Saturday for allegedly harassing an advocate. Mota Durga Prasad, a private employee, was sending sexually explicit photos and messages to the victim through WhatsApp Messenger. Based on her complaint, a case was registered and Durga Prasad was arrested. He used to video-call several women and blackmail them.
02 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||90% interest waiver on property tax||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has extended a one-time relief for payment of property tax arrears for 2019-20 with 90% waiver on interest up to September 15. The online payment portal of GHMC has been upgraded to facilitate the benefit, a release from the GHMC said. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has made arrangements to publicise the scheme by bulk messages on phones, FM radio, TV scrolls, flexis on bus shelters and pamphlets. About 5.41 lakh property owners, who were in arrears, will benefit.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gymnasiums work out rules to keep clients safe from virus||From increasing the number of slots to capping the number of members in each slot, and asking clients to carry their own basic gear, gyms and fitness centres across the city have drawn up a host of measures to be followed once they reopen under Unlock 3 guidelines. Even as standard operating procedures (SOPs) regarding functioning of gyms are awaited, several gym owners said that members will be asked to train with the same group of people to check transmission of the deadly COVID-19. The Ministry of Home Affairs on July 29 had said that yoga institutes and gymnasiums will be allowed to function from August 5 for which the SOPs would be released by the Health Ministry. Siddharth Singh of Crosstrain Fight Club said, “We have decided to limit the number of people to eight per batch and the same eight will be training together every day. We want to reduce exposure, hence, members will get different slots. They will need to be part of the same group throughout. Earlier, there were two batches of 40 people but that has to be discontinued now.” New sign-ups on hold As a precautionary measure, new memberships will also be put on hold for the meantime, Mr. Singh said. “We are limiting new sign-ups and will start with the existing members only. Earlier, there were provisions of communal boxing gloves and other gears but now people need to get their own gears,” he added. While some fitness centres said that they were waiting for the government to release the guidelines, several said that tentative protocols to be followed within the gyms had been formulated by the management. Akhil Mehra of BoxFit, said, “We will take a call on the capping of members once the government issues guidelines on the capacity which can be functional. But apart from this, record of every person training in the gym will be maintained so that tracking is possible, if the need arises.” Fumigation drive Partial fumigation and installation of blasters are some of the other measures to be taken, said Mr. Mehra. “Trainers will have to sanitise every half an hour. The classes which were earlier for an hour each will be reduced to 40 or 45 minutes, depending on the number of people allowed to train at one go, so that sanitisation can be carried out in between two classes. We will not be opening for group classes initially and will concentrate on personal training only,” said Mr. Mehta. At ‘The Spark Unisex Gym’ in Malviya Nagar, members will be reduced by half for each slot, said Vipin Gupta. “Earlier, there were 25 to 30 people in each slot but now there will be only 10 to 15 members. Apart from sanitisation, members will also be asked to bring their own bottles, among other stuff and they will not be allowed to use the common water dispenser, which was there earlier,” said Mr. Gupta.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC comes to rescue of DU law student||The Supreme Court has stepped in to fulfil the ambition of Ankita Meena to finish her legal studies and have a shot at a career in law. Necessary attendance A three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde made an urgent intervention in her favour and directed the University of Delhi to declare her results for two semesters. The results had been withheld for a year by the university because she did not have the necessary attendance due to her pregnancy. Ms. Meena, represented by senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy and a team of advocates Vivek Paul Oriel, Himanshu Dhuper, Ashish Virmani and Ruchira Goel, urged parity for their client. They said the exams results for others had been declared way back in July 2019 itself. Only Ms. Meena has been left behind. “She will miss a chance to complete her education and lose her precious time in her career,” Ms. Guruswamy argued in a virtual court hearing on July 28. The denial of her results of two semesters just because she did not make the necessary cut in attendance due to her pregnancy at the time is a violation of her fundamental rights of equality, liberty and dignity, her lawyers argued. Equal opportunity They said Ms. Meena should be given an equal opportunity like her classmates to complete her high studies. “We direct that the results of the present applicant Ankita Meena for the IV and VI semesters shall be declared by the respondent(s),” the court finally ordered.  The denial of her results of two semesters just because she did not make the necessary cut in attendance due to her pregnancy at the time is a violation of her fundamental rights Lawyers of Ankita Meena
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNUTA writes to Centre over violation of reservation policy||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) has written to the Ministry of Human Resource Development flagging issues pertaining to violation of reservation policy in faculty recruitment at the university and appealed for intervention. SC/ST candidates. In the letter to MHRD Secretary Amit Khare, the teachers’ body said that there had been a “drastic reduction and exclusion in the number of positions meant to be reserved for SC and ST candidates. Referring to a letter written in March this year, the JNUTA said, “We had pointed out that this shortfall would have been impossible if JNU had adhered to the mandatory rules governing the implementation of the post-based reservation roster system and backlog vacancies. Unfortunately, for reasons best known to it, there has been no intervention from the MHRD on this matter till date and we certainly have not received a response to our request.” ‘Done in haste’ The JNUTA also said that the appointment process was being “done in haste” during the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic through online methods. “The implications for the future of reservation policy of what JNU is practising are dangerous, regressive and far reaching, especially if the MHRD takes no action to check it. These implications are not limited to the potentially irreversible effects of permanent appointments that are in violation of statutory reservation provisions,” the letter read.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for duping people on pretext of job||A 42-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for allegedly duping several people on the pretext of providing them jobs at AIIMS, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said that the accused has been identified as Sumanta Chatterjee, from West Bengal who worked as a guard in Noida. The police said that a complainant, a resident of Dehradun, alleged that he had come in contact with one Neha Sharma who duped him of Rs. 30,000 on the pretext of providing a job at AIIMS. “She asked him to come to Delhi and meet Sumanta Chatterjee for further proceedings. He came to Delhi and met Chatterjee who kept fooling him and making fake promises and stories,” Mr. Thakur said. When the complainant felt somwthing was amiss, he reached AIIMS. “The complainant found out that there were many others there who were also cheated by Chatterjee,” the officer said. Case of cheating Based on the complaint, a case on charges of cheating was registered and details of the accused were collected. With the help of technical surveillance, Chatterjee was arrested. During interrogation, he allegedly told the police that he and his accomplice Neha had duped several in the Capital and other States, using the same modus operandi. “They collected money from the victims by stating several reasons like fee for application form, fees for online registration, verification fee, medical fee, etc,” Mr. Thakur said, adding that it was also revealed that the accused forged signatures of officials and used fake stamp to make movement passes on AIIMS letterhead and also arranged for victims’ stay in Delhi if they come from another place. The police said that Neha is absconding.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Seven held for robbing jewellery shop||The Delhi police on Saturday said that seven people were arrested for allegedly robbing a jewellery shop in Dwarka. The accused had allegedly planned a heist on Id-ul-Zuha in Chandni Chowk, they said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse said that the accused have been identified as Govind alias Dabbu, Dileep, Aakash, Gandharv alias Sunny, Amit Shukla, Raju alias Mustafa and Vijay Kamal. The police said that they received information on Thursday that armed criminals have robbed a jewellery shop in Uttam Nagar on gunpoint. The shop owner said that the robbers took 750 gm of gold, 15 kg silver, Rs. 1.33 lakh cash and mobile phones. Phone leads to clues During investigation, the police found a phone which was accidentally dropped by one of the accused. This gave the team clues for other accused persons who were then apprehended and interrogated. All seven were arrested on Friday, the police said. During interrogation, it was revealed that they are all friends and were overconfident that the police would not be able to trace them. “On sustained interrogation, it was disclosed that they had planned to carry out a big robbery in Chandni Chowk on Id,” Mr. Alphonse said.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Boutique owner held for injuring 4||A 29-year-old boutique owner was arrested for allegedly injuring four persons, including an ice cream vendor in Amar Colony on Friday night, the police said. DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena said that the accused has been identified as Roshni Arora, a resident of Faridabad. The injured has been identified as Mukesh Kumar, Sapna Kumari, Guddu and Harshit Kaur. The police said that Mukesh told them that he was buying ice cream when the luxury car hit them. The accused allegedly told police that she was having ice cream while sitting in the car with her dog when it jumped and the gear changed leading to the accident.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Umar Khalid questioned in connection with riots||Former Jawaharlal Nehru University student Umar Khalid was questioned by Delhi Police Special Cell on Friday in connection with communal riots that broke out in February. Sources said his phone has been seized for examination. Mr. Khalid’s name appeared in the chargesheet submitted by the police against suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain. The chargesheet states that on January 8, Mr. Hussain met Mr. Khalid and United Against Hate co-founder Khalid Saifi at Shaheen Bagh during an anti-CAA protest, where “Umar Khalid told him to be prepared for something big/riots at the time of the visit of U.S. President”. The police mentioned that Mr. Saifi also gave Mr. Hussain money to prepare. Responding to the chargesheet, Mr. Khalid had said, “It is an upside down world that we are living in, in which these organisations and individuals that have worked for communal harmony are being implicated”.
02 August 2020||New Delhi,||City gets fresh spell of rain||A fresh spell of rain in the national capital on Saturday kept the mercury within comfortable levels. The Safdarjung Observatory recorded a maximum of 36.3 degrees Celsius and 6.7 mm rainfall. The Ayanagar and Palam weather stations recorded 20.2 mm and 5.6 mm precipitation, respectively. The mercury remained between 34 and 36 degrees Celsius at most places.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Carefree days||
02 August 2020||Mumbai,||Cong. disputes election of CEO by Fadnavis govt.||The Maharashtra Congress has questioned the appointment of Baldev Singh as the State Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), alleging that a probe on the directions of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) was going on for the alleged irregularities in Santacruz Electronics Export Processing Zone (SEEPZ) when he was heading it. Mr. Singh, however, rubbished the allegations saying that the case referred to is from the period before he took charge at SEEPZ. Addressing a press conference on Friday, State Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant alleged that Mr. Singh was facing an inquiry initiated by the CVC and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce was probing allegations of irregularity in SEEPZ Special Economic Zone.. “Despite the ongoing probe, the Devendra Fadnavis government appointed Mr. Singh as the CEO of Maharashtra in July 2019, just ahead of the Assembly polls. This has raised serious questions about the role of the Election Commission,” Mr. Sawant said. The Congressman asked why the credentials of the CEO were not cross-checked while appointing him and sought to know if there was any “pressure from the Bharatiya Janata Party”. However, the CEO Maharashtra official Twitter handle said, “It is very sad, mischievous and misleading, the way facts are tried to be presented. These are absolutely false and untrue and incorrect allegations.”
02 August 2020||Mumbai,||Scholars urge govt. to release Hany Babu||National and international anti-caste scholars and activists have urged the Indian government to release Delhi University’s Prof. Hany Babu in the interest of preserving democratic values and human rights. In a statement released on Saturday, they have said, “This is the latest example of the current Indian Government’s attempt to annihilate dissent and freedom of life for its vocal public.” It further said, “The arrest of Prof. Babu is the continuation of an almost year-long harassment which began with a raid of his house on 10 September 2019. The Pune Police, who claimed the raid was in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon case, confiscated his laptop and mobile phones as well as barred him from using his social media handles. Prof. Babu has clearly stated that he has no connection in any way whatsoever with the incidents at Bhima-Koregaon.” The statement, signed by over a thousand scholars, said, “He is the 12thperson to be arrested in relation to the case. The framing of Prof. Babu, a tireless anti-caste intellectual and activist, is an attempt to penalise Dalit bahujans for raising their voice against casteist practices.” On July 24, Mr. Babu was summoned to the National Investigation Agency office in Mumbai as a witness and arrested after five days of questioning.
02 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Rice worth Rs. 33 lakh seized from Panvel||The Panvel City police have seized 110 tonnes of rice worth Rs. 33 lakh, meant for distribution to the needy , from a godown in Palaspa, Panvel. Based on a tip-off, police and revenue officials raided Take Care Logistic in Palaspe on July 31, where they found 2,220 sacks of rice with the labels — Asian Rice, Food Corporation of India, Government of Punjab, and Government of Haryana. The accused, who are absconding, have been identified as Bhimashankar Rangnath Khade, Iqbal Kazi and Lakshman Chandra Patel. “They got the stock from Solapur and had planned to export it,” senior police inspector Ajay Landge said. Mr. Khade, who hails from Barshi in Solapur, would get the stock while Mr. Kazi, a resident of Panvel who is the director of the warehouse, used to store the stock. Mr. Patel was responsible for exporting the rice. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone II, Ashok Dudhe, said, invoices found indicate it was to be exported on Monday and Tuesday. Police said the rice was purchased at Rs. 3 per kg and sold at Rs. 30. The accused have been booked under the Essential Commodities Act.
02 August 2020||Press Trust of India Pune,||400 suspected virus deaths unaccounted for: Mayor||Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol has alleged that at least 400 suspected COVID-19 deaths have gone unaccounted for in the city in the month of July. Mr. Mohol said he raised the issue during his meeting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday, when the latter was in the city to take stock of the COVID-19 situation. Speaking on Friday, the Mayor said every month there are 400-500 deaths of suspected COVID-19 patients that are going unaccounted for in Sassoon General Hospital and private hospitals in the city. He said that while raising the issue with the CM, he sought steps to stop such deaths. “Early tracing of patients should be done so that they can be given timely treatment,” he said. Following the allegations, Collector Naval Kishore Ram said an inquiry will be conducted into the issue and a report has been sought from Sassoon hospital. “The staff of the district administration keeps visiting Sassoon hospital and goes through the records. It is unlikely that there is any misreporting or under-reporting in Pune,” he said.
02 August 2020||Sonam Saigal Mumbai,||Shoma Sen spends birthday in jail for third year||Prof. Shoma Sen, former head of department, English, at the Nagpur University, and one of the accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon cases, turned 63 on Saturday. She has been lodged in Byculla jail in Mumbai since February this year, when the case was transferred to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Ms. Sen was in Yerwada jail in Pune since her arrest on June 6, 2018, and this was her third birthday in jail. Ms. Sen has been a part of Stree Chetna at Nagpur that deals with issues such as violence against women and dowry deaths. She has also been associated with the Committee for the Protection of Democratic Rights. Her daughter Koel Sen, who is with her father at Nagpur, told The Hindu , “Due to COVID-19, everyone is with their families and it’s really sad that we are not together. For her, being in confinement is like a double lockdown.” Ms. Sen’s first bail application was rejected on November 2, 2018, on grounds that there was material linking her involvement in alleged unlawful activities inimical to the country’s security. On March 31 this year, after the nationwide lockdown was imposed, Ms. Sen’s plea for interim medical bail, as a precaution against COVID-19, was rejected by the special NIA judge D.E. Kothalikar. Her application said she suffered from multiple ailments including osteoarthritis, glaucoma and high blood pressure which could make her vulnerable to the novel coronavirus. On July 26, the same court again rejected her interim medical bail on grounds of age and ailments. The court said, “that she is suffering from “some disease” cannot be a ground for her release.” Soon after her arrest in 2018, the Joint Commissioner of Police (Pune), Ravindra Kadam, had in response to a question from The Hindu said, “I won’t elaborate about the material I have against Dr. Sen. I won’t say anything about the e-mails that I have, but we have definite evidence against her and her involvement in Maoist activities and that she supports Elgaar Parishad. I also have material to prove that she supports a banned organisation.”
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Faith and dispute: the tale of a sacred town||The ground-breaking ceremony of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya on August 5, after a decades-long legal dispute that concluded last year, would not only set off its construction but also mark a new chapter in the history of the town. Located 130 km east of Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh’s capital, Ayodhya, a town of great religious significance, gained national prominence in the past few decades, coinciding with the Ramjanmabhoomi movement and its intertwined fortunes with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Religious tourism economy in the town founded on the beliefs associated with the Ramayana has lagged behind that in other spiritually important cities in the State like Mathura, Prayagraj and Varanasi. The proposed Ram temple promises to alter all that as locals hope it would augur a new wave of development and livelihood opportunities, to cement the closure of an issue that has defined Ayodhya. “Ayodhya’s importance, more than just a site of the dispute over the birth place of Lord Ram, was as a constant cipher in shaping post-independence politics,” said Prof. Pralay Kanungo, academic and author of RSS’s Tryst with Politics: From Hedgewar to Sudarshan . “There was an interesting interlude in 1980-81, when there was a talk of late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi moving towards Hindutva politics at least in the Hindi heartland,” he said. Plans to develop Ayodhya as a pilgrimage city, termed the Ram Ki Purhi project, was given the go-ahead by her in the early 1980s. Mandal and Mandir This trajectory was cut short due to Mrs. Gandhi’s untimely and violent death in 1984. Ayodhya itself was destined to be the epicentre of the two great ideas of the 1990s politics in India — Mandal and Mandir. And it was another political party altogether that would take the sleepy temple town and make it the fulcrum of Indian politics — the BJP. “In the early 1980s, the newly formed BJP and its leadership came to the conclusion that to connect with people, it needed an emotional issue. Even when the erstwhile Jan Sangh participated in the anti-cow slaughter movement of 1967, the movement itself was led by the Congress, and there were no political dividends for the Jan Sangh,” said R. Balashankar, the former editor of Organiser, the RSS mouthpiece , and former national convenor of the BJP’s intellectual cell. “The Ram Janmabhoomi movement was one such issue that had the potential and did in fact transform the BJP from a cadre-based party into one with mass support,” he said. The fate of Ayodhya was sealed in a little known town of Palampur in Himachal Pradesh, where, at a national executive meet in 1989, the BJP decided to politically back a demand by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) to recognise the disputed site at Babri Masjid as Ram Janmabhoomi and support litigation by Hindu outfits to build a Ram Temple there. “The movement was then piloted by (L.K.) Advaniji through his rath yatra, and the expansion of the BJP’s connect through the figure of Lord Rama with Indians across the country, of all sampradayas (traditions) and castes,” said Mr. Balashankar. “The movement also helped the BJP negotiate the Mandal agitation and the far-reaching changes it made to Indian polity. Lord Rama is universally worshipped among a majority in the country, and helped transcend caste barriers in mobilising support,” he added. In fact, many leaders of the movement were from the Other Backward Communities (OBC) like Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti, and laid the groundwork for the election of many BJP Chief Ministers with an OBC background. Prof. Kanungo added that backing the VHP and the sants and heads of Hindu Mutts that are members of the VHP was also a turning point for the BJP. “The Congress had traditionally been dealing with the Mutts and religious institutions in a piece meal fashion, and many of them had supported the Congress through the first four decades of independence. The BJP’s support was important in pushing these institutions with their deep penetration of civil society across the hinterland in mass basing of the BJP.” A metaphor for Hindutva Ayodhya became the physical site and a metaphor for Hindutva politics, with “kar sevaks” converging from across the country for what turned out to be the death knell of the Babri Masjid. The proposed Ram temple would be built at the site where the Babri Masjid stood till December 6, 1992. While the litigation process could be traced back to the 19th century, its major flashpoints came after independence, such as the surreptitious planting of idols inside the mosque in 1949, the court-ordered opening of the locks in 1986 for Hindu worshippers and the police firing on kar sevaks in 1990. The twin towns of Ayodhya and Faizabad, covered in 15 minutes by road, offer glimpses of a shared culture, with the latter carrying remnants of the Nawabi rule through its architecture and as the erstwhile capital of Awadh. The Ayodhya town itself is dotted with several significant temples, including the Hanumangarhi, dedicated to Lord Hanuman. The town also houses 20-odd Muslim shrines, including one dedicated to Nuh (Noah), regarded as an apostle by many faiths. A local activist Vineet Maurya, who petitioned the Supreme Court claiming that excavations at the site were linked to Buddhist faith, has been at the forefront of promoting the town’s Buddhist heritage. Ayodhya regularly rewarded the BJP. Since 1991, when the Ram Janmabhoomi movement was at its peak, barring an upset in 2012, when the Samajwadi Party won, Ayodhya has voted for a BJP MLA. In eight Lok Sabha polls during the same period, the BJP won five times. After coming to power in U.P. in 2017, the BJP government has attempted to revamp the infrastructure in Ayodhya, building roads, setting up lights and repairing drainage. In 2017, Ayodhya picked its first Mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay after the Yogi Adityanath government elevated it to the status of a municipal corporation. The names of Faizabad district and divisions were changed to Ayodhya, thus increasing its territorial and political boundaries. The Deepotsav Mela, to be held in Ayodhya on Diwali, was also granted the status of a state fair. Prof. Kanungo sees the town rivalling Varanasi, Haridwar and Rishikesh, looking at its politico-cultural space in India. “It won’t surprise me if the developments around this pilgrimage site become a space for debating the singular questions on Hinduism,” he says. For now, Ayodhya holds its breath.  In Focus  The twin towns of Ayodhya and Faizabad, covered in 15 minutes by road, offer glimpses of a shared culture  The Ayodhya town itself is dotted with several significant temples, including the Hanumangarhi, while it also houses 20-odd Muslim shrines  While the litigation could be traced back to the 19th century, its major flashpoints came after Independence, such as the planting of idols inside the mosque in 1949, the court-ordered opening of the locks in 1986 and the police firing on kar sevaks in 1990    The BJP decided to politically back the Ramjanmabhoomi movement in 1989 that demanded construction of a Ram temple at the site where Babri Masjid stood
02 August 2020||Washington,||Trump says he will bar TikTok from U.S.||President Donald Trump said on Friday he will bar fast-growing social media app TikTok from the U.S. as American authorities have raised concerns the service could be a tool for Chinese intelligence. U.S. officials and lawmakers in recent weeks have voiced fears of the wildly popular video platform being used by Beijing for nefarious purposes, but the company has denied any links to the Chinese government. Media reports circulated earlier Friday saying that Mr. Trump would require the U.S. operations of the app be divested from its Chinese parent firm ByteDance, but the President announced a ban. Emergency power Speaking to reporters on Air Force One, Mr. Trump said: “As far as TikTok is concerned, we’re banning them from the United States.” He added he would take action as soon as Saturday using emergency economic power or an executive order. However, it was unclear how such a move may be enforced. TikTok, especially popular with young audiences who create and watch its short-form videos, has an estimated billion users worldwide. TikTok declined to comment on the reports of the forced sales, saying only: “We are confident in the long-term success of TikTok. Hundreds of millions of people come to TikTok for entertainment and connection, including our community of creators and artists who are building livelihoods from the platform.” Mr. Trump’s move comes following a review by the Committee on Foreign Investment (CFIUS) in the U.S., which investigates deals affecting U.S. national security. The firm this week pledged a high level of transparency, including allowing reviews of its algorithms, to assure users and regulators. “We are not political, we do not accept political advertising and have no agenda — our only objective is to remain a vibrant, dynamic platform for everyone to enjoy,” TikTok CEO Kevin Mayer said in post this week. “TikTok has become the latest target, but we are not the enemy.” Earlier this month, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told Fox News that the administration was “looking at” banning the app in the U.S. The comments prompted popular TikTokers to consider migrating to platforms such as YouTube, The New York Times reported. Late Friday, TikTok users reacted furiously to the news, telling fans to follow them on different platforms and criticising the president. ‘Close to zero’ The popularity of the platform surged after ByteDance acquired U.S.-based app Musical.ly in 2017 and merged it with its own video service. Earlier reports had suggested that Microsoft was in talks to acquire TikTok, which could be valued in the tens of billions of dollars, but Mr. Trump’s move would scupper such a purchase. James Lewis, head of the technology policy programme at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said he believes the security risk of using TikTok is “close to zero” but that ByteDance could face pressure from China to engage in censorship. “It looks like ByteDance may be getting squeezed by Beijing, so making them divest makes sense,” Mr. Lewis said.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The fall of a titan||Najib Abdul Razak, Malaysia’s former Premier who was sentenced on July 28 to 12 years in jail and a $49-million fine for money laundering, criminal breach of trust and abuse of power, has pleaded his innocence and vowed to appeal the ruling. The conviction of the 67-year-old in Kuala Lumpur’s most high-profile criminal investigation pertains to the misappropriation of billions of dollars at 1Malaysia Development Bhd (1MDB). Mr. Najib founded the state investment fund when he was Prime Minister in 2009, serving on its board as chairman, with the aim of raising the country’s economic profile to a high-income bracket. The former head of the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) party, who became the country’s sixth Prime Minister in 2009, Mr. Najib has been one of the most influential voices in Malaysian politics for decades. He is the son of the country’s second Prime Minister Abdul Razak Hussein and the nephew of the third Premier Hussein Onn. Born on July 23, 1953, Mr. Najib became active in politics in his early 20s. In 1976, he was elected to Parliament, replacing his deceased father in the Pekan seat. In 1982, he became the Menteri Besar (First Minister) of Pahang state. Since then, Mr. Najib had held several key ministerial roles until he became the PM in 2009. The 1MDB scandal A U.K. educated economist, the politician’s graph took a nosedive in the midst of his second term in office in 2015. Mr. Najib was confronted with revelations that some $681 millions had been paid into his personal bank accounts just before the 2013 general election via 1MDB subsidiaries. About the same time, the U.S. Department of Justice alleged that $4.5 billion had gone missing from 1MDB. Mr. Najib’s troubles only intensified with the decisive blow dealt by his one-time mentor Mahathir Mohamad in the April 2018 general election. The UMNO-led coalition lost power for the first time in Malaysia’s history. Mr. Mahathir, who returned to active politics from retirement to occupy the high office (though replaced in March this year), swiftly unleashed a probe into Mr. Najib’s role in the multi-billion dollar scandal. In May 2018, the embattled leader and his wife were stopped from leaving the country in a private jet. In the following month, the police confiscated jewellery and luxury goods worth about $275 million and a sum of about $30 million in various currencies from his premises. The recent conviction — an unprecedented low for an ex-Premier of Malaysia — relates to the illicit payments into Mr. Najib’s personal accounts via SRC International, formerly a 1MDB subsidiary. While admitting the transaction, he has insisted that it was not linked to 1MDB and that the bulk of the amount has been returned to the source. Mr. Najib is also on record that it was a donation from a friendly Muslim government anxious to bolster a moderate Islamic nation and that the funds were meant for electoral purposes. During the trial hearing last December, Mr. Najib reportedly told the court he was misled by a Malaysian financier to believe that the sums were gifts from the Saudi royal family. Changing political winds While the appeal process could drag on, current political winds could turn less hostile for Mr. Najib in the months ahead. His UMNO party is the dominant force in the current coalition led by Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yaseen, following the collapse of Mr. Mahathir’s Alliance of Hope. In May, Mr. Najib’s stepson Riza Aziz reached a settlement with the new government to hand over part of the $248 million 1MDB funds he was accused of having laundered to his film production firm. The decision was sharply attacked and raised fears for the prosecution’s independence in the challenge to last week’s ruling and the other three trials involving Mr. Najib’s family and others. There is also speculation of a snap general election in early 2021 and the likelihood of Mr. Muhyiddin’s Malaysian United Indigenous Party merging with the UMNO. Malaysians have made a historic beginning with the sustained crackdown of recent years against corruption that culminated in Mr. Najib’s cinviction. They might also recognise that enforcing democratic accountability is a continuous process.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The ‘game-changer’ fighters||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has much to cheer with the arrival of five Rafale omni-role fighter jets in terms of the technology and capability accretion that it brings. In the words of the Air Chief Marshal (ACM) R.K.S. Bhadauria and former ACM B.S. Dhanoa, Rafale is a “game changer”. Encapsulating what the Rafales bring in, ACM Bhadauria said in February that at the time of the Kargil conflict in 1999, India had an edge over Pakistan in terms of Beyond Visual Range (BVR) missile capability. “We allowed that to slip and thereafter it took a decade-and-a-half of struggle in the acquisition process to be able to get better capability,” he said. The Rafale, armed with the Meteor BVR air-to-air missile, will restore that edge in the neighbourhood as there is no equivalent to it currently. According to its manufacturer Dassault Aviation, Rafale is an omni-role fighter capable of the entire spectrum of roles — air superiority and air defence, close air support, in-depth strikes, reconnaissance, anti-ship strikes and nuclear deterrence. With its advanced AESA (Active Electronically Scanned Array) radar, electronic warfare suite and network-centric capabilities in addition to its armaments, Rafale is now the most advanced fighter in the IAF arsenal, overtaking the SU-30MKI, which is due for major upgrades. Rafale is also the first imported fighter to join service in over two decades since the SU-30s in the late 1990s. Rafale has 14 hard points for weapons and can carry a total external load of over 9 tonnes. In addition to the Meteor, it is armed with SCALP long-range stand-off attack air-to-ground missiles and MICA multi-mission air-to-air missiles. The latest addition, HAMMER (Highly Agile Modular Munition Extended Range) medium range air-to-ground missiles, is being procured through the emergency route. Another significant factor with the Rafales is that as per contract, at least 75% of the Rafale fleet has to be operationally available, which would make it the most available fighter in the IAF fleet. The first Rafale squadron, No. 17 Golden Arrows, will be based at Ambala and the second squadron will be at Hasimara. All 36 aircraft will be delivered on schedule by end 2021, the Indian Embassy in France said last week. The €7.87 billion (Rs. 59,262 crore) inter-governmental agreement, signed in September 2016 between India and France for 36 Rafale jets in fly away condition, also includes 13 India-Specific Enhancements (ISE), the non-recurring design and development cost of which is Rs. 9,855 crore. Some of them pertain to radar enhancements, helmet mounted display, ability to start and operate from high altitude airfields, advanced infrared search and track sensor and a very potent electronic jammer pod. The deal also epitomises the cumbersome defence procurement process in which government-to-government deals have of late become the way out. Rafale was originally selected under the Medium Multi-Role Combat Aircraft tender issued in 2007, which itself was conceived as a Mig-21 replacement project in early 2000s. Rafale was selected in 2012 but negotiations got stuck due to differences and the tender was eventually withdrawn after the emergency purchase announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in April 2015, citing “critical operational necessity” of the IAF. Falling numbers However, the 36 Rafales will do little to arrest the falling numbers of fighter squadrons of the IAF, which has a sanctioned strength of 42 squadrons but is down to 31 at present. To offset that, the IAF is banking on the indigenous Tejas Light Combat Aircraft (LCA). A contract for 83 LCA-Mk1A is in final stages and they are in addition to the 40 jets already contracted for. A more advanced LCA-Mk2 is also in the works. The government has recently approved the procurement of 21 MIG-29 jets from Russia, which will add two additional squadrons. In addition, 12 SU-30MKI aircraft have also been approved, which will replenish the numbers of Sukhois lost in crashes. The IAF will also phase out five squadrons of Mig-21s in the the next few years. While the IAF works to keep the numbers from falling further, the Rafale, which joins the IAF at a time of unprecedented tensions on the border with China, will give a qualitative edge to the force in the region.
02 August 2020||New Delhi/Chennai,||China and Nepal have treated each other as equals: Xi||China and Nepal have always treated each other as “equals”, said Chinese President Xi Jinping as he and Premier Li Keqiang exchanged greetings with their Nepali counterparts, President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister K.P. Oli, on the anniversary of establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries on Saturday. “Since the establishment of diplomatic relations 65 years ago, the [China and Nepal] have always respected and treated each other as equals, enhanced political mutual trust, and deepened mutually beneficial cooperation,” said a translated version of Mr. Xi’s statement issued by the Chinese MFA. ‘A shared future’ The MFA also quoted from a letter that Nepal’s President Bhandari had sent Mr. Xi in which she welcomed China’s moves to “build a community with a shared future for mankind” and committed to cooperating in their Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) projects that include several tunnels, a railway line from Tibet and power projects in Nepal. The comments followed a statement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi this week, criticising countries for offering “development partnerships that became dependence partnerships”, in what was widely regarded as a dig at China for its BRI projects that have resulted in heavy debts for countries in the region. Foreign Ministers’ meet The statements also followed the meeting of Foreign Ministers this week of a potentially new formation that brought Nepal into a quadrilateral arrangement with China, Afghanistan and Pakistan. The meeting on Monday was ostensibly convened by Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi to discuss cooperation on tackling the COVID-19 pandemic, but also discussed China’s plans for a “trans-Himalayan multi-dimensional connectivity network”, something New Delhi has reportedly looked askance at. When asked, Nepal’s Ambassador to India Nilamber Acharya denied the meeting should be a matter of concern for India-Nepal ties. “We are all concerned about the pandemic, as immediate neighbours, and we should not interpret anything beyond that [in the quadrilateral meeting]. India is also cooperating with China despite the difficulties between them,” Mr. Acharya told The Hindu . However, former diplomat Vivek Katju said the attempt to rope in three members of the SAARC grouping, without including India, was a “provocative” move by China. The MEA did not respond to a question on whether India had been invited to join the meeting, or if it had protested the quadrilateral discussions with the governments in Kathmandu or Kabul. “That the Chinese are making a concrete strategic foray in South Asia which will necessarily impact on our interests. This is a provocative move, and should be seen as a message,” Mr. Katju said. The quadrilateral meeting came on the heels of deepening concerns over the India-Nepal relationship, including Nepal’s decision to include disputed areas like Kalapani into a new map, followed by Mr. Oli’s accusation that India was trying to destablise his government, coupled with reports that the Chinese Ambassador to Nepal was brokering a political settlement between Mr. Oli and rival factions in the ruling party. In 2019, after his trip to India, Mr. Xi had travelled to Nepal, the first such visit by a Chinese President. The two sides had signed 18 agreements and two MoUs on infrastructure projects to build on an eight-point connectivity and transit trade agreement signed in 2016.
02 August 2020||New York,||James Murdoch quits group’s board over editorial clashes||Former 21st Century Fox chief executive James Murdoch, the son of media tycoon Rupert Murdoch, has resigned from News Corp’s board citing clashes over editorial content. The 47-year-old once seen as his father’s successor has been openly critical of some media coverage from publishing empire News Corp’s outlets in recent months. According to a letter written by James Murdoch and released on Friday by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), his resignation was due to “disagreements over certain editorial content published by the company’s news outlets and certain other strategic decisions”. News Corp owns the Wall Street Journal , the New York Post , The Times and the Sun newspapers among others, but not Rupert Murdoch’s Fox News network. Its media operations have been hit by an advertising slump aggravated by the COVID-19 pandemic in Australia. In May, News Corp announced that it would stop printing more than 100 Australian regional and local newspapers, shifting to digital-only versions instead. The group reported net profit of $23 million for the quarter from January to March, boosted by its HarperCollins book division. Family media empire James Murdoch’s decision hastens his disengagement from the family media empire, which grew from a newspaper group in Australia. In January, he denounced the climate change scepticism of some Murdoch media, citing coverage of the fires which devastated large parts of Australia. In a statement, Mr. James and his wife spoke of their “frustration” with some of the News Corp and Fox coverage, adding that they were “particularly disappointed with the ongoing denial among the news outlets in Australia given obvious evidence to the contrary.”
02 August 2020||Tehran,||Chief of U.S.-based ‘terror group’ arrested, says Iran||Iran said on Saturday that it has arrested the head of a U.S.-based “terrorist group” accused of being behind a deadly 2008 bombing in the southern city of Shiraz and of other, abortive attacks. The group’s “Jamshid Sharmahd, who was leading armed and sabotage operations inside Iran, is now in the powerful hands” of Iran’s security forces, state television said in a report citing a statement from the Intelligence Ministry. A royalist group The statement did not elaborate on where or when the leader of the opposition royalist group known as the Kingdom Assembly of Iran, or Tondar (Farsi for Thunder), was arrested. According to the statement, he had orchestrated the April 12, 2008 bombing in a packed mosque in Shiraz that killed 14 people and wounded 215. Iran hanged three men convicted of the bombing in 2009, saying they had ties to the monarchist group. It said they had been taking orders from an Iranian U.S.-backed “CIA agent” to try to assassinate a high-ranking official in Iran.  The statement issued on Saturday said that Tondar had plotted several other “big operations” which failed.
02 August 2020||Washington,||Fauci raises concern over Russian, Chinese vaccines||America’s top infectious diseases official has raised concerns over COVID-19 vaccines being developed by China and Russia as the world scrambles for answers to a pandemic the WHO warned will be felt for decades. Six months after the World Health Organization declared a global emergency, COVID-19 has killed more than 6,80,000 people and infected more than 17.5 million, according to an AFP tally. As countries across Western Europe announced new lockdowns and reported historic economic slumps, the UN health body said the pandemic was a “once-in-a-century” crisis. September target date Several Chinese companies are at the forefront of the race to develop a vaccine to the disease and Russia has set a target date of September to roll out its own medicine. But U.S. infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci said it was unlikely his country would use any vaccine developed in either country, where regulatory systems are far more opaque than they are in the West. “I do hope that the Chinese and the Russians are actually testing the vaccine before they are administering the vaccine to anyone,” he told a U.S. Congressional hearing on Friday. “Claims of having a vaccine ready to distribute before you do testing, I think, is problematic, at best.” As part of its own “Operation Warp Speed,” the U.S. government will pay pharma giants Sanofi and GSK up to $2.1 billion for the development of a COVID-19 vaccine, the companies said. In East Asia, territories which saw success in tackling the early wave of COVID-19 are now confronting worrying new spikes. Japan’s Okinawa declared a state of emergency Saturday after a record jump in cases on the island — many linked to U.S. military forces stationed there. Hong Kong opened a new makeshift hospital to house COVID-19 patients after cases rose to record highs. In a sign of the trade-offs being forced on European governments, Britain imposed new lockdowns Friday on millions of households in northern England.
02 August 2020||Dubai,||Arab world’s first nuclear plant achieves criticality||The oil-rich United Arab Emirates on Saturday announced the start-up of its Barakah nuclear power plant, scoring another first for the Arab world. The announcement, coinciding with the Muslim holiday of Id al-Adha, comes hot on the heels of the UAE’s launch of the Arab world’s first probe to Mars. “UAE first nuclear reactor at the Barakah Nuclear Energy Plant has achieved first criticality and successfully started up,” tweeted Hamad Alkaabi, the country’s representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency. “This is a historic milestone for the nation with a vision set to deliver a new form of clean energy for the nation,” he tweeted in English, along with a photograph of technicians raising their arms in celebration. The UAE Premier and ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al-Maktoum, tweeted that work at Barakah had “succeeded in loading nuclear fuel packages, carrying out comprehensive tests and successfully completing the operation”. ‘Historic achievement’ “Congratulations on realising this historic achievement in the energy sector & marking this milestone in the roadmap for sustainable development,” Sheikh Mohammed said. The UAE started loading fuel rods into the reactor at Barakah in February, after regulators gave the green light for the first of the plant’s four reactors, opening the way for commercial operations. Barakah, which means “blessing” in Arabic, is a regional first. Barakah was built by a consortium led by the Korea Electric Power Corporation at a cost of some $24.4 billion.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||July GST revenue slides 14%||Gross Goods and Services Tax revenue slid 14% last month to Rs. 87,422 crore, from the Rs. 1,02,083 crore collected in July 2019, data released by the Finance Ministry on Saturday show. Receipts were also almost Rs. 3,500 crore less than June’s collections. The data was released on a day when a senior Finance Ministry official said an opinion had been received from the Attorney General on the legality of market borrowings to bridge any shortfall in the GST compensation fund. “Preliminary discussions were held during the GST Council meeting in June, and it was decided to seek legal opinion on market borrowings,” the official told journalists, admitting that the Council which was originally slated to discuss this issue in July was yet to set a date for its next meeting. “The opinion has come, and we will soon hold an exclusive GST Council meeting on the compensation issue,” the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, added. ‘No obligation’  Press Trust of India reported, citing sources, that the Attorney General had opined that there was no obligation on the Union government to make good the shortfall in GST compensation payable to the States. Cess collections, needed to pay compensation to States’ for the first five years of the GST regime, fell short by 42% in 2019-20, with the Centre forced to use cess collected in previous years as well as a previous transfer from the Consolidated Fund of India. In July, cess collections amounted to Rs. 7,265 crore, 15% less than the Rs. 8,551 crore collected in the same period in 2019. Central GST (CGST) revenue for July was Rs. 16,147 crore, State GST (SGST) was Rs. 21,418 crore, and integrated GST (IGST) ——which is to be split between States and Centre — was Rs. 42,592 crore. COVID-19 relaxation “The revenues for the last month [June] were higher than the current month [July]. However, it is important to note that during the previous month, a large number of taxpayers also paid taxes pertaining to February, March and April 2020 on account of the relief provided due to COVID-19,” the Finance Ministry said in a statement. “It may also be noted that taxpayers with turnover less than Rs. 5 crore continue to enjoy relaxation in filing of returns till September 2020,” it added. Data also showed that a decline in imports had hit tax collections in July. GST revenue from import of goods only reached 84% of the amount collected in the same month last year, while revenue from domestic transactions, including import of services, reached 96% of last July’s collections.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Samsung, Foxconn, 20 others apply under incentive scheme||The government on Saturday said that a total of 22 companies, including Samsung, Apple’s three contract manufacturers Foxconn, Pegatron and Wistron, Lava and Micromax, have filed applications under the Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme that aims to boost local manufacturing of mobile phones and components. This is expected to bring in additional investment of about Rs. 11,000 crore in electronics manufacturing, while leading to total production worth Rs. 11.5 lakh crore over the next five years, Minister for Electronics and IT, Ravi Shankar Prasad, said on Saturday. The PLI scheme, which has a budgetary outlay of Rs. 40,995 crore for five years and notified on April 1, 2020, offers an incentive of 4% to 6% on incremental sales of goods manufactured in India. Of the global mobile phone manufacturing firms that have applied, three — Foxconn, Wistron and Pegatron — are contract manufacturers for Apple iPhones. “Apple (37%) and Samsung (22%) together account for nearly 60% of global sales revenue of mobile phones and this scheme is expected to increase their manufacturing base manifold in the country,” an official release said. Domestic firms pitch in Domestic firms that have applied under the scheme include Lava, Dixon Technologies, Bhagwati (Micromax), Padget Electronics, Sojo Manufacturing Services and Optiemus Electronics. “Ten companies have filed applications under the Specified Electronic Components Segment which include AT&S, Ascent Circuits, Visicon, Walsin, Sahasra, Vitesco and Neolync,” it added. While international mobile phonemakers have proposed production of goods worth over Rs. 9 lakh crore, domestic companies have proposed a production of about Rs. 2 lakh crore. The firms under Specified Electronic Components segment have proposed a production of over Rs. 45,000 crore. The Minister added that under the scheme, domestic value addition was expected to grow from the current 15-20% to 35-40% in the case of mobile phones and 45-50% for electronic components. Replying to a query on lack of participation from Chinese firms, Mr. Prasad said, “This scheme is not against any country. It is only India positive. “We have proper rules and regulations with regard to our security, the bordering countries… all compliance [is] very important.”
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Companies need incentive to share data on cyberattacks’||Amid a significant rise in cyberattacks during the COVID-19 pandemic, one roadblock in international collaboration on the issue is lack of incentives for corporates to share information about such incidents, and instead risk reputational damage, Vishal Salvi, chief information security officer and head of the Cyber Security Practice at Infosys, said. He was speaking at a webinar on ‘Regional collaboration to achieve a safe and trusted Cyberspace’ organised by the Bengaluru Chapter Committee of the Indo-Australian Chamber of Commerce. To a query on challenges in international collaboration between large firms and governments, Mr. Salvi said the first challenge is there is no incentive for an organisation to truly collaborate and share details of attacks and incidents in real time because there is a fear and risk of reputational damage. “We need to work towards finding out how to incentivise organisations to be open in terms of sharing and collaborating,” he said. Following the outbreak of COVID-19, attackers had become more motivated and the number of phishing and ransomware attacks had seen an “extraordinary rise,” he said. Mr. Salvi pitched for an international cooperation ecosystem to apprehend individuals behind different cybercrimes. “... we’ve not really worked as industries, as governments, as law enforcement [agencies] to come together to create a single international cooperation ecosystem so that we are able to apprehend and catch individuals behind these different cybercrimes,” he said. Tobias Feakin, Ambassador for Cyber Affairs, Government of Australia, also part of the discussion, said his government had seen a rise in the number of threat actors it was dealing with. He added that it was seeing a lowering of the bar for entry into cybercrime. While previously one would need to be technically proficient, he said, “now, a motivated individual can, for a relatively low sum of money, download tools and apply themselves in the criminal domain.”
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Venkataramani leaves ‘a void’||N. Venkataramani, Chairman and Managing Director of India Pistons Ltd., is no more. A self-effacing personality, he had been with the company since 1967. A Fellow of The Institute of Mechanical Engineers, who had completed his Masters from Imperial College London, he held board positions in many Amalgamations group companies. His simplicity and humility set him apart. “He belonged to a gentleman generation,” said T.T. Srinivasaraghavan, MD, Sundaram Finance. Preferring a low profile, Mr. Venkatarmani was ever dignified. He was contemporary in knowledge and up-to-date in details on business and trends. A widely respected voice in board meetings, his passion for doing things and perspective on issues — both technical and otherwise — were rarities in the modern business world. His peers were often stumped by his unhesitating readiness to share knowledge. A sports lover, he avidly followed cricket and tennis. His passion for cricket remained unadvertised. An incident from the 1990s gives us a clue to his humane side. Cricketer J.R. Madanagopal, now a top BCCI umpire, was a frustrated man. Despite consistent scores in the 1st division league, he was nowhere near a call for the State and on the verge of quitting the game. Mr. Venkataramani asked him not to give up. In return, he promised all the support. Mr. Madanagopal heeded the advice and went on to play for both Tamil Nadu and the South Zone. In 1991, he served the Madras Chamber of Commerce as President. An advocate of co-partnership, he believed that industry had to co-travel with labour to progress consistently. His passing has left a huge void in Tamil Nadu’s industrial scene.
02 August 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Don’t extend loan moratorium’||Lenders and credit rating analysts have urged the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to avoid any further extension of the moratorium on loan repayment as such a move risks triggering a surge in non-performing assets (NPAs) in the financial sector. The RBI’s monetary policy committee is set to meet August 4-6. In March, the RBI had announced a three-month moratorium on repayment of loans and interest to cushion borrowers from the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and help mitigate a potential crisis in the financial sector in case of defaults. This was subsequently extended till August 31. “Prolonged moratorium can result in ALM (asset liability management) issues, especially for NBFCs who have been impacted more than banks,” said Krishnan Sitaraman, senior director, Crisil. “This is because NBFCs had extended moratorium to many of their borrowers but there was no moratorium on their capital borrowings and a limited moratorium on their bank borrowings,” he added. “Another key monitorable with extended moratoriums will be how borrower behaviour towards repayment discipline gets impacted post lifting of the moratorium,” said Mr. Sitaraman, adding that subsequent delays in loan repayments were bound to push up NPAs. He said while initially many retail and corporate borrowers had opted for the moratorium to manage cash flows, the numbers had come down subsequently as economic activity picked up. Stating that there were no official figures available on the moratorium burden faced by banks and NBFCs, Sankar Chakraborti, Group CEO, Acuite Ratings and Research said: “Estimates worked out by us suggest that it was about 42% for public, 30% for private and 15% for foreign banks in the first phase on an aggregate portfolio exposure basis. It was over 65% for NBFCs.’’ “Providing a continuous moratorium with relatively better liquidity position may lead to diversion of surplus funds,” Mr. Chakraborti said, adding that a one-time restructuring was a “more prudent option” than a blanket moratorium. State Bank of India Chairman Rajnish Kumar on Friday asserted that lenders were against extending the moratorium beyond August 31. “It is the view of all banks. Six months is enough. I do not know what will happen,” he said.  A one-time restructuring is a more prudent option than a blanket moratoriumSankar ChakrabortiGroup CEO Acuite Ratings and Research
02 August 2020||Chennai,||‘Dues collection improved amid COVID-19’||Hexaware Technologies Ltd. has seen improved collection of dues from clients amid the pandemic — a time when businesses typically tend to conserve cash and not pay outstanding dues. “Our days outstanding of sales (DSO) has actually came down by five days.” CEO and ED R. Srikrishna told The Hindu . The total DSO stood at 77 days for the quarter ended June compared with 82 for the three months prior. The figure is a measure of the average number of days that a firm takes to collect payment after a sale has been made. In comparison, industry bellwether Infosys saw a slight worsening of DSO metrics, from 69 days for the March quarter to 71 in the subsequent quarter. Tech services major Wipro said, “Our DSO improved by about two days both quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year.” “We thought this [DSO] was actually going to go up quite a bit. So, we put a lot of focus and effort on it,” said Mr. Srikrishna, adding he had not anticipated the number coming down. This could be a reflection of many businesses in the U.S. getting reimbursed for some payroll costs, he said. Significantly, the firm’s cash and cash equivalents more than doubled to Rs. 886 crore at the end of June from Rs. 441 crore in March. With the accumulation of cash, Hexaware was able to announce two interim dividends in under two months. “At the beginning of the June quarter, we said we were not announcing a dividend because we wanted to conserve cash,” Mr. Srikrishna said. “The quarter-on-quarter collections were so good that we came out with two interim dividends.” The firm announced a 150% interim dividend of Rs. 3 per share on June 23 this year and a 75% second interim dividend of Rs. 1.50 apiece on July 28.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||India to see good coffee output this year: planters||If rains do not play spoilsport, India’s coffee production this year will be in the range of 3,20,000 tonnes to 340,000 tonnes, according to planters. This is far better than the last two flood-hit years, when production was way below 3,00,000 tonnes. As of now, coffee plantations have received only 30% of the rain, including the blossom showers in March and the showers in the following months. Rainfall during August and September will be the deciding factor as excessive rains can lead to floods, landslides, wet-footing (coffee plants standing in water and decaying) and berry-shedding. “This year’s crop is expected to be much better than last two years,” said Bose Mandanna, a major planter in Kodagu and a former Coffee Board member. “We have received some rain at the time of spike formation and flowering. Another 50-60% of well-distributed rains are needed for best berry development, spring cultivation and recharging of water tables. If all goes well we will have a bigger crop this year.’’
02 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Tractor makers report higher sales in July||The automobile sector may be struggling with CÓVID-19-related issues but July saw a rise in tractor sales. Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.’s Farm Equipment Sector (FES) reported a 27% growth in the sales of tractors to 25,402 units. Sonalika Tractors reported a 71.7% growth in domestic sales to 8,219 units. “These are our highest-ever July sales, said Hemant Sikka, president, Farm Equipment Sector, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. “The strong demand momentum continued, aided by positive sentiments due to good cash flows to farmers, higher Kharif sowing, a timely and normal monsoon and continued higher rural spending by the government,” he said. “The sentiments are likely to remain buoyant, translating into a robust demand in the coming months.” Raman Mittal, executive director, Sonalika Group, said, “We have launched tractors with advanced technology features at the same cost of current products, thus helping the farmers to upgrade and enhance productivity and income.” ICRA said healthy farm cash flows of farmers and good monsoon would steer the tractor industry through challenging times. The tractor industry would see a volume growth of 2 to 4% in FY21, it added.
02 August 2020||Chennai,||Apollo Tyres adapting to new normal||Apollo Tyres Ltd. (ATL) is working to achieve its long-term vision of being a premier tyre company with a diversified and multinational presence undeterred by the impact of COVID-19, said a top official. “We continue to do what we do best — launch new products for a better product mix, seed new markets, expand distribution network and focus on cost and process efficiencies,” said Neeraj Kanwar, vice-chairman and MD.
02 August 2020||MUMBAI,||IPL 2020: safety protocol, schedule top GC agenda||The much-anticipated governing council (GC) meeting of the Indian Premier League (IPL) will go ahead as planned on Sunday evening, but is unlikely to be followed by a formal announcement of the fixtures and standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the league’s rescheduled 13th edition. Ever since IPL GC chairman Brijesh Patel confirmed the shift to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the start date (September 19), pending government clearance, fans and franchises have been eagerly awaiting information on the conduct of the tournament, deferred because of the pandemic. Govt. nod awaited The BCCI was hoping to secure the government go-ahead before Sunday’s meeting, but the nod hadn’t arrived at the time of writing. This may force the GC to decide on an array of issues, but not circulate it officially to the eight franchises. The franchises, during their informal interactions with IPL executives and event management partners, have spelt out their primary areas of concern. These include the logistics of bio-secure bubbles, travel plans, availability of overseas cricketers and the player-replacement policy.  The Hindu understands that IPL executives, in consultation with the BCCI medical team, have been paying minute attention to detail while finalising the SOPs. It will be interesting to see whether the GC can satisfy the demands of the teams, cricketers, officials and broadcasters. Despite the Dubai Council having earlier announced a self-quarantine period only until the return of the COVID-19 test result, less than 48 hours after landing in Dubai, the UAE government has revised the guidelines to a week-long quarantine upon arrival. This means that players who are set to arrive in the UAE after participating in the England-Australia T20 series (concludes on September 15), the Caribbean Premier League (September 10) and the Lanka Premier League (September 20) will likely miss the start of the tournament. The franchises are also hoping for clarity on the player-replacement policy during this edition. “If a replacement has to be sought due to COVID-19 or an injury during the tournament and the replacement has to serve a week-long quarantine during the tournament, it will be unfair on the team. Hopefully the BCCI-IPL finds a way out,” said a franchise official on condition of anonymity.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tennis coaches and the elusive Dronacharya award||For Indian tennis coaches, the Dronacharya award is a distant dream. In the 35 years since the inception of the award for coaching excellence, not a single tennis coach has won it. More than a hundred coaches have secured the award in 23 disciplines including kabaddi, kho kho and powerlifting. Athletics (26), boxing (17), wrestling (14) and hockey (11) have cornered a lion’s share. When the guru of gurus, Akhtar Ali — the coach of the team when Ramanathan Krishnan took India to the Davis Cup final (1966), and a travelling coach for another ace, Vijay Amritraj — applied for Dronacharya, he got the Arjuna award! Disappointed Thereafter, many eminent coaches like Nandan Bal, Enrico Piperno, T. Chandrasekaran and C.V. Nagaraj have applied and repeatedly been disappointed. This time, there is only one application from tennis for the regular Dronacharya. Of course, some of them have hope in the other category of ‘life time achievement’ in coaching. Bhushan’s distinction Chandra Bhushan, whose name figures in the list of nominations from tennis, was the coach of the team when Prithvi Sekar and Jafreen Shaikh won the Deaflympics bronze (2017). Jaidip Mukerjea was the captain of the tennis team when Leander Paes won the singles bronze medal in the Atlanta Olympics. One of the most successful sports in the country, shooting, has managed only two Dronacharya awards so far. Prof. Sunny Thomas, who played a big role in setting up a strong foundation, received the award long before Rajyavardhan Rathore, Abhinav Bindra, Vijay Kumar and Gagan Narang won Olympic medals. Many names proposed, including those by the Olympic champion, didn’t make the cut. Sanjoy Chakraverthy, who had played a significant role in building up world-class shooters like Anjali Bhagwat, Deepali Deshpande and Suma Shirur, was given the award in 2017. Multiple Asian Games gold medallist Jaspal Rana, who has guided young shooters to be world-beaters, is the only coach whose name figures in the nominations list from shooting this time.
02 August 2020||SOUTHAMPTON,||Campher comes good again||Ireland overcame another poor start to finish at 212 for nine in the second ODI against England here on Saturday. The visitors, who decided to bat first, slipped to 91 for six before Curtis Campher, playing in just his second one-dayer, led the recovery. Campher scored an 87-ball 68 with eight fours before being dismissed by seamer Saqib Mahmood (two for 45). Campher shared two key partnerships late in the innings — a seventh-wicket 60-run stand with Simi Singh (25) and 56 for the eighth wicket with Andy McBrine (24). England leg-spinner Adil Rashid took three for 34 off 10 overs, including the key wicket of Kevin O’Brien. He went on to become the first England spinner to take 150 wickets in ODIs. The players again took a knee to support Black Lives Matter before the game. The three-match series, which is being played behind closed doors, marks the start of the ICC Cricket World Cup Super League. England made one change with left-arm paceman Topley recalled to the side for the first time since the 2016 T20 World Cup after a career-threatening injury. He replaced Tom Curran. Ireland included Josh Little in place of the injured Barry McCarthy.
02 August 2020||Hyderabad,||‘Would have retired if we had won the 2017 WC’||India ODI skipper Mithali Raj said that she “would have retired if we had won the 2017 Women’s World Cup.” In an interaction with anchor Rashmi Gautam on Star Sports I Telugu TV series ‘Girl Power — Sarileru Manakevaru’ (there is no match for us), to be telecast on Sunday at 10 a.m., Mithali said: “After playing for so many years, probably I have everything except the World Cup. “We were runners-up in 2017. I am going to give another try and, hopefully, with everybody’s wishes, should crack it.” Mithali felt that if women’s cricket had come under BCCI’s wings much before than it actually did — in 2006-07 — it would have been better off. “Many talented players at that time, because of lack of money, had to shift to other fields. Being a woman cricketer, if you had told your parents ‘I don’t earn money, I am playing for passion,’ nobody would have bought that. If the BCCI had been in control before, we would have had more players in women’s cricket. Not by choice “Honestly, cricket happened to me. It was not by choice. My dad took me to the academy which was only for girls. “I was 10 at that time and if someone had asked me what I wanted to be, I would have said IAS officer,” said the 37-year-old.
02 August 2020||Chennai,||EB can still play in next ISL: Das||Kolkata giant East Bengal participating in the upcoming season of the Indian Super League (ISL) still remains a possibility, according to the AIFF general secretary Kushal Das. During the Sportstar Star Talk webinar series, powered by ITM University and moderated by The Hindu ’s Amitabha Das Sharma, Special Correspondent (Sports), on the anniversary of the club’s centenary celebrations, former East Bengal players Bhaichung Bhutia and Renedy Singh expressed their desire to see the club in the country’s top division. Bhutia, former East Bengal captain, felt the club should improve in every department to sustain itself in the ISL, as and when it makes the step up. “Nothing is impossible,” replied Das, when asked if the club can feature in ISL 2020-21. “We came up with the roadmap last year in Kuala Lumpur. One of the things decided was that by 2021, two clubs from I-League, through the bidding process, can go into the ISL by adhering to the regulations, including the financial criteria. Fortunately, Mohun Bagan [through its merger with ATK] has been able to come in [to ISL],” said Das. “Can East Bengal fulfil the terms and conditions of playing in the ISL right now? The most important thing is for the club to be organised and be ready. The club should be sustainable to produce players and invest in them to make the club grow,” he said.  The most important thing is for the club to be organised and be ready. The club should be sustainable to produce players Bhutia
02 August 2020||SILVERSTONE,||Hamilton scorches the track to take pole||Lewis Hamilton smashed the track record twice on Saturday to grab a record seventh British Grand Prix pole position with a stunning performance in a tense qualifying session. Hamilton, who seeks a record-increasing seventh Silverstone victory, finished ahead of Mercedes teammate Valtteri Bottas by more than three-tenths of a second. The defending six-time champion and current series leader bounced back from a ragged performance, including a spin, in the first parts of qualifying to claim his 65th pole with Mercedes and the record-increasing 91st of his career. It was also a record eighth successive Mercedes pole success in Britain on a day when it was clear of the nearest rival Red Bull by a full second. Max Verstappen took third place on the grid ahead of Ferrari’s Charles Leclerc and Lando Norris in his McLaren.  The results (qualifying):   1. Hamilton (Mercedes), 2. Bottas (Mercedes), 3. Verstappen (Red Bull), 4. Leclerc (Ferrari), 5. Norris (McLaren), 6. Stroll (Racing Point), 7. Sainz (Renault), 8. Ricciardo (Renault), 9. Ocon (Renault), 10. Vettel (Ferrari).   11. Gasly (Alpha Tauri), 12. Albon (Red Bull), 13. Hulkenberg (Racing Point), 14. Kvyat (Alpha Tauri), 15. Russell (Williams), 16. Magnussen (Haas), 17. Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo), 18. Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo), 19. Grosjean (Haas) and 20. Latifi (Williams).
02 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sports training can resume from Aug. 5: Goud||Telangana Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud said that the athletes in the State can use the stadia for training purposes from August 5, adhering to the COVID-19 safety guidelines. This effectively means sports training will now resume across the State in all sports complexes and academies after more than four months. “The government has framed certain guidelines in this regard and we hope the athletes will strictly follow them like maintaining social distancing, sanitising the sports equipment and any other objects which they tend to use during training,” the minister said during an interaction with lead athletes seeking their inputs for framing a new Sports Policy. Participants Among those who took part included Mohd. Azharuddin, Sania Mirza, Sikki Reddy, Sai Praneeth, Sumeeth Reddy, Telangana Olympic Association president and IT Principal Secretary Jayesh Ranjan, Telangana Badminton Association vice-president V. Chamundreswaranath and SATS VC & MD K.S. Srinivasa Raju. The Minister also suggested the officials may put in place a mechanism that would ensure athletes utilising half the capacity for training on alternate days and not train in big groups. “The whole objective is that no athlete should be hit by the virus,” he stressed. The minister, however, stressed no tournaments should be organised till further instructions.  Will take a while Sania said, “It’s great to know that we are now looking to get back on track as far as sport is concerned but I suspect it will still be a while before we can achieve normalcy.” Praneeth said, “We badly needed to train after almost four months. “I am honestly quite relieved that I can be back on the court.” Chief national coach P. Gopi Chand said the training will resume initially only for the Olympic probables including P.V. Sindhu, Sai Praneeth, Saina Nehwal, K. Srikanth, Ashwini Ponnappa, Chirag Shetty and R. Satwiksairaj Reddy.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen in cruise mode||For the second successive day, Magnus Carlsen shut out Peter Svidler in quick time in the day’s opening game and stayed ahead in the semifinals of the chess24 Legends of Chess on Saturday. After Carlsen and Ian Nepomniachtchi had posted identical 2.5-0.5 victories in the first set on Friday, the latter drew the first game of the second set with Anish Giri in 40 moves.  Carlsen, playing white, did not allow Svidler the freedom to free his pieces once the contest moved into the middle-game. Svidler’s decision to castle on the queenside made it tougher for him as Carlsen promptly launched a fierce attack and won in just 26 moves. On Friday, Carlsen won two games, lasting 27 moves, with black pieces.  The results:   Semifinals: Set Two, Game One: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Peter Svidler (Rus); Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) drew with Anish Giri (Ned); Set One: Carlsen bt Svidler 2.5-0.5; Nepomniachtchi bt Giri 2.5-0.5 .
02 August 2020||Los Angeles,||Bucks down Celtics||Giannis Antetokounmpo shook off the rust of a long lay-off by scoring 36 points to power Milwaukee Bucks to a 119-112 victory over Boston Celtics in their first game of the NBA's restarted season. In another game, James Harden scored 49 points and Houston Rockets outgunned Dallas Mavericks 153-149 in a high-scoring Western Conference contest that went into overtime. Antetokounmpo remains on track to become the NBA's first back-to-back MVP since Stephen Curry in 2015-16.  The results: Milwaukee Bucks 119 bt Boston Celtics 112; Orlando Magic 128 bt Brooklyn Nets 118; Phoenix Suns 125 bt Washington Wizards 112; Portland Trail Blazers 140 bt Memphis Grizzlies 135; San Antonio Spurs 129 bt Sacramento Kings 120; Houston Rockets 153 bt Dallas Mavericks 149.
02 August 2020||Chennai,||TNPL: TNCA to explore alternate window||The TNCA in a statement on Saturday said was not in a position to hold the fifth edition of the TNPL before September as it had hoped due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the State. The TNCA also added that it will explore the possibilities of playing the tournament in an alternate window i.e either in November 2020 or in March 2021.
02 August 2020||London,||Botham made member of House of Lords||Legendary England all-rounder Sir Ian Botham has been made a member of the House of Lords. The 64-year-old, among the 36 new peers announced by the government to join the unelected House, will sit as a crossbench — independent — peer.PTI
02 August 2020||BENGALURU,||Three States rank high in the conservation of the endangered dhole||Karnataka, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh rank high in the conservation of the endangered dhole in India, according to a new study. Scientists from the Wildlife Conservation Society-India, the University of Florida, the Wildlife Conservation Trust, and the National Centre for Biological Sciences found that these three States were adequately equipped to maintain their high ranks in consolidating forest habitats and recover dhole populations by increasing prey density and reducing the pressure on forests. On the other hand, the study said, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Telangana and Goa will need to increase financial investments in the forest and wildlife sectors, and reduce the ease of granting forest clearances for infrastructure projects. Improving habitats It also found that improving habitat conditions and prey densities in the Eastern Ghats of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Odisha would “strengthen the link” between dhole populations in the Western Ghats and central India. The paper titled ‘A strategic road map for conserving the endangered dhole Cuon alpinus in India’, was published recently in Mammal Review . Through the study, the scientists explored the conservation tenets of retention, recovery and restoration of dholes in India, said to be a global stronghold for the species, in the context of large carnivores facing high extinction risk.  Important role “Dholes play an important role as apex predators in forest ecosystems. Besides the tiger, the dhole is the only large carnivore in India that is under the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s ‘endangered’ category. As a country that perhaps supports the highest number of dholes in the world, we still do not have targeted management plans for scientific monitoring of the species. “Our study recognises taluks and States that need to be prioritised, and thereby offers a primer for designing a country-level plan to conserve their populations,” Arjun Srivathsa, lead author of the study, was quoted as saying in the release.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 07:24 IST,||Sudoku - August 2, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||How to be a con man||Okay, don’t get your hopes — or your hackles — up. I know that you know that I know who popped up in your head when you saw ‘con man’ in the headline. But this column is not about that person. Sorry to disappoint you, but I do plan to live out my full quota of life expectancy. And I won’t ruin that plan with stupid assumptions. Such as, for instance, that freedom of expression is protected in Indian democracy. Please don’t think I am insulting Indian democracy — I apologise if you thought I was. Dissent may be protected in India. No, I am sure it is. I have complete faith that our honourable judiciary will come to the aid of anyone whose right to dissent is under threat. For the record, I hold in contempt anyone who casts aspersions on Indian democracy or its chest size. So my interest is quite genuine and heartfelt: I really want to learn how to be a good con man. Why? Because I see nothing wrong in it. Every era of human civilisation puts a premium on certain talents. During the Stone Age, the ability to use stones to make fire was a big deal. Subsequently, during the time of Genghiz Khan, the talent for killing people while riding a horse was highly prized. Then, around the time of the Industrial Revolution, the talent for money-making became hugely profitable. Prized skillsets Today, the ability to bump someone off and the talent for making pots of money are both highly prized. But neither will take you far without the one skill that’s critical in our age: getting people to believe anything you say. The true mark of a genius con artist is that the wilder his lies, the stronger the people’s trust in him. Can you see the limitless potential for GDP growth here? That’s why I am shocked that conning skills find no place in the government’s Skill India programme. Even today, most Indian colleges, with the exception of those that offer degrees in entire political science, don’t expose youngsters to the opportunities that await those with good conning skills. Just to give you an example, one of my mates from college, who never sat for any exams, is now a Senior Vice President at a top consulting firm. He advises companies on how to cut costs by sacking people, and the fee the companies pay him for his cost-cutting advice is several times the costs they save by sacking people. Another friend of mine, an atheist, is now a successful godman. He owns 22 mansions in different parts of the world and top politicians seek his advice on when is the most auspicious time to topple a government or launch a new lie. Everywhere you turn, successful con men are ruling the roost and enjoying life. If you take healthcare and our pandemic response, it is thanks to the Covid Rapid Action Propaganda kits developed by hardworking con artists that we are regularly able to churn out statistics that can prove, even to the WHO, that we are the best. Chinese whispers Or take history. India has little by way of recorded ancient history. But our new historians are so good at their job that today the entire nation is proud to be a nation whose ancestors invented not only zero but also Botox and Boolean algebra, and owned nuclear-powered hovercraft with missiles that had a range of 500 light years. If you take geography and geopolitics, India has con men of such calibre that the Chinese can walk into your home, sit at your dining table, eat up all your idlis, not sparing even the koththamalli chutney, and you’ll be like, “Look, our corps commanders and their corps commanders are using compass and divider to draw a circle on the Line of Actual Control that will determine the radius of the buffer zone in Galwan Valley where India and China will hold hands in such a way that Finger 4 of Pangong Tso will interlock with Finger 8 of your right hand to determine the Quad of the BRI in CPEC so that the geo-strategic ramifications of the Daulat Beg Oldi Road in sub-sector North at the eastern end of the southern tip of the Shyok river, as evident from the satellite imagery of the area between the Indian perception of the Chinese perception of the Line of Actual Control and the Chinese contraception of the Indian apprehension along the Line of Actual Control prove not only that India, by banning 59 apps, has given China a bloody nose on its Aksai Chin, but also that the Chinese are not at our dining table and not eating our idlis, with or without koththamalli chutney. And for the record, our dining table was made in China.” Now, that’s the skill level I’m looking at. If you have any suggestions on who I should hire as my conning coach, do let me know.  The true mark of a genius con artist is that the wilder his lies, the stronger the people’s trust in him. Can you see the limitless potential for GDP growth here?
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A devastating catalogue of cloth||‘ It must not be thought that the Taste of India takes delight in what is gaudy or glaring…such combinations of form and colour as many of these specimens exhibit, everyone will call beautiful, and that beauty has one constant feature — a quietness and harmony which never fail to fascinate… ’ The unexpected author of these admiring sentiments was John Forbes Watson, a botanist-physician who was appointed director of the India Museum, London, in 1858. The specimens in question were not paintings or sculptures, but yards and yards of fabric. Watson was part of a group of Victorians such as George Birdwood and Owen Jones who admired Indian textiles, especially for their harmonious use of design and colour. His 18-volume series, The Collections of the Textile Manufactures of India , remains an enduring testament to the diversity and originality of Indian textiles, yet it set in motion a chain of events that would eventually threaten their very existence. In the run-up to National Handloom Day on August 7, it is fitting, perhaps perversely, to consider a man, a collection and a legacy that played a vital role in catalysing India’s Swadeshi movement. 700 samples Colonial catalogues of the 19th century have provided us with significant historical insights into the imperiled products and skills of the Indian subcontinent. Perhaps nobody in the Victorian era embodied this cataloguing zeal more than Watson. His Collections , first published in 1866, consisted of 700 textile samples intended to be representative of Indian artisanship from various parts of the subcontinent. Typical of how collections travelled and were repurposed, many of these samples were taken from the 1855 Paris International Exhibition and 1851 Great Exhibition in London. Watson’s botanical pursuits drew him towards the study of cotton varieties, culminating in an aesthetic and mercenary interest in textiles. When putting the Collections together, he cut up the fabrics into smaller swatches, an act of blasphemy by contemporary standards of curation. Instead of treating textiles as samples of ‘pure art’, he made notes on the type of fabric, wearer, style of drape, length of measurement, cost of production and such. Textiles, in his view, were not mere museum relics, but items of utility and commerce. He believed that British students and manufacturers should study and replicate Indian tastes, especially in matters of ‘ornament’. This was evident in his insistence that British manufacturers attend to how design would show itself off in a draped saree. Impact of imitations Several copies of the Collections were dispatched to schools of art and trade locations in various parts of Britain. Even as an ardent admirer of Indian aesthetics, Watson was ruthless in his pursuit of British commercial interests, supplying the mills in Liverpool and Manchester with the samples they needed to replicate Indian textile designs. As a result, cheap, mass-produced, British replicas of these samples inundated the Indian market within a decade. These were print imitations of intricate weaves whose technique had been developed and perfected by Indian weavers over several centuries. The cheaper prices of British textiles had a predictably devastating impact on Indian handlooms. As markets died and weaves went obsolete, whole artisanal cultures comprising not only prized production techniques but tastes and sensibilities well-versed in colour and design, were also lost. The Collections reveal, for instance, that Thanjavur had its own ‘kincobs’ (Indian brocades) to rival those of Banaras. Thanjavur’s brocades have now virtually vanished while the Banarasi saree struggles to remain alive. Today, the ability to distinguish between a tie-dyed cloth from the Watson collection and a printed mill-made British imitation juxtaposed against each other has become the province of the textile connoisseur, removed from the realm of common knowledge. The Watson catalogues were thus a catalyst in the destruction of India’s material history while becoming, ironically, a key source of insight for textile historians and craft revivalists today. Mobile museum One of Watson’s most inspired ideas was that of the mobile trade museum, a portable collection of textiles that could travel places, performing the dual role of education and inspiring commercial imitation. Encased in glass and mounted on revolving stands, the textile ‘specimen’ displayed thus would enable the spectator to undertake a minute inspection of the object. Museum-going is frequently associated with connoisseurship and the performance of elite tastes, yet Watson intended his mobile museum to cater primarily to manufacturers and tradesmen. As he wrote, ‘what is wanted, and what is to be copied to meet that want, is thus accessible for study in these Museums’. He reimagined the spectatorial gaze and the museum space to accommodate the commercial interests of the British mill. Handlooms are often romanticised through associations with rural, artisanal utopias that are seen as the cure for the ills of industrialised mass manufacture. Watson’s catalogues are a reminder that our legacy of colonisation and industrialisation is more complex than these binaries allow for. Looking through the catalogues, I have been disarmed by his unvarnished admiration of Indian textiles, yet I have resented his presumption that they could be so easily replicated. Today, the Indian craft world is broadly framed by the same competing tensions: democratising the consumption of craft through greater affordability while preserving the artisanal practices which constitute craft production. Even amidst measures such as the Handloom (Reservation of Articles for Production) Act, 1985, the Make in India campaign and the Geographical Indication tag, printed ‘ikat’ and ‘bandhani’ designs, for instance, saturate the Indian retail market. These printed textiles (more affordable than their handwoven counterparts) make participation in a ‘crafts’ aesthetic accessible to a larger population even as they undermine such exercises in authentication. Though a product of the taxonomical obsessions of the Victorian era, Watson’s somewhat heretical notion of the mobile museum recognised that our clothes do not exist in an aesthetic vacuum — indeed, they are part of a lively palette of public tastes. In a fine case of retrospective irony, an article in The Edinburgh Review of July 1867 expressed Britain’s debt to his collections, stating, ‘we may never supplant the Indian hand-loom weaver, but we may at least compete with him in many simple articles of attire…’  The writer is Assistant Professor of Cultural Studies at IIT, Jodhpur, and works on digital interventions for craft production and consumption.  Even as an ardent admirer of Indian aesthetics, Watson was ruthless in his pursuit of British commercial interests, supplying the mills in Liverpool and Manchester with the samples they needed to replicate Indian textile designs
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Difficult dramas||Manjula Padmanabhan’s collected works for the stage appear in two volumes, the heftier one ( Blood and Laughter ) subtitled ‘Plays’ and its slimmer companion ( Laughter and Blood ), ‘Performance Pieces’. Some of these are being published for the first time, others have had wide exposure on stages across the country and abroad. The plays and pieces appear to be distinguished from each other primarily by length but also, perhaps, by the complexity of the production they would require to be fully realised.  Blood and Laughter: Plays contains Harvest , a no-holds-barred exploration of the international trade in human organs. Set in a dystopic future which now seems all too close, it won the Onassis award in 1997 and catapulted Padmanabhan to international fame. But Plays also contains her first dramatic work, Lights Out , which remains my favourite. The tightly placed and paced work is based on a real-life incident in which an unknown woman is gangraped night after night on a construction site next to an upmarket apartment building. The residents of the building are deeply disturbed by this, but not in ways one might most immediately imagine. Padmanabhan captures bourgeois conceits, fears and apathy with startling veracity, turning a mirror to her audience such that they might recognise themselves. But let not the obvious persuasions of these better known and fuller works distract you from the shorter pieces in Laughter and Blood , which contains monologues as well as multi-character pieces. These works are more overtly political in that they locate themselves inside the issues of our times — hierarchies of caste and class, gender relations, discrimination, displacement and migration, among others. One of the joys of encountering Padmanabhan’s work is that she wears her heart on her sleeve, responding constantly to both an outer and an inner world, to the social forces of oppression and injustice as well as to personal emotions such as anger and frustration. This might make her work ‘difficult’ for some, as she seeks to disturb rather than to comfort, to confront rather than to appease. Assured confidence In whatever location or form or medium (and she works in many), Padmanabhan is essentially a storyteller. Sometimes, she speaks in pictures, at other times in newspaper columns and reports, and at still other times, she speaks in plays. The two volumes at hand amplify the latter voice, allowing us not only to appreciate her particular talents but also to remember the many ways in which stories can be told for the stage. Padmanabhan writes drama with assured confidence, whether she intends to fill the stage with as complex and challenging a production as Harvest or whether she’s writing quieter monologues in which the sole actor must use all the resources at their disposal to inhabit the character. And it was in this regard that I was struck by Padmanabhan’s comment in one of her short essays that accompany the play texts. She says she has a comfort with dialogue because of her years as a cartoonist — it is where she learnt the skill of making things happen, of creating action, through people’s conversations with each other or with themselves. A treat One of the nicest things about these volumes is that they have allowed Padmanabhan to write short introductions to individual and grouped works. These short essays function as the playwright’s commentaries on her own work, most written long after the plays themselves. It’s always a treat to have a creative person speak about their own work, especially when they are as candid as Padmanabhan. She speaks of the plays that came easily and the ones that took years to find their voice, she talks of their successes and failures, their performance journeys, the parts that please her and the parts that remain less than satisfactory. There is as much inspiration for a young playwright or actor in these essays and dramatic works as there is an articulation of the particular pleasures of the stage that can be shared by more experienced theatre makers. The reviewer works with myth, epic and the story traditions of the sub-continent.  Blood and Laughter & Laughter and Blood Manjula Padmanabhan Hachette India  Rs. 499, Rs. 399    One of the joys of encountering these works is that the writer wears her heart on her sleeve, responding constantly to both an outer and an inner world
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Meme me up, Scotty!||As a xennial, I exist on a strange cusp. Having lived both the ‘analog’ and ‘digital’ life I’ve often swung between a quest for simpler, low-noise Gen X life, and a paralysing millennial dependence on the Internet. However, the lockdown during this mad year of the pandemic has landed me firmly on the web-side of the fence. For many of us, it was the Internet that kept us tethered to sanity while we lived in our lonely islands for months. Between the despair of doomscrolling COVID-19 news and endless, pantless Zoom calls, a joke here, a meme there kept things going. Our collective uncertainties and anxieties encapsulated neatly into those top text-bottom text macro image WFH memes reassured us that we were not in this alone. Everyone was struggling, everyone was *crie*-ing. In fact, memes have been doing this noble job of lightening many of our existential burdens for a while. Their easy form and manner have made memes so vastly popular that they may well be the most legit representations of the culture of the Internet. But how did this fascinating, now ubiquitous phenomenon come about? To who or what do we owe this super mix of information, humour, art, and subversion? The process is as interesting as the product. Origin story First things first: what is a meme? The Oxford Learner’s Dictionary defines memes as “an image, a video, a piece of text, etc., that is passed very quickly from one Internet user to another, often with slight changes that make it humorous”. The word has roots in Greek words such as ‘mimeme’ or ‘mimeisthai’, meaning ‘imitation’ or ‘to imitate’. Although this broad-spectrum definition seems to encompass most of what we consume on the Internet today, it hasn’t always been the case. There are some definitive beginnings of this phenomenon, which psychologist and memeticist Susan Blackmore attributes to the poster boy of atheism, Richard Dawkins in her book, Meme Machine . The term first occurs in Dawkins’ famous book The Selfish Gene (1976) about evolutionary biology, where he uses it to describe some modalities of genetic transmission. It is interesting to look at the other definition of a meme in the Oxford Learner’s Dictionary, which says a meme is “an idea that is passed from one member of society to another, not in the genes but often by people copying it.” The emphasis, in this definition, on the transmission not being genetic shows how the original context and usage (Dawkins’) have changed, although the term remains the same. It is actually demonstrative of the life-cycle of memes themselves — ideas that start as something and turn into something else. Just as French-American painter Marcel Duchamp did to Mona Lisa. In 1919, he made a cheeky version of the painting on a cheap postcard that he called L.H.O.O.K. When he added a moustache, a goatee, and witty wordplay on what was arguably the world’s most famous face, conceptual art as we know it was born. He called it ready-mades then; we call them memes now. Child of the Internet The form and name may have originated in Duchamp’s studio and at Dawkins’ desk, but the meme is truly the child of the Internet. Around the year 2000, when most xennials were still fighting with their dads to get that dial-up connection, obscure message boards had started spawning funny short format content that would become the precursor of memes. Images, flash animation, snippets from video games, and demotivational posters started populating sites like Albino Blacksheep, Funnyjunk, 4chan and Reddit. The most memorable memes to have come out of these sites from the late 90s to the early 2000s were the Ugachaka Baby, LOLcats, Pepe the Frog and Rickroll, among others. But it was the launch of Facebook in 2004 and YouTube in 2005 that truly changed the game. The ease and speed of creating and sharing that these platforms afforded not only democratised content-sharing but also changed the way we used the Internet. By the end of the first decade of the new millennium, the Internet went from being a largely formal medium of information exchange to a place of fun and entertainment. Around 2011 these content formats came to be widely referred to as memes, and over the next decade, they became very common and continue to remain so. The top text-bottom text image macro came into full force at this time, and meme generator sites have ensured that this remains the most popular format. In the last decade, Nyan Cat, Advice Animals, Success Kid, Doge, rage face, classical, deep-fried and movie-still macros have been among the commonest, abundantly and relentlessly flooding Facebook, Tumblr, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, and messenger services like WhatsApp. Their simplicity — to the point of obviousness — makes them so replicable and shareable that they have crossed over into what are called dank memes. The dank and destructive In the memeverse, dankness is protean and often people on the far side of the xennial cusp are left wondering what some memes are all about. The Urban Dictionary defines a dank meme as “a meme in which the comedy is excessively overdone and nonsensical, to the point of being comically ironic.” While the ‘elders’ don’t get the context of some highly topical memes derived from sources after ‘their time’, the ‘youngers’ don’t get the obsessive good morning messages (which, by the way, fit the meme bill). The arcane and the absurd both get clubbed into this category of dank memes, which sometimes raise giggles and sometimes eye-rolls. However, the subculture — or shall we say the mainstream culture — of memes is not just fun and games. There are serious questions to be raised around toxicity compounded by their virality. In the darker, troll-infested corners of the Internet, the meme becomes a potent weapon of harm and can inflict severe mental and emotional damage on its targets. Their high relatability can and does affect values and vocabularies, especially among young users. That said, there is an upside to the viral quality of (clever) memes. At a time when state censorship is beginning to pose serious problems in India and many other nations, memes are used as a medium of subversion and dissent. Done cleverly, the messaging of memes can be sharp, hard-hitting, and yet never amount to ‘implicating evidence’. Because the tools of meme-making are so easy and accessible, the art is available for anyone who cares to make it. From the #BLM movement to feminism, from queer rights to climate justice, from the CAA-NRC protests to pandemic relief, memes are used to democratically communicate ideas, to challenge authority, and perhaps in the near future will even be used to bring down entire systems of oppression. Art or not With so much value riding on the cultural products that are memes, could one ask if it is time to elevate it to a proper art form? (It might make Duchamp happy!) If Banksy’s meant-to-be-temporary graffiti art can find its way into museums on scooped-out walls, perhaps memes — at least the best ones — deserve to find their way into institutions too, or to be treated as commercially viable art objects. In a recent online session organised by Avid Learning titled ‘Meme Art and Art Engagement in the Post-Internet World’, questions about unionising, monetising and copyrighting memes were raised. An argument against it is that it may destroy the very ethos of meme culture, which is free and democratic ‘art’. Any form of institutionalisation entails hierarchy and elitism, which would defeat the very purpose of memes. Their brief shelf life and campy aesthetic notwithstanding, memes are important cultural markers of our times and their museum-isation is underway, whether we want it or not. Virtual ‘spaces’ like the Slovenian Museum of Transitory Art and, closer home, The Meme Project by the Godrej India Culture Lab are dedicated to researching and archiving memes. Real-life counterparts include exhibitions like ‘What Do You Meme?’ curated by Maisie Post in London in August 2016; ‘Two Decades of Memes’ in Queens’ Museum of the Moving Image, curated by the website Know Your Meme, in 2018; and an ongoing Meme Regime exhibition tour, curated by Anuj Nakade of Pune-based TIFA Working Studios. Whether memes get that artsy upgrade on their evolutionary path remains to be seen, but that they will continue to exist is guaranteed. How do we know this? Because of a reference Dawkins once made that sounds disconcertingly familiar today. He said: “In the original introduction to the word meme in the last chapter of The Selfish Gene , I did actually use the metaphor of a ‘virus’. So, when anybody talks about something going viral on the Internet, that is exactly what a meme is...” Need I say any more about living with a virus? The author is a culture writer and an Interfaith Studies scholar.  At a time when state censorship is beginning to pose serious problems in India and many other nations, memes are used as a medium of subversion and dissent   In 1919, when French-American painter Marcel Duchamp added a moustache, a goatee, and witty wordplay on what was arguably the world’s most famous face, conceptual art as we know it was born
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Feminism needs tectonic plates to shift, not a trendy make-over’||In her fiction and poetry, British-Nigerian author Bernardine Evaristo celebrates the lives of people who have to fight to be heard: women of colour, gay, lesbian and trans individuals, immigrants, the people that history tends to ignore and whose voices our elected leaders do not hear. Perhaps that is why, despite publishing several critically-acclaimed novels over decades, it took the Booker 2019 prize, awarded for her eighth work of fiction, Girl, Woman, Other, to make Evaristo a household name. She is the first black author to win the Booker 50 years after it was instituted, and she had to share it with Margaret Atwood. But the floodgates had been opened. In June this year, Evaristo and Candice Carty-Williams became the first black novelists to win the Author of the Year and Book of the Year titles respectively at the 2020 British Book awards. And now with quite a few coloured authors in the 2020 Booker longlist, the publishing world seems to have woken up for good.  Girl, Woman, Other is about 12 primarily black women who fight deep-seated prejudice and racism, who learn to develop their own brand of feminism, and wear their otherness with pride. People who are “proud of their multiracial social circles and bloodlines”. Their stories and lives — the women range from a teenager to a 93-year-old — are loosely interconnected, and centre around the lesbian playwright, Amma, whose hard-won success mirrors Evaristo’s own. Her play, The Last Amazon of Dahomey, will premiere at the National Theatre, as her work is finally embraced by the establishment. Black authors matter “Events over the last two to three years have precipitated this, mainly Black Lives Matter, and before that, the MeToo Movement. Fiction written by women of colour is finally making it to bestseller lists and remaining there. But that does not mean that there are thousands of us telling stories. There’s a lot of non-fiction work being published by women of colour, but we have a long way to go when it comes to fiction,” says Evaristo in a telephone conversation. As the ripples caused by the death of George Floyd in the U.S. were felt across continents, thousands of people in Britain took to the streets demanding change and in doing so, brought to the fore the country’s role in perpetuating slave trade. The protests brought renewed interest in Evaristo’s work. Even success in the white’s man world serves only to highlight the systemic racism in England’s class-conscious society. One of the characters in Girl, Woman, Other , Carole, who claws her way up to become vice-president of a bank — and turns her back to her roots while doing it — faces this every day. As she commutes to work in her perfectly tailored suits and discreet jewellery of platinum and pearls, she’s thinking, “he’d better not look at her as if she should be attached to a trolley bearing flasks of coffee, assortments of teas (herbal, green, grey, Ceylon) and those individually packaged corporate biscuits”. (Evaristo rarely uses full stops, and there are no capital letters. A new sentence begins with a new line, and this device brings a poetry-like cadence to the narrative.) Evaristo says that the Black Lives Matter protests in the U.K. have resulted in people at a personal level as well as institutions introspecting on and interrogating inherent racism: “Just recently, the Archbishop of Canterbury, who is the head of the Church of England, said we have to reconsider the portrayal of Jesus as a white man with blonde hair and blue eyes. This is huge.” Enemy of the nation? With popular culture being dictated by American media, it’s easy to bracket racism as an American problem. “Racism is amplified in the U.S., but that’s also because of the sizeable African American population there. It was not part of the national conversation in the U.K. because we are so few in comparison, but racism exists here too. There’s widespread police harassment of black men, stop and search, for example. Systemic racism exists and is only now being addressed as young people are calling it out on Twitter and social media,” she says. Lennox, one of the few men who hover in the wings of Girl, Woman, Other , learns this the hard way. Lennox believed that he could do better than his parents, but soon realises that he is “an enemy of the nation on account of his skin colour/ to be stopped and frisked by the cops”. He takes to wearing suits in the hope that the police will leave him alone. If George Floyd was wearing a suit the day he was arrested, would it have saved him? But racism is just one of society’s power structures that Evaristo’s characters interrogate. The politics of privilege, gender and feminism are as much at play. Amma judged her father as he failed to live up to her feminist expectations only to be questioned by her teenage daughter, Yazz, who finds her views outdated. Her closest friend, Dominique, who was trapped in a violent relationship with another woman, questions the commodification of feminism: “feminism needs tectonic plates to shift, not a trendy make-over,” she tells Amma. Space for everyone Evaristo skilfully shows how the definition of feminism changes with each generation: “When I was coming of age, feminism was for white middle-class women. I identified myself as a black feminist, because there was no room for us in the white feminist movement.” She recounts the time when feminists were attacked to the point where women didn’t want to identify as feminists. This is changing only now: “I feel that every generation should define feminism for itself. Today’s definition is more inclusive, there is space for everyone.” Evaristo draws on the concept of ‘intersectionality’, which was coined by the American law professor, Kimberlé Crenshaw, in the late 1980s. “It’s about women’s rights as a working woman, as a black woman, as a disabled person, as a lesbian, and even transgender identities, which many older generation feminists did not subscribe to. It’s the intersection of one’s identities as a feminist. We need to have conversations about this rather than shouting at each other,” she says. Is the change, however slight, that we are seeing now permanent? “I don’t know but I hope so. History has shown repeatedly that after an event, we return to the status quo,” she says. A U.K. report, ‘Rethinking ‘Diversity’ in Publishing’ found that even today, the publishing industry is run by the white middle-class and the perceived reader is a middle-aged, middle-class white woman. In the foreword to the report, Evaristo writes that books by writers of colour are still considered niche. She recounts her experience with her 2013 novel, Mr. Loverman , which was seen by a section of the publishing industry as triple niche because it was about an elderly, gay, black man. “But fiction has the power to transcend barriers. And a good story will find an audience anywhere,” she says. Each of Evaristo’s novels tells a good story. For all the baggage that the characters carry on their shoulders and the battles they wage on every front, their stories have a celebratory note. They make you laugh and cry and cry and laugh all over again.  Just recently, the Archbishop of Canterbury, who is the head of the Church of England, said we have to reconsider the portrayal of Jesus as a white man with blonde hair and blue eyes. This is huge
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A culture of violence||Scholarly discourse on Hindu majoritarianism and allied sectarian violence has generated many books, volumes that have traced the root of these evils to the rise of the political far-right in recent times. Aparna Vaidik’s My Son’s Inheritance goes deeper into Indian history and culture, and shows that instead of being a recent phenomenon, violence, physical and psychic, has been endemic to the Indian socio-polity since ages. Fiction of peace Addressed to her son ‘Babu’, the book’s easy-flowing narrative presents violence as both a familial and a national legacy that cannot be wished away. Vaidik locates this violence in communal enmities between the Hindus and the minorities, particularly Muslims, which often validates itself as retributive justice. Deep psychic violence also operated, the author reminds us, among Hindus themselves. Many Indian Muslims and Christians, we are asked to remember, were Hindus of the lower castes, or ‘non-Aryan’ tribals, who converted out of Hinduism because of the torture of untouchability and ostracisation.  Vaidik links the continuance of this people-on-people violence (as distinct from state inflicted violence) to our denial of its existence — to the fiction that we create of the historically peaceful India, the land of the Ganges and of Buddha, wherein many diverse peoples have coexisted peacefully through centuries. “Our looking away from inconvenient truths,”Vaidik argues, is what “makes us either remain silent or glorify non-violence as our essence”. This silence, this deliberate perversion of history not only lets violence go on unabated, it also corrodes us internally and “lynch(es) our souls”. In support of this argument Vaidik presents illustrations of sectarian violence in the Indian past. She also shows, through examples drawn from her own family and neighbourhood, that the seeds of communal hatred and prejudice are often transmitted inter-generationally, if also unwittingly, among even educated Hindus, and that to this day those germs continue to spawn much wilful misunderstanding and negation of facts. Cultural nationalism Vaidik devotes a full chapter to the phenomenon of ‘cow protectionism’, tracing it back to its roots to pre-Independence India, thereby seeming to implicate a certain strain of the freedom struggle in the growth of cultural nationalism in the country. But perhaps the most telling section of the book is its Epilogue, which illustrates the wide prevalence at one time of animal-centred lifestyles among tribal Hindus and the attendant violence to animals, including cows, that would make today’s satvik Hindu nationalists squirm. The graphic descriptions — for example, of raktis or roasted films of goat blood, or of a dish made of the first thick milk of a cow who has just given birth — seem designed to elicit gut-level reactions, and they do. The point — that of the acceptance of cruelty to animals in Hindu lifestyles — is unmistakable. Vaidik does not end pessimistically, despite her thorough unmasking of the ‘invisible’ presence of violence in the Indian past. In the Epilogue she points out to Babu that he “is free to choose the elements of his inheritance” that he wishes to “own, to discard, ...or even to fight.” It is this implicit message that we have the power to acknowledge and get beyond our legacy of violence that is the crux of the book. Busting myths In a volume centred on the idea of violence as a manifestation of power one would have liked some discussion of how a patriarchal social structure generate and sanction gender violence and how violence is often markedly gendered. Vaidik comes close to this issue when she points to the symbiotic relationship between religion and politics, something that people often (choose to) ignore. That religion as a power-system is endemically patriarchal and, therefore, a bed-rock of gender oppression is a well-established fact; one wishes this interesting book took a quick look at this issue vis-a-vis Hinduism. In all, Vaidik does a rather good job of busting the myth of India’s inherently peaceful and inclusive (Hindu) culture, and the book’s unconventional structure will ensure a wider readership than a straightforward scholarly book normally gets. On the flip side, there is a danger that the story-like format and the designed-to-be understood language of the book would keep it from being taken seriously by scholars of history and Asian studies. That would be unfortunate, for the book has the potential to make an important intervention in the shaping of scholarly conceptualisations of our ancient land. The writer is an academic and a commentator  based in Bengal.  My Son’s Inheritance  Aparna Vaidik  Aleph  Rs. 499    Vaidik shows, through examples drawn from her own family and neighbourhood, that the seeds of communal hatred and prejudice are often transmitted inter-generationally
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Baba’s Sunday mutton curry||Like most Odia families, for us Sundays meant mutton. For my sisters and me, it also meant having our father at home for the whole day; dedicated government servant that he was, we hardly saw him on other days of the week. As for Ma, it gave her a short respite from the kitchen. Before we woke up, Baba would have come back from the market with the mutton, and Ma would have started grumbling about its quality. It was very easy for vendors to dupe him; he would often be saddled with stale fish, rotting vegetables and undesirable cuts of meat. Before leaving for the market, Baba would have soaked a few garlic cloves in water. After coming back, he would first grind a few pieces of turmeric and red chillies into a fine paste on the mortar stone. Then it would be the turn of cumin seeds, followed separately by onions, and then ginger-garlic; and finally, it would be coriander and poppy seeds. Each set of masalas would be ground one by one and kept aside singly as a ball on a thali. While grinding the masala, the hard masculinity of his habitual presence would be gone; his wrists would have the grace of an Odissi dancer . He would again seem to me an affectionate man, who used to laugh like a baby when as a child I would stop pretending to sleep and jump on his back when he came to our bed to set the mosquito net late in the evening. But while cooking, his face would be grim with concentration; most answers to questions would be in the form of grunts. After washing the potatoes, he would cut each one into evenly sized pieces with the skin on. Then in a wok, he would heat some mustard oil on a medium flame, add the potato pieces, sprinkle some salt and cook these till half-done. Step by step Baba would hedge his bets regarding the quality of the mutton he had bought by chopping the cuts into evenly sized chunks around three centimetres long. He would put these pieces in a big wok with a litre of hot water, salt, ground pepper and turmeric powder and stew for around 90 minutes on a slow flame with a lid covering the vessel. When the mutton got tender, he would scoop the pieces out and keep the stock with the melted fat aside. We children would then be called to sample ‘khaasi sijhaa’ — boiled mutton — in three separate small bowls. Each would contain three to four bits, with the younger ones getting the juicier, easy to chew portions. Then Baba would heat mustard oil in a big wok. When the oil started smoking, he would throw in some sugar. It would soon caramelise, the oil turning the colour of molten sunsets. Into this river the colour of diluted blood, Baba would add a couple of bay leaves, followed by a pinch of cumin seeds. Then he would start adding and frying the wet masala in an order reminiscent of a military march-past. First, the onion paste would go in, followed by the ground turmeric and red chillies; then the ginger-garlic would be thrown in, followed by cumin paste, ground coriander and poppy seeds. He would sauté each paste for 4-5 minutes, then add the next one in sequence; no shortcuts for him. By this time, he would be sweating profusely and the masala would be the colour of the Amazon in full spate, and smell like a tropical paradise. Lunch at last To this sautéd masala, he would add the fried potatoes and cook on a low flame. By now we children would be hungry and pester him to finish soon. But he would braise the potatoes in the spices with intermittent stirring for about a quarter of an hour, sprinkling water every minute or so, to ensure that the masala did not burn or stick to the bottom of the wok. When the potatoes were almost done, he would add the boiled mutton and continue to simmer while slowly smattering the wok with the mutton stock. With all the stock gone, he would add half a litre of hot water and boil the tarakari for a few minutes to get a very thin and watery gravy. It would be well after 1 p.m. by the time he was done; the regional film might have started on Doordarshan by the time Baba finished concocting his mutton curry. When he finally joined us after his post-cooking bath, we children and Ma would be almost halfway through the lunch of usuna (parboiled) rice and khaasi maangsa tarakari, as we sat in a half circle in front of our black-and-white Konark TV, enjoying the finesse of Baba’s hands finally getting the better of the gaucherie of his eyes. The writer is an author and researcher based in Bhubaneswar.    While grinding the masala, the hard masculinity of his habitual presence would be gone; his wrists would have the grace of an Odissi dancer. He would again seem to me an affectionate man
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Doctors with a healing touch||“Vaidyo Narayano Hari.” Our culture places physicians in an exalted position. Between this status and that of a professional to the core, we come across a blend of humanistic and patient-centred doctors. When I had fever for three days, I visited a doctor near my apartment. He diagnosed it as paratyphoid and put me on a course of medicines. Out of curiosity, I read the instructions of the drug manufacturer in fine print. Scared by the instruction that the medicine should be administered after blood test and further tests during the course of fever, I stormed into the consulting room and asked the doctor the reason for skipping the test. He smilingly asked me, “Do you want to get cured or the blood tests?” I was bowled over by his confidence. I got cured. Knowing that I play bridge, he invited me to his Sunday pastime, a break from his week-long practice. I enjoyed the coffee he brewed and his wit and learned to play bridge better. Our patient-doctor relationship took the backstage. In my job in a manufacturing organisation, the medical officer had an infectious smile. Asked about the secret of his demeanour, he would simply say, “Do not be serious always.” I told him my health problem. While the world over people are finding it difficult to lose weight, I found it next to impossible to do the opposite. Listening to all the methods I had tried and failed, he suggested a different technique. When this also did not work, he confided, “You are perfectly right to listen to your wife on all matters. But on this you simply disagree. Your health is good.” We used to conduct training for employees with a talk on “Health and managing stress”. After the talk, the doctor advised all participants, “Whenever you go on a holiday, make it a point not to lodge in company resorts.” He explained, “When you are lodging in company resort, the talk will be about the company, the bottom line, who got promoted and who missed. You will get back home more stressed.” I once decided to consult an Ayurvedic practitioner in his eighties, a physician very methodical in physical examination and recording symptoms. Spirit of the Vedas He knew the Ayurvedic texts in Sanskrit, would quote them and explain the treatment. Knowing my interest in the Vedas, he would ask me to join him in reciting a few lines related to health. He would make the formulations himself, telling me, “I am not giving you drugs. These are food supplements to detox and revitalise your immune system. These are specific for you and not the disease.” Even when leaving his clinic, I used to feel getting cured. Fortunately, the world has many such medical practitioners. Long live their tribe. lakshmibashyam@yahoo.com
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A rare political memoir that does not read like public relations||It’s hard to imagine a memoir that has the odds stacked against it quite so much as This Is What America Looks Like does. To begin with, it belongs to a genre (the political memoir) that produces PR tomes more than anything else. It is a pleasant surprise, then, that this memoir by 37-year-old Minnesota congresswoman Ilhan Omar, one of America’s best-known progressive politicians, is not just good — parts of it are inspirational. Meteoric rise Since 2019, Omar has served as the U.S. Representative for Minnesota’s 5th Congressional District. The Somalian-born Omar’s meteoric rise (notably, as part of ‘the Squad’, the progressive lawmaker quartet that also includes Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ayanna Presley and Rashida Tlaib) has, inevitably, also made her a target for American conservative media outlets and supporters of President Donald Trump — given the current political climate in the country, it’s no wonder that a strong black Muslim woman is seen as a threat. The opening chapters of the book tell us the story of how the Somalian civil war upended Omar’s life. Alongside her father and brothers she fled to Kenya where the family lived in a refugee camp for four years. A series of coincidences later, they applied for American citizenship through the United Nations. “Only in America will you ultimately become an American,” Omar’s father (who passed away recently) said. Combative teenager Arriving in Arlington, Virginia in 1995, the young Omar was bullied at school because of her hijab. A combative teenager, she got into some fights and “spent a lot of time in detention”. All that time spent studying in the detention room meant that by 16, Omar became a really good student, graduating from North Dakota State University with a degree in political science. Unlike a lot of politicians, Omar is straightforward about her failures and vulnerabilities. The language does not have the tell-tale signs that identify the PR-statement-by-proxy. She admits to going through “a Britney Spears-like” breakdown wherein she shaved her head. She’s honest and pragmatic about the challenges of being a young parent who also happens to be absolutely committed to her job. There’s little to no varnish in these revelatory sections and there’s no false modesty either. ‘Overblown’ controversies There’s a fair bit Omar has to say about the various controversies that have dogged her, most of them ridiculously overblown, like accusations of anti-Semitism that began soon after she commented on the Israel-Palestine conflict. Omar has made no secret of her pro-Palestine stance, much to the annoyance of both Republicans and Democrats (older Democrats are unabashed Israel supporters, for the most part). This book, too, contains passages that may be similarly misinterpreted. Like a passage where Omar expresses an admiration for Margaret Thatcher as a strong woman who navigated the male-dominated corridors of power. Even though she prefaces her remarks by distancing herself from Thatcherism, there have been out-of-context quotations already — remarkably, from critics on the Left. Clearly, Omar attracts both devoted following and flat-out ad hominem criticism. Given her popularity among the new generation of Democratic voters, we’re going to see a lot more of her. She has proven to be a vocal proponent of free and centralised healthcare, large-scale climate change measures, police reform, tighter gun control legislation and humane immigration policies — all the issues that Republicans hate and older Democrats dilly-dally on, anxious not to upset white centrist voters. The working-class people of America need someone to fight vigorously on their behalf, and Omar is ideally suited for that fight.  The writer and journalist is working on his first book of non-fiction.  This Is What America Looks Like  Ilhan Omar, Rebecca Paley  HarperCollins  Rs. 1,155 (Kindle price)
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Kibber’s snow leopards||Charudutt Mishra spent years living in Spiti, Himachal Pradesh, without catching sight of a snow leopard. Perhaps Kibber village where he was based wasn’t good habitat. By the 1990s, more people had gone in search of the mystical animal in its mountain fastness than had seen one. Only one photograph, taken by biologist George Schaller in 1970, circulated for more than 20 years. Catching a glimpse of one was like being granted a benediction. Not everyone ached to see a snow leopard. To resident communities, the animal brought bloodshed and loss of domestic animals. Over the years, they retaliated with preemptive violence, killing any that became trapped within livestock enclosures. While conceding that ‘do not kill’ is one of the precepts of their Buddhist philosophy, a village elder said, “We don’t have the ability to live with them and the damage they cause.” This admission opened Mishra’s eyes to their reality. “It isn’t enough to preach tolerance of predators,” he says. Like other researchers studying the losses borne by communities, Mishra calculated the economic cost of livestock lost to predators. It took him a while to understand money wasn’t the only driving force of villagers’ antipathy. Women, in particular, spend a lot of time tending to their animals and caring deeply about their welfare. When snow leopards kill one of these animals, they feel as devastated as those who lose their pets. Wild prey Both villagers and scientists were under the impression that domestic animals were the cats’ main sustenance. Mishra and the research team from the Snow Leopard Trust and Nature Conservation Foundation investigated. Snow leopard poop was chock-full of the fur of wild prey such as bharal and ibex. Since the predators didn’t take domestic animals often, securing livestock wouldn’t deprive snow leopards. With shepherds watching over cows, goats, and sheep as they graze in the meadows, snow leopards dare not take any but the occasional straggler. But they inflict severe damage at night when they occasionally sneak into poorly built enclosures. The jostling of animals in a confined space sends the cats into a killing frenzy, and the owner may find his entire flock dead at dawn. Mishra and his team help reinforce these indoor pens to keep out the predators. Creative solution Protecting yaks that free-range in the pastures throughout the summer months called for a creative solution. Bringing them back every evening posed practical difficulties. Nor could someone keep an eye on them. It was inevitable that predators would kill a few. The team suggested an insurance scheme might help offset the losses, but it was up to the villagers to frame the rules and operate it (See ‘Making Peace with the Shen’, June 10, 2017). The conservation team suggested the villagers set aside a tract of pastureland as a reserve, where the snow leopards’ wild prey can thrive. All these efforts helped people accept snow leopards and gradually the animals grew in number. Despite the researcher’s initial misgivings, the area was in fact fine habitat. Mishra saw his first snow leopard 10 years after he first stepped foot in Spiti. While skipping from rock to rock across a fast rushing stream, he lost his footing and fell into the freezing water. He bashed his head against rocks before his colleagues dragged him ashore. Bleeding and exhausted, he followed the others up the steep incline. When he paused to catch his breath, a rock moved. Snow leopard! The dream had taken a decade and a gash in his head to finally come to life. Back in Kibber, when he narrated his adventure, one of his friends joked, “If this is the price you had to pay to see the snow leopard, you should have jumped into the river 10 years ago.” Today, the village’s snow leopards are social media hits and the foundation for a thriving winter tourism industry. Luckily, tourists don’t have to fall into a river to spot the mystical snow leopard.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Beastly tales||A tiny tailor bird is a daily visitor to the hedge that grows next to my work area. As he struts around and picks insects off the leaves, he calls out piercingly. Sometimes, the calls seem rather hysterical and I often wonder what the fuss is all about. Is he calling for a mate? Has he seen a potential predator? Or is he just telling other birds that this is his territory and to stay away? It was of this little fellow that I thought, as I read Janaki Lenin’s latest book Every Creature Has a Story: What Science Reveals about Animal Behaviour . The book features a selection of 50 essays from her column in the online news portal The Wire. In her Introduction, Lenin offers an explanation for the diverse and disparate range of creatures featured. “...there are no discrete categories in Nature. It leaks, overflows, overlaps and intrudes across man-made boundaries,” she writes. Crooning nightingales Lenin breaks down scientific information and research for a lay person in simple, easy-to-understand language. A couple of times, Lenin sent me off another kind of hunt. In the first chapter ‘Good singers make the best dads’ (a title that tells you exactly what the essay is about), she writes: “Nightingale songs don’t only say — ‘I’m a King Bee, Baby’, ‘Stay Out of My Territory’, and ‘Won’t You Be My Love’.” I chuckled and promptly began looking up the songs. Of course, the pieces that dealt with creatures that I see around me everyday like the chameleon and bees were the ones I looked up first. ‘The eye of the chameleon’ makes for fascinating reading. Did you know that a chameleon can actually watch two things at the same time? “Each eye is controlled by the opposite eye of the brain so the brain’s left hemisphere knows what the right eye is doing and the right hemisphere the left.” Another gripping one is about bees. Worker bees, she writes, “range far and wide to gather pollen and nectar” and pick up germs too. This pollen is used to create royal jelly but how is it that the bees are not infected. Lenin goes on to describe experiments that will not only increase the immunity of the bees but also “reduce threat to human food security.” Slave for a wasp Other equally engrossing essays are about how temperature causes a sex change in the bearded dragons of Australia; the wasp that enslaves a spider to spin webs for it; the reason male sticklebacks hold back their urine for the length of their breeding season; and the parasite that alters animal behaviour. This is not to say that the other articles are not interesting. The good thing is that one doesn’t have to read the essays in any particular order. Lenin makes even rats interesting. I am wondering how I will react to the next one I see after reading the essay, ‘Empathetic rodents’. Though, of course, she’s talking about prairie voles and not the ones we consider a pest.  Every Creature Has a Story: What Science Reveals about Animal Behaviour  Janaki Lenin  HarperCollins  Rs. 599
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Born on August 2, 1876, Pingali Venkayya was a geologist and agriculturist who set up an educational institution near his home town. He was a freedom fighter who deserved a place in Indian history for creating something that flies high, but was forgotten for many years. He was eventually honoured in 2009 with a stamp that displayed his creation. What iconic symbol of the nation did Venkayya design? 2Dinanath Bhargava was an art student at Shantiniketan, known for his wash paintings. Nandalal Bose, his principal at that time, was working on the Constitution of India and gave him a task to complete. To ensure he got his art as realistic as possible, Bhargava studied the behaviour of certain animals at the Calcutta Zoo. Eventually, what he designed and incorporated into the Constitution was given a special status. What did Bhargava design? 3Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya was an educational reformer who founded Banaras Hindu University. In 1918, during his second term (of four) as president of the Indian National Congress, he popularised a certain line from an ancient Sanskrit Vedic text called the Mundaka Upanishad . When India became a Republic, this line was given national status. What line is this, which translates to ‘Veritas Vincit’ in Latin? 4 Anandamath is a Bengali work of fiction set in the background of the Bengal famine and Sannyasi Rebellion in 1770. Published in 1882 and translated as The Abbey of Bliss, it became synonymous with the struggle for Indian independence. The novel features a song that is translated to ‘I bow to thee, Mother’ that inspired freedom fighters. The first two stanzas of this song gained national importance in 1937 and then became a national symbol. What song was this? 5On April 1, 1973, the Indian government launched Project Tiger at the Jim Corbett National Park to save a fast dwindling population of tigers. At that event, the Royal Bengal Tiger was picked as the national animal of India. Prior to this, another animal held that position. One of the reasons given was that the previous animal was found only in one state, but the tiger was found in 16 states across India. Which animal is this? 6 Ficus benghalensis is the national tree of India. Some of its specimens have the largest canopy coverage in the world, including one in Andhra Pradesh that covers more than four acres. It is easily identifiable by its aerial roots that grow down from the branches and then become trunks themselves. It is considered to be a sacred tree across the country and is said to have been instrumental in helping the 24th Buddha and the first Jain Tirthankara attain enlightenment. How better do we know this tree that is native to India? 7 Platanista gangetica was chosen as the national aquatic animal of India in 2009. This species was first discovered in 1801 and was found to be unique as it can only live in fresh water and is essentially blind, hunting using ultrasonic sounds. Unfortunately their habitat is one of the most densely populated and highly polluted areas of the world. With only around 4,000 individuals remaining, they are endangered. What animals are these that were officially declared ‘nonhuman persons’ in 2013? 8This word is supposed to have come from the Sanskrit word for ‘wrought silver’, which in turn is thought to have come from another word that meant ‘shape’ or ‘image’. The first instance of this term being used in its current sense was during the rule of Sher Shah Suri. It was then standardised by the Mughal Empire. What term is this that is also officially used in Indonesia, Nepal, Pakistan, Seychelles, the Maldives and Mauritius? 9The great ‘Birdman’ Salim Ali was given the task of choosing India’s national bird. He heavily favoured a lovely creature that is one of the heaviest flying birds in the world. Unfortunately, it lost out to the peacock because its name could too easily be mispronounced as a term of slander. With only about 150 individuals remaining now, which critically endangered species is this that almost became our national bird? 10The Imperial Library was formed in 1891 by combining a number of secretariat libraries in Calcutta. After Independence, its name was changed and shifted to the Belvedere Estate, which used to be the residence of the Governor-General of India. Currently, it has more than two million books and is designated to collect, disseminate, and preserve all printed material produced in India. By what name is the library known now? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The house by the rail line||Growing up in middle class Mumbai in the 1970s and 1980s meant that often your house was adjacent to a railway track. Our morning alarm was the shrill whistle of an outstation train. Our favourite pastime was standing by the window and watch trains pass by and weave stories about the passengers. On days when train services were disrupted, my home would be a makeshift communications centre as people would call up constantly to know if services had resumed. I remember days when trains would break down opposite our home, and we would supply water and other necessities to the stranded passengers. Our knowledge of train timings would put a railway timetable to shame. Our daily routine revolved around this timetable — breakfast when the Bangalore-Mumbai train passed our house, and afternoon tea when the Mumbai-Kanyakumari express trundled past. After seeing off our loved ones from home, we would go and stand by the railway track at the appointed time to wave them another goodbye. Sometimes the trains would be inordinately late, but that posed no hassles for us as we were never ever hard-pressed for time. And when the train flew by, we caught but a glimpse of our friend or relative at the door waving frantically with a bright-coloured hanky. The joy that we gained in waving back was boundless. When it was our turn to travel, it was a matter of reciprocal courtesy that our friends wait to wave us goodbye. This session of goodbyes continued till we grew up and bade farewell to our childhood homes and set out to explore a world where such simple pleasures had lost their meaning. sivaramsharada@yahoo.com
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||New times, new venues||In a superbly imagined adaptation to the pandemic, honking horns and flashing headlights made for a different kind of applause last week at a Swiss classical music festival that was staged before a drive-in audience in the heart of the Alps. The Festival du Lied, which for nearly two decades has brought symphonies and concertos to the region, hit on the drive-in format as a way to allow concert-goers to attend safely during the coronavirus pandemic. Last Sunday, dozens of cars filled a large lot in the idyllic village of Charmey in western Switzerland with the Alps providing a dramatic backdrop. With their windows rolled down, some occupants closed their eyes while others were brought to tears by renowned tenor Ilker Arcayurek's moving rendition of Schubert’s Fruhlingsglaube. “This is an extraordinary concept,” said Willy Boder, speaking through his car window. A retiree, he is considered at risk of complications if he contracts COVID-19, and had remained stuck indoors for months. “Here, I had the opportunity to come and see a concert without risking going into a concert hall,” he said. “It is really very well done.” Marie-Claude Cudry, a middle-aged journalist and film director, agreed. “A lot of people, myself included, have really missed live music,” she said. “It is such a treat being here.” Cars were allowed to have no more than four occupants, who were asked to stay in their vehicles, while up to another 100 people could opt for seats, spaced far apart, to enjoy the concerts in the open air. The festival, created in 2001 by mezzo-soprano Marie-Claude Chappuis, was reimagined to fit the new COVID-19 reality. “It is very important to continue making music, but also to continue being careful,” Chappuis said, adding that the organisers had striven for a balance between the two. The programme this year included international artists such as opera stars Rachel Harnisch and Marina Viotti, and baroque recorder virtuoso Maurice Steger. Traditional chants in local dialects as well as jazz classics by the likes of Ella Fitzgerald and Nina Simone were also in the line-up. The vehicles cars drive into a parking lot used in winter for skiers waiting to be taken up the mountain towering above. A large outdoor stage has been supplemented by a giant screen to ensure that performances are visible to all.  “It was important to find a beautiful place for the drive-in,” she said, insisting the beauty of classical music required a setting that was more than “asphalt and cars”.  — AFP
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Play or defend?||Have a look at today’s deal and decide whether you would prefer to play or defend three no trump after a low spade lead. The opening spade lead goes to the five, nine, and jack. A low club to dummy’s king wins the trick and declarer continues with a low club, hoping that West’s ace is now bare. No luck as East wins with the jack and returns a spade. West cashes two spades and continues the suit while he still has the ace of clubs. South discards all of dummy’s clubs on the spades while he wins the fourth spade in his hand. He cashes all three high hearts in dummy and one high diamond. This gives South a perfect count on the hand, so he continues with a fourth heart to East, who must lead away from his queen of diamonds to give South his ninth trick. Do you choose to declare? Not so fast. West should watch what South discards from dummy on the queen and ace of spades. West should play a fourth spade only if dummy has shed both low red cards. Just one club discard from dummy and West should cash the ace of clubs and lead a red card himself to defeat the contract. We defend, right? No, we don’t! As the cards lie, South can always prevail by continuing with the queen of clubs from dummy after the king holds. We choose to declare!
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Emmy nominees||The nominations for the 72nd annual Emmy Awards were announced. While Netflix dominated the nominations with a thumping 160 nods, HBO’sWatchmen, a dystopian superhero drama, landed the most nominations of any series, with 26 nods. Amazon’sThe Marvelous Mrs. Maiselcame in second, with 20. The Emmy Awards will be hosted by Jimmy Kimmel, and will air on September 20.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Going nuclear||The world’s largest nuclear fusion project began its five-year assembly phase in France. The 20 billion-euro Iter project, which includes a 23,000 tonne reactor, superconducting magnets and 200 km of cables, aims to prove that fusion power — which can provide unlimited, clean energy in theory but poses daunting technical challenges — is commercially viable. It’s expected to produce the first batch of plasma in 2025.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||How to get your goat||Alarmed by the prospect of a surge in COVID-19 cases as Eid al-Adha approached, Pakistan’s authorities encouraged the public to buy their sacrificial animals online, or at least wear masks when visiting the cattle markets, which are generally located in bustling urban centres. Many are now paying charities to slaughter animals for them..
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Running feud||The Congress government in Rajasthan, intent on demonstrating its majority after the rebellion by Sachin Pilot and his followers, pressed for a frash session of the State Assembly but had three proposals turned down by Governor Kalraj Mishra (above), citing the short notice, before he finally agreed to a session from August 14.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Micro mystery||Scientists finally cracked a conundrum that has plagued humanity for eons: body odour. Specifically, the pungent smells that emanate from the armpit. They traced it to a particular enzyme in one of the microbes that inhabit the area. When these microbes consume an odourless compound released by our sweat glands, the enzyme causes them to produce the offending product — the smell-emitting thioalcohols.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The Wondrous and Tragic Life of Ivan and Ivana||Maryse Conde, trs Richard Philcox  World Editions Ltd Rs. 1021 (Kindle price) Burning issues are touched upon in this story about a pair of twins from Guadeloupe. Ivan and Ivana can read each other’s thoughts. One joins the police while the other is radicalised. They become both perpetrator and victim in a wave of violent attacks.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The Enchantress||Anuja Chandramouli  Rupa Rs. 295 Mohini’s mythical story is brought to life against the chaos and intrigue of a celestial quest for immortality. Mohini is part of Vishnu but also an autonomous individual of extraordinary beauty who takes both the gods and asuras for a ride as they fight over the nectar of immortality.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The Pull of the Stars||Emma Donoghue  Little, Brown and Company $28 Dublin, 1918. The Great Flu is at its height. In a maternity ward of a city hospital, Nurse Julia Power struggles to bring new lives to the world even as the pandemic rages. The nurse, a doctor and a young volunteer forge a deep bond of friendship in this world of fatigue, death, and unexpected love.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Estuary||Perumal Murugan,   trs Nandini Krishnan  Eka Rs. 499 Perumal Murugan’s latest is an exploration of the human condition through the story of a father and son. In classic Murugan style, there’s a lyrical simplicity to the story that also sharply parodies the accoutrements of urban living.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Intimations||Zadie Smith  Penguin Random House  Rs. 299 This book of six new essays was written during the early months of the lockdown for COVID-19. Smith explores ideas and questions prompted by an unprecedented situation. What does it mean to submit to a new reality — or to resist it?
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The Truth Machines: Policing, Violence, and Scientific Interrogations in India||Jinee Lokaneeta  Orient Blackswan  Rs. 795 This volume examines the emergence and use of three scientific techniques — lie detectors, brain scans, and narcoanalysis (the use of truth serum) — in the Indian criminal justice system.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Hinduism Before Reform||Brian A. Hatcher  HUP/Harper  Rs. 699 Focusing on two early 19th century Hindu communities, the Brahmo Samaj and the Swaminarayan Sampraday, Hatcher explores how urban and rural people thought about faith, ritual, and gods. He sketches a radical new view of the origins of contemporary Hinduism.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Tea War: A History of Capitalism in China and India||Andrew B. Liu  Yale University Press  Rs. 3,807 At the turn of the 20th century, tea represented the largest export industry of both China and colonial India. The writer argues that traditional technologies and practices were central to modern capital accumulation across Asia.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3111||Across  1 ‘Unit of energy’? … ‘inert gas’? … technical gibberish (6) 4 Trump’s, perhaps, after getting elected: ‘Bigly!’ (2,6) 9 They loathe seeing radiators losing energy (6) 10 Perhaps pen letters in Athens describing ‘the empty pasty’ (4,4) 12 Revolutionary in charge, suppressing Polish: sweet (8) 13 Lager, one repeatedly called for by Brando (6) 15 Found the goat striving to run amok (3,3,2,4) 18 Beast that’s not spotted in the wild, clapboard elk (5,7) 21 Chorale not about to be arranged for Asian city (6) 22 Italian physicist, with anger, becomes prolific essayist (8) 24 Waiting, backed up; EU repeatedly getting into N. Ireland question; good! (8) 25 Brief pint, drinking ‘Queen & Country’ (6) 26 Yech! I’d nastily consume beasts like anteaters (8) 27 What drug pusher might say at entrance: ‘Sweet dreams’ (6)  Down  1 Avant-gardist seen in can, euphemistically (prison) (4,4) 2 Perhaps gîtes in the Dordogne to be overrun with vermin (8) 3 Novel, one that’s familiar to you and Everyman (3,6,6) 5 Not a single American displays common sense (4) 6 Blasted horns, portent before goal for team (7,5,3) 7 Primarily, delay a while, delay, loiter endlessly? (6) 8 Arrangement with cheap horn for Spooner (6) 11 Desired broccoli, essentially producing wind (7) 14 Most ayatollahs brought up a vegetable (7) 16 Largely unadorned little Italian church? Actually, for starters, it’s anything but! (8) 17 Head after comic figure, sloth (8) 19 It commemorates an unpleasant mixture of bacteria and saliva (6) 20 Beat with run in the silence (6) 23 Ancient empire where bionic man oddly not seen (4)
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Blackboard jungle||The Union Cabinet approved a new ‘toddler-to-college’ National Education Policy that promises major changes at every level. Highlights include a standardised entrance test for universities, like the American SAT, and four-year undergraduate degrees. M.Phils have been dropped. The school system will change to a 5+3+3+4 structure, while the medium of instruction will be the mother tongue or local language till Class V.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Prime suspect||Najib Razak, Prime Minister of Malaysia from 2009 to 2018, was convicted on all seven charges in the first trial linked to the multibillion-dollar 1MD scandal, one of the world’s biggest corruption scandals, in which Razak and others are alleged to have embezzled vast sums of government money through a state investment fund. Facing 12 years in jail, he vowed to appeal the verdict.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||More apps banned||A little over a month after the Union government banned 59 Chinese apps, including TikTok, Shareit and Club Factory, citing a threat to the “sovereignty and integrity of India”, it banned another 47 apps developed in China, under the provisions of the Information Technology Act. While the list of the latest set of apps is not yet known, they are believed to be clones of the 59 banned initially.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||3 billion affected||The bushfires that swept through Australia in 2019 and early 2020 have killed or displaced 3 billion animals, according to a report. These include over a hundred million mammals and birds, over 50 million frogs, and 2.5 billion reptiles. The deaths came not just from the blaze, but also from starvation and dehydration. “This ranks as one of the worst wildlife disasters in modern history,” said Dermot O’Gorman, WWF-Australia.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Novel coronavirus circulated unnoticed in bats for decades, study says||The novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), which has so far infected over 17.6 million people and killed nearly 0.68 million across the world, has been circulating unnoticed in bats for decades. Bats have been the “primary reservoirs” for novel coronavirus. The SARS-CoV-2 virus is likely to have diverged from closely related bat viruses called the sarbecovirus, 40-70 years ago, a study published in Nature Microbiology says. In early February, Chinese researchers had found that SARS-CoV-2 is most closely related to RaTG13 sarbecovirus, which was isolated from a horseshoe bat in Yunnan province in 2013. Based on the nearly 96% genome sequence identity between SARS-CoV-2 and RaTG13, a team led by Zheng-Li Shi from the Wuhan Institute of Virology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, China said in a paper published in February in Nature that an origin in bats is probable for the COVID-19 outbreak. The current study by Prof. Maciej Boni from the Pennsylvania State University in the U.S. and others not only confirms the findings of Dr. Shi but also suggests the probable time when SARS-CoV-2 diverged from RaTG13. The authors analysed the evolutionary history of SARS-CoV-2 using genomic data on sarbecoviruses. They employed three approaches to identify regions in the virus that had not undergone recombination and that could be used to reconstruct its evolution. All approaches suggest that RaTG13 and SARS-CoV-2 share a single ancestral lineage and estimate that SARS-CoV-2 genetically diverged from related bat sarbecoviruses in 1948, 1969 and 1982, respectively. “The findings demonstrate how critical it is to undertake genomic analysis of bat viruses,” says Prof. Satyajit Mayor, Director of the Bengaluru-based National Centre for Biological Sciences. “Many species of bat harbour several viruses which can cross over to new hosts. When we disrupt habitats, we will face more such threats.” No recombination Importantly, Prof. Boni and co-authors say that novel coronavirus itself has not arisen from recombination of any sarbecoviruses. The ability of the spike protein in the virus to bind to ACE2 human receptors had emerged within bats and is an ancestral trait shared with bat viruses and “not one acquired recently via recombination”. According to them, the results suggest the presence of a “single lineage” circulating in bats with properties that allowed it to infect human cells. This was also the case with the bat sarbecoviruses related to the 2002 SARS lineage. The Nature Microbiology paper also challenges the notion that pangolins would have served as an intermediate host where the virus would have acquired its ability to infect human cells thus facilitating the jump into humans. They conclude that it is plausible that pangolins could have been a conduit for transmission to humans, but there is “no evidence that pangolins facilitated adaptation to humans” by being an intermediate host. While pangolins or other species might have served as an intermediate host before the virus jumped into humans, “current evidence is consistent with the virus having evolved in bats” and rendering the virus the ability to replicate in the upper respiratory tract of both humans and pangolins, they say. Before pangolins, snakes were thought to have served as intermediate hosts of SARS-CoV-2. But the present study found no evidence to support this hypothesis. Days after this was hypothesised, the scientific community had nearly ruled it out. Lurking danger The researchers also caution that the long divergence period raises the possibility of other undocumented virus lineages circulating in horseshoe bats that have the potential to jump from bats to humans. Different and yet unstudied bat sarbecoviruses that have descended from the SARS-CoV-2/RaTG13 common ancestor forms a clade with properties to infect many different mammals, including humans. “Without better sampling, however, it is impossible to estimate whether or how many of these additional lineages exist,” they write. The diversity and dynamic process of recombination amongst lineages in the bat reservoir makes identifying viruses that can cause major outbreaks difficult. “This underscores the need for a global network of real-time human disease surveillance systems… for pathogen identification and characterisation,” they say.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Gene variants and susceptibility to schizophrenia||Schizophrenia is a constellation of symptoms such as hearing voices, false beliefs and trouble with thinking and concentration, and its cause is not exactly known. In that sense, schizophrenia is still an enigma. Studies of schizophrenia among groups of varied ethnicities across the world have shown associations of the disease with alleles (variant genes) related to the human leukocyte antigen – an important part of the immune system and related to a group of genes on chromosome six. However, the specific allele that was found to be associated with schizophrenia varied from group to group. Recently, a pilot study on a south Indian, Tamil-speaking group consisting of 97 people with schizophrenia and 103 controls was carried out by Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF) and Jeevan Stem Cell Foundation, in Chennai. The study, published in International Journal of Immunogenetics finds an association of specific alleles with the disease. The paper shows an association between HLA variations and schizophrenia. “HLA is important for proper functioning of immune system and its variations can lead to immunological abnormalities. When the immune system acts up, as in autoimmune disorders, generating anti-NMDA receptor antibodies, for example, it can lead to schizophrenia,” says Dr Vijaya Raghavan, Consultant Psychiatrist, Research, SCARF. Different variants Earlier studies indicate that different variants of specific genes (these variants are called alleles) may be involved in different ethnic groups. “Studies done in Saudi Arabia and Tunisia have shown a particular HLA allele (DRB1*03) to be a risk factor for schizophrenia but in [a study involving a] Japanese population it was a different allele (DRB1*01) which predisposed to the disease condition,” says Dr S. Vani Laboratory Director, Jeenomics, Jeevan Stem cell Foundation, Chennai, in an email to The Hindu. She is a principal investigator of the present study along with Dr. Vijaya Raghavan. The occurence of different variants itself is not a problem, as HLA genes are extremely variable and are very different across human populations, according to Prof. Sanjeev Jain, Department of Psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru, who was not involved in the study. “The reasons are not entirely clear, but perhaps selection and ‘memory’ of past selection pressures (infections) play a role,” he adds. In the present study, the researchers found that there was a higher frequency of HLA class I alleles ( HLA-A*01:01:01, -B*37:01:01 and -C*01:02:01) in individuals with schizophrenia as compared to the controls. Individuals carrying these alleles could be susceptible to schizophrenia. They also found a negative correlation with some alleles (HLA-B*35:03:01 and HLA-DRB1*04:03:01) which were found in lower frequency in individuals with schizophrenia. These could be protective alleles in schizophrenia. Small sample “The paper adds a valuable piece of information, on the relation between immune response genes and schizophrenia,” says Prof. Jain. “It is a small sample, and the associations are observed only in a subset (often females only); correcting for multiple comparisons may reduce the significance of the findings…” he adds. Amino acids The researchers also studied the type of amino acid present in the peptide binding groove of HLA molecule and compared it among patients and controls, finding a significant difference. “The amino acid level association study has not been reported earlier in schizophrenia,” says Dr. Vani, adding that the results need to be strengthened further using a larger sample size.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Study finds physical distancing linked to drop in coronavirus spread||Implementation of physical distancing policies nationally is associated with significant reductions in transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, that causes COVID-19, and reduced community mobility, according to researchers. The study, published in the journal PLOS ONE , found that physical distancing policies enacted nationally in 46 countries prevented an estimated 1.57 million cases of COVID-19 over a two-week period, representing a 65% reduction in new cases. The researchers emphasise the significant benefits that can be achieved by individuals practising social distancing measures. “From our data-driven analysis, it became clear that practising social distancing can have a huge impact on transmission rates,” said Raghu Kalluri, a professor at The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in the US. Analysing the effects of social distancing policies globally, the researchers were able to obtain sufficient data for 46 countries with national social distancing policies, 74 nations without such policies and 14 with regional policies.  Nation-wide policies The data indicate that significantly greater reductions in transmission were seen in countries after implementing a national social distancing policy compared to those with regional policies or a matched time frame in countries without policies, the researchers said. No significant difference was observed between countries with regional policies and those without social distancing policies, they said. Countries with any social distancing policies had significantly reduced community mobility relative to nations without policies, and those with national policies saw greater decreases than countries with regional policies, according to the researchers. There was a strong correlation between decreased mobility and decreased transmission of the virus, highlighting the importance of individuals practising social distancing to effectively prevent transmission of the virus, they said. “This is clear evidence that social distancing measures can collectively have tremendous impacts on reducing transmission of SARS-CoV-2, and we encourage individuals to practice social distancing to help control spread of infections,” said Dr. Kalluri.  Useful evidence “We believe these data will provide useful evidence for public health officials and policy makers when considering future measures to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in their communities,” he said. The researchers acknowledge the study is limited by a reliance on direct COVID-19 testing, which may underestimate prevalence. They also focused on spread rates following implementation of social distancing policies as an internal control for the numerous additional factors likely contributing to spread rates.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Arming India’s poor against the pandemic - 2||Gratified by the suggestions and critiques of our earlier article of July 19: ‘Arming India’s poor against the pandemic’, we offer an updated Part 2 here. The very first update is the comprehensive and authoritative paper by C. V. Harinarayan and H. Akhila, titled: “Modern India and the tale of twin nutrient deficiency- calcium and vitamin D- nutritional trend data of 50 years-retrospect, introspect and prospect”, that has appeared in the journal Frontiers in Endocrinology, August 9, 2019 https://doi.org/10.3389/fen-do.2019.00493. Dr. Harinarayan has been involved in this area for decades, conducting trials and comparing levels of calcium and Vitamin D in rural, urban, poor, not-so-poor and well-to-do persons in Tirupati, Karnataka and elsewhere, with rigour. In the section on Prospect in this paper, the authors have recommended several steps that should be taken to propagate them through schools and colleges, and social media using cell phones, TV and radio, how nutritional deficiencies can be overcome through the help of expert groups and through supplementation on a mass scale. (I recommend that this important paper be read by all). While many of these suggestions are already being practised, there is need for even more. Genetics and vitamin D deficiency On an aside, and interestingly, while they (and Selvarajan et al. in 2017, too) ask why a sun-blessed nation still exhibits vitamin D deficiency, we notice from other reports that a similar deficiency occurs among people of the Indian sub-continental origin settled in Great Britain (for example, Patel et al., International Journal of Cardiology, 2013, 2172-76 <doi:10.1016/j.ijcard.2012.05.081>. This has made some wonder whether any genetic factors are involved. (Light falling on the skin produces a precursor molecule, which is processed in the cells of the organs to make vitamin D, and if this becomes faulty due to any genetic/metabolic error, deficiency might arise). One Roger Bouillon writes in Nature Reviews Endocrinology, 13, 464-79, 2017, that there might be at least four genetic variants. It would be worthwhile for Indian geneticists to take up this possibility in our deficient populations. Harinarayan and Akhila point out that calcium levels are deficient not just in India’s poor, but even among the well-to-do. The data provided by the National Nutrition Monitoring Board (NNMB) reveal that over the last 50 years, the calcium (Ca++) levels in average Indian populations has plummeted from 700 units per day to 300-400, (far below the normal, needed level of 800-1,000), again a puzzle for the top country in the world which produces the maximum amount of milk per day! Milk products are rich sources of calcium. This leads to weaker bones and diseases like rickets. Ca++ is also needed by vitamin D for its action. Thus, both sub-normal calcium and vitamin D is a double whammy! The paper thus suggests, in the Prospects section, that while supplementation of these two is essential for a healthy India, we should also have all schools have their students stand in sunlight for 20-30 minutes daily, and encourage physical exercise and games for an hour per day. These will be in addition to the daily mid-day meals that they offer to all students (and teachers). Fighting hidden hunger The Central and State governments, many NGOs and public spirited individuals have been helping the poor by offering free wheat/rice plus pulses. In addition, they have been offering highly subsidized food items like sugar, milk and some vegetables, but no cooked food. Nutrition experts across India have emphasised that besides vitamin D and calcium, supplementation, food rich in micro-nutrients (such as B complex vitamins, plus Ca, Fe, Zn, Iodine, Se, Zn) be offered, so that immunity against any infection is also ensured. Such an addition takes care of what is called ‘hidden hunger’ in poorly nourished people. As cooked food is given in schools in several states, anganwadis and such, the meals offered should have the kind of menu that offers the best combination of vegetable components in the meal. Many nutritionists have suggested that besides dal (or sambar) using pulses, such meals include vegetables like spinach and other green leafy vegetables, beans, peas, carrots, tomato, potato, milk/curd and fruits like bananas, and omega 3 and 6 fatty acids (and an egg) are contained in the meal. Likewise, they have suggested what a balanced non-vegetarian meal could be, which is wholesome, yet affordable. What is affordable? Madhura Swaminathan of MSSRF writes in The Hindu of July 28, 2020 that as per FAO’s State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2020 (SOFI 2020), a nutrient-adequate meal costs PPP $2.12 (or Rs. 25 per meal or Rs. 50 for 2 meals per day), and a ‘healthy diet’ about Rs. 100 per day. For over 370 million poor people in India, this is a big figure! It is clear that besides the valiant efforts of Central and State governments, substantial contributions must come from private foundations (Indian and international), CSR from large industries, and individual donors, so that we may reach this Rs. 100 per day’s meals. It can be done. Nutrition from seaweed Seaweeds are nutritious additions to everyday meals. Mainland India has a coastline of over 7,500 km, and island mass coastline of 5,500 km, and seaweeds, namely algae, are grown and processed for use, including for food. Japan, Korea, China and most Southeastern countries eat them. These are vegetarian, and rich in vitamins, minerals, iodine and omega 3 fatty acids. The Central Salt and Marine Chemicals Research Institute (CSMCRI) at Bhavnagar has published the paper: (Dixit D.C. et al., Assessment of the nutritive, biochemical, antioxidant and antibacterial potential of eight tropical macro algae along Kachchh coast, India as human food supplements, Journal of Aquatic Food Product Technology, 27:1, 61-79, DOI: 10.1080/10498850.2017.1396274 https://doi.org/10.1080/10498850.2017.1396274. It is time that we Indians also begin adding seaweeds in our meals.  (Grateful thanks to Dr. Mahtab Bamji for her continuing advice).  dbala@lvpei.org
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||How fire ants float||How do fire ants present together in large numbers float on water?  A single fire ant (Solenopsis invicta) dropped in water struggles, but when there are many of them together, the ants can float effortlessly even for days at a stretch. Fire ants are originally from the rainforests of Brazil and have evolved a strategy to keep their colonies together due to the regular flooding of their habitat. Using time-lapse photography, a three-member team led by David L. Hua from Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, U.S. found that fire ants, when present in a group, tend to link their bodies together to build “waterproof rafts.” Lotus leaves, rose petals and a host of other plant parts exhibit water repellency. Water repellency is achieved through the hydrophobic nature of the surface. Much like lotus leaves, the researchers found that the fire ants that gathered together in water exhibited a hydrophobic surface. By linking their bodies together, a process analogous to the weaving of a waterproof fabric, the fire ants enhanced their water repellency, they write in a study published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. The waterproof raft they build, by linking their bodies, is achieved by trapping of ants at the raft edge by their neighbours. The researchers used liquid nitrogen to freeze the ants to study how the ant linked together within the raft. They found that ants, “gripped each other by using a combination of mandibles, tarsal claws, and adhesive pads located on the ends of their tarsi,” (the bones of the proximal segment of the foot).
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Indian Matchmaking holds up a mirror||Let us begin by admitting that Indian Matchmaking is a brilliant show. Like all the best series — Downton Abbey , Game of Thrones , How t o Get Away w ith Murder — it is absolutely binge-worthy. But unlike them, it relies on something much more powerful than a good, solid story. It is imminently, pervasively real. There isn’t a single Indian alive, within the country or elsewhere, whose life isn’t touched by an arranged match somewhere in their family tree. The showmakers recognised this, and linked the series with the other most powerful thing essential to our social and online existence today: anger. As ‘woke’ millennials ranted about how the show ‘glorified’ an outdated, patriarchal tradition that has no place in ‘today’s world’ (whatever that means), more and more people across India and the globe tuned in to Sima Taparia-from-Mumbai’s iconic, cringe-inducing pronouncements on girls who needed to ‘adjust’ and be ‘flexible’. Everyone wanted to slap Pradhyuman for being a flake, Akshay for not being one, and both for rejecting scores of girls. We all wanted Aparna to lighten up, Nadia to sober down, and both to get suitable guys who understood them. It was glorious.  Playing the inclusive card  Apart from these obviously astute aspects of the making of this show, it accomplished something else no other series has done so seamlessly: it was ‘inclusive’. So much so that it actually didn’t feel forced. Let me count the ways: we have a less-than-perfect cynical lawyer in her early 30s; a nomadic, multi-ethnic 20-something into Bollywood dancing; an intelligent, funny, dark-skinned, balding school counsellor; a narcissistic and hugely privileged amateur cook and for-show-playboy; and a browbeaten mama’s boy who is also burdened with the birth of his elder brother’s baby. The best screenwriters in the world have not been able to show this range, variety and mix of Indians in one storyline. Ever. Even GoT had to pick its characters from seven imaginary kingdoms. But the main surprise from a show titled Indian Matchmaking came in the application of the process of matchmaking itself. Instead of being shown as the norm for ready-to-marry Indians, the idea of the arranged marriage was treated in individual contexts. This came home to me during Vyasar’s monologue, where he spoke about having dated previously and has now decided to opt for this route to find a life partner. The same thing applied to Ankita. And throughout the show, it was the various aspects of matchmaking and how it operates today, now, here, that we saw unfolding episode after episode. It succeeded because it gave us the freedom to judge and react to — and in many cases, to relate to — the situations the characters found themselves in.  Words that matter  The best part? We weren’t given any, absolutely not a single atom of morality. There was no lesson to be learned at the end. It was the perfect documentary of a custom that has prevailed and adapted itself over the centuries to suit the needs of those who use it for the variety of benefits it brings them. And while long usage does not make matchmaking right or acceptable, it can be argued that the show does not speak in its favour either, let alone glorify it. If anything, the overarching theme of Indian Matchmaking seems to be arch sarcasm. Riding on the crest of Sima Taparia’s démodé judgments, complex and fascinating characters are summed up succinctly into a few words — hatthi (strong-willed), jiddi (stubborn) and swabhimani (proud) — supplied by her tech-friendly face-reader. The fact that she considers her work a god-given mandate draws a nice parallel with megalomaniacal political figures who think they know best for the people. Indeed, more than one participant turns to Sima j i because “if not her, then who?” It is a phrase we have heard often in the past months even as evidence of utter failure continues to pile up, much like Sima j i ’s useless stack of CVs and failed dates. So let’s see the show for what it is: a mirror. And not rely on a commercial enterprise to bear and discharge the responsibility of taking a moral stance. Mithai is, one realises, traditional. But let’s take this one with a pinch of peri-peri.  The author is a fashion commentator and Communications Director at the House of Angadi.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Honey, I shot the kids||This lockdown I’ve been occasionally dipping into old photos, something I loved doing as a kid. We used to have about three or four family albums, and you can see how they move down the years from carefully posed black-and-white photos of naked babies, annual vacations and headshots to the more casual and coloured era of weddings, Christmas parties and New Year dances, till they vanish altogether as the idea of the album dies out. Gone are the beautiful thick black pages, photos attached with adhesive corners, each page protected by tracing paper, replaced by the ugly plastic sleeves of the studio album provided free each time you gave in a roll for developing. That’s gone too. Photographs are innumerable and so valueless nobody prints them anymore. They float in ether now, soulless and lost. The lockdown has filled the airwaves with these empty photos. Pictures of pets and food and selves shared as substitutes for the shared lives now missing. The camera in my very first smartphone filled me with a false sense of my artistry, but now I rather hate the blighted thing. Especially when other people wield it. Hell, Sartre would have said today, is other people’s phones. And there’s nothing quite as hellish as people constantly whipping out a phone and pointing it at themselves or at you at the least provocation. A random lunch, a dinner with the spouses of your spouse’s colleagues, a meeting with a distant cousin thrice removed whom you plan to arrange never to meet again. I have no idea why these non-events are commemorated by the phone camera. Who cares? Why must a perfectly ordinary dinner party end with everyone grinning inanely into a phone? It’s like we are all goldfish in a bowl, swimming on show, pouting and kissing glass walls vacuously, endlessly. Speaking of which, how wonderful that one might not be required to attend weddings anymore in a post-pandemic world! No more ghastly giving-present photo ritual. No more standing in queue like you’re boarding an Indigo flight, only you’re in high heels and best sari. No more being marched across that bizarre desi ‘Wedding Stage’ to pose like cattle as the camera records you handing over the present. There’s an inherent inelegance to the whole procedure that makes me shudder. I am getting far better at handling all this though. Some months ago, we hosted a couple, with whom we are politely acquainted, for dinner. As soon as the eating was done, the lady stirred to life and fishing about in her bag, she trilled: “We really should all take a photo now.” I trilled right back: “No, we really shouldn’t.” It worked like magic. I am proud of my growing photo repellent skills. At one time, the idea of a photograph was precious. A day was set aside, a roll bought, camera loaded, hair brushed. Picking up the prints from the studio was an event of high excitement. You were heart-broken that your favourite shot was over-exposed or delighted you had squeezed out two extra shots from the roll. Just 30 or so photographs at one time. A finite number. A limited hoard. To be carefully filed in those albums, brought out on Sundays and high days as a treat. We held those prints of loved ones with as much care as we did their living counterparts. My father at 25, slim and handsome, holding a cigarette with that stylishness only a black-and-white photograph can impart. My mother dressed up as a qawwali singer for the fancy dress bash at the club. There’s a deep sense of entering other worlds when one holds physical prints in the hand and pores over them. Like that childhood fantasy of being inside the scenes you saw through a bioscope or through the lens of that Viewfinder toy we all had. When my mother was grieving, we siblings would show her umpteen photographs of dad on our phones. But finally, the only thing that made sense was to make prints of them, so that she could hold them in her hands and flip through them endlessly or tuck them away under her pillow at night. Have you tried tucking a blasted phone under your pillow at night? The only thing you could possibly evoke is radiation. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Courting controversy in Rajasthan||The story so far: In Rajasthan, Governor Kalraj Mishra repeatedly turned down the advice of the Council of Ministers to convene a session of the Rajasthan Assembly. He insisted that a 21-day notice is essential for a session, demanded to know the purpose of calling it, and put other conditions such as maintenance of social distancing norms and recording of proceedings. He agreed to summon the House on August 14, only after the Council of Ministers agreed to the 21-day notice. The Governor’s action has raised the question whether he has the power to turn down the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. What are the powers of a Governor? The controversy in Rajasthan now is around the Governor’s refusal to summon a session as desired by the Council of Ministers; in Arunachal Pradesh in 2015, the Governor changed the schedule of a session and set its agenda without a recommendation from the Chief Minister. In 2016, a five-judge constitution Bench of the Supreme Court dealt with questions arising out of the situation, which was comparable to Rajasthan today — rebellion in the ruling Congress and the Governor appearing eager to help the rebels. In the resulting Nabam Rebia, Bamang Felix v. Deputy Speaker and others case, the Supreme Court of India examined the powers of the Governor, particularly with reference to summoning an Assembly session. The top court reiterated that “the functions, duties and powers of the Governor by or under the Constitution are ‘cabined, cribbed, confined’.” The Bench explored the Governor’s powers vis-à-vis the executive and the legislature. Who summons an Assembly session? The Supreme Court held that the Governor’s power “under Article 174 to summon, prorogue and dissolve the house(s) must be exercised in consonance with the aid and advice of the chief minister and his council of ministers. In the above situation, he is precluded [from taking] an individual call on the issue at his own will, or in his own discretion”. The “discretion given to the Governor in respect of his relations with the Legislative Assembly is not only limited and circumscribed by the Constitution but also by the Rules framed by the Legislative Assembly under Article 208 of the Constitution”. Can the Governor direct the agenda or procedure of the legislature? The proceedings of the legislature are guided by rules made by it, and the Governor cannot have any say in it, points out P.D.T. Achary, former Secretary General of the Lok Sabha. Courts have directed video recording of procedure on occasions, but Mr. Achary says that is an overreach. For instance, the rule of 21-day notice for the session was first set by the Lok Sabha and adapted by State legislatures. The Lok Sabha has since reduced it to 15 days. But the Speaker has the powers to call a session with a shorter notice. When can the Governor act without the advice of the Council of Ministers? In some States, the Governor has special powers to advance tribal welfare. A Governor can reserve a bill passed by the legislature for the consideration of the President of India, and he or she can recommend President’s rule in a State. If the Chief Minister and his Council of Ministers lose their majority, or they refuse to recommend a session in six months, or there is a reasonable doubt about their majority, the Governor could demand a session. The Governor invites a person who he thinks has the legislative majority to form a government, but the use of this power cannot be arbitrary. If there is a Council of Ministers with a majority, the Governor has to go by its recommendation to dissolve the legislature. In the event of a Chief Minister and his Council of Ministers losing the majority, the Governor can use his or her discretion to either explore the formation of a new government or dissolve the House. Is the Governor bound by people’s representatives?  The Constituent Assembly very consciously limited the Governor’s discretionary powers. The misuse of the Governor’s office by parties in power at the Centre to disturb State governments in control of the Opposition has remained a scourge. But the constitutional scheme is very clear, as stated in the 2016 Supreme Court judgment that a Governor “cannot have an overriding authority, over the representatives of the people, who constitute... the state legislature... and/or even the executive government functioning under the council of ministers with the Chief Minister as the head”.  The proceedings of the legislature are guided by rules made by it, and the Governor cannot have any say in it, points out P.D.T. Achary, former Secretary General of the Lok Sabha
02 August 2020||New Delhi,||Second serosurvey begins||As many as 1,118 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,36,716, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. Also, 26 more deaths have been reported, taking the toll to 3,989. Of the total cases, 1,22,131 people have recovered and there are now 10,596 active cases. A second serological survey, in which blood samples of random people from across the city will be taken to check how many have developed antibodies against COVID-19, began on Saturday. “The survey began in five districts on Saturday morning. It will start in the remaining six districts from Sunday,” a health department official said. The result of a similar survey done from June 27-July 5, in which around 22,000 samples were taken, had shown that 23.4% of the population had developed antibodies. The number of new cases has been dropping ever since it touched almost 4,000 — highest so far — on June 23. Daily new cases have been less than 1,500 for the past 16 consecutive days. The active cases have also been decreasing; from 27,007 on July 1 to 10,596 on Saturday — a drop of 60.8%. Out of the total 18,154 tests done in the past 24 hours, 71.6% were rapid antigen tests, which have shown low positivity in the city compared to RT-PCR tests. The number of people admitted to COVID-19 hospitals has also been decreasing, from 5,892 on July 1 to 2,979 on Saturday. In the same period, the number of patients in home isolation has decreased from 16,703 to 5,660. The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive for the virus, has dropped from 12.2% to 6.1%. The number of containment zones decreased to 496 on Saturday following a reassessment this week.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Hope in a gin bottle||In the last four months, Twinkle Khanna’s go-to home embellishment has been money plant saplings in empty alcohol bottles. “I have a lot of gin bottles because I have been drinking a lot of it during the lockdown. They are my new vases,” says the 46-year-old writer, columnist and interior designer. The human eye, she says, is naturally oriented to see life in the colour green, more so now, when we are confined in our homes due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Closely linked to our emotions, colour can be instrumental in uplifting our mood, says Khanna, who is partial to all shades of blue. “I’m always wearing [the colour] and have blue around me.” She talks about updating living spaces with colour, and this includes the bathroom, which doesn’t have to be a “boring and sterile white”. The ambassador for American bath design brand, Kohler, says, “It is only now that we are realising how important a bathroom is. It is almost like a sacred space because it is the only place you are alone, especially if you have kids.” DIY memories That said, Khanna has ensured that her children have been a part of home improvement activities during the lockdown. “As a child, I had learnt to crochet and embroider, and I’ve been doing embroidery hoops with my children. Hopefully, we will make something that will have value, if not materialistically, then as a memory of doing this activity together at a time like this,” she says. Quick DIY tips like using old shawls as upholstery have worked well for Khanna, who believes recycling household items is the best way to usher in some change at the moment. As an interior designer, she has held sustainability and durability in high regard. “Construction itself is non-sustainable,” she observes. “But within that framework, we have to maximise output by incorporating elements like rainwater harvesting and solar energy, for instance.” When she started her brand, The White Window, they had no access to western designs, compelling her to look at homegrown artisans. “We have the best carvers and artisans in India. We are [now increasingly] looking inwards, not just in designs but also in culture,” she says. As residences are doubling up as office spaces during lockdown, Khanna resorts to making an armrest of pillows on her bed and using them as a table to break the monotony of a desk routine. She calls it a pillow fortress. It is a hack she recommends, especially if your job is to write. “It is quite ergonomically viable,” she observes. “For me, headphones are also vital because I get distracted by noise. I put them on while writing and play white noise or sounds of a washing machine or the air conditioner or the rain, so I drown out screaming children and the chaos behind me.” Currently working on her fourth book, the author of Mrs Funnybones and Pyjamas Are Forgiving , found it easier to focus on her writing at the start of the pandemic. “Back then we were a lot more hopeful,” she recalls. Writing has become progressively challenging. “It is like those sugarcane stalls on roadsides. There is no sugarcane left any more for the juice to be extracted; the mind is not stimulated enough,” she quips. She is, therefore, occupying herself with a long reading list of books and watching their cinematic adaptations, in the hope that they spark inspiration.
02 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||How narcotics and mobile phones were sold inside Bhondsi jail||The recovery of mobile phones from Bhondsi jail inmates, criminals operating their gangs from inside the premises and even making threat calls from behind the bars has often made the headlines. A nexus between inmates and jail officials too was an “open secret”, until it became apparent with the arrest of the jail’s Deputy Superintendent, Dharambir Chautala, a week ago. Heading the investigation, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Crime) Preet Pal Sangwan said Dharambir has been involved in the supply of phones, SIMs and drugs to the inmates since his posting at Bhondsi jail two years ago. “As per our sources, he indulged in the supply of phones and drugs in Bhondsi jail during his earlier posting in 2014-16 as well and also during his stints in other jails across the State,” said Mr. Sangwan. The accused acted as a conduit between the inmates and the supplier of drugs and phones from outside the jail, mostly criminals. One of the suppliers, Ravi, was arrested along with Dharambir. They had known each other for long. Ravi spent around nine years in Bhondsi jail in a murder case before he was acquitted in 2018. Sources said Ravi befriended the Deputy Superintendent during his earlier stint in Bhondsi jail and remained in touch with him even after the release. Ravi alias Goldi from Uttar Pardesh’s Lucknow has been staying in Gurugram’s Wazriabad. “While Ravi remained in touch with the inmates over phone and procured drugs, phones and SIMs for them, Dharambir’s job was to hand over the stuff to the inmates,” said sources. Unlike his two counterparts in charge of the security inside the jail, Dharambir handled the affairs of the manufacturing unit inside the premises and thus had easy access to the inmates. Mr. Sangwan said the jail official, being next only to the Superintendent, took advantage of his position to avoid checking by the subordinates. Since the arrest of the duo, now in judicial custody, the police have recovered 17 mobile phones, including smartphones, 20 SIM cards, 11 batteries and 230g marijuana. Of these, 11 SIMs and narcotic were seized from Dharambir’s house. While the gang would charge Rs. 40,000-50,000 for ordinary phones, the smartphones were sold for Rs. 1-1.5 lakh. The 4G SIMs to access social media would cost Rs. 20,000. The lion’s share “The inmates would procure the stuff through Dharambir and supplied it further to fellow inmates. Every contact point in the supply chain had a cut, but Dharmabir had a lion’s share. For instance, he would charge Rs. 5,000 for the supply of 10g marijuana, which was sold for Rs. 10,000. He had sold the phones in February and March this year in return for Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 50,000,” said Station House Officer, Bhondsi police station, Inspector Bhartender. The duo has so far named Praveen, a murder convict in Bhondsi jail, as their contact inside the premises and his interrogation would throw more light on the case. “So far, we have not come across the involvement of any jail official expect Dharambir but the matter is under investigation,” said Mr. Sangwan. Though suspected to be involved in supplying illegal items to the inmates for years now, the Deputy Superintendent’s luck ran out on July 23 when a Crime Branch team chasing Ravi, following a tip-off that he was carrying marijuana to supply inside the jail, ended up at the doorstep of the jail official and caught the two with the narcotics. In a recent development, Dharambir’s son Ravi was arrested on August 1 for threatening the jail staff with dire consequences. In an audio recording, which went viral, Ravi claimed that he was in touch with gangsters in Haryana and neighbouring States and soon commit a criminal incident in the jail. Apart from a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, the police mull invoking the Prevention of the Corruption Act against Dharambir as well. A police officer at Bhondsi police station said it was unlikely for the jail official to act in isolation without the active collusion of the staff and what the investigation revealed so far could only be a “tip of an iceberg”.  Dharambir indulged in the supply of phones and drugs in Bhondsi jail during his earlier posting in 2014-16 as well and also during his stints in other jails across the State
02 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab spurious liquor death toll rises to 86||The death toll in the hooch tragedy in three Punjab districts — Tarn Taran, Amritsar (Rural) and Gurdaspur — has risen to 86 so far, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Saturday. Captain Amarinder ordered the suspension of, and inquiry against, seven Excise and Taxation officers and Inspectors, along with two Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) and four Station House Officers (SHOs) of the Punjab police, in connection with the tragedy. He has also announced Rs. 2 lakh ex gratia compensation to each of the families of the deceased, most of whom are from Tarn Taran, which accounts for 63 deaths, followed by Amritsar (Rural) 12 and Gurdaspur (Batala) 11. “Strict action will be taken against any public servant or others found complicit in the case,” said the Chief Minister, describing the police and Excise Department failure to check the manufacturing and sale of spurious liquor as shameful. Capt. Amarinder was speaking during a Facebook Live interaction event. 17 more arrested Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said the police on Saturday arrested 17 more persons in connection with the case through more than 100 raids in the three affected districts, along with several other places in and around Rajpura and Shambhu border. “The total number of arrests in the case has gone up to 25. A mafia mastermind, a woman kingpin, a transport company owner, a wanted criminal and owners-managers of various dhabas from where the illicit liquor was being supplied are among those arrested,” said Mr. Gupta. A government statement said that according to the Excise Commissioner, though reports of the chemical analysis of the material seized in yesterday’s raids were yet to come, a superficial check showed that the material was denatured spirit, generally used in the paint-hardware industry.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Will environment regulation be weakened?||The story so far: The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) has published the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification 2020, with the intention of replacing the existing EIA Notification, 2006 under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. The government wants to incorporate modifications made to the regulations through amendments in the interim period. An EIA makes a scientific estimate of the likely impacts of a project, such as a mine, irrigation dam, industrial unit or waste treatment plant. There is also a provision for public consultation in the rules, including a public hearing at which the local community and interested persons can give opinions and raise objections, based on the draft EIA report prepared by experts for the project. How does the draft EIA Notification differ from the one now in force? Among the major departures from existing regulations is the removal of several activities from the purview of public consultation. A list of projects has been included under Category B2, expressly exempted from the requirement of an EIA (Clause 13, sub cl. 11). The projects under this category include offshore and onshore oil, gas and shale exploration, hydroelectric projects up to 25 MW, irrigation projects between 2,000 and 10,000 hectares of command area, small and medium mineral beneficiation units, small foundries involving furnace units, some categories of re-rolling mills, small and medium cement plants, small clinker grinding units, acids other than phosphoric or ammonia, sulphuric acid, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in dye and dye intermediates, bulk drugs, synthetic rubbers, medium-sized paint units, all inland waterway projects, expansion or widening of highways between 25 km and 100 km with defined parameters, aerial ropeways in ecologically sensitive areas, and specified building construction and area development projects. The projects in this list are, under existing norms, identified on the basis of screening by Expert Appraisal Committees, rather than being exempted through listing in the Schedule. Also, coal and non-coal mineral prospecting and solar photovoltaic projects do not need prior environmental clearance or permission in the new scheme. What are the apprehensions? There is apprehension that the exemption from EIA and public consultation for listed B2 category activity and expansion and modernisation projects will seriously affect the environment, since these will be carried out without oversight. Combined with a new provision for post-facto environmental clearance (of projects executed without prior clearance), this would further weaken protections. Moreover, the notice period for public hearing has been cut from 30 days to 20 days. This will make it difficult to study the draft EIA report, more so when it is not widely available or provided in the regional language. Similarly, for project modernisation and expansion, the norms in Notification 2020 are liberal, with only those involving more than 25% increase requiring EIA, and over 50% attracting public consultation. Under the proposed changes, project proponents need to submit only one annual report on compliance with conditions, compared to the existing two. The move is seen as retrograde, because the CAG found in 2016 that the deficiency in semi-annual compliance reporting was between 43% and 78%, while failure to comply with conditions ranged from 5% to 57%. Non-compliance was encountered particularly in river valley and hydroelectric power projects and thermal power projects. After the gas leak at LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam on May 7, the Environment Ministry told the National Green Tribunal that the unit lacked environment clearance, exposing the low effectiveness of rules. How would the new rules enable post-facto approval of violations? The MoEF&CC cites its own order of March 14, 2017 enabling appraisal of projects involving violations — where construction had begun or expansion or modernisation was carried out without clearance — and an order of the Jharkhand High Court asking for consideration of a case on merits, independent of penal action for violation, to introduce a beneficial scheme for violators. The EIA Notification 2020 excludes reporting by the public of violations and non-compliance. Instead, the government will take cognisance of reports only from the violator-promoter, government authority, Appraisal Committee or Regulatory Authority. Such projects can then be approved with conditions, including remediation of ecological damage, which, again, will be assessed and reported by the violator (and not an unconnected agency), although Central Pollution Control Board guidelines must be used. How does the draft notification compare with global norms? EIA rules must meet the requirements of the precautionary principle of avoiding harm, and intergenerational equity. The European Union, as an evolving example, has modified its processes in accordance with the Aarhus Convention, 1998, which stipulates that environmental rights and human rights are linked, the present generation owes an obligation to future generations, sustainable development can be achieved only through the involvement of all stakeholders, government accountability and environmental protection are connected, and interactions between the public and public authorities must take place in a democratic context. The EU Directive on EIA includes climate change and biodiversity concerns. The rules in India, including EIA 2006, it can be argued, privileged the interests of the project proponent by whittling down public consultations, accepting flawed and faulty EIA reports resulting from external influences, and ignoring the non-renewable nature of resources. Notification 2020 deepens the impact of that paradigm.  There is apprehension that the exemption from EIA and public consultation for listed B2 category activity and expansion and modernisation projects will seriously affect the environment
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The subject of contempt of court||The story so far: Contempt of court, as a concept that seeks to protect judicial institutions from motivated attacks and unwarranted criticism, and as a legal mechanism to punish those who lower its authority, is back in the news in India. This follows the initiation of contempt proceedings by the Supreme Court of India, on its own motion, against advocate-activist Prashant Bhushan. How did the concept of contempt come into being? The concept of contempt of court is several centuries old. In England, it is a common law principle that seeks to protect the judicial power of the king, initially exercised by himself, and later by a panel of judges who acted in his name. Violation of the judges’ orders was considered an affront to the king himself. Over time, any kind of disobedience to judges, or obstruction of the implementation of their directives, or comments and actions that showed disrespect towards them came to be punishable. What is the statutory basis for contempt of court? There were pre-Independence laws of contempt in India. Besides the early High Courts, the courts of some princely states also had such laws. When the Constitution was adopted, contempt of court was made one of the restrictions on freedom of speech and expression. Separately, Article 129 of the Constitution conferred on the Supreme Court the power to punish contempt of itself. Article 215 conferred a corresponding power on the High Courts. The Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, gives statutory backing to the idea. What are the kinds of contempt of court? The law codifying contempt classifies it as civil and criminal. Civil contempt is fairly simple. It is committed when someone wilfully disobeys a court order, or wilfully breaches an undertaking given to court. Criminal contempt is more complex. It consists of three forms: (a) words, written or spoken, signs and actions that “scandalise” or “tend to scandalise” or “lower” or “tends to lower” the authority of any court (b) prejudices or interferes with any judicial proceeding and (c) interferes with or obstructs the administration of justice. Making allegations against the judiciary or individual judges, attributing motives to judgments and judicial functioning and any scurrilous attack on the conduct of judges are normally considered matters that scandalise the judiciary. The rationale for this provision is that courts must be protected from tendentious attacks that lower its authority, defame its public image and make the public lose faith in its impartiality. The punishment for contempt of court is simple imprisonment for a term up to six months and/or a fine of up to Rs. . 2,000. What is not contempt of court? Fair and accurate reporting of judicial proceedings will not amount to contempt of court. Nor is any fair criticism on the merits of a judicial order after a case is heard and disposed of. Is truth a defence against a contempt charge? For many years, truth was seldom considered a defence against a charge of contempt. There was an impression that the judiciary tended to hide any misconduct among its individual members in the name of protecting the image of the institution. The Act was amended in 2006 to introduce truth as a valid defence, if it was in public interest and was invoked in a bona fide manner.  Fair and accurate reporting of judicial proceedings will not amount to contempt of court
02 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Allow hotels, weekly markets to reopen’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah asking him to direct Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal to allow hotels and weekly markets to function in the city. ‘Will send file again’ “I request you to change your decision and direct LG sir to immediately approve the Chief Minister’s proposal. The government will again send a file on this matter to him on Tuesday, please ask LG not to stop it [sic],” Mr. Sisodia wrote. On Friday, Mr. Baijal had rejected the AAP government’s decision to allow hotels and weekly markets to reopen in the city. The L-G has said the COVID-19 situation was “fragile” and the threat is still “far from over”, while rejecting the decision. “Due to hotels not being open, Delhi’s business and employment is down. Due to weekly markets being shut, five lakh families are sitting at home for the past four months. Now when they are hopeful that coronavirus is under control in Delhi and they will get an opportunity to restart their business, the decision of closure is unfair to Delhi’s economic situation and also to the hopes of lakhs of people,” Mr. Sisodia said in the letter.
02 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Fresh demand for autonomy raises hackles in Arunachal||The renewed demand for creation of autonomous councils in the two regions of Arunachal Pradesh – Mon Autonomous Region in the west and Patkai Autonomous Council in the east – has raised hackles in the State. The All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU) and the Nyishis, one of the largest ethnic communities that inhabit the areas in between, have slammed the demands. The Nyishi Elite Society (NES) has blamed Chief Minister Pema Khandu for “orchestrating and patronising” the MAR movement that seeks the autonomous council comprising Tawang and West Kameng districts. Tawang is Mr. Khandu’s home turf. The organisations have also sniffed external designs behind these demands. While MAR is seen as an “encouragement for China” to be more vocal about claims over Arunachal Pradesh, the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN) is believed to be fuelling the PAC movement to eventually make the Patkai region, comprising Tirap, Changlang and Longding districts, a part of “Greater Nagalim”. All NSCN factions are active in the areas under the proposed PAC. “The Assembly had in 2004 adopted a resolution for the creation of autonomous district councils... We have reminded the government of the lack of any follow-up action,” said a spokesperson of the MAR Demand Committee. The committee has called for tripartite talks and could boycott the upcoming panchayat elections if its demand is not looked into. “The demand for MAR and PAC is bound to open the floodgates for similar movements from various parts of the State,” AAPSU general secretary Tobom Dai said. The NES went a step further, accusing Mr. Khandu of stirring the movement.
02 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Missing lawyer’s body found||The body of the lawyer who went missing from Khurja town of Bulandhshar district on July 25 was recovered from a tiles godown in the town on Friday night, the police said. Three persons, including the owner of the ceramic tiles unit, have been arrested. Dharmendra Chaudhary had gone missing from Gulshan Vihar Colony of Khurja. His motorcycle was found abandoned in Khabra village adjoining a jungle. In what seems like a premeditated murder, the police said, Dharmendra was invited to the tiles godown for a party and was strangulated to death over a financial dispute. The body was then buried in a brick-lined, nine-foot-deep pit in the godown. The godown is situated behind a police post, and all this while the police were pressing drones and a dog squad in the sugarcane fields adjoining the Khabra village. Bulandshahr Senior Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh said the investigation revealed that the owner of Mahalaxmi Timber and Tiles factory owed money to Dharmendra and when he could not return it, hatched a plan to kill his ‘friend’. “We have arrested Vicky Lala, the owner of the unit, and two of his aides.” Mr. Singh said they found a diary belonging to Dharmendra in which there were details of money, approximately Rs. 70-Rs. 80 lakh, lent to Vicky. “As the loan was not legitimate, family didn’t raise any doubts. There was no direct evidence against Vicky. CCTV footage indicated that Dharmendra entered his showroom at 8.30 p.m but didn’t come out,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu . The police asked Vicky to take a lie detector test. He initially agreed, but later backed out citing health reasons. “This almost confirmed our doubt,” said Mr. Singh. When the team searched the godown, they sensed the stench of a rotting body. “The body was found buried in a pit,” Mr. Singh said, adding Vicky has admitted to his crime. “He said he used his gamchha (stole) to strangulate the deceased.”
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Education and NEP||The story so far: The Union Cabinet approved a new National Education Policy on July 29, after a 34-year gap. The National Education Policy, 2020 is meant to provide an overarching vision and comprehensive framework for both school and higher education across the country. The new NEP, approved by the Cabinet, has not been presented in Parliament. It is the first to be formulated by a Bharatiya Janata Party government and the first in the 21st century. It is only a policy, not a law; implementation of its proposals depends on further regulations by both States and the Centre as education is a concurrent subject. What are some of the key proposals? The NEP proposes to change the school curricular structure from the current 10+2 (Class 1-10 of general education followed by two years of higher secondary school with specialised subjects) with a 5+3+3+4 structure, bringing children from ages 3 to 5 years within the formal education system for the first time, and ensuring curricular continuity in the last four years. A mission for foundational literacy and numeracy, free breakfasts being added to free lunches in government schools, vocational education along with internships from Class 6, and proposed redesign of the board examinations are some other major initiatives for school education. For higher education, a new umbrella regulator has been proposed with separate verticals for regulation, standard setting, accreditation and funding. It will absorb arts and science, technical and teacher education into its fold, replacing several existing regulatory bodies, and also ensure a level playing field for public and private players. Top foreign universities will be allowed to set up campuses in India. For students, the biggest change may be the introduction of four-year undergraduate degrees, with options for entry and exit at various stages, a credit transfer system, and the abolition of the M Phil programme. What is the timeline for implementation? The policy is meant to transform the education system by 2040. Some proposals will be implemented immediately, starting with the change in the name of the Ministry of Human Resource Development into the Ministry of Education. “There are over 100 action points from the Policy. Implementation will be done in phases, based on time, region and types of institutions with Institutes of Eminence (IoEs) and Central Universities taking the lead,” said Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare. For instance, four-year undergraduate degrees with multiple entry-exit options will be introduced in the 20 IoEs from the 2020-21 academic year, while others continue with the existing three-year degree courses. Existing M.Phil students can continue until they complete their degree, although new admissions for the programme will not be accepted. The National Testing Agency will introduce a pilot version of the common entrance test by December 2020, which will be used for admission to all IoEs and central universities in 2021. Some Indian Institutes of Technology are working on developing the technical structure of the Academic Credit Bank, which will also be established by December, and become applicable to all new students joining central universities next year. The National Foundational Literacy and Numeracy Mission which is to be implemented by 2025 will be launched by the end of this year, said Mr. Khare. The National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) will introduce the curricular framework for the new school structure, including early childhood care, by the next academic year. Where do the difficulties lie? Some of the proposals require legal changes. The draft Higher Education Commission of India Bill has been languishing in the Ministry for over a year, but is likely to be published for feedback by September. The proposal for a Board of Governors for universities may also require amendments of the Central and State Universities Acts. A Cabinet note has already been moved to set up the National Research Foundation as a trust under the government, but in order to make it a fully autonomous body, an Act may be required. Others require funding. Free breakfasts can only be considered in the next academic year if a budget allocation is made to cover it. The process of converting affiliated colleges into degree granting autonomous institutions and then further into fully fledged universities is estimated to take at least 15 years, as the Centre will have to provide financial assistance for this purpose. The Ministry feels that an increase in government funding of education to 6% of GDP will be sufficient to cover the financial implications of the NEP. However, such an increase in funding has been proposed but not achieved for the last half-century, point out experts. The proposal to make the mother tongue the medium of instruction till Class 5, which has stirred up the fiercest debates, is dependent on State governments, according to the Education Minister, who would not even confirm that the policy will be implemented by centrally-run schools.  Implementation will be done in phases, based on time, region and types of institutions with Institutes of Eminence and central universities taking the lead, according to Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare
02 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Schools, colleges to restart from Sept.’||The Assam government is “mentally prepared” to reopen educational institutions from September 1 but will wait for the Centre’s nod, Education Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. The schools, he told journalists on Saturday, will not be allowed to let in students up to Class 4 while restarting higher classes will entail riders such as “mandatory” COVID-19 tests for all teachers and staff before August 30. The other conditions include conducting Classes 5-8 at a village field or an open space with a maximum of 15 students in attendance at a time. “What we envisage is the ancient gurukul system that students living far away can also attend,” Dr. Sarma said. The government was also working on a model where the educated youth can volunteer to assist teachers in taking classes. “Such aides will be provided with a certificate that can help them in the long run,” he said without elaborating. Classes on school premises will only be for students of Classes 9 to 12. While 9 and 11 students will have classes twice a week, 10 and 12 students will have four days-a-week classes. “There will be two shifts of three hours each and a maximum of 15 students will be allowed to sit in one room. The timings would be such that the students of two classes would not meet each other,” Dr. Sarma said. The private schools could also take classes following the guidelines, he added, insisting it would be a voluntary exercise initiated in the government institutions. For final semester In colleges, classes will be held for only the final semester students. “We will make arrangement for students who study elsewhere but are stranded at home to attend classes in nearby colleges,” the Minister said. The Vice-Chancellors have been advised to decided on when and how to conduct classes in their universities.
02 August 2020||August 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Noida reports one death; active cases on the rise||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded one more fatality linked to COVID-19 on Saturday, pushing the death toll in the district to 43. The district’s case count rose to 5,328 as 129 more people tested positive for COVID-19, according to the data released by the State Health Department. The number of active cases in the district climbed to 846. There has been a steady rise in the number of active cases in the district from 679 on Wednesday, 730 on Thursday and 796 on Friday, it showed. Seventy-four COVID-19 patients have been discharged from hospitals after treatment since Friday. The total number of recoveries has climbed to 4,439, the highest for any district in the State.  105-year-old recovers A 105-year-old woman from Afghanistan, who was admitted to Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida, was among those discharged on Friday, officials said. The mortality rate in the district stands at 0.80%, said officials. The recovery rate dropped slightly to 83.31% from 83.89% on Friday. It stood at 84.77% on Thursday and 85.48% on Wednesday, the data showed. In terms of active cases, Gautam Buddh Nagar (846) stands 11th among the districts in the State.
02 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||5 clades of COVID-19 found in Odisha||Scientists have found presence of five clades of COVID-19 in Odisha where Europe and Southeast Asia are analysed to be two major routes of disease transmission. In order to understand disease dynamics through genomics studies, Institute of Life Sciences (ILS), Bhubaneswar, an autonomous institute of Department of Biotechnology, in collaboration with Regional Medical Research Centre, an ICMR institute, had analysed 225 viral genomes of COVID-19 positive patients who migrated from 13 Indian States. The samples for sequencing were collected during March and July 2020. The sequencing, data analysis and interpretation were carried out by the team led by Dr. Sunil Raghav of ILS and Dr. Jyotirmayee Turuk of RMRC using advanced sequencing facility at ILS. “Analysis of Odisha samples showed the presence of all five reported clades 19A, 19B, 20A, 20B and 20C of COVID-19 genome. Clade 19B was found to be much more prevalent in analysed samples (17%),” said the ILS Director Ajay Parida. According to a statement, the study showed parallel evolution of 19A and 19B. “Majority of the 19A and 19B clades were present in cases that migrated from Gujarat suggesting it to be one of the major initial points of disease transmission during March and April,” it said. Clades 20A and 20B, which evolved quite rapidly in the Indian population, were major source of disease transmission in the country, said the two institutes. Union Minister of Science and Technology Harsh Vardhan had announced the completion of 1,000 COVID-19 viral genomes by the autonomous institutes of the Department of Biotechnology. Different institutes had carried out analysis on 1,062 genomes from 18 Indian States. Initial results indicate that multiple lineages of SARS-CoV-2 are circulating in India, probably introduced by travel from Europe, the U.S. and South East Asia. “We have been able to sequence 225 viral genomes at a relatively short period of time and the findings will pave way for new avenues of research on COVID-19,” said Dr. Parida. He added that further sequencing of virus genome was being carried out at ILS using recent samples.
02 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Oppn., Cong. flay govt.||The tall claims of the Punjab government about crackdown on liquor mafia are being questioned, not only by the Opposition but by the Congress leaders as well. Hitting out at the State government, Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa said the incident symbolises the growing “bureaucratic-police-liquor mafia nexus in the State”. “There had been repeated failures of the administration in Punjab,” said Mr. Bajwa, a former president of the State Congress Committee. He added that the Chief Minister should take immediate steps to “protect the people of Punjab”, and rebuild the trust in the administration by taking proactive steps. Taking to Twitter, former Deputy CM and Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said this tragedy was waiting to happen. He said the Akali Dal had warned the government that ENA (Extra Neutral Alcohol) was being used indiscriminately to manufacture spurious liquor, still the State government not only turned a blind eye to these revelations but also allowed loss of several crores to the State exchequer. “Since the Excise Department is with him (Capt. Amarinder), he must submit his resignation immediately. It is time for him to go,” said Mr. Badal. Capt. Amarinder, meanwhile, urged Mr. Sukhbir Badal not to politicise the tragedy.
02 August 2020||New Delhi,||CM reviews situation in sealed areas||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday reviewed the status of containment zones in Delhi, which have recently been scaled down from 715 to 496. Mr. Kejriwal told officials that situation in containment zones must be analysed at regular intervals. According to the Delhi government, the review meeting came after Mr. Kejriwal expressed concern over large size of zones restricting the movement of a large number of people. “On July 27, 3,48,099 people were contained across Delhi; this came down to 1,06,211 people on July 31,” the government said. There are now 39 containment zones in Central district, 50 in East, 39 in New Delhi, 59 in North, 24 in North East, 28 in North West, seven in Shahdara, 50 in South, 30 in South East, 109 in South West, and 61 in West.
02 August 2020||New Delhi,||Bidhuri raises alarm over sale of ‘adulterated potatoes’||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, on Saturday expressed concern over the alleged sale of “dangerous, chemical-adulterated potatoes” in Delhi and demanded strict action from Lieutenant- Governor Anil Baijal against those involved in the trade. In a letter to the L-G, Mr. Bidhuri alleged that profiteers were mixing dangerous chemicals in bad potatoes and selling them as “new hill potatoes” at expensive prices. “Doctors and experts are of the view that this adulteration of potatoes may cause harm to the liver, kidney and other vital organs and is likely to cause fatal diseases like cancer as well,” Mr. Bidhuri stated. He also demanded an investigation be carried out by the Crime Branch of the Delhi Police so that those involved in this dangerous business could be exposed. He also expressed surprise that the Delhi government had not taken any initiative in this regard despite the fact that such adulteration had come to light in Azadpur Mandi, which is administered by the government.
02 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Govt. taking false credit for giving ration to 72L people’||The Opposition BJP on Saturday accused the Delhi government of attempting to take false credit for providing ration to 72 lakh cardholders in the city. This was actually being provided under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana and the National Food Security Act by the BJP-led Centre, said Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta. “The Kejriwal government is also claiming this scheme as its own. The only job of the Kejriwal government is to make false propaganda and then seek false accolades. Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyana Anna Yojana, at the cost of Rs. 303 crore per month, 72 lakh cardholders under Delhi were given 4 kg of wheat, 1 kg of rice, 1kg of gram or pulses every month,” he said.
02 August 2020||Noida,||Noida building collapse: owner held over death of two workers||The owner of an under-construction building in Noida was arrested on Saturday, a day after two people were killed after a portion of the structure collapsed. Five workers were rescued from the debris after the front portion of the three-storey building located in F Block of Sector 11 collapsed on them at 7.30 p.m. on Friday. Two of them, a contractor and a plumber, died during treatment, while the rest are still hospitalised, the police said. “Raj Kumar Bharadwajhas been arrested in connection with the case,” an officer said.
02 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Head Constable dies of virus||A policeman here died of COVID-19 at a city hospital on Friday, said officials on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said Head Constable Leela Dhar was posted at Defence Colony police station. On July 11, Dhar had reported about mild fever after which he was taken to Nehru Homeopathic College and Hospital in Defence Colony. When tested, his results came positive for COVID-19. Thereafter, he was shifted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital in Tahirpur where his condition worsened on July 19 and he shifted to the intensive care unit. He was given plasma therapy, the police said. More than 2,500 Delhi Police personnel have been infected with the virus so far. Of these, more than 2,100 have recovered and resumed their duties, while over a dozen succumbed to the virus.
