02 June 2020||Washington,||Clashes outside White House, more U.S. cities under curfew||The police fired tear-gas outside the White House late on Sunday as anti-racism protesters again took to the streets to voice fury at police brutality. Major U.S. cities were put under curfew to suppress rioting. With the Trump administration branding instigators of six nights of rioting as domestic terrorists, there were more confrontations between protesters and the police and fresh outbreaks of looting. Violent clashes erupted repeatedly in a small park next to the White House, with authorities using tear-gas, pepper spray and flash bang grenades to disperse crowds that lit several large fires and damaged property. Secret Service agents rushed President Donald Trump to a White House bunker on Friday night as hundreds of protesters gathered outside the executive mansion. Mr. Trump spent nearly an hour in the bunker, which was designed for use in emergencies like terrorist attacks, according to a Republican close to the White House. Local leaders appealed to citizens to give constructive outlet to their rage over the death of an unarmed black man in Minneapolis. One closely watched protest was outside the state capitol in Minneapolis’ twin city of St. Paul, where several thousand people gathered before marching down a highway. The Minneapolis police later reported that they had discovered caches of home-made fire-bombs around the two cities. There were other large-scale protests on Sunday night, including in New York and Miami.  In Louisville, Kentucky, CBS affiliate WLKY-TV reported the local police chief as saying law enforcement shot and killed a man early Monday morning as they broke up a crowd, although it was unclear if the group was taking part in protests. Looting was reported on Sunday night in Philadelphia and the Los Angeles suburb of Santa Monica, and images on Fox TV showed ransacked Rolex and Gucci stores in New York city. The shocking death last Monday of George Floyd at the hands of the police in Minneapolis ignited the nationwide wave of outrage over law enforcement’s repeated use of lethal force against unarmed African Americans.
02 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||57 more test positive in State||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph continued to rise in steady spurts as another 57 more tested positive for the disease on Monday. While 55 out of the 57 new cases were ‘imported’ ones of infection and were detected in people who had either returned from abroad or in persons who had returned from other Sates, one health-care worker in Palakkad and yet another employee of Air India also tested positive. The number of cases in the Air India cluster thus became 10. The new cases reported by the districts are: Kasaragod and Malappuram 14 each, Thrissur 9, Kollam 5, Pathanamthitta 4, Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam 3 each, Alappuzha and Palakkad 2 each, and Idukki 1. The State also reported the recovery of 18 persons from the disease. The State’s total COVID-19 caseload has gone up to 1,326 cases, with active cases being 708, all of whom are being treated in hospitals. So far, 608 persons have recovered from the disease while 10 have succumbed to the virus. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that 210 Keralites had so far died abroad and that on Monday alone nine people lost their lives to the disease. Kerala has put 1,39,661 people under surveillance and quarantine, out of whom 1,38,397 are either in home or institutional quarantine while another 1,264 are admitted in hospitals after they developed mild symptoms. The State is testing an average of 3,000 nasal/oropharyngeal swabs daily now and in the last 24 hours, 2,990 samples were sent for testing. The list of hotspots in the State went up to 121 on Monday with five new additions, with the authorities designating three regions in Palakkad and two in Kannur as hotspots.
02 June 2020||BIRIPALI,||A rude welcome for Odisha’s migrants as villages lack basic facilities||After a back-breaking 1,300-km cycle ride from COVID-19 hotspot Mumbai to his village in Odisha’s Balangir district, Kishore Behera thought he had escaped hell. But little did the 31-year-old mason anticipate the appaling conditions in his village, Biripali. With 12 positive cases reported in the village of 3,000 people, Mr. Behera went neither to a quarantine centre, as required, nor to his house. Instead, he took refuge in a road culvert. “I opted to cycle all the way from Mumbai on May 7 and did not seek pickup from passing trucks fearing I could contract the virus. However, on reaching my village, I found no social distancing being adhered to in quarantine centres. I took shelter in a half-constructed Indira Awas Yojna house with my friends,” he said. As there was no water connection in the house, he and his seven migrant labourer friends decided to stay under culverts that offered some respite from the scorching temperature, soaring past 45° Celsius and the unseasonal rain. “My neighbours definitely won’t feel happy to find me staying near them. Moreover, my family members will be in trouble if I get into my house,” said the mason, who admits to being scared of snakebites out in the open. His struggle has already spilled over from May to June but he does not foresee any feasible solution any time soon. Barely 200 metres away from the culvert lives Thabir Behera, another Mumbai returnee, in a small, abandoned toilet, built under the Swachh Bharat Mission. “I cannot go home. The toilet is too small but will be my home for the next two weeks,” he said. Like them, more than 150 migrant labourers, who have returned from other States, have quarantined themselves at half-constructed temples, makeshift agricultural watchtowers, riverbeds and village forests as they dread staying in official centres. They are also facing resistance from fellow villagers who do not want them to enter their homes at this point of time. Facing stigma Despite the unusual risks the migrant labourers have taken to get back, there is a sense of apprehension as well as stigma surrounding them. Wary of getting infected, their own family members are keeping a distance from them while supplying food. “For the sake of a few, a whole village cannot be put in jeopardy. People are of the view that these returnees should not be allowed to go back to their homes until they test negative,” said Lingaraj Saraf, a Biripali native. Situated on the border of neighbouring Nuapada district, Biripali seems to have fallen off the development map of the district. For the past two decades, people have been waiting for irrigation water from Nuapada’s Tikhali dam to cover the village’s fields. At any given time, 500 able-bodied men and women of the village can be found doing manual work in the construction sector, brick kilns and industrial projects. The pandemic has left the poor families bewildered, forced to stay indoors and away from their fields during the crucial pre-monsoon season. With 12 cases, the administration should have continued containment zones as is the SOP. On May 1, Balangir reported its first COVID-19 case. Without containment, the district’s tally has now touched 80. Balangir Collector Arindam Dakua does not seem to have time for the poverty-stricken village. His office said he could not be contacted over his phone as he did not want to be disturbed at odd hours.
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Six more succumb to COVID in Telangana; 94 test positive||The total number of COVID cases in Telangana touched 2,792 as 94 more tested positive for the virus on Monday. Six more COVID patients died taking the toll to 88. One among the six who died is a three-month old baby girl. However, none of the migrants or foreign deportees who reached the State tested positive. Apart from the infant, the five more who died are 70-years-old man, 60-year-old woman, 59-year- old man, 53-year-old man with hypertension and cardiac disease and 39-year-old woman. Of the 94 new cases, 79 are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, three each from Rangareddy and Medchal, two each from Medak, Nalgonda, Sangareddy, one each from Mahabubabad, Peddapally, Jangaon. Though cases were detected in Mahabubabad, Peddapalli and Nalgonda, the three districts were mentioned in the list of districts with zero positive cases in the past 14 days. Vulnerable group The State Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao said that children below 10 years, and those above 60 years belong to vulnerable group and they should avoid going outdoors. He had earlier said that around 200 COVID aged patients did not step out of home and still contracted the infectious disease as someone from their family who went out did not maintain precautions. Officials stressed that people have to maintain precautions to avoid contracting COVID. As people have started attending work at offices, administrations were advised to provide hand washing facility, sanitiser and ensure physical distance between employees. Till date, a total of 2,792 cases were detected. Of them, 1,213 are active cases, 1,491 were discharged, and 88 people died. Relaxation effect Officials said that the increased movement of people after relaxation of lockdown rules had led to spike in cases. The lockdown relaxations were implemented from May 16. Dr Rao said that increased movement of people from all walks of life from all age groups has been observed. “There has been a surge in the cases since relaxation of lockdown. People are travelling across the State. Some of them are not following basic precautionary measures such as wearing mask, maintaining physical distance.” Dr Rao added.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Monsoon hits Kerala with cyclone in the background||The monsoon has arrived in Kerala, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. This is four days earlier than what the IMD had forecast in mid-May but is also the date on which the monsoon normally sets in over the State. However, 700 km from Mumbai, a nascent cyclone is brewing in the Arabian Sea and is likely to hit north Maharashtra as well as the Gujarat coast by June 3. “Its track is northward but will recurve into Harihareshwar and Daman. However, more details on the potential damage would be available once it begins to form. Right now, it’s a depression in the South East Arabian Sea and is about 690 km away from Mumbai,” Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, Director-General, IMD, said at a press conference. The IMD’s latest cyclone update expects it to balloon into a “severe cyclone” by the middle of the week. The presence of a cyclone near land during the monsoon onset could delay the progress of the monsoon and put it into a “hiatus,” Madhavan Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences, said.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||Travel restrictions lifted, salons open again as govt. unlocks Capital||Restrictions on the number of passengers in four-wheelers, two-wheelers, autorickshaws, e-rickshaws and other vehicles in the city have been lifted, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said during a digital briefing here on Monday. Mr. Kejriwal, who announced the sealing of the Capital’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for a week and sought citizens’ suggestions on whether it should continue beyond that, said the decisions of his government were based on the Centre’s guidelines for easing of restrictions in non-containment zones. “Barbershops/salons will now remain open except spas. The Delhi government is also removing the restriction of only one passenger being allowed to travel in an autorickshaw, e-rickshaw, and phat-phat sewas. The Central government has imposed a curfew from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m., except on those who are in essential services and the Delhi government will also implement the same,” said the Chief Minister. Measures like 20 passengers in a bus will remain in place to maintain social distancing, he added. All shops in markets will be permitted to function on all days of the week. Restrictions on functioning of industries have also been lifted. However, educational and academic institutions, hotels, cinema halls, theatres, bars and gymnasiums will continue to remain shut. All gatherings related to social, religious, political, cultural, sports and entertainment purposes will remain restricted. Places of worship will also remain closed in addition to malls, according to the guidelines. In a related development, all District Magistrates in the Capital have been directed to identify additional locations for treatment of COVID-19 patients and cremation or burial of those dying of the infection on “topmost priority”, in an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Monday.
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,||RTC staff to get May salary in instalments||Workers of the four road transport corporations (RTCs) in the State will get only half of their salary for May in the coming week, while the State government and the corporations chalk out a road map to mobilise resources to pay the second instalment. A couple of RTCs are even planning to deploy their workforce on rotation as per demand. There are nearly 1.25 lakh workers employed in the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC), North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC), and Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC). With most bus operations hit, the corporations are dependent on the government to pay salaries, senior officials in the RTCs told The Hindu . All the four corporations paid full salaries in one instalment for April as the government released money towards it. However, problem has risen for payment of salaries for May as the government has sanctioned only half the salary bill presently. The salary bill of the four corporations comes up to around Rs. 366 crore a month, sources said. Shivayogi C. Kalasad, KSRTC managing director, said while all the employees would get half of their salary as the first instalment in the coming week, efforts were on to raise resources and work out the modalities for paying the second instalment. “The corporation is incurring more loss by plying buses than by not plying them. The demand has dropped to less than 30% of the usual. So, we are considering deploying our workforce on rotational basis, weekly or fortnightly. We are deliberating on the mode of payment for the days the workers will not be on the roster. We are considering deferred payment, leave adjustments, among other proposals,” he said. Unions threaten stir Workers’ unions have rejected these proposals and demanded that the government pay the full salary of all workers till normality returns. They have also warned of a protest if the corporations go ahead with the proposals on staggered payment and leave without pay. H.V. Anantha Subbarao, president of the KSRTC Staff and Workers’ Federation, said the unions would reject all proposals of any deferred payment of salary or leave without pay. He rued that neither the government nor the managements of the RTCs bothered to consult workers and the unions before taking decisions on salary payment. In a statement released on Monday, the federation argued that one of the reasons for the corporations to be cash-strapped is the outstanding Rs. 2,960 crore the State government has with the four corporations towards students bus passes for the past five years. “Even if the government pays us interest for the outstanding amount, the corporations will be able to pay the salaries,” Mr. Subbarao told The Hindu . “How can the workers survive on half the salary? It is not just a legal issue, but a moral issue as well. How can the government ask other employers to ensure wages for workers, when the government itself has resorted to such methods. There is no question of accepting any such proposals. We will oppose this tooth and nail,” he said. Meanwhile, C. Shikha, BMTC managing director, said the corporation had got half of the salary bill released from the government. “We are trying to raise our own resources to pay the rest. We will take a call on the modalities this week,” she said.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||RS, LS meeting could be held on alternate days||The options of the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha meeting on alternate days to decongest the Parliament complex and each moving into a larger space to ensure social distancing were discussed by Upper House Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu and Speaker Om Birla at a meeting on Monday, sources said. The presiding officers’ meeting to discuss the conduct of the monsoon session of Parliament comes amid demands by Opposition parties to hold parliamentary standing committee meetings through videoconference and to resume the functioning of Parliament itself. The budget session ended abruptly on March 23 due to the pandemic. The two, according to the sources, agreed that technology must be adopted to enable Parliament session as a long term option as the pandemic might continue for some more time. They noted that since there was no requirement of maintaining confidentiality of the proceedings of the Houses, which were open to the general public besides being telecast live, virtual Parliament was an option to be explored. For the monsoon session, which usually begins in mid-July, many options are being considered, a senior Parliament official said.
02 June 2020||V. Raghavendra,||SEC case: State files SLP in apex court||The tussle between the State government and N. Ramesh Kumar over the AP Panchayat Raj (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 reached the Supreme Court with the former filing a Special Leave Petition against the High Court (HC) judgment in the matter. Mr. Ramesh Kumar, Madras High Court retired judge V. Kanagaraj who was appointed as SEC consequent on the promulgation of the ordinance, Principal Secretary (Panchayat Raj & Rural Development) and the State Election Commission Secretary are the respondents in the case before the apex court. It may be noted that the HC delivered a landmark judgment against the ordinance which resulted in the termination of the services of Mr. Ramesh Kumar as SEC before his five-year term expired and the appointment of Mr. Kanagaraj in his place. A major controversy erupted after Mr. Ramesh Kumar challenged the ordinance in the HC. On May 29, HC Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice M. Satyanarayana Rao declared the impugned ordinance unconstitutional and that it was actuated by oblique reasons and on extraneous grounds without having any material for the Governor to be satisfied with the required circumstances. The issue continued to simmer thereafter as Mr. Ramesh Kumar claimed to have resumed charge as the SEC in the wake of the HC giving its judgment in his favour. Advocate-General S. Sriram raised serious objections to Mr. Ramesh Kumar's ‘self-restoration’ as the SEC, at a rare press conference .
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pulses, oilseeds see sharp hike in MSP||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) on Monday approved an increase in the minimum support prices (MSPs) for all mandated kharif crops, including paddy, pulses and cotton, for the 2020-21 marketing season. The Union Cabinet also extended the repayment date for standard short-term loans upto Rs. 3 lakh for agriculture and allied activities, till August 31, 2020. The MSP for paddy (common) has been increased by Rs. 53 per quintal, to Rs. 1,868 per quintal, while that of cotton was increased by Rs. 260 per quintal to Rs. 5,515 for medium staple variety, and by Rs. 275 per quintal to Rs. 5,825 for long staple variety. Hike for oilseeds The highest increase in MSP has been proposed for nigerseed (Rs. 755 per quintal), followed by sesamum (Rs. 370 per quintal) and urad (Rs. 300 per quintal). “The increase in MSP for kharif crops is in line with the Union Budget 2018-19 announcement of fixing the MSPs at a level of at least 1.5 times of the all-India weighted average cost of production, aiming at reasonably fair remuneration for the farmers,” an official release said. It added that the expected returns to farmers over their cost of production are estimated to be highest in case of bajra (83%) followed by urad (64%), tur (58%) and maize (53%).
02 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||CM scheduled to meet Shah today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is going to New Delhi for a day’s official visit on June 2 (Tuesday). He is scheduled to meet Home Minister Amit Shah and explain the measures taken for implementation of the lockdown and COVID containment measures. Besides, Mr. Jagan will be apprising Mr. Shah of the impact of the lockdown on the State’s financial position and discuss some other substantial issues. He is also likely to have an interaction with Union Minister for Water Resources Gajendra Singh Shekawat. The Chief Minister will be making the State’s position clear on irrigation projects which Telangana objected to. He is expected to give a glimpse of his government’s performance in the last one year to the Union Ministers.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajya Sabha poll on June 19||The elections to 18 Rajya Sabha seats that were deferred owing to the lockdown will be held on June 19, the Election Commission of India said on Monday. The polling was earlier scheduled for March 26.page 9
02 June 2020||Mumbai,||Moody’s downgrades India’s rating||Rating agency Moody’s downgraded India’s foreign currency and local currency long term issuer ratings to Baa3 from Baa2, while maintaining a negative outlook, citing prolonged period of low growth and further deterioration in the government’s fiscal position. Moody’s said the negative outlook reflects dominant, mutually-reinforcing, downside risks from deeper stresses in the economy and financial system that could lead to a more severe and prolonged erosion in fiscal strength. Lowest grade  Baa3 is the lowest in investment grade in Moody’s rating ladder. This means, India is just one notch above the non-investment grade or junk grade. The rating agency expects the country’s GDP to contract by 4% in the current financial year due to the shock from the pandemic and related lockdown measures. The GDP growth, however, is expected to pick up in the next fiscal to 8.7% and closer to 6% in the year after.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||Nearly 2 lakh COVID-19 cases in India||India on Monday recorded 7,584 new COVID-19 cases and 204 fatalities. The tally stands at 1,98,182, including 96,988 active cases, while 95,590 persons have recovered, according to data from the State Health departments. The death toll rose to 5,604. The number of new cases fell from 8,629 on May 31 to 7,584 on Monday. But the ICMR also reported that the total samples tested as of June 1 were 1,00,180, down from 1,25,428 on the previous day. The national recovery rate stands at 48.19%, while the case fatality rate is 2.83%, the Union Health Ministry said in a release. The Ministry warned that as COVID-19 primarily attacks lungs which can be impaired by smoking, smokers are at a higher risk.
02 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||BRIEFLy 2||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy step down, owning responsibility of the multiple setbacks suffered by his government.
02 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||BRIEFLY 3||The committee formed by the NGT to inquire into the gas leak incident at LG Polymers plant submitted report on Monday.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Jail detention isn’t to send message to society’||“The remit of the court is to dispense justice in accordance with law, not to send messages to society,” the Delhi High Court said while rejecting the prosecution’s stance that granting bail to a north-east Delhi riots accused might send an “adverse message to society”.
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Polls for four RS seats from State on June 19||In the midst of the pandemic, State politics is set to see some action as the Election Commission on Monday notified elections for four seats to Rajya Sabha from Karnataka. The elections will be held on June 19 as the members are set to retire on June 25.The EC’s notification came for a total of six seats, including four from Karnataka. Election for one seat each from Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have also been notified.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Stricter policing of large clusters on the cards||The Greater Chennai Corporation has sought additional police personnel for more surveillance in zones that report a rise in number of COVID-19 cases.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. govt. issues SOP for chartered flights||The government has issued Standard Operating Procedure for the operation of chartered flights within and to and from the State. All persons arriving from abroad would be tested with RT-PCR on Day 1 and Day 7.
02 June 2020||Kerala,||South sees spurt in number of cases, fatalities||There was a spurt in COVID-19 cases and fatalities in the South in the past 24 hours, with Andhra Pradesh reporting two deaths and 105 fresh cases on Monday. In Kerala, 57 tested positive, while Telangana saw 94 new cases and the death of six patients. In Karnataka, 187 fresh cases and one death were reported on Monday. Andhra Pradesh witnessed two more deaths, taking the total fatalities to 64. Both deaths were reported in Kurnool district. The State reported 105 new coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours. As many as 10,567 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and with the new numbers, the tally has gone up to 3,676. At present, there are 1,246 active cases. Of the 105 fresh cases, 76 are of locals while 28 are migrant workers and one is of a foreign returnee. ‘Imported’ cases Meanwhile, Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph continued to rise in steady spurts as another 57 tested positive on Monday. While 55 out of this 57 are “imported” cases of infection, and were detected in people who had either returned from abroad or in persons who had returned to Kerala from the rest of the country, one health care worker in Palakkad and yet another employee of Air India were reported to be positive. The total number of cases in the Air India cluster thus becomes 10. The State also reported the recovery of 18 persons from the disease. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said 210 Keralites had so far died abroad due to COVID-19 and that on Monday alone, nine persons had lost their lives to the disease A day after reporting the biggest spike on a single day with 299 positive cases, 187 new cases and one death have been reported in Karnataka on Monday. Among the new cases, 117 are inter-State travellers. A 90-year-old resident of Bengaluru, who was admitted on April 24 and shifted to the ICU on May 22 due to oxygen desaturation, developed sepsis and multi-organ failure. He died late on Sunday night. While Raichur had reported the highest number on Sunday with 83 cases, Udupi had the most number of cases on Monday, with 73 cases, 33 of whom were returnees from Maharashtra. This was followed by Bengaluru Urban that saw the second highest number 28 new cases, including three policemen. Of the new cases in Bengaluru, 22 are returnees from Maharashtra. Over 1,00 cases in T.N. For the second day running, Tamil Nadu reported more than 1,000 cases of COVID-19. The State added 1,162 cases on Monday, its highest single-day spike so far, taking its tally to 23,145. It was another high for Chennai as well, with 964 indigenous cases and three imported ones. The city’s total number of cases now stands at 15,770, of which 8,181 persons have been discharged.  (With inputs from Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu Bureaus)
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajya Sabha elections rescheduled to June 19||The elections to 18 Rajya Sabha seats that were deferred owing to the lockdown will be held on June 19, the Election Commission said on Monday. Polling for four seats each in Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat, three each in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, two seats in Jharkhand and one each in Manipur and Meghalaya was earlier scheduled for March 26, the day after the initial three-week lockdown began. The EC said it decided to hold the polling and counting on June 19 after reviewing the matter and taking into account the Union Home Ministry’s May 30 guidelines and the inputs from the Chief Electoral Officers of the States. Starting Monday, several of the restrictions imposed under the previous phases of the lockdown have been eased. “The Commission has also decided that the Chief Secretaries shall depute a senior officer from the State to ensure that the extant instructions regarding COVID-19 containment measures are complied with while making arrangements for conducting the elections. Further, the Commission has appointed the Chief Electoral Officer concerned as Observer for the election in the respective State,” the ECI said. The ECI on February 25 announced elections to 55 seats from 17 States to fill the vacancies caused by those retiring in April. After the last date for withdrawal of nominations on March 18, 37 seats from 10 States were declared filled without contest. Polling for the rest was scheduled for March 26, and the elections were to have been completed by March 30. The ECI deferred the elections in its order on March 24.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||INS Jalashwa sets out from Colombo with 685 Indians||INS Jalashwa set sail from Colombo in Sri Lanka to Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu with 685 Indian citizens on Monday evening, under Phase 2 of Operation Samudra Setu by the Navy. The group comprises 553 men, 125 women and seven children, the Navy said. It is scheduled to reach Thoothukudi on Tuesday morning.  INS Jalashwa arrived at the East Container Terminal of the Colombo Port on Monday morning. After this, INS Jalashwa will repatriate another 700 Indian citizens from Male in the Maldives to Thoothukudi. Under Phase 1 of Op ‘Samudra Setu’, the Navy has repatriated 1,488 Indian nationals from Male to Kochi. The Indian Mission in Sri Lanka has prepared a list of Indians to be evacuated and facilitated their embarkation after requisite medical screening. “COVID-related social distancing norms have been catered to on board and evacuees would be provided basic amenities and medical facilities during the sea-passage,” the Navy said. The Navy said that after disembarkation at Thoothukudi, the evacuated individuals will be entrusted with the State authorities. This operation is being executed in close coordination with the Ministries of External Affairs, Home Affairs, Health, among others, it added.
02 June 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai likely to receive heavy rain||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday assured Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that disaster response teams from neighbouring States have been kept ready and will be sent to Maharashtra, if needed to tackle the onslaught of the cyclone. During a videoconference between the two leaders, Mr. Thackeray informed Mr. Shah that Maharashtra has sounded an alert in the coastal districts of Mumbai city, Mumbai suburbs, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. Fishermen have been called back and district collectors are being asked to ensure no life is lost. He said those living in non-pucca homes have been directed to shift to safer houses provided by the State. Slum residents in low-lying areas of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region will be relocated on priority. The CM said a 24-hour control room has been set up at Mantralaya, and the Army, Air Force and Navy are coordinating with the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Mr. Thackeray also said non-COVID-19 hospitals should be kept ready while the COVID-19 patients should be properly taken care of. Meanwhile, the IMD on Monday scaled up its weather warning, issuing a red alert for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad for Wednesday. There is a red alert for Palghar on Thursday as well. On Sunday, a low pressure area formed over south-east and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea in the early morning and remained till forenoon. It intensified into a depression, moved north-northwestwards, and lay centred there, 570 km south-southwest of Mumbai, on Monday. Deep depression It is very likely to intensify into a deep depression by Monday evening and turn further into a cyclonic storm on Tuesday. It is very likely to move nearly northwards initially until June 2 and then recurve north-northeastwards and cross north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts between Harihareshwar and Daman on June 3. Therefore, the IMD has issued a red alert (extremely heavy rain at isolated places) for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts for Wednesday. The IMD had initially issued an orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain at a few places) for Mumbai and Thane. The four districts will see heavy rain on Tuesday as well. Mumbai, Thane and Raigad have an orange alert for Thursday. Nashik, Dhule, and Nandurbar have a red alert for Wednesday. There will be very high wind speed in these four districts, while the sea will be very rough and high to very high over east-central Arabian Sea. Fishermen have been advised not to go into the sea. Meanwhile, many parts of Mumbai experienced light showers on Monday. The IMD’s Colaba observatory recorded a rainfall of 0.2 mm. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 34 degrees Celsius and a minimum temperature of 26.8 degrees Celsius.
02 June 2020||ADILABAD,||Several Rajasthani migrant workers make their way back to Telangana||The return of the migrant worker force to Telangana will take place sooner than assumed or so it seems because a few such families from Rajasthan have started coming back to Adilabad. Scores of carpenters and marble workers from Barmer district and other places has arrived here as the COVID-19 travel restrictions are gradually getting relaxed. Shankar Singh Sodha, a carpenter from Rawatsar in Barmer district which borders Pakistan, said thousands of workers from his district and from Jaisalmer are already headed to different places in the country, especially Telangana. The financial contributions of the migrant carpenters from these districts and partly from Jodhpur form the backbone of the economy there, said Shankar who leads a team of 24 workers deployed at different places in Adilabad district. “We cannot afford to stay back at home because there is not enough work for all of us there. At least 30 families are dependent upon the income of the members in my group who work here,” he said, revealing the reason for returning rather early for work here, which, local employers are of the view will force others from different States to return too. “We have also overcome the COVID fear. In any case, our districts were free of the menacing virus,” he added. The carpenter shuddered as he recalled the journey of his 24 workers towards Rajasthan in late March and early April. He, however, said it was necessary to put those memories behind them to get back into the groove. Memories of sufferings “We walked till Nirmal where we were put in a shelter camp by the district police. When we were released and managed to hitch a ride on a lorry, we were threatened with getting shot down by policemen if we did not come out of the lorry carriage section,” he said, recalling the hardships faced during the 1,600-km journey, not to talk of the lack of food and water. Likely to return There are indications that even the construction labourers from Balaghat district in Madhya Pradesh are likely to return gradually in the current month. Almost every migrant worker from that district is expected to return to various places in Telangana after sowing season, said sources.
02 June 2020||Patna,||BJP plans e-campaign in Bihar||Senior BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah will address a virtual rally in poll-bound Bihar on June 9, followed by similar rallies by party president J.P. Nadda and other leaders. The Assembly elections in Bihar with 243 constituencies are due later in October-November. BJP State president Sanjay Jaiswal said Mr. Shah would address “at least 1 lakh people across all 243 constituencies in Bihar through videoconference and Facebook Live”. Others who prefer to listen to his speech could do so on the social networking site, he added. “The virtual rally will begin our digital campaign for Assembly elections in the State,” Mr. Jaiswal further said. Mr. Nadda, party sources said, is expected to address people of north and south Bihar separately. Other parties too have set up their poll campaign machinery on social media, with regular tweets and comments by their leaders. Observers say that the BJP, with its huge IT cell and media team, has a significant advantage over its adversaries in a digital campaign. In Bihar, the BJP has shared power with alliance partner Janata Dal(U) for a long time. Replying to questions, Mr. Jaiswal thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the “financial assistance to Bihar during the COVID-19 crisis”. “Be it fixing problems of bad debts in banks or long-standing issues like triple talaq and Article 370, PM Modi’s government has always acted decisively. Even the low fatality rate in the country due to COVID-19 is by virtue of the Prime Minister’s leadership, which is why he rules the hearts of the masses and would continue to do so,” Mr. Jaiswal added.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||HCQ appears to protect health workers: ICMR researchers||More than four doses of hydroxychloroquine, along with the use of personal protective equipment (PPE), appeared to protect healthcare workers from SARS-Cov-2, according to the first such published investigation in India on the drug’s preventive effects by researchers at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). While globally several studies have failed to show HCQ as useful for treating those moderately or severely sick from the disease, studies are under way to establish if it might confer some benefit on the healthy in preventing them from catching the disease. While this study that lists among its authors the Director General of the ICMR and scientists in government committees tasked with managing the COVID-19 response purports benefit from HCQ, it is yet unable to clearly differentiate whether protective gear or external factors had a greater role than HCQ in staving off infection. For the study, published online in the ICMR’s Indian Journal of Medical Research , researchers contacted and interviewed 751 healthcare workers who reported COVID-19 symptoms. About half tested positive for SARS-Cov-2 and the researchers primarily focused on how many of them were taking HCQ and the frequency of dosage. They also recorded how many of them used masks and gloves and how many were working in extremely close proximity to aerosols generated by COVID-19 patients, for instance intubating them or collecting swab sample. Fifty per cent of those not on HCQ tested positive and up to 70% of those who had taken a weekly dose of 400 mg of HCQ for three weeks tested positive. However, only 40% of those who had taken 4-5 doses tested positive and — only 10% of those on the drug for six weeks or more reported testing positive. Of those on HCQ alone, 130 tested positive and 133 tested negative and of those not on HCQ at all, 206 tested positive and 180 didn’t test positive. The findings, the authors said, “lend support” to India's current policy of recommending HCQ as a preventive in health workers and high-risk asymptomatic contacts of patients.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. raises queries on LAC strife||The Congress on Monday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to take the nation and political parties into confidence on reports of “serious transgression” by Chinese troops in Ladakh and Sikkim, as it was a matter of “territorial integrity”. “This is not a matter of blame game. It is a matter of ensuring absolute, complete and total protection of national and India’s territorial integrity and there can be no compromise there,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said at an online press conference. “It’s time the government, that is the Prime Minister and the Defence Minister, took the nation and the political parties into confidence.” Mr. Surjewala said that information available in the public domain as well as assessment by security experts, including former Northern Army chief Lt. General (Retd) D.S. Hooda, was that Chinese forces may have made incursions at three points in Ladakh and Sikkim. Several questions The transgressions were reportedly in the Galwan River Valley and Pangong Tso Lake area in Ladakh, the Congress leader said. “Security experts and Army veterans are seeing the Chinese transgressions into the Galwan River Valley as an attempt to threaten the Darbuk-Shyok-DBO Road which is vital to servicing Indian troops in Sub-Sector North and close to the Karakoram pass,” Mr. Surjewala said. Posing a series of questions, the Congress said the government should inform citizens of the actual situation on the border and the steps it had taken to protect India’s territorial integrity. “Have Chinese troops occupied Indian territory in the Galwan River Valley and Pangong Tso Lake in Ladakh? Have they pitched hundreds of tents, constructed concrete structures and built a few kilometres of road along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Galwan River Valley and on the north bank of Pangong Tso Lake?” Mr. Surjewala asked. A few days ago, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi too had asked the government to “come clean on the border issue as it had fuelled unnecessary speculation”. ‘Nepal issue worrisome The party, however, refrained from commenting on the issue of Nepal redrawing its official map to include areas that are part of Indian territory. “It is worrisome. Our senior leaders are studying it and we will soon come out with a statement,” Mr. Surjewala said. On the latest set of relief measures announced by the Union Cabinet, including hiked minimum support price for farmers, senior leader Ahmed Patel slammed the government saying the farmers’ hopes had been dashed.
02 June 2020||Bhopal,||Locusts fly into Chhattisgarh from M.P.||Swarms of desert locusts flew into two villages of Korea district of Chhattisgarh from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh but caused minimal damage, State government officials said on Monday. “The swarms descended on three villages on Saturday night, but one of them flew away from a village the next morning,” District Collector Satyanarayan Rathore said. On Sunday, a swarm remained between Punji and Jwaratola villages of Bharatpur block of the district. “We sprayed pesticide, which killed most of them. All panchayats are on alert and fire tenders have been put on standby,” he added. A further advance inside Chhattisgarh depended on Madhya Pradesh’s handling of swarms and the wind direction, Maninder Kaur Dwivedi, Principal Secretary of the Chhattisgarh Agriculture Department, told The Hindu . No standing crops “If they don’t manage to kill them all, they are likely to come here. There is a nationwide alert already. As there are no standing crops at the moment, there was no damage in Korea,” Ms. Dwivedi added. On May 29, State Director of Agriculture Taman Singh Sonwani alerted district officials to possible invasions and asked them to tour villages to apprise villagers of it. Mr. Singh had informed agriculture officials that swarms could invade Chhattisgarh from neighbouring Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. He directed officials to spread awareness among farmers and teach them natural remedies, traditional alternatives and chemical methods to prevent any crop damage.
02 June 2020||Mumbai,||‘Denying bail to political prisoners is callous’||The denial of bail to all accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon case was “patently callous”, the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) said on Monday, and urged that the health and safety of political prisoners be treated with the same urgency as other prisoners. In a press statement, PUCL said the life and health of all prisoners, convicted or undertrial, is the responsibility of the State which must ensure that all are safe and protected. The statement was issued following the hospitalisation of poet-activist Varavara Rao (81) on May 28, after he could not be treated in Taloja Jail.be treated in Taloja Jail. He has multiple ailments including coronary artery disease. On Monday afternoon, he was discharged from JJ Hospital and sent back to Taloja jail. Mr. Rao and other activists arrested in connection with the case are lodged in various jails in Mumbai. While Anand Teltumbde (70) has respiratory problems, Gautam Navlakha (67) is a patient of colonic polyposis, chronic gastritis, and hypertension. Shoma Sen (61) suffers from hypertension and arthritis and Sudha Bharadwaj (58) has hypertension and diabetes. The recent rejection of bail applications, PUCL said, and the sudden transfer of Mr. Navlakha to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), raised questions about the rights of political prisoners amidst the COVID-19 crisis. The PUCL said, “Repeated rejections of interim bail petitions make clear that existing medical conditions of political prisoners are not regarded as reasonable grounds for bail, even in the context of a pandemic. These rejections are outcomes of mechanical decisions taken by High-Powered-Committees. The security considerations which prompt these Committees to exclude a section of prisoners based on their alleged offence, has in effect, condemned these elderly and vulnerable inmates to reside in abysmal prison conditions in COVID times.” The two-page statement said, “What is disturbing is that when denying them bail, courts have not even passed orders to keep these prisoners in safe surroundings within the jail, given their advanced age and ailments. Though the NIA admitted before the Mumbai special court on April 25 that one of its officers, in the police station where Mr. Teltumbde was kept for interrogation, had tested positive, the court turned down Mr. Teltumbde’s bail application and sent him to judicial custody at Arthur Road Jail, a COVID-19 hotspot. Ms. Bharadwaj had drawn the court’s attention to the fact that ‘social distancing’ was impossible in the overcrowded Byculla Women’s Jail, and that an inmate has recently tested positive. Yet, her bail application was turned down on May 29. And Taloja jail where Mr. Rao and Mr. Navlakha are lodged, also has a confirmed COVID-19 death.” “Denial of bail are acts of persecution committed against those who have existing medical vulnerabilities. The fear of infection is extremely high in overcrowded jails, known for their insanitary and inhuman conditions. In COVID-19 times, especially when Maharashtra has emerged as the State with the highest number of cases, differentially treating bail petitions by political prisoners is gross injustice. The utter helplessness of the prisoner is evident from the hospitalisation of Mr. Rao, and from the case of Mr. Navlakha who was not produced before the court that granted permission for his transfer,” the statement said.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||DGCA bats for empty middle seats in flights||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has instructed the airlines to allot seats in such a manner that the middle seat is kept vacant if the passenger load and seat capacity permits. The order, which will be effective from Wednesday, however, states that members of the same family can be allowed to sit together. Prerequisites to fly If the middle seat, or the seat between two passengers, is occupied due to passenger load, then additional protective equipment such as wrap-around gowns approved by the Textiles Ministry would be given to the individual occupying the intervening seat, in addition to three-layered face mask and face shield. The airlines will provide to all passengers safety kits, including three-layered surgical masks, face shields and adequate sanitiser. No meals or drinking water will be served on board, except in extreme circumstances arising out of health reasons. The embarking or disembarking will be sequential and passengers will be advised by the airlines to follow instructions and not to rush to entry/exit gates. The airlines have been told to ensure orderly entry/exit of passengers. The airlines have also been directed to set the air-conditioning system in such a way that the air gets replaced at the shortest possible intervals. The aircraft will have to be sanitised after the end of each sector when there is no passenger on board. However, on transit flights, when passengers are on board, the vacated seats (including its contacts) will be sanitised. At the end of the day, each aircraft will be deep-cleaned as per procedure. Special attention has to be given to the seat belts and all other contact points. The lavatories will be cleaned or sanitised frequently during the flight. The airlines will also carry out health check-up of all the crew regularly. Medical emergency All the flying/cabin crew will be given full protective suits. In case of any COVID-19-related medical emergency on board, the aircraft disinfection will have to be done with special attention to all the affected and adjoining seats. Airlines and airports have been asked to explore the possibility of installing a disinfection tunnel to ensure the safety of passengers, but only after fully evaluating its health implications on human beings. Compliance of SOP The Civil Aviation Ministry had earlier constituted an expert committee, following the Supreme Court observations on safety of passengers. These instructions have been given after a “holistic consideration” of all the issues involved, the Authority said. On May 6, the DGCA had directed Air India to ensure strict compliance of the SOP for operations of evacuation flights under Vande Bharat mission. A circular was then issued with guidelines to various stakeholders on recommencement of scheduled domestic operations, which included the measures to be taken by them to protect the health of persons involved in air travel.
02 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. doctor calls Jamaat members ‘terrorists’||A video showing Kanpur GSVM Medical College principal Aarti Lalchandani purportedly referring to Tablighi Jamaat members as terrorists has emerged. It also shows an alleged statement by her that instead of keeping such patients in isolation wards and “exhausting resources” on them, they should be punished in “solitary confinement” in jails or “sent to jungles and locked up in dungeons”. While the authenticity of the undated video could not be independently verified, the principal has said she did come out with some remarks. The video, shot by someone who appears to be a journalist, shows Ms. Lalchandani allegedly making communally laced remarks in a room with several persons in audience. “They should be kept in solitary confinement in jail. You are keeping them in isolation ward,” she says. “We should not say this, but they are terrorists. And we are providing them VIP treatment, providing them food... exhausting our resources on them.” The hospital was “wasting” PPE kits over the Jamaat members. “Those who should be in jail, you are bringing them here for treatment, feeding them food, getting others infected, wasting manpower and kits,” she allegedly says. When contacted by The Hindu , Ms. Lalchandani first said the video was “morphed” and that she did not refer to any community or target Muslims. But in the same breath, she admitted that she made the comments as a vent. “I said it in anger and frustration. I didn’t issue any statement. I said this but in that circumstance...,” she said.
02 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Heavy rain likely in 4 northern districts in Kerala||The southwest monsoon, which officially set in over Kerala on Monday, is likely to be active over the State on Tuesday. Four northern districts, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod, can expect isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has also issued an orange alert for Kozhikode. Yellow alerts have been issued for the other three districts and as well as for Kollam, Ernakulam, Idukki and Thrissur where there is a possibility of isolated heavy rainfall. The possibility of a mild, two-day lull in precipitation exists on Wednesday and Thursday after which the monsoon rainfall is expected to pick up. On Monday, Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode and Kannur received the highest amount of rainfall as per the 5.30 p.m. readings taken by the Met Centre, Thiruvananthapuram. Meanwhile, fishing activity along Kerala shores continues to remain banned on account of the depression of the Arabian Sea which is expected to intensify into a cyclonic storm. High wave alert The Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) has also issued a high wave alert for the Kerala coast. Waves as high as two to 3.9 metres can be expected along the coastline stretching from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod till Tuesday.
02 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||In Kerala, college education steps into new domain||Colleges in Kerala logged in en masse to online classes for the first time on Monday amid several teething issues. The occasion also ushered in a change, albeit temporarily, in the class hours — from 8.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. in place of the usual 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. Problems were aplenty, as expected, for both teachers and students on the first day. While several teachers struggled with online tools, many students faced connectivity issues with certain colleges reporting as low as 30% attendance. Clueless, dataless Large sections of the faculty felt the Directorate of Collegiate Education could have helped in educating them on such pedagogical techniques in advance. Many were not familiar with the features of the videoconferencing platforms. A teacher at a government college in Ernakulam admitted that many teachers had no clear picture of the number of students with smartphones and connectivity. “However, the idea is to provide at least two hours of e-content daily department-wise from tomorrow [Tuesday] onwards,” he said. On the the other hand, students ran out of their daily data allocation midway through the lecture sessions. Many students complained that they were facing frequent power disruptions with the onset of the monsoon. Those without good broadband connectivity are also not able to download videos with large file size. Aleena S., a student of the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, who struggled to access online learning materials from her house at Kalavoor, Alappuzha, said universities must enable students to utilise their facilities for the purpose. While some colleges focussed on completing unfinished portions, others managed to progress on to the new academic year. The government has directed Principals of all government, aided and self-financing colleges to permit students who do not have smartphones or laptops with Internet connectivity at home to access the classes on campuses. But, some Principals said they would require more time to enhance Internet connectivity in accordance with the spike in demand for online sessions. Jaleel launches classes The ‘virtual classroom’ got under way with an introductory session by Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel, an Associate Professor of History at Pocker Sahib Memorial Orphanage College in Tirurangadi, who donned the lecturer’s hat after 14 years. The class was live-streamed from the Online Resources Initiatives of Collegiate Education (ORICE) centre at the Government Sanskrit College, Thiruvananthapuram. Prior to embarking on his lecture on the Renaissance, Dr. Jaleel said: “Despite being a necessity of the times we live in, the online classes will not become a substitute for the traditional classrooms.” On changed schedule Though Dr. Jaleel said that no decision had been made to persist with the new timings when colleges resume functioning offline, his words hinted at a slant towards adopting the reform as a long-term arrangement. “The decision to advance class hours was taken on the basis of growing demand. The change is expected to benefit students and provide them an opportunity to pursue other courses after class hours. The additional time can be used to imbibe skills that could make them employable,” he said adding the issue would be discussed threadbare. ( With inputs from G. Krishnakumar in Kochi )
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Won’t interfere in border issue, says Australian envoy||Australia would not “interfere” in the ongoing situation between India and China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), said its High Commissioner to India, indicating a different line from the U.S. on the issue. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison are due to speak at a “virtual” bilateral summit on Thursday, where the two sides are expected to strengthen strategic cooperation and announce a Mutual Logistics Supply Agreement (MLSA) for the reciprocal use of each other’s bases and other military facilities. “In relation to the border issues…that is a matter for China and India to resolve, not a matter for Australia to interfere with. What we have seen in the past week when others have sought to step in, it has been made clear that India and China will resolve it bilaterally,” said High Commissioner Barry O’Farrell, in a reference to U.S. President Donald Trump’s offer to mediate, as well as a U.S. official’s reference to the LAC situation as proof that China poses a “threat” to its neighbours. Australia and China are currently are locked in tensions as well over a range of issues, from trade and the coronavirus pandemic to China’s moves in the South China Sea. However, the envoy made it clear that the issues would be kept separate from India’s current tensions over the Chinese army action on the LAC in Ladakh and Sikkim. Speaking about the summit on Thursday, which has been scheduled six months after it was cancelled in January last because of forest fires in Australia and then put off due to the pandemic, Mr. O’Farrell said the relationship would reach a “historic high” after the Prime Ministers’ discussions. “The mutual LSA makes it easier for defence forces of both countries to conduct exercises like AUSINDEX and to facilitate access to each other’s bases,” Mr. O’Farrell told journalists in Delhi. “It is the sort of a relationship we have with many of our allies,” he added. Australia had submitted a draft of the MLSA soon after India signed a similar “foundational agreement” with the U.S. in 2016, and it has taken nearly four years to negotiate. India was likely to sign LSAs with Russia, Japan and the U.K. as well in the near future, said officials. Amongst a number of other agreements due to be announced during Thursday’s summit are COVID19-related cooperation at regional and multilateral institutions, said the High Commissioner.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||Cameramen pan SG’s vulture remark||The All India Working News Cameramen Association (WNCA), the representative organisation of photo and video journalists in the country, has strongly condemned remarks made by the Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta. Appearing before the Supreme Court in the course of a hearing on the ‘migrant crisis’ on May 27. Mr. Mehta had compared photo and video journalists to a ‘vulture’ by narrating an incident involving an international news photographer in court. In a statement on Monday, S.N. Sinha, President, and Sondeep Shankar, General Secretary of WNCA, said by capturing and recording the migrants’ tragedies in their cameras, the photojournalists, at considerable risk to their well being, were bringing images and bearing witness to the worst humanitarian crisis in the country since the partition. They pointed out that the photojournalists were doing their job by bringing the ‘cold and hard truth’ of the migrants’ situation to shake the conscience of the people and spur the government to taking remedial action. “Tushar Mehta in his enthusiasm to defend the indefensible inaction of the government, misrepresented facts about the picture of Kevin Carter, the Sudanese girl, and the vulture, implying that the photographer should have helped the girl instead of photographing it,” Mr. Sinha and Mr. Shankar remarked. As a matter of fact, Mr. Carter, the iconic and Pulitzer winning photojournalist, had shooed away the vulture after capturing the human tragedy, they added.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||Flip-flop on ban list for CAPF canteens||The Centre clarified on Monday that it had withdrawn an order banning the sale of 1,026 “imported products” in Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) canteens from Monday. Many products manufactured by Indian companies were on the ban list. The May 29 order issued by the Kendriya Police Kalyan Bhandar or the Central Police Canteen (CPC), under the Home Ministry, delisted the products. Home Minister Amit Shah announced on May 13 that the canteens would sell only swadeshi products. “It is clarified that the list issued by Kendriya Police Kalyan Bhandar on May 29 regarding delisting of certain products has been erroneously issued at the level of Chief Executive Officer. The list has been withdrawn and action is being initiated for the lapse,” said a statement issued by A.P Maheshwari, Director-General, CRPF, who chairs the Welfare and Rehabilitation Board. The order said there were three categories of products: purely made in India; raw materials imported but products manufactured/imported in India; and purely imported products. It said the list has been prepared based on the information provided by the firms. Products from Usha, Dabur, Philips India, Nilkamal, Eagle Home Appliances, Colgate Palmolive, Cavinkare, Blue Star and Bajaj Electricals were among those banned. A range of products of Cello, LG Electronics, Panasonic, Samsung, Proctor and Gamble, Hindustan Unilever Ltd., Singer India, Red Bull and Swiss Military Lifestyle will not be sold. On May 14, the CPC wrote to all the 446 “Indian and multinational companies” seeking product-wise information on the “criterion of swadeshi ”. Seventy-three of the 446 firms, including multi-national companies, were delisted. “The CPC had written to Home Ministry to give a clarity on the swadeshi order. The Ministry turned to the Commerce Ministry seeking clarification. Since the order had to be implemented from June 1, the official concerned released the list after getting feedback from the companies concerned. The clearance of the Ministry was not taken,” a senior official said. There are 119 master canteens that double as warehouses and more than 1,700 subsidiary canteens that act as retail outlets. They cater to nearly 10 lakh retired and serving personnel and their families, offering products at cheaper than market prices.  The list has been withdrawn and action is being initiated for the lapse A.P MaheshwariDirector-General, CRPF
02 June 2020||BENGALURU,||Karnataka CM brushes aside meeting of rebel legislators||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday indirectly hit out at his detractors within the party, who held a meeting allegedly to muster support against him, by stating that his present focus was only to fight COVID-19 and he was not bothered about other issues. “My present focus is only preventing spread of COVID-19. I am completely involved in it. I am not bothered about other issues and would not even like to react,” the Chief Minister told a press conference in Bengaluru on Monday, while responding to queries on the recent incidents of some of the disgruntled MLAs, mostly from North Karnataka, trying to raise a banner of revolt against his leadership. ‘Ideal strategy’ The CM’s tough stance is being seen in the political circles as a strategy to deal with rebels in a stern manner and show them in poor light as they have indulged in rebellion at the time of COVID-19 crisis gripping the nation. Sources in the BJP State unit said that the CM’s camp was of the view that it would be difficult for the rebels to seek Central leadership’s intervention at a time when COVID-19 cases are seeing a sharp increase. “Perhaps, this is the reason why the CM may have decided to ignore the rebels at least for public perception,” a BJP State leader said. Ministerial expansion Several BJP MLAs from North Karnataka, especially those belonging to the Lingayat community to which the Chief Minister also belongs, held a meeting recently in which they reportedly expressed displeasure over his style of functioning. The rebellion has come just ahead of elections to the Rajya Sabha and Legislative Council. Also it is being speculated that most of the rebels have set their eyes on Ministerial berths, hoping for a possible Ministerial expansion soon after the Legislative Council polls.  My present focus is only preventing spread of COVID-19. I am completely involved in this. I am not bothered about other issues and would not even like to react. B.S. Yediyurappa Chief Minister
02 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||COVID-19 strikes fear in Bru refugee camp in Tripura||The novel coronavirus has struck in a relief camp for about 15,000 displaced Bru tribal people in Tripura’s Kanchanpur subdivision. A man from the Damcherra area of North Tripura district’s Panisagar subdivision bordering Mizoram was prescribed home quarantine after he reached Agartala in May-end. But his swab sample tested COVID-19 positive the day after he reached his wife’s house at the Naisingpara relief camp on the morning of May 30. The camp is about 185 km northeast of Agartala. “We have transported him to Agartala for treatment and his close contacts are being tested now,” Kanchanpur’s Sub-Divisional Magistrate Chandni Chandran told The Hindu on Monday. “He came from Chennai, stayed at an Agartala quarantine facility for less than two days and gave his address as Damcherra but came to his wife’s house at Naisingpara without informing anyone,” she added. The man is said to be a local Reang (another name for Bru) tribal although Damcherra, along with Naisingpara, has one of seven relief camps for some 35,000 Bru people displaced from Mizoram since 1997 due to ethnic clashes. North Tripura district officials did not rule out the possibility of health teams not ensuring proper home quarantine for the Reang man. District health officials said they have tracked the driver of a jeep who transported the man to Naisingpara along with two others. The other two were dropped at Damcherra.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||NPCI denies breach of BHIM app data||Following a report by security researchers alleging leak of personal data of millions of users of the BHIM payment application due to a website breach, the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) on Monday denied the claim, asking “everyone to not fall prey to such speculation”. The report by vpnMentor alleged that 409-gigabyte of data, comprising 7.26 million records, were leaked, and the trove included personal identifiable information such as Aadhaar details, residence proof, bank records and complete profiles. The vpnMentor’s website claims it is the world’s largest VPN review website and its research lab is a pro bono service that strives to help the online community defend itself against cyberthreats while educating organisations on protecting their users’ data. The report claims that a website, http://cscbhim.in/, developed by CSC e-Governance Services, in partnership with the Indian government, was being used in a campaign to sign up users and business merchants to the BHIM app. “All related data was being stored on a ‘misconfigured’ Amazon Web Services S3 bucket and was publicly accessible,” it said. Unsecured storage The report explained that S3 buckets were a popular form of cloud storage across the world but required developers to set up the security protocols on their accounts. “In this case, the data was stored on an unsecured Amazon Web Services (AWS) S3 bucket,” it said. “The scale of the exposed data is extraordinary, affecting millions of people all over India and exposing them to potentially devastating fraud, theft, and attack from hackers and cybercriminals,” it said, adding that the developers of the website could have easily avoided exposing user data if they had taken some basic security measures to protect the data. The researchers said that after receiving no reply from the website’s developers, they reached out to India’s Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) twice, following which the breach was closed. “We have come across some news reports which suggest data breach at BHIM app. We would like to clarify that there has been no data compromise at BHIM App and request everyone not fall prey to such speculation. NPCI follows high level of security and an integrated approach to protect its infrastructure and continue to provide a robust payments ecosystem,” NPCI said in a statement.
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sanitised taxis at Hyderabad airport 24x7||With Hyderabad international airport recommencing operations from May 25, authorised taxi services like Meru, Skycab, Ola, Uber, One Car, Srinivasa Tours & Travels have resumed services too. These operators have been sensitised about the new safety and hygiene norms to follow while ferrying passengers.  The State government has permitted round-the-clock taxi services to and from the airport, so passengers should carry a copy of ticket or boarding card while travelling to and from the airport. Only three customers apart from driver are allowed to travel in one vehicle, advised an official spokesperson on Monday.  Safety measures at the airport begin from the parking zone itself, where besides social distancing markings, digital payment options and other contact-less measures, a mechanism to provide a sanitised taxi experience for every passenger using the airport-authorised taxi has been put in place. It includes thermal screening of taxi drivers and only those drivers with normal body temperature are allowed to perform duty. Once the driver is cleared to drive, taxi sanitisation is conducted in front of the passengers with designated taxi sanitisation personnel in Personal Protective Equipment before passengers set foot inside. A specially developed fumigation machine is used to spray WHO-recommended disinfectant inside the vehicle to neutralise any virus inside. Once the spraying is done, the vehicle is left idle for two minutes for higher impact on eliminating viruses and other germs. Then the outer body is sprayed followed by disinfection of all the touch points like the door latches, doors, glove box, dashboard, seats, head-rests, AV vents and AC vents/buttons among others. The spokesperson mentioned that some taxis are also providing a plastic partition between the driver and passengers. All drivers must wear face masks at all times and keep sanitisers for customers’ use. Car park zone too is being regularly cleaned and sanitised, he added.  “We are taking all possible measures to offer a safe and healthy environment to our passengers and airport community members,” said GMR Hyderabad International Airport CEO S.G.K. Kishore.
02 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Vehicles stranded as A.P. continues curbs||Andhra Pradesh Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang has said there will be no relaxation of current restrictions on inter-State travel by road. While several States, including neighbouring Telangana, have lifted restrictions as per the guidelines of the fifth phase of the lockdown, Andhra Pradesh has decided not to open the borders. In a late night release on Sunday, Mr. Sawang said all those coming to the State have to get an e-pass from the Spandana portal (spandana.ap.gov.in). He said those coming from places with low incidence of COVID-19 cases had to undergo home quarantine for seven days and those coming from high incidence areas had to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine. They would then be tested and further advised seven-day home quarantine if tests came out negative. He said any decision on the relaxation of inter-State movement would be announced. The State Department of Health and Family Welfare said all persons entering the State would be tested at border checkposts. Prior approval must Meanwhile, passengers from Telangana on their way to Andhra Pradesh were left stranded at the border checkposts like Garikapadu. Long queues of vehicles were seen at the border checkposts on Monday as Andhra Pradesh had made entry by road conditional and insisted that passengers obtain prior approval from the authorities concerned. The Andhra Pradesh police are said to be informing the people about continuance of the restrictions through social media handles like Twitter. No formalities The Telangana government has announced its resolve to lift the restrictions on inter-State movement of passenger vehicles. Though the government is yet to take a decision on allowing inter-State movement of buses operated by the TSRTC and private operators, it has allowed vehicles coming into the State without insisting on following any formalities. The decision on allowing inter-State buses is likely to take some more time as the government is reportedly of the view that allowing buses from the neighbouring States where the incidence of the virus is high would not augur well to Telangana.
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Consider plea for relief to journalists’||Observing that the role of journalists and media personnel can neither be underestimated nor undermined during COVID-19 pandemic, the Karnataka High Court directed the Central and State governments to consider as per the law, a representation made by a petitioner seeking payment of compensation in case a journalist or media personnel dies of the infection. “...just like police, doctors, nurses, government personnel and others who are carrying out essential duties, in the same way, journalists and other media personnel are on the field so as to disseminate and convey correct information to citizens about the impact of the pandemic and other information from the world over,” the court observed. PIL petition A Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order on May 15, while disposing of a PIL petition filed by Jacob George, a resident of Bengaluru. The petitioner had given representation for paying compensation of Rs. 50 lakh to the kin of a mediaperson who dies of COVID-19 on the lines of provision made for healthcare personnel. Risk to life Mediapersons have to risk their health and life to be on ground zero, at hotspots and in containment zones so as to collect information to convey it to the public, either through the press or electronic media for responsible reporting, and also to ensure that the distress of the people and their despair are made known to the government and its instrumentalities so that suitable action is taken for the containment of the virus, the Bench noted.  Challenging times The Bench also observed that “journalists, whether working for the press or electronic media, either on the field or in studios/offices, play a significant and important role. While discharging their duties, they face immense challenges in times such as the current pandemic as they expose themselves to the risk of being infected even as they perform their duties on the frontiers.” The Bench also said that the media, in the present health crisis, should be responsible in reporting true and correct facts and not exaggerating or sensationalising to create fear or panic amongst people.
02 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Another case booked against Malavika Devati||A mother-son duo who were arrested by Jubilee Hills police last week on charge of creating a fake profile on a matrimonial site and cheating an NRI software engineer to the tune of Rs. 65 lakh, had also duped another Telugu man living in the US, relieving him of Rs. 1.02 crore. The victim lodged a complaint with KPHB Colony police on Monday. He told police that the accused Malavika Devati (44) lured him into believing her false story after got in touch with him on a matrimonial site, posing as Anu Pallavi Maganti. She told him that she is born in Baltimore, Maryland and her family stays at Jubilee Hills and asked him to send money to settle a property dispute with her father. “Believing her story, the victim transferred her Rs. 1,02,18,033 and later got to know that he was cheated,” KPHB Colony police said. Woman found dead A 60-year-old woman was found dead at her home in Abdullapurmet on Monday. Sumithra, wife of Bikshapati, who was depressed over her ill-health, committed suicide by hanging in the bathroom of their house. Hayathnagar police said that the incident took place in the late hours of Sunday and came to light only the next morning.  Suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000 or 6666 1117.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A rude welcome for Odisha’s migrants||The village sarpanch thinks the migrant workers staying in culverts and forests are a ploy to defame her. “We have set up three quarantine centres in our village. Only 16 people are staying there. Why are rooms lying vacant?” asked Mahana Jal, Biripali’s sarpanch. Ms Jal, however, had no convincing answers as to why the village did not continue as a containment zone and returnees were allowed to spread out all over village. According to her, 80 tests were conducted in Biripali and 12 were positive. With fear of the pandemic in the air, the migrant labourers say that till they are tested negative, they will not return home. The steady stream of returning migrants from Mumbai and Hyderabad is already adding to the woes. “It is just the beginning, but the administration is nowhere to be seen. People are arriving from all corners of the country. Had Biripali been an urban area, containment measures would have been enforced by now. The administration should not have left villagers to fend for themselves,” said Prashant Kumar Nayak, who heads Palli Alok Pathagar, a Balangir-based social organisation.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||RS, LS meeting could be held on alternate days||“We could move the Lok Sabha to the Central Hall, which has more space as it has been constructed for joint sittings of Parliament and can accommodate members of both Houses. And the Rajya Sabha, which has only 245 members, can be moved to the Lok Sabha chamber, which is occupied by 545 members,” stated the official. A meeting of the Standing Committee on Home Affairs, scheduled on Wednesday, has been postponed as many members had expressed their inability to travel to Delhi because of varied quarantine periods. A request of the panel head, Anand Sharma of the Congress, that those who can’t travel to Delhi be allowed to join in via video link was declined by Mr. Naidu. As per the sources, this issue too came up in the meeting between Mr. Naidu and Mr. Birla. “For virtual meetings of the standing committee, we have to look at ways to adhere to the rules of confidentiality of the deliberations in such meetings,” the senior official said.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon hits Kerala with cyclone in background||After Kerala, the monsoon is normally expected to reach Goa, Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Assam by June 5 and Mumbai by June 10. But the cyclone, if it persists or gains in strength, could block the monsoon system. Squally wind with speeds reaching 45-55 kmph, gusting to 65 kmph, were prevailing over the Arabian Sea. It would likely become 50-60 kmph, gusting to 70 kmph, during the next 48 hours and amplify to 105-115 kmph by the time the cyclone makes landfall. These gales, along with heavy rain, are likely to be registered in Raigad, Mumbai, Palghar and Thane in Maharashtra, the IMD’s latest advisory notes. On Monday, the IMD announced that India would get more rain — or 2% more than its 88 cm long period average — than initially anticipated. “In April, we’d said India is likely to get 100% of its long period average between June and September. The good news is that we are likely to get some more,” he said. Most parts of India, except for the north-eastern region, are expected to get more rain than normal. North-western India is expected to get 107% of its normal, central India 103% and the southern peninsula 102%. North-eastern India is expected to get only 96% of its long-term average. Rains in July were likely to be 3% above what’s usual for the month, but August would see a 3% decline, he said.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Moody’s downgrades India’s rating||“Thereafter and over the longer term, growth rates are likely to be materially lower than in the past, due to persistent weak private sector investment, tepid job creation and an impaired financial system,” the rating agency said. Moody’s had upgraded the country’s rating to Baa2 in November 2017. While downgrading the rating on Monday, Moody’s said while the action is taken in the context of the coronavirus pandemic, it was not driven by the impact of the pandemic. “Rather, the pandemic amplifies vulnerabilities in India's credit profile that were present and building prior to the shock, and which motivated the assignment of a negative outlook last year,” the agency said. Moody’s said slow reform momentum and constrained policy effectiveness have contributed to a prolonged period of slow growth, compared to India's potential, that started before the pandemic. The government measures, before and after the lockdown which was aimed to boosting demand, will not ‘durably restore real GDP growth to rates around 8%’, it said.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Pulses, oilseeds see sharp hike in MSP||For the rest of the crops, return to farmers over their cost of production is estimated to be at least 50%. Among cereals, the government increased the support price of bajra by Rs. 150 to Rs. 2,150 per quintal for this year, while that of ragi has been raised by Rs. 145 to Rs. 3,295 per quintal and maize by Rs. 90 per quintal to Rs. 1,850 per quintal for the current year. Likewise, the MSP for jowar has been increased by Rs. 70 per quintal for this year. The government has increased the MSP of urad by Rs. 300 per quintal to Rs. 6,000 per quintal, while that of tur has been raised by Rs. 200 per quintal to Rs. 6,000 per quintal.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Merciful Narasimha||Periazhvar uses the phrase ‘ulam thottu’, when he talks of Narasimha slaying Hiranyakasipu. This means that the Lord touches the demon’s heart, before He kills him. The Lord does so to check if somewhere in some corner of Hiranyakasipu’s heart, there is some bhakti towards the Lord, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. When Vibhishana approaches Rama, the latter says that He will not abandon anyone who comes with a friendly appearance, even if he has a flaw. Some people openly say they are atheists, but are actually believers. If they do have bhakti towards Him, then even if they pretend to be atheists, He does not reject them. Acharyas have said that even if our love for God is mere pretence, He will still accept even that pretended love and bless us! Now how is this possible? Think of a cow whose calf dies. The cow’s udders are full of milk, and if the calf does not feed, the cow will suffer from pain in its udder. So, the cowherd skins the dead calf, and stuffs the skin with cotton. He then takes the stuffed calf to the cow. The cow’s love for its calf leads to milk flowing from its udders. The calf is lifeless. And yet, the sight of the stuffed calf is enough to make the cow give up its milk, as if it is a live calf. If a cow can give so much milk to a stuffed calf, will the Lord not bless a person, whose affection for the Lord may not be real? Is the Lord not infinitely merciful? So, the Lord checking Hiranyakasipu’s heart, to see if there is some bhakti there, is only natural, for such is the nature of the Lord. The killing of Hiranyakasipu is due to His mercy. Only if He rids the demon of His body, will the atma be saved. To free the atma, He severs its connection to the body.
02 June 2020||KALPETTA,||Panel to synchronise dam openings||A meeting of the District Collectors of Wayanad and Mysuru through a videoconference on Monday decided to constitute an interstate coordination committee to synchronise the opening of dams across the Kabani river to avert floods during the monsoon. There are three dams across the river – Karapuzha and Banasura Sagar in Kerala and Kabini at Beechanahalli – and lack of coordination in opening the shutters of the dams had caused floods in Wayanad in the past. The committee consisting of senior dam safety officials of the States would observe the situations in those dams and adopt steps to avert floods by controlling the water level in those dams.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s borders to be sealed for a week||Delhi’s borders will be sealed in view of rising coronavirus cases in the city, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced here on Monday. “For one week, we are sealing the borders of Delhi for everyone except those providing essential services and those with valid passes,” Mr. Kejriwal said at a digital briefing. The decision to continue with these restrictions, however, would depend on suggestions from citizens, he added. “Today I am here to ask for your guidance on a very important question: should Delhi’s borders be opened?” he asked. The capital’s health infrastructure, he said, was adequate to deal with the pandemic as far as its citizens were concerned.
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Our corona warriors are invincible: PM||Violence, abuse and rude behaviour directed against frontline workers fighting COVID-19 is not acceptable, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday. He was speaking at the 25th foundation day celebration of the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Health Sciences. He participated in the function online from New Delhi. “Because of mob mentality, those on duty — doctors, nurses, and other healthcare workers — are subjected to violence,” he said. The government had taken steps to protect those on duty and an insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh had been provided to those on the frontline. Mr. Modi also said there was a need to focus on “humanity-centric development” in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic. He praised the hard work of the medical community and corona warriors. “Doctors and medical workers are like soldiers without uniform. The virus may be invisible, but our corona warriors are invincible. In the battle of the invisible and the invincible, our medical workers are sure to win,” he said. Terming the pandemic the biggest crisis since the two World Wars, Mr. Modi said the pre- and post-COVID-19 worlds would be very different. India, he said, was determined to eliminate tuberculosis by 2025. The Prime Minister also took a moment to compliment the Karnataka government’s handling of the COVID-19 crisis. He spoke of the need for proper medical infrastructure and said the government was committed to ensuring the presence of a medical college in every district in the country. “As many as 30,000 seats for MBBS and 15,000 in postgraduation were added over the past five years,” he said. Mr. Modi said there was a need for discussions in three areas — advancement in telemedicine, ‘make in India’ in the healthcare sector, and coming up with IT-related tools for a healthier society. He said the country had started manufacturing Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and N-95 masks, and more than 12 crore people had downloaded the Aarogya Setu app.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Street vendors to get credit without collateral||The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on Monday launched a micro-credit scheme for street vendors, which was announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on May 14 as part of the economic package for those affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. The Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi Scheme is aimed at benefiting over 50 lakh vendors who had their businesses operational on or before March 24. The scheme is valid till March 2022, the Ministry said in a statement. The vendors will be able to apply for a working capital loan of up to Rs. 10,000, which is repayable in monthly instalments within a year. “On timely/early repayment of the loan, an interest subsidy of 7% per annum will be credited to the bank accounts of beneficiaries through direct benefit transfer on a six-monthly basis. There will be no penalty on early repayment of loan,” the Ministry said. The Ministry said an online portal and mobile application were being developed to ensure speedy implementation of the scheme. The loans would be without collateral, it said. The loans are meant to help kick-start activity for vendors who have been left without any income since the lockdown began on March 25.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two CBI officials test positive for COVID-19||Two junior-level officials posted at the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) headquarters have tested positive for COVID-19. “They contracted the virus outside the CBI headquarters,” said an official. All offices at the headquarters were being sanitised daily. “Those coming to office wear masks, apart from taking other precautionary steps like social distancing. Sanitisers have also been provided,” the official said.
02 June 2020||Srinagar,||3 infiltrators killed near LoC: Army||Three infiltrators were killed by a counter-infiltration grid of the security forces along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Pir Panjal Valley’s Rajouri district on Monday, according to the Army and police officials. The attempt to push heavily armed militants was foiled in the Kabootar-Gala area of the Nowshehra Sector. “Three unidentified armed militants were killed and the fourth one was injured,” officials said.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||EPFO releases restored pension||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Monday said it had disbursed enhanced amounts on account of restored pensions for those who had opted for commutation at the time of retirement in place of a lump sum. In a statement, the EPFO said it had disbursed Rs. 868 crore in pensions as well as Rs. 105 crore in arrears on account of the restoration of the commuted value of pension. The government had decided earlier this year to restore the full pensions from May. “On the recommendation of the Central Board of Trustees (EPFO), the Government of India accepted one of the long-standing demands of workers to allow restoration of the commuted value of pension after 15 years,” it said.
02 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Gas blowout: OIL asks pvt. firm to explain||Oil India Limited (OIL) has issued a show-cause notice to the Gujarat-based exploration and production firm that was outsourced the operation of the Bagjan natural gas well where a blowout occurred on May 27. OIL’s Chairman and Managing Director Sushil Chandra Mishra on Monday said John Energy Pvt Ltd had been asked to explain the blowout at the well in Tinsukia district of Assam.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Assam flood toll up to nine||While water levels have fallen in the inundated districts of Assam, two more people were reported drowned on Monday, taking the flood-related toll to nine. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said the floodwaters had continued to recede since May 28 with the number of affected districts down from 11 to three. While more than 14,500 of the 21,807 people returning home from relief camps, the number of affected people came down from 2.52 lakh to 1.97 lakh during the last 24 hours. “Two people died in the Kampur area of (central Assam’s) Nagaon district, although (western Assam’s) Goalpara district remains the worst affected with 1.48 lakh people still unable to return home,” an official said.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear petition on nation’s name||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on June 2 a petition that says the nation should be called by one name, be it ‘Bharat’, ‘India’ or the ‘Republic of India’. A Bench led by Justice A.S. Bopanna will hear the petition filed by Namah, who said “the name of India should be one”. The petition said there should be uniformity in the name of the nation. In 2016, the apex court dismissed a petition. Then Chief Justice of India T.S. Thakur had orally remarked that every Indian had the right to choose between calling his country ‘Bharat’ and ‘India’ and the court can’t dictate it.
02 June 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,||Vemulawada temple being readied for opening||With the Central government giving clearance for opening places of worship, Sri Raja Rajeshwara Swamy Devasthanam in Vemulawada is being readied for opening from June 8. The temple was closed from April first week following the implementation of lockdown to check the spread of COVID-19, as places of worship witness heavy crowds. However, the temple authorities ensured that regular religious rituals were held during the period. The puja rituals were also webcast online for the benefit of pilgrims, which got a good response.
02 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Those entering Kerala need to inform govt. in advance||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday reiterated that persons who wanted to enter Kerala should inform the State government in advance by registering their identity particulars and other requisite details at the online portal managed by the Department of Non-Resident Keralite Affairs. Mr. Vijayan’s statement appeared to be in variance with the Centre’s decision to allow the unrestricted inter-State and intra-State movement of people from June 8.
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Will have to close courts if lawyers fail to follow SOP: Chief Justice||The Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court on Monday cautioned that courts will have to be closed again if advocates don’t behave properly and fail to adhere to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) set by the High Court imposing restriction on entry of advocates into the court premises to contain spread of COVID-19. Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said that a group of advocates went haywire at gate number 5 questioning the restrictions, which allowed only advocates with prior appointments to enter the court premises for physical filling of petitions. “Those advocates wanted entry into the court without prior appointment. If this situation continues, then we will have to close down the court,” the Chief Justice said. He made these remarks while hearing through video conference a PIL petition, suo motu initiated by the court to find solutions for legal and technical hurdles coming in the way for conducting, sitting in a Division Bench, also comprising Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty. “I had to spend half-an-hour convincing the advocates, leaving all my important work. They were asking all sorts of questions. One lawyer asked me when COVID-19 will end? I told him I cannot answer that. Another asked me why they were forced to appointments. Please tell lawyers that let them not create a situation where we have to close down the courts again...,” the Chief Justice told Anil Kumar J.M, chairman, Karnataka State Bar Council. To this, Mr. Kumar said the council would advise the Bar associations, while stating that the behaviour of certain advocates could be due to anxiety. “If lawyers don’t behave, then it will lead to closure of courts. They need not come to court unless they have a case or to file a case physically after taking appointment,” the Chief Justice said.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stricter policing on the cards for cluster containment||The Greater Chennai Corporation has adopted a strategy of large-scale cluster containment in zones that report a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases. Speaking to reporters on Monday, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said that the civic body has asked the police to provide personnel for tightening surveillance on the perimeters of zones where clusters of COVID-19 cases were reported. Tondiarpet and Royapuram zones, for instance, reported more than 200 positive cases each on Sunday. “At least 40% of the COVID-19 cases in the city are reported from the two zones of Tondiarpet and Royapuram. This is because of the slum population and high population density,” said Mr. Prakash. The Corporation has also adopted the cluster containment strategy in ward 173 in Adyar and ward 114 in Teynampet. “Strict regulations along the outer boundaries are needed to prevent a spillover,” the Commissioner said. Barricades off At the same time, Mr. Prakash pointed out that the Corporation had removed 1,000 streets from the list of containment zones as no new cases had been reported for 14 days. “Of the 1,286 containment zones earmarked as per the old model, we have released 1,000 zones. It is a positive strategy. It is a success. According to the old model, we created barricades after one positive case,” he said. The Corporation has analysed COVID-19 cases in wards 34, 35, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45 and 48 of Tondiarpet zone. “We identified cases, analysed data and focused intervention. We have set up fever camps at 125 locations. We have intensified active surveillance. Over 500 persons have been shifted to quarantine spaces with bed and toilet facilities. Nutritious food has been given for 10 days,” said Mr. Prakash. Zero tolerance Stressing on the need for public cooperation in containment efforts, Mr. Prakash pointed out that some residents were still not wearing masks. “We have distributed 50% of the masks to the vulnerable population. Persons visiting barber shops should wear masks. Any violations of norms will lead to closure of shops for four months. The government order is very very strict. It has to be followed,” said Mr. Prakash. The Corporation aims to increase the number of persons tested in the city. “Currently, 17,000 persons per million are tested. We will strengthen testing. Positive cases will increase. We want residents to follow self-discipline to contain the spread of COVID-19,” Mr. Prakash added.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cases at Secretariat spark calls for scaling down staff strength||With at least 10 employees from various government departments on the Secretariat campus in Chennai having tested positive for COVID-19, the Tamil Nadu Secretariat Association (Tansa) has requested the State government to revert to the earlier system of allowing departments to function with only 33% staff. The government had recently increased the permissible staff strength to 50%. On Monday alone, four employees from three departments tested positive for COVID-19, multiple sources confirmed. While some employees sought the closure of the Secretariat for at least two days, others said it should be allowed to function with only 33% staff. “When only two employees of the Southern Railway headquarters tested positive, the campus was sealed for two days and disinfected. But here, we have more cases. In what way is the virus in the Railways different from the one at the Secretariat?” a staff member asked. But another staff member contended that the Secretariat was the nerve centre of the entire State, and hence, it cannot be sealed. “It cannot be called a COVID-19 cluster as of yet,” the employee said. Tansa president S. Peter Antonysamy said the Association had submitted representations to various departments, pressing certain demands. “The Public (Buildings) Department has kindly accepted many of our requests. It has installed sanitiser dispensers and is disinfecting the premises regularly,” he said. Tansa had also requested that departments be allowed to function with only 33% staff, since a few cases had been reported, he said, adding: “We have also requested that pregnant women, employees above 55 years of age and those with diabetes and other health issues be exempted from having to report for work. The primary concern is that it (the virus) should not spread.” When contacted, a senior official told The Hindu : “We have been regularly cleaning the premises, and hand sanitisers are available on all floors. We have disinfected the floors on which cases were reported, and have sent all the contacts of these positive cases to quarantine.”  When only two employees of the Southern Railway headquarters tested positive, the campus was sealed for two days and disinfectedA staff member
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Land acquisition norms to be simplified for T.N. govt. projects||The Tamil Nadu government is attempting to simplify the procedures involved in acquisition of land for various government projects. It has decided to grant more powers to Collectors and other authorities so as to minimise the delay in land acquisition, which sometimes takes eight to 10 years. At a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday, features of the report submitted by senior IAS officer T.V. Somanathan (when he was serving in Tamil Nadu) on land acquisition were discussed. Though several aspects were discussed, the files would go through the scrutiny of the Law and Finance Departments. “The meeting has proposed to give more powers to Commissioner of Land Administration and Collectors, who are involved in the process. The idea is to give them more powers to do private negotiation,” a source privy to the meeting said. Presently, files relating to land acquisition come to the government in five stages and if someone raises a query, it gets further delayed, he said. Multiple departments such as the Revenue and Finance departments are involved and the procedure is “complicated and time-consuming,” another officer said, pointing out that neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, which goes by the Central Act, completes the process within two years, whereas it takes about eight to 10 years in Tamil Nadu. The officer pointed out that if compensation was more than Rs. 8 crore, it comes to the government and the local authorities cannot decide. “In many cases, we have acquired the land, but compensation could not be given due to the delay in the procedure. It is a burden to the government too because if the land is acquired by the government and compensation not paid, a 15% interest would get added,” he added. However, the meeting did not seem to discuss ways to check whether lands to be acquired happened to be panchami lands. Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and other senior officials were present. Mr. Somanathan during his tenure in Tamil Nadu was tasked to submit a report on ways to simplify land acquisition procedures. The details of the report submitted several months ago were presented to the Chief Minister on Monday and taken up for discussion, which went on for about an hour, sources said.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Associations want teachers to be included on expert panel||Teachers’ associations from Tamil Nadu have questioned the lack of inclusion of government and government-aided teachers on the expert committee set up by the State government to look into the academic and learning concerns as a result of COVID-19. The committee, headed by the School Education Commissioner, was initially constituted with directors from the School Education department as well as one representative each from Kalvi TV, Parent Teachers Association, IIT Madras and UNICEF. A few days ago, four members including representatives from private schools in the State, were added and more time for submission of the report was granted. The Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers Federation has said that the expert group failed to include not just government school teachers, but also educationalists and parent representatives. “Identifying the gaps in learning with regard to underprivileged children from government and government-aided schools should be thoroughly examined by the expert group.. This is possible only if the group has teacher representatives who know the current situation,” said Patric Raymond, TNGTF. “While the committee was recently expanded to add four new members, it is disappointing that there are no representatives from government teachers associations who will provide a comprehensive overview of the challenges that a majority of the students are facing,” said P.K. Ilamaran, president of the Tamil Nadu Teachers Association. As part of their recommendations sent to the School Education Commissioner, the State Platform for Common School School System, Tamil Nadu, said the committee was not taking an academic approach but a technical or an administrative approach owing to lack of representation from parents or teachers. “Due to this, we are concerned that the focus might hinge solely on online education. The expert group seems to be working with a blueprint in hand instead of identifying gaps based on the ground realities shared by government school teachers, who should have been a part of the expert group,” said Prince Gajendra Babu, general secretary, SPCSS-TN. An official said, “The committee already includes five directors who work with government schools and the recommendations from government school teachers have been sought through CEOs who held stakeholder meetings with them. Their recommendations are not being ignored.”
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stanley Medical College Hospital to have 400 more beds for COVID-19||Another 400 beds are getting ready at an old block of the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital in Chennai for handling COVID-19 patients, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Monday. With this, the hospital will have 900 beds for the patients affected by the pandemic. “The hospital already has 500 beds as an exclusive COVID-19 facility. We are scaling up facilities in hospitals keeping in mind the requirements,” the Minister said at a press conference. Facilities in all medical college hospitals, district headquarters hospitals, and also in taluk hospitals in some districts such as Perambalur, Ariyalur, Cuddalore, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur were being increased. “At the primary health centre-level, we are readying bed facilities and oxygen provision in 30-bed centres,” he said. The Public Works Department had taken up work on priority to ready the 400-bed facility at Stanley Hospital. “It will be ready in two or three days. All the beds will be in individual rooms with partitions and oxygen lines,” he said. According to him, measures were being taken to augment manpower. “Already, retired dean of the hospital and doctors from Erode had joined,” he said. People should compulsorily wear masks and follow physical distancing when utilising public transport. In case of any symptoms of Influenza Like Illness, commuters should not use public transportation and come forward for testing, the Minister said. Official returns “There is no need to fear COVID-19,” said A. Ravi, professor of medicine, and COVID-19 Nodal Officer of the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. After testing positive for COVID-19 and undergoing treatment, he has returned to duty now. “I was seeing many patients and visiting the COVID-19 outpatient department and wards. I was wearing masks and personal protective equipment, and following hand hygiene. Despite all safety precautions, I developed high grade fever nearly 15 days ago. Then, I started to experience fatigue that was followed by dry cough. I decided to undergo testing, and my swab returned positive for COVID-19,” he said. Isolating himself, Dr. Ravi was admitted to the hospital and underwent treatment. “I started to experience signs of improvement from the 10th day. Another swab returned negative for COVID-19. After taking rest for two days, I returned for work,” he said. In his experience at the hospital, he said patients with uncontrolled diabetes were affected the most. “It is not only important to take medication but also periodically check sugar levels and ensure that it is under control. There is no need to fear, and one can recover well,” he said. With a number of senior doctors testing positive at the hospital, he said most of them tested negative for COVID-19, and were all set to return to duty.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Within days after flights resume, all safety norms go for a toss||Long queues without any physical distancing. Chennai airport seems to have gone back to a pre-COVID-19 era. Though only a limited number of flights operate every day, the airport is witnessing serpentine queues in two areas — the entry to the terminal and at the security check. There are only about 40-45 flights that the airport currently handles after airlines resumed domestic operations early last week. But, passengers do not follow physical distancing norms, rendering them vulnerable to contracting the infection from co-passengers. S. Janaki (name changed), a passenger who recently travelled from Chennai to Bengaluru, said, “It was scary to see people so close to each other. Both passengers and authorities need to be aware of the seriousness of this situation. The responsibility lies on both sides equally. But the authorities could have a volunteer wearing PPE or mask and gloves constantly reminding passengers to maintain distance between one another. Passengers should also realise that their life is at risk and behave responsibly.” She added that with many passengers coming to the airport hours before their flight, those with earlier flights had to jostle with others in queues. Airports Authority of India officials insist that they keep urging passengers to stand apart but admit that many disregard their pleas. “We have seen a lot of first-time flyers in the last one week and they are not quite aware of the rules. We keep telling them but the staff are also scared to go very close to passengers,” an official said.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM to request 9 aerospace firms to invest in State||Continuing with his efforts to get more businesses to set up shop in Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has decided to personally reach out to 9 global heads of prominent aerospace companies. According to an official release, he would be writing to Chief Executive Officer of M/s. United Technologies Gregory J. Hayes, Chief Executive Officer of M/s. General Electric H. Lawrence Culp Jr., Chief Executive Officer of M/s. Boeing Dave Calhoun, Chief Executive Officer of M/s. Lockheed Martin Marillyn Hewson, Chief Executive Officer of M/s. Safran Philippe Petitcolin, Chief Executive Officer of M/s. Rolls Royce Warren East, Chief Executive Officer of M/s. Airbus Guillaume Faury, Chief Executive Officer of M/s. Leonardo Alessandro Profumo and Chief Executive Officer of M/s. Honeywell Darius Adamczyk. The letters would outline the attractiveness of Tamil Nadu as an investment destination and the excellent support for business and industry offered by the State to help firms further their growth. They would promise a customised incentive package as per each firm’s requirement, an official release stated. Many firms are likely to exit certain countries and relocate their manufacturing units to India in the wake of the impact of COVID-19 on the world economy. The CM has constituted a special Investment Promotion Task Force under the Chief Secretary for attracting such investments. Tamil Nadu recently signed MoUs with 17 foreign players for investments to the tune of Rs. 15,128 crore.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State govt. issues SOP for chartered flights||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday issued a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for chartered flight services within, to and from the State, as well as services to and from other countries. Passengers taking chartered flights within Tamil Nadu or from other States must get a TN ePass before boarding the plane. According to the SOP issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Monday, all persons arriving in Tamil Nadu on chartered flights from abroad would be tested through the RT-PCR method on Day 1 of arrival and on Day 7. They would “have to undergo paid institutional quarantine for seven days. If the test is positive, they will be taken to the hospital”. Exemption from testing The passengers will be tested again on Day 7. “If the test taken on Day 7 also returns negative, they can be sent to home quarantine for seven days. If quarantine facilities are not available in their house, put them in facility quarantine in the respective districts for seven more days,” the SOP stated. RT-PCR testing is mandatory for passengers from Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat. “However, if they produce COVID-19 negative certificates issued by an ICMR-approved lab (within two days of testing), they will be exempted from testing,” the SOP said. If the individual tests positive, he/she would be taken to a hospital and treated as per protocol. If the individual tests negative, he/she has to undergo home quarantine for seven days, and self-monitor their health for seven more days. Business travellers  “Persons travelling on a business trip who intend to return within 48 hours are exempted from quarantine. Otherwise, the individual has to undergo home quarantine for seven days. The individual shall self-monitor his/her health for seven more days,” the guidelines stated. All passengers on chartered flights travelling within, to and from Tamil Nadu and to and from other countries must be subjected to thermal scanning before boarding. Individuals with COVID-19 symptoms would not be allowed to travel. As for flights within Tamil Nadu, testing is mandatory for individuals travelling from Chennai to other places in the State. “However, if they produce a COVID-19 negative certificate issued by an ICMR-approved lab (within two days of testing), they will be exempted from testing,” the SOP said. Persons travelling on a business trip who intend to return within 48 hours are exempt from quarantine. “Otherwise, the individual has to undergo home quarantine for 7 days. The individual shall self-monitor his/her health for seven more days,” the SOP added. As regards passengers leaving for other States or other countries from Tamil Nadu, they have to adhere to the receiving State’s/country’s COVID-19 protocol for travel, testing and quarantine.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Going for a haircut? don’t forget your Aadhaar||The next time you go for a haircut or grooming in Tamil Nadu, remember your Aadhaar number and your mobile phone number. According to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued for salons, beauty parlours and spas, they must collect the name, address, mobile phone numbers and Aadhaar of their customers to help in contact tracing for COVID-19. The seven-page SOP for owners and workers of these establishments issued by the Commissioner of Revenue Administration to Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation and all District Collectors, hand sanitisers are to be provided near the entrance of beauty parlours and spas, if not, facilities to wash hands with soap and water. A senior officer said the details are collected as a precaution and would help in case someone in a salon tested positive. “With details in hand, it would be easy for contact-tracing, which is taking a long time. We are taking various steps but public cooperation is essential.” “To the extent possible” customers could be allowed for “service by appointment” to avoid crowding and to ensure physical distancing norms. Only 50% of the seats are to be occupied at a time and markings for queues are necessary to ensure there is no crowding.
02 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Additional Commissioner, 49 personnel return to work||Commissioner of Police A.K. Viswanathan and other officers welcomed Additional Commissioner of Police (North) R. Dhinakaran and 49 police personnel who joined duty on Monday after being cured of COVID-19. At the office of the Commissioner of Police, Vepery, Mr. Viswanathan received them and appreciated them for rejoining duty. “As many as 50 police personnel, including the Additional Commissioner, are joining duty on the advice of doctors after they were discharged. The police personnel have been discharging their duties effectively in COVID-19 prevention. While they were discharging duties on field, some of them contracted COVID-19. I appreciate them for coming back to duty,” he said. He said the police should work hard to ensure that public moved freely. Along with Additional Commissioner of Police (North), two Assistant Commissioners of Police, four police inspectors, 12 sub-inspectors, and 31 others joined duty.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lawyers bat for open court hearings; court staff scared||Conflicting opinions have emerged between lawyers and court staff, with the former insisting on conducting open court hearings in all courts across the State, and the latter expressing concerns that COVID-19 would spread further if lawyers are also allowed to attend court proceedings in person. The Madras High Court had permitted open court hearings in 9 districts — Dharmapuri, Nilgiris, Krishnagiri, Tiruvarur, Theni, Ramanathapuram, Nagapattinam, Karur and Sivaganga — from Monday, with a rider that only five lawyers would be permitted in each court hall at a time. Speaking to journalists here on Tuesday, P.S. Amalraj, chairman, Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, said open court hearings should be permitted in all courts in the State, since the present system of conducting hearings through videoconference was “not effective”. He said lawyers were ready to abide by any condition imposed by the High Court to prevent the spread of COVID-19, but were very particular that open court hearings should be allowed at least for urgent and important cases such as those for bail, anticipatory bail and so on. On the other hand, the Madras High Court staff feared that the threat of COVID-19 would increase if lawyers were also allowed to enter the court campus. They pointed out that all judges of the court had already begun hearing cases through videoconference from their chambers. “These hearings necessitate the presence of sufficient number of High Court staff. Though special government buses are being operated for the High Court staff on different routes, physical distancing is going for a toss in some of the routes due to crowding. “Already, an officer in the rank of Deputy Registrar has tested positive for COVID-19 and quarantined with his family. When we are working under such challenging circumstances, allowing lawyers as well to attend the court [proceedings] would do nothing but invite trouble,” a court official said.  The Madras High Court had permitted open court hearings in 9 districts from Monday
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dozens of railway employees test positive for COVID-19||Dozens of employees in the Southern Railway zonal headquarters and the Chennai divisional office have tested positive for COVID-19. While two employees died of the disease in the last one week, many others are either in hospitals or undergoing home quarantine. The handling of files is suspected to have been the main factor behind the spread of the virus, railway sources said on Monday. In May alone, 71 employees, a majority of whom were security personnel of the Railway Protection Force (RPF), tested positive for COVID-19 in the Chennai division. Health officials have lifted samples from the family members of these employees, and the test results are awaited. While many patients were admitted to the Railway Hospital or referred to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, some chose to remain quarantined at home, sources said. “Some senior officers and staff members at the Southern Railway headquarters have also tested positive. Despite the fact that the zonal headquarters and the Chennai divisional office are located in close proximity to the RGGGH, a designated COVID-19 hospital, the offices began functioning initially with 33% staff and later 50%, though there were only a few freight and Shramik Special trains running,” a senior railway official said. With the pandemic spreading fast in Chennai and dozens of employees getting infected, the General Manager’s office on Monday told employees that it was not mandatory to come to work, and that they could work from home as well. “Though safety protocols like physical distancing, wearing of masks and disinfection of infection-prone areas are being followed, the handling of files by officers/staff is suspected to be one of the reasons for the spread [of the virus],” an official said, requesting anonymity. On the death of two railway employees, the official said they had tested positive, and quoted hospital sources as saying that they had succumbed to co-morbid conditions. All India Railwaymen Federation working president N. Kanniah said he took up the issue of employees’ safety with the General Manager, following which a circular was issued allowing those above the age of 55 and those suffering co-morbid conditions to work from home.The General Manager had also agreed to a request by AIRF to have a tie-up with the King Institute, Chennai, for testing samples taken from employees at the Egmore Health Unit, since the Perambur Railway Hospital was crowded. At the Integral Coach Factory, 50% staff were working in the administration wing while 25% were deployed in the factory side, as per guidelines.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IT park near Avadi to come up in two years||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday laid the foundation stone through videoconference for the construction of TIDEL Information Technology Park at a cost of Rs. 235 at Pattabiram near Avadi in Chennai. The IT park to be constructed on behalf of the Industries Department is to come up in 10 acres with a built-up area of over 5.57 lakh sq.ft. and will have 21 floors. The building would house offices, industrial centres, public infrastructure and a hanging garden, among others, an official release said. The construction is scheduled to be completed within two years and is expected to provide employment to about 25,000 people. “Like TIDEL Park in South Chennai resulted in development in the area, North Chennai is expected to witness such development,” the release said. During the event at the Secretariat, Industries Minister M.C. Sampath handed over a cheque of Rs. 50 lakh as CSR funds to the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture K. Pandiarajan (also Avadi MLA) were present. Power substations Mr. Palaniswami also inaugurated (through videoconference) 15 new electricity substations set up in Namakkal, Tiruppur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Villupuram, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari, Nagapattinam, Coimbatore, Thanjavur, Salem and Krishnagiri districts. The substations have been constructed at a total cost of Rs. 224 crore. Electricity Minister P. Thangamani and Social Welfare Minister V. Saroja were present. The Chief Minister also laid the foundation stone for construction of 1,000 housing tenements in the first phase for cine industry workers through the Film Employees Federation of South India (FEFSI) at Payyanur in Chengalpattu district. He also handed over a cheque of Rs. 50 lakh to FEFSI president R.K. Selvamani for the construction of a film studio, which will named after late AIADMK leader and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju was present. The Chief Minister handed over cheques for Rs. 25 lakh each to various MSMEs under the COVID-19 relief scheme. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and senior officials were present.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Makers of ‘Godman’ receive summons||An FIR has been registered against Babu Yogeswaran, director, and R. Elango producer, the makers of Zee 5’s web series Godman, for offences including promoting enmity between different groups, wanton vilification or attacks upon the religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc of any particular group or class. They have been booked under Sections 63/20 u/s 153, 153 (A), 295A,504, 505 1(B) and 505(2). Earlier, they were served summons to appear before the Cyber Crime Cell based on a complaint against them for ‘making denigrating remarks against the Brahmin community in the web series. The case was filed by Sivanarayanan Iyer of ‘World Brahmins Welfare Association’. The teaser of Godman webseries, starring actor Daniel Balaji and Jayaprakash, featured a line about Brahmins, delivered by a character played by Jayaprakash. It was perceived by some members of the community as derogatory. Mr. Elango and Mr. Babu Yogeswaran claimed that they have been subjected to targeted online harassment. A tweet from Zee 5 Tamil said: “Basis feedback received with reference to our Tamil fiction show Godman , we have decided to suspend the release of this show at this moment. The producers Zee 5 had no intent whatsoever of offending or hurting any community, religious or personal beliefs or sentiments.”
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No need for a fresh budget, Ministers reworking expenditure’||The AIADMK government is unlikely to heed DMK president M. K. Stalin’s demand for a fresh budget in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, Ministers have been asked to rework the variable expenditure in their respective departments by at least 25%. “We have all been told to reduce variable expenditure by 25% in our respective departments. All this can be done within the existing framework,” Tamil Development Minister ‘Ma Foi’ K. Pandiarajan, who initially represented the State in the deliberations of GST Council, told The Hindu . Terming Mr. Stalin’s demand “political”, the Minister wondered if there was any need for presenting a fresh budget under the given circumstances. He pointed out that all his colleagues were re-working the original allocations. In times of a disaster, such as the present one, the government of the day had the authority to spend within its means and borrow within the limits fixed by the Central government, the Minister contended. But, by demanding a new budget, Mr. Stalin was seeking to shift the onus onto the legislature with all its attendant issues, he added. “Asking for transparency in expenditure and income is fair, which we will be able to present before the legislature as early as possible even though not necessarily at this point of time,” Mr. Pandiarajan felt. Last week, the DMK leader sought a fresh budget on the premise that all the budgetary estimates and allocations of the State government, prepared prior to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, had been rendered irrelevant subsequently. He also referred to the State government’s estimated net outstanding debt of around Rs. 4.56 lakh crore by March 2021. Durai Murugan, Deputy Leader of Opposition and Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, described Mr. Stalin’s demand as one representing a new thinking in the field of State finances. According to him, when the government incurs expenditure, which is of the magnitude of the total allocation made in a full-year budget, it is but “fair and appropriate” on its part to present a new budget before the Assembly. As for the point that any additional expenditure could be covered through supplementary estimates, Mr. Durai Murugan, cited a host of government announcements as its response to the pandemic. The rationale behind the presentation of supplementaries to the House is to cover any shortfall in expenditure of any project or scheme and not for an expenditure of this nature and size, the former Minister observed. C.K. Thamilarasan, a four-time former legislator, of Indiya Kudiyarasu Katchi, however, said the government’s priority should be to attend to the immediate problems of the people.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AUT objects to appointment of Pachaiyappa’s College principal||The Association of University Teachers has objected to the appointment of Principal to Pachaiyappa's College alleging that norms had been violated. The association has cited the Supreme Court order regarding the job profile of the interim administrator of Pachaiyappa's Trust Board and the college's circular from November last year on appointment. The trust, through a circular, had announced in November that aspirants with the required qualification for the post of Principal may apply for vacancies in all the five aided colleges under its ambit. The last date for applications was November 18. Although the trust’s circular maintained that the appointment would be made by following the University Grants Commission norms, the association said a new principal was appointed without following any norms. The AUT alleged that the chairman of the trust board P. Shanmugam had gone beyond his brief and interfered in the appointment of teaching and non-teaching staff in educational institutions. On May 29, C. Kandasamy Naidu College principal had been appointed as Principal of Pachaiyappa's College in violation of the norms.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamils stranded in Singapore seek State govt. help to get back home||Many Tamils stranded in Singapore have requested the Tamil Nadu government to arrange flights to facilitate their return to the State. “Many people have lost jobs and are struggling here. They are unable to go back to Tamil Nadu as there are no flights. We have a WhatsApp group for people from Tamil Nadu stuck in Singapore. There are senior citizens who need medical treatment and pregnant ladies who are desperate to return. With job losses, it is difficult to survive, given the cost of living factor,” said Ramasubramanian of Karaikudi, who is among those stranded in Singapore. Not a single flight has been operated from Singapore to destinations in Tamil Nadu under the Vande Bharat Mission, he said. Anitha, who works in Singapore, said her husband came there on a ‘dependent pass’ in February, and has been stranded there since. “He is a diabetic and needs treatment from his doctor in Chennai. Flights are being operated from Singapore to northern States in India, but not to Tamil Nadu,” she said. Ms. Anitha said that even if flights were operated to destinations like Tiruchi, it would be helpful. Mr. Ramalingam, who hails from Kumbakonam and is working in Singapore, said he had to come back for medical treatment for suspected tuberculosis. Mr. Ramasubramanian said tourists and students were also stranded in Singapore.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Illegal construction on temple land stopped||As part of its efforts to retrieve temple properties, the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) department has stopped illegal construction work on land belonging to the Dhenupureeswarar temple in Madambakkam by a private party. Officials said that the owner of the building was trying to convert his house into a commercial establishment since it is located on Madambakkam Main Road and is worth several crores of rupees. “We are in the process of vacating over 290 encroachers from the seven streets that came up on nearly 20 acres of land belonging to the temple. We have already written to the Revenue Department to not entertain any sale of property or registration in the specified pattas so that people will not further misuse the lands,” an official of the HR and CE said.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Those on long COVID-19 duty get a break||City police personnel, who were on COVID-19 prevention duty for long, have been given rest for seven to 10 days. The practice has come into force following an order of the State government. Director General of Police has asked Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan to ensure adequate rest for personnel who were on long duty without any break. Police personnel in city have been on duty since the beginning of lockdown in identification of COVID-19 cases, contact tracing, prevention and restriction of movement on roads. Most of them are on continuous duty. Over 276 police personnel were affected due to COVID-19. They were being discharged from hospital after treatment. A senior police officer said personnel had been given rest for seven and 10 days on rotation basis depending upon the strength of a police station. For instance, if a police range had 100 personnel, 10% of them were given rest. The city police had already asked policemen between the ages of 55 and 58 to stay home.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPFO warns against use of third party services||Private agencies and touts have been approaching people offering to facilitate immediate withdrawal of Provident Fund for a fee. However, the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has warned subscribers not to avail of such services. Private agencies were sending random SMS messages to PF subscribers offering their services. When a PF subscriber Ram* contacted one such city-based firm, he was told that he can get his provident fund money withdrawn within 15 days for a fee of Rs. 2,000. He was also told that if there were issues with documents then the fee would vary accordingly. “All Provident Fund subscribers should only use the online claim facility of EPFO and avoid such unscrupulous agencies,” a senior official said. He added that all necessary measures would be taken against such services. Sources said some subscribes might not be aware of how to login with the Universal Account Number (UAN) and such a situation was being exploited.  (*Name changed)
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Southwest monsoon sets in parts of T.N.||Many districts across the State may receive light to moderate rainfall for the next two days, according to the Meteorological Department. With Southwest monsoon setting in, parts of Tamil Nadu including Coimbatore and Kanniyakumari districts may receive rain, said officials of the Meteorological Department. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Monday, places particularly along the Western Ghats received rainfall. Kodumudi in Erode district received the highest amount of rainfall of 8 cm. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said that southwest monsoon has arrived in Kerala and brought in good rains in the region. A depression over east central and adjoining southeast Arabian sea is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm by Tuesday. While it may not have any direct impact over Tamil Nadu, the weather system would strengthen easterly winds as it moves and influence rains over many places in the State for two days. Cyclonic storm  The cyclonic storm is expected to cross north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts by June 3 evening or night, he said. Some places in many districts, including Kancheepuram, Salem, Vellore, Theni, Tiruchi, Dindigul and Dharmapuri, may experience light to moderate rains till Wednesday. Besides the weather system, convective activity would also bring rainfall in some areas, officials said. On Monday, the weather stations in Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded a maximum temperature of 35.8 degree Celsius and 37.6 degree Celsius, which is less for the season. A few areas in the city reported light rains in the evening. Officials noted that Chennai would have a generally cloudy sky and some areas may receive light to moderate rains till Wednesday. The maximum temperature would remain around 37 degree Celsius in the city for two days.  Besides the weather system, convective activity would also bring rainfall in some areas
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ATM robbery solved, bank employee held||The Maduravoyal police on Monday solved the Tamilnadu Mercantile Bank ATM theft case with the arrest of a bank employee. Over a dozen persons, including bank staff, were interrogated as part of the investigation into the theft of Rs. 8 lakh from the ATM on Sunday. The police said the masked suspect arrived in an autorickshaw at the ATM around 12.30 p.m. Sunday and entered the kiosk on the pretext of spraying disinfectant. The suspect opened the machine and was taking out cash. A customer, who came to deposit cash, grew suspicious and alerted the security guard. By then, the suspect had left the spot with the booty. Following a complaint filed by bank manager Rajkumar, Maduravoyal police inspector T. Radhakrishnan took up investigation. Mr. Radhakrishan said: “The CCTV footage and good coordination of our team helped solve the case quickly.” The police gave the name of the suspect as M. Sivanandan, 39, an employee working with another branch of the bank. The accused knew the password as he regularly loaded cash into the machine. He allegedly stole the money to settle a loan taken to build his house at his native place in Thoothukudi district.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. receives 1.5 lakh more testing kits||Tamil Nadu received 1.5 lakh more reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction ( RT-PCR) test kits recently. Public health officials said the State had adequate capacity for testing, and would continue to conduct tests as per the protocol laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Taking the recent procurement into account, the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation has a total of 3.6 lakh RT-PCR test kits. Around two lakh kits are available at hospitals. As per a Government Order issued on Sunday, anyone travelling from Chennai — demarcated as Zone 8 in the State — to other zones will be tested for COVID-19, irrespective of whether they are showing symptoms. A health official said people will be screened on all arterial roads. “All district administrations are monitoring the entry of people into their districts,” he said, adding that the State had sufficient testing capacity. An official said the only issue was that the testing figures remained stagnant in the State, and there was a need for aggressive testing, specifically in Chennai. “We need to further increase the number of tests being carried out,” he said.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM should stop promoting himself: Stalin||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami must stop wasting time promoting himself during the fifth phase of the lockdown in June, and put people’s interest first, DMK leader M.K. Stalin has said. “Take quick action to save people’s lives first,” he said. The DMK president sought to know from Mr. Palaniswami why the government had not procured enough ventilators and created more hospital beds in spite of the surge in cases in the State, especially in Chennai. “We are in the fifth phase of the lockdown. But the government has bought only 550 ventilators so far. Why is the government so lax in buying ventilators? Why has it not created more hospital beds?” he asked. Referring to the statistics provided by the CM on RT-PCR test kits, Mr. Stalin said the numbers didn’t stack up.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Protest against DMK MPs’ remarks||Demonstrations were held on Monday in different parts of the State, criticising Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) Members of Parliament for their reported “adverse remarks” on Scheduled Castes. Besides the DMK MPs R.S. Bharathi and Dayanidhi Maran, the agitationists were critical of DMK chief M.K. Stalin on the issue. Though members of the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) took part in the State-wide agitations, there was no official announcement from the party headquarters during the day regarding the programme.
02 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Conditional bail for R.S. Bharathi||I Additional Sessions Court on Monday granted conditional bail to DMK Rajya Sabha member, R S Bharathi in a case booked under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act of 1989. The judge granted him bail with certain conditions.. On May 23, he was arrested by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) wing of the Chennai city police under the SC/ST Act for making derogatory remarks against judges belonging to the Scheduled Caste community. On a complaint lodged by Aadhi Tamilar Makkal Katchi president Kalyanasundaram, the Teynampet police registered cases against him.
02 June 2020||CHENNAI/SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Ex-State BJP chief dead||Former State BJP president and ex-MLA K.N. Lakshmanan died on Monday night at his residence in Salem following illness. Lakshmanan, 90 , was recently admitted to a hospital and discharged a few days ago, according to family members. Born on October 20, 1930, Lakshmanan joined the RSS in 1944 and started the Jana Sangh unit in Salem in 1957 along with the support of nine others. He joined the BJP when the party was founded and was appointed State president between 1984 and 1989, and between 1996 and 2000. From 2006, he was a member of the BJP’s national council. In 2001, Lakshmanan, a BJP candidate, won from the Mylapore Assembly constituency, when the DMK was a constituent of the NDA. In January, he attempted to take out a rally of BJP cadres in Salem “in honour of Lord Ram” against the backdrop of a controversy generated over a 1971 procession in Salem in which he alleged the deity was “insulted”. The police, however, did not allow the BJP cadres to continue the rally.
02 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bus services resume with safety measures||Screening of passengers for fever and other symptoms of COVID-19, offering them hand sanitisers and sanitising of seats after every trip marked the resumption of bus services by Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) across the western region on Monday. The crew wore masks and gloves, and mostly strove to ensure that seating complied with the physical distancing norms. In Coimbatore, commuters lamented low frequency of services that also led to crowding inside a few buses despite the physical distancing norms. As per government directions, TNSTC Coimbatore Division operated 992 town and mofussil buses, which was only 50 % of the total fleet. These comprised 375 buses in Coimbatore Zone, 160 buses in Udhagamandalam Zone, 279 buses in Erode Zone and 178 buses in Tiruppur Zone. Officials said on Sunday that only 20 passengers will be allowed per town bus and 31 passengers will be allowed per mofussil bus to maintain physical distancing. “They can operate more buses while maintaining physical distancing among passengers,” suggested R. Vijay, a passenger at Gandhipuram Town Bus Terminus. At the Gandhipuram Town Bus Stand, a town bus plying on Route No. 87 from Gandhipuram to Kovilpalayam allowed passengers on almost all the seats. “Buses to Kovilpalayam will be available only once in two hours. Many do not want to miss this bus,” a bus driver at the terminus told The Hindu. While most of the buses plying on the streets were observed to be sparsely occupied, a few town buses, including a bus on Route No. 1C near Coimbatore Railway Station, were seen to have passengers occupying nearly all the seats. A TNSTC official said that the buses were allowed to have few more passengers as ‘standees’ on Monday, with 10 standing passengers allowed in town buses and six passengers in mofussil buses apart from those who are seated. “We are studying the routes with low bus frequency and we will operate more buses,” the official said. Out of 375 buses in Coimbatore district, 262 were town buses operated in the city on Monday. The lack of frequency was attributed to private buses not operating. V. Duraikannan, president of Coimbatore District Bus Owners Association (South), said nearly 350 private buses across Coimbatore district were not operated as it was not viable to operate with only 60 % occupancy. Market to be shifted In Erode, though 35 passengers were allowed in each bus, the occupancy rate in most of the buses was much less. Since the vegetable market functioned from the bus stand, the buses were operated from the Coimbatore and Salem racks. Officials said the market would be shifted in a week, after which the buses would be operated from other racks. Using the public address system, police asked the commuters to wear mask and follow physical distancing. Private bus owners in Erode district said they would resume services from June 5, and mini bus operators said they were waiting for directions from the government. Low occupancy marked the resumption of bus services in Salem and Namakkal districts. TNSTC officials said 397 buses in Salem and 162 in Namakkal were scheduled for operation on Monday. Physical distancing norms were ensured, with one passenger on a two-seater section and two passengers on the three-seater section (the middle seat was kept empty). Conductors asked the passengers to wear masks before boarding the buses. The buses had posters that said the vehicles had been sanitised. Namakkal Collector K. Megraj checked the safety measures at the Namakkal bus stand. Steady passenger flow In Krishnagiri district, the bus stations saw a flow of travellers through the day. Bus services to Hosur also saw a steady flow of travellers. The TNSTC staff had its work cut out -- ensuring that passengers wore masks, were checked with thermal temperature scanners, and were seated as per the physical distancing norms. Earlier, the Dharmapuri division of TNSTC had announced that 243 buses would be operated for the towns and rural areas with 60 % passenger intake. The services comprised 178 town services and 65 rural services. In Dharmapuri, 144 buses were operated as town services and 64 on the rural routes.   (With inputs from S.P. Saravanan in Erode, Vignesh Vijayakumar in Salem and P.V. Srividya in Krishnagiri)
02 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Retailers focus on customer safety||As the lockdown relaxations come into effect, restaurants and retailers in Coimbatore Corporation limits are gearing up to welcome customers by prioritising safety measures. Several retailers have taken to social media and posted short videos of their efforts. Restaurants are looking at minimising contacts. “We want to give confidence to the customers that they can travel and eat out even as they remain safe,” said the general manager of one of the star hotels here. Even for takeaways, which a number of restaurants are offering now, a series of measures are taken so that the customers are aware that the food is cooked and packed in safe environments. “When food is packed and sent out for delivery, it passes through several hands. Our customers need to know and believe the efforts that we have taken. They need to feel ensured. We have taken a lot of steps towards ensuring the safety of the staff and the customers,” says Ranjana Singhal, Managing Director of That’s Y Food. The staff need to clean hands, wear mask and face shield, get their temperature checked and register it, use sanitisers, etc. Every surface that is used and the entire premises is cleaned regularly. “We display the certificate for pest control. The temperature of the chef, packing person, and the delivery person are printed and pinned to the food parcel. A sachet of sanitiser is also attached so that the customers clean their hands before they pick the food,” she says. Many of these efforts can be sustained in the future even during the post-COVID period, Ms. Singhal adds. Several restaurants are looking at offering the menus through QR codes and asking customers to place orders through their mobile phones and make digital payments when they open the premises to customers for dine in. At Naira Kota, a jewellery outlet, or at Kirtilals, the jewellery tried by customers are treated in UVC cabinets so that they are safe for other customers. Every effort is taken to ensure that the entire outlet is safe. From the footwear to be worn at the outlet to the surfaces where customers place their hands to feel the jewellery, everything is cleaned after use, points out Kota Badri, Managing Director of Naira Kota Jewellers. Ask the retailers about the cost impact of these measures and they say that the immediate focus is on opening the outlets to customers and building confidence.
02 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Banks start disbursing additional loans to MSMEs||Banks in the district on Monday started disbursing loans under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee (ECLG) Scheme announced recently by the Union Government for Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs). Coimbatore District Lead Bank Manager S. Venkataramanan told The Hindu that the bank branches here got a circular last week on disbursing loans under the scheme to provide the MSMEs with credit support as the units remained shut for more than a month. And the banks sent out messages to the MSMEs regarding this and some banks started disbursing the loans too. The current circular is for banks to give 20 % additional loan for units that have already taken credit from the banks. The interest rate for the additional credit depends on each bank's decision. A Memorandum of Deposit of Title Deed is necessary, though additional collateral is not needed for the loans. The bankers have submitted a petition to the District Collector here seeking one time waiver of Stamp Duty for registration of the MoD. The industries here have also appealed to the State Government for one time waiver of the Stamp Duty to register the MoDs. On Monday, State Bank of India (SBI) disbursed loans under the credit line to 500 MSMEs in Coimbatore zone, including 152 in Coimbatore Corporation limits. The total amount disbursed was Rs. 280 crore. Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president R. Ramamurthy said that the SBI had given loans at competitive rates and had given time to the MSMEs to submit the MoDs. It was also willing to extend the additional credit line to units that had loans with other banks. This was a welcome move and will encourage the MSMEs to start operations without fear of funds. He urged the other banks also to extend loans under the ECLG scheme to MSMEs. The SBI has agreed to extend loans under the MUDRA scheme to micro units that have current account. As many as 20 units received Rs. 1 crore loan on Monday from the bank. However, R. Sekar, a micro unit owner at Edayarpalayam, said that he had approached a nationalised bank on Monday for the additional credit as he already had a loan account with the bank. “The term loan I had taken ended in January this year. I need to repay Rs. 16,250 for that loan. Citing this, the bank refused to give me the additional credit,” he said. The micro units urged the banks to give the additional credit without imposing any condition as they were reeling under the impact of economic slowdown when the lockdown was announced. Hence, some units were already facing financial challenges. They need additional funds now to revive.
02 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Metal sheets pose a threat to motorists on Sundapalayam Road||Metal sheets erected as part of lake development work near Krishnampathy tank here are endangering the lives of two-wheeler riders. Sources said that the sheets had unfastened from the poles and are posing a threat to motorists travelling on Sundapalayam Road. A few two-wheeler riders were injured by the sheets. Sundapalayam resident K. Selvam said that his father-in-law N. Murugesan hit the sheets, fell on the road and sustained injury on his left arm. If he had fallen to his left, he could have been in more trouble, Mr. Selvam said and added that a few more people known to him were also injured. The sheets had been posing a threat to motorists for a few days now and the Corporation should immediately remove those to make the Sundapalayam Road safe for travel. The Corporation sources said that after the contractor executing the work failed to remove the sheets, the civic body had served him notice. Meanwhile, it had taken steps to remove the sheets or fasten them again to the poles and it would be done in a day.
02 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable traders have a rethink on shifting to prison ground||Vegetable traders, who the Coimbatore Corporation asked to shift the prison ground on Dr. Nanjappa Road, appear to have a rethink. The traders had earlier shifted temporarily from T.K. Market, off Raja Street, to the makeshift markets at the Gandhipuram town and central bus stands after the imposition of COVID-19 lockdown. On Sunday, after it became clear that the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation would resume bus services, the Corporation had asked the traders to shift to the prison ground. Earlier, a couple of weeks ago, the Corporation asked them to shift when there was an indication that the Transport Corporation could resume bus services. But after it became clear that it would not, the Corporation let the traders continue selling vegetables and fruits at the two bus stands. The Corporation had indicated in its Sunday press release that the new makeshift marketcould function Monday onwards. But that was not the case. Close to Monday noon, workers were still delineating the spaces for the traders. Aside from the markings on ground, there were metal girders that the traders had erected two weeks ago. Even the temporary toilets that the Corporation had installed were on their sides. The traders said the Corporation’s responsibility ended with levelling the ground and providing water and toilet. It was they who had to erect sheds, and they cost Rs. 6.50 lakh a month. There were 200 traders from the town and central bus stands and they could not afford to spend such a sum. Besides, with almost all the shops opened, the traders would not get as much business as they did during the early phases of lockdown and the prison ground was prone to inundation. With June being the South West Monsoon season, the traders were unwilling to place their bet on the ground with Rs. 6.50 lakh, they reasoned. In Ukkadam bus stand, a few traders had set shop on bays that catered to buses to Kerala. The Corporation sources said that the civic body had asked the traders to shift to Lorrypet as it had allotted it as the alternative place. The traders were taking time but they would be moving in a day or two. Meanwhile, Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath inspected the old dump yard in Kavundampalayam and a place near the Power House to see if the Corporation could use one of the two as an alternative location for the wholesale traders from the M.G.R. Wholesale Market. Some of the traders at present functioned out of the bus stand on Mettupalayam Road.
02 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Janshatabdi special train sees more occupancy||As the operation of two passenger trains resumed after over two months at the Coimbatore Junction, the Coimbatore – Mayiladuthurai Janshatabdi special train saw more occupancy than the Coimbatore – Katpadi Intercity Superfast train on Monday. Railway officials said that Train No. 02083 Coimbatore –Mayiladuturai Janshatabdi special train saw nearly 69 % occupancy while Train No. 02680 Coimbatore- Katpadi Intercity Superfast special train saw only around 25 % occupancy. The Janshatabdi special train left at 6.15 a.m from Platform No. 2, while the Intercity Superfast special train left at 7.10 a.m. from Platform No. 4. Due to the low occupancy, the seating of the passengers was spaced in both the trains to maintain physical distancing. However, there were no specific directions on adherence to personal distancing inside these passenger trains, the officials clarified. As part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures, all the passengers wore masks and were screened using thermal scanners by railway staff before boarding the trains. The travelling ticket examiners also wore masks and gloves and checked the ticket details and other particulars of the passengers on the premises of the Coimbatore Railway Station. Passengers were advised to arrive at the railway station 90 minutes before the departure of the trains to facilitate the screening procedure, the officials noted. Southern Railway commenced the operation of four passenger special trains within Tamil Nadu from Monday, of which two originate from the Coimbatore Junction. While Janshatabdi special train will not run on Tuesdays, the Intercity Superfast special train will run on all days. Salem The Coimbatore – Katpadi train is the only special train operated via Salem and it reached Salem around 8.45 a.m. Passengers were screened at the entrance to the railway junction and their tickets, e-pass details were checked. Over 80 passengers boarded the train from the Salem Junction and Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police personnel made arrangements for safe boarding. However, the passengers were seen seated defying physical distancing norms in some of the coaches. A passenger travelling to Jolarpet said that there were difficulties in getting the e-passes and most of them were travelling without it. Even passengers from neighbouring districts like Erode travelled to Salem to board the trains.
02 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TK market traders not to open shops on Tuesday||The vegetable traders in Thyagi Kumaran Market have decided not to open shops on Tuesday as they need permission to open all the shops at the market. M. Rajendran, president of the vegetable traders’ association at the market, said the association had 450 members. The Coimbatore Corporation said only 50 traders could open shops. “We cannot accept this as the traders are already affected for the last two months. If we shift to the prison grounds, there will be no sales, especially if the rain starts. The traders cannot be moving from one location to another. One section plans to open the shops at the TK market on Tuesday. This will not be acceptable to the other traders. So, they have decided not to open shops on Tuesday. We will decide our next course of action on Tuesday,” he said.
02 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||No more Shramik trains expected from Coimbatore Junction||With 32 Shramik special trains being operated from the Coimbatore Junction so far, no more special trains for migrant workers are expected for the district for the time being. According to officials from the Salem Division of Southern Railway, over 45,000 migrant workers from the district have been transported in these Shramik special trains. The total earnings for the Salem Division was around Rs. 4.2 crore through these trains through ticket fares, which was paid by the Coimbatore district administration. A senior official from the district administration also confirmed to The Hindu that no special trains would be operated from the Coimbatore Junction for now. The train services began on May 8 when the first Shramik special train was operated to Saharsa Junction in Bihar. The last train was operated for Malda Town in West Bengal on May 29. In a span of four weeks, Salem Division operated the 32 Shramik special trains from Coimbatore Junction to nine States namely Bihar (11), Uttar Pradesh (6), Odisha (5), Jharkhand (3), Assam (2), West Bengal (2), Rajasthan (1), Madhya Pradesh (1) and Chhattisgarh (1). In April, 32 railway coaches were converted into COVID-19 isolation wards at the Coimbatore Junction. However, as these were not used as isolation wards, the coaches were used in the Shramik special trains, the officials said.
02 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for stabbing neighbour to death||A 24-year-old man was arrested on charges of stabbing his neighbour to death late on Sunday. S. Ashok Kumar (24), a resident of Saravana Nagar at Nallampalayam near Thudiyalur, was arrested for stabbing his friend S. Sennaiyan (42), a native of Harur in Dharmapuri district. Police said that Sennaiyan lived in Kumar’s neighbourhood and worked in a brick kiln. Kumar went to his locality in an inebriated state around 11.30 p.m. on Sunday and picked a quarrel with his aunt’s son Rajadurai. Sennaiyan came out of his house and questioned the act. This led to a quarrel and he allegedly assaulted Kumar and Rajadurai. Kumar took out a knife that he carried in his waist and stabbed Senniayan on chest. Though neighbours took injured Sennaiyan to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, doctors declared him brought dead. Sennaiyan is survived by wife and four children. Thudiyalur police arrested Kumar in the early hours of Monday. He was produced before court and remanded in judicial custody.
02 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man stabs father to death, held||A 25-year-old man from Panaimarathur near Selvapuram in Coimbatore was arrested by the police for stabbing his 50-year-old father to death following a petty quarrel in the early hours of Monday. The man was arrested when he was allegedly planning to arrange the last rites of his father on Monday morning, informing relatives and neighbours that it was a death due to fall. According to Selvapuram police, Murugan, a construction worker from Vinayagar Koil Street near Panaimarathur, was stabbed to death by his son Divakar, employee of a private company.  The father-son duo used to pick a quarrel under the influence of alcohol. Divakar went home under the influence of alcohol on Saturday midnight. He kept on knocking the door and Murugan, who was also drunk, allegedly refused to open the door. Divakar picked a quarrel with Murugan when he opened the door sometime later. As the quarrel continued, Divakar picked up a sharp needle like object and stabbed his father. The man succumbed to injuries on the spot. Though the accused attempted to convince relatives and neighbours that his father died of accidental fall, they grew suspicious and informed Selvapuram police. When questioned, Divakar confessed to the crime. He was arrested on Monday morning and remanded in judicial custody.
02 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||43 works to be taken up this year: Minister||The district administration would implement 43 Kudimaramathu works worth Rs. 7.19 crore this year, said Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani here on Monday after inaugurating a work in Thalakarai Panchayat, near Sulur. A release quoting the Minister said that last year, the district administration took up 45 works worth Rs. 7.43 crore. They had helped irrigate 30,130 hectares in the district. Of the 43 works this year, 21 would be in Parambikulam basin and 22 in Aliyar basin, the release said and added that the Minister had asked the officials to ensure that the works were over before monsoon. Another release from the district administration said that the Minister gave a cheque on behalf of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam for Rs. 61.19 lakh towards the expenses incurred by the budget canteens (Amma Unavagam) for serving food at no cost to people during lockdown. He also presented another cheque for Rs. 25 lakh as advance for the expenses to be incurred in the coming days.
02 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs see increase in worker turnout||The Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) saw a slight improvement in worker turnout on Monday as the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) resumed operations in Coimbatore and nearby districts. Private buses According to C. Sivakumar, president of Coimbatore and Tiruppur Districts Tiny and Micro Enterprises Association, there was a 15 % to 20 % increase in worker turnout on Monday compared to last week. The private buses should also be permitted to operate, he said. “Labour availability is not a problem. There is a slight increase in the number of labourers who reported to work on Monday. This number will gradually go up,” said R. Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association. J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, said only 35 % of the workers in the micro industries were from Coimbatore and nearby areas. The rest were migrant workers or from the southern districts of the State. Hence, the bus service should be operated for all districts. This would enable all the workers, who had gone home when the lockdown was implemented, to return. Illayaraja, who works as a driver at a small-scale unit, said the workers were happy to return to work on Monday though they had to take precautions such as wearing mask. But it may not be possible to adhere to all the precautions in the buses during the peak hours, he said.
02 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK cadre stage protest||The members of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), defying lockdown regulations, took to the streets on Monday to stage a protest against the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s organisational secretary and Rajya Sabha Member R.S.Bharathi for his alleged remarks against Scheduled Castes. Not withstanding the limited lifting of restrictions in view of the pandemic, the cadre organised a protest at the central roundabout in the town demanding the arrest of the DMK leader.
02 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Buses back on road, come to the rescue of labourers||Buses are back on Madurai roads on Monday after relaxations to the lockdown. A fleet of 373 buses was operated so that hundreds of workers and labourers who did not have any other means to travel to their workplace. Industrial estates in K. Pudur and Kappalur saw a definite rise in the number of people who came to work on Monday. Kappalur Industrial Estate Association president P. N. Raghunatha Raja said that around 50% of the workers came to work on Monday. Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) State vice-president R. Devaraj said that the opening of bus routes would give some relief to the workers.District joint-president R. Lenin said construction workers, vegetable and fruit vendors will be benefited. Farmers from far away places can directly sell their produce at markets without having to depend on costly private transportation. However, Mr. Devaraj said, “People are still unsure about timings and have no choice but to wait for long hours to get to their places of work as buses cannot be occupied in full capacity. Some entrepreneurs may be kind on the first day and accept. In the future, it might become an issue," he said. Glad to work R. Sumathi from Alanganallur, who went to work at a garment factory in Vadipatti after three months today, said that they were glad to return to work. “One problem we face is that we might have to end shifts early to head back home and not do night shifts or double duty. I wish there are more relaxations from now on,” she said.
02 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Train services resume||Scheduled special trains open for all passengers resumed here on Monday. While Madurai-Villupuram special train left the station at 7 a.m., another special train from Tiruchi bound for Nagercoil passed through Madurai at 8.15 a.m. Though the schedule of the two trains were announced two days back, the announcement of e-pass continuing to be mandatory for passengers going from one zone to another one caught many passengers unawares. However, revenue officials set up special facilitation centres at Madurai, Virudhunagar and Dindigul stations to help the passengers get e-passes. In Madurai, a handful of village administrative officers were deployed to generate e-passes for passengers using their mobile phones. “Since the announcement came late in the night, not all had e-pass. We are either generating e-pass or helping the passengers register themselves for it with the hope that they would get the pass by the time they reach their destination,” an official said. This is only a temporary arrangement and hereafter e-pass would be made mandatory for passengers to board the trains, he said. In Virudhungar, passengers who came from Tiruchi without e-pass were asked to give their details like name, address, Aadhaar card number and mobile number before they were allowed to leave the railway station. On the first day, the trains had only a moderate crowd. Southern Railway had advised the passengers to arrive at the station at least 90 minutes ahead of the scheduled departure so that they could be screened with thermal scanners. Only asymptomatic passengers are allowed to board the trains. Passengers must compulsorilty wear a mask. Only passengers with confirmed tickets are allowed to enter the station. Passengers have been advised to bring their own food. Train timings Train No.02636 Madurai- Villupuram Intercity special will leave Madurai at 7 a.m., Dindigul at 8 a..m., Tiruchi at 9.15 a.m., Ariyalur at 10.10 a.m. and reach Villupuram at 12.05 p.m.In the return direction, train No.02635 will leave Villupuram at 4 p.m., Ariyalur at 5.25 p.m., Tiruchi at 6.40 p.m., Dindigul at 8.05 p.m. and arrive Madurai at 9.20 p.m. Nagercoil train Train No.02627 Tiruchi– Nagercoil superfast special will leave Tiruchi at 6 a.m., Dindigul at 7.15 a.m., Madurai at 8.15 a.m., Virudhunagar at 8.57 a.m., Tirunelveli at 11.10 a.m..and reach Nagecoil at 1 p.m. In the return direction, train No.02628 will leave Nagercoil at 3 p.m., Tirunelveli at 4.25 p.m. Virudhunagar at 6.25 p.m., Madurai at 7.25 p.m. and reach Tiruchi at 10.15 a.m.
02 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Industries wait for workers||Despite a green signal from the government allowing industries to work with full capacity, several micro, small and medium enterprises in the industrial estates in Madurai did not work with full workforce on Monday. The entrepreneurs say that following the resumption of TNSTC buses there was a rise in the number of workers who came to work on Monday. But it will take a few more days for the workers to come work at full strength, they say. CITU State vice-president R. Devaraj said that many workers were still in other districts and it would take a few more days for them to travel to Madurai and start going to work. While it was a good move to allow full workforce at industries, many businesses were still plagued by shortage in business orders due to the COVID-19 pandemic, said Kappalur Industrial Estate president P.N. Ragunantha Raja. “In the wake of the pandemic, export orders have been cancelled for many enterprises, including automobile, engineering and fabrication units. Domestic orders have also been cancelled for many. Hence, it would be difficult for these units to work with full capacity,” he said. But food processing units, which are essential for customers, have been working with good capacity, said president of K. Pudur Industrial Estate M.S. Sampath. “The demand for other industries are low as the people have very low disposable income with them. For the revival of the business cycle, it is important to increase money circulation,” he added. But businesses are hopeful that with relaxation of norms there will be better business orders in the coming weeks, said K.R. Gnanasambandan, Convenor of COVID-19 Redressal Committee of Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association.
02 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Temple elephant shifted to Tiruchi||The 13-year-old female elephant of Subramaniya Swamy Temple in Tirupparankundram was shifted to a rehabilitation centre at M.R. Palayam in Tiruchi during the small hours of Monday. The move comes in the wake of the elephant, Deivanai, trampling a mahout when he tried to tether it after an evening walk inside the temple recently. The mahout later succumbed to injuries. Deputy Commissioner of the Temple M. Ramasamy said the elephant came to the temple from Assam in 2015. He said that following the incident, three persons, including one from Aruppukottai, who were looking after the elephant were scared to go near it. “The elephant was tethered under a neem tree. But the caregivers were scared to take it inside the ‘Yanai Mahal.’ But the staff gave her food regularly. Using hose pipes, they bathed her twice a day,” he said. The Deputy Commissioner said the elephant was going through her estrous cycle when she became violent. This was the third violent incident with the elephant, he added. Regional Joint Director of Animal Husbandry D. Suresh Christopher recently examined the elephant and certified that it was fit to travel to the rehabilitation centre. District Forest Officer S. Anand said, “We decided to shift the elephant to the rehabilitation centre as that it can have a conducive environment there. Also, the caretakers were frightened to be close to it.”
02 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident||Two persons were killed when a speeding car hit their motorbike on Bypass Road in Avaniapuram on Sunday night. Police said R. Kasimayan, 30, of Katta Thevanpatti and K. Alex Pandian, 22, of Vellaikkal, were killed. The Avaniapuram police have registered a case and are are investigating.  Man, nephew end life A petty quarrel between a man, R. Jeeva, 60, and his nephew S. Yuvaraj, 25, led to both of them ending their lives here on Sunday night. Police said Jeeva had scolded Yuvaraj for his drinking habit. An irate Yuvaraj had beaten up his uncle. Shamed over this incident, Jeeva hung himself from a tree near SIDCO industrial estate in K. Pudur. After his body was found late in the night, Yuvaraj also took the extreme step. K. Pudur police are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104’ and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.
02 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Students miss the peace and quiet of Adi Dravidar hostels||Students, who were residing at Adi Dravidar hostels before the COVID-19 pandemic forced them to vacate and go home, miss the peace and quiet of the hostels. They do not want to add burden to their families. Hostels were always an escape from a constrained family set-up. An inmate of the hostel near Lotus Tank junction says he had been staying in government-run hostels since school days. A college second-year student, he lost his parents when he was young. “Now I depend on my aunts and uncles for food. I wish I could go back to the hostel," he says. Another inmate, studying third year, says it will be impossible to go back to the hostel for many more months. “Friends from the hostel are part of message chains and WhatsApp groups. Some people are not doing well. The restriction in movement has caused mental strain too. All want to return to a peaceful environment,” he says. Space to study S. Manjula, a student of Class 12 and an inmate of a hostel in Chokkikulam, who is planning to take the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, says students from Adi Dravidar hostels in the past had gotten to stay back and write the exams in city centres. “Some of my seniors had attended the coaching provided by the Corporation last year. They managed to do well,” she says. She is unsure of how she might fare this year without academic support. Ms. Manjula says that her family situation does not permit her to study through the night. “We have a small house and my father drinks,” she says. She just cannot wait for the lockdown ordeal to end so that she can go back to the hostel and prepare for NEET where there is space to study as she wants to become a doctor. These students receive an allowance of Rs. 1,500 for buying personal items. “Before we could receive the money this year, we were asked to leave. It will be useful for us if the allowance is credited to the accounts of residents of the hostels,” he says. Member of the SC/ST vigilance committee in the district J. Balasubramaniam says it would be useful if hostel students are given an additional bag of groceries, including rice, pulses and oil. He suggests that the money spent on food for each student can be transferred to their respective bank account by the State government to ease their financial burden. Collector T. G. Vinay said that steps will be taken to provide provisions to the hostel students after discussing with the District Adi Dravidar Welfare Officer and the hostel wardens.  Now, I depend on my aunts and uncles for food. I wish I could go back to the hostel A hostel inmate
02 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC extends interim orders till June 30||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Monday extended the various interim orders till June 30. However, orders relating to grant of parole/leave have been extended only till June 8. Following similar directions issued by the Principal seat in Chennai, a Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi suo motu extended the interim orders and clarified that the High Court Bench had not become completely operational and what had been permitted was staggered opening of the court for physical appearance. The judges said that with regard to the extension of remand, only nine district courts had become functional from June 1. It would be difficult for production of remand prisoners for extension of remand either under Section 167 Cr.P.C or Section 309 Cr.P.C., before various Courts in the State,either in person or via video conferencing. Therefore, the court directed that all remands under Section 167 Cr.P.C. and Section 309 Cr.P.C., would stand extended till June 30 without prejudice to the right of the prisoner to be released on bail in the meanwhile. The court said that with regard to the extension of limitation period, it was bound by the orders passed by the Supreme Court. The case was adjourned till June 8 for deciding the issue relating to the extension of parole/leave of convicts.
02 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Staggered opening of HC Bench functioning||Over two months after open court functioning was suspended at the High Court Bench in Madurai in view of COVID-19 pandemic, proceedings resumed on Monday. Advocates and court staff were issued a set of guidelines to follow. In a notification issued by the court on May 30, advocates and court staff were directed to strictly follow physical distancing norms on the campus and wearing of face masks was made compulsory. Litigants were not permitted to attend the court on Monday. The CISF staff used hand sanitisers on advocates and court staff at the main entrance. Court staff again used sanitisers on advocates at court hall entrances. Seating inside the court hall was arranged to ensure physical distancing. Following open court proceedings in the forenoon session, hearing was taken up via video-conferencing in the afternoon.
02 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Unorganised sector workers seek welfare aid hike||A section of unorganised sector workers from Virudhunagar district moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday, seeking a direction to the State government to increase the welfare aid from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 9,000. The petitioner, P. Priya representing ‘Amaipusara Matrum Kattumana Tholilalar Sangam’, in the public interest litigation petition said with the rise in prices of essential commodities, the welfare aid offered by the government in view of the pandemic was not enough. Daily wage labourers were suffering without wages and unable to meet their expenses. The meagre aid would not be sufficient for their sustenance, she said. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi adjourned the hearing in the case till June 3.
02 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Man hacks two to death near Melur||A 50-year-old man hacked to death two persons at T. Ambalakaranpatti near Melur on Monday. A. Annadurai of Ambalakaranpatti had developed enmity with P. Murugan (45), suspecting that he had illicit relationship with his wife. When Murugan was going on a motorbike on Monday, Annadurai intercepted him and attacked him with a machete. Even as Murugan collapsed on the spot, one M. Azhagappan (50) tried to stop Annadurai from attacking Murugan. An infuriated Annadurai also hacked Azhagappan. While Murugan died on the spot, Azhagappan was declared brought dead at a private hospital in Madurai. Melur police have arrested Annadurai.
02 June 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Interest-free loan for kuruvai cultivation||Interest-free loan to the tune of Rs. 210 crore will be disbursed to paddy farmers in the district for the kuruvai season, Director of Agriculture V. Dakshinamoorthy said on Monday. The loans will be disbursed through the 122 primary agricultural cooperative credit societies in the district, Mr. Dakshinamoorthy said, while on an inspection to the district to monitor the progress of on-going works in the water bodies ahead of the release of water from Mettur Dam, which has been planned on June 12. The department anticipates that paddy crop will be raised in an additional 27,500 acres, over and above the usual 1.02 lakh acres in the district. So far, cultivation has been started in 40,063 acres, Mr. Dakshinamoorthy said. To ensure better yield, 582 metric tonnes of certified seeds of Aduthurai 36, 37, 43, 45 and 53, DKM 9, Ko 1, Ambai 16, and TPS 5 varieties will be made available through agricultural extension centres and private seed outlets.So far, 719 metric tonnes of certified seeds have been distributed, Mr. Dakshinamoorthy said, urging farmers to avail themselves of the utility of the 50 percent subsidy provided under Seed Village Scheme. Likewise, 6,423 metric tonnes of urea, DAP, potash, complex and phosphate have been stocked in the primary agricultural cooperative credit societies and private outlets. There will be uninterrupted supply of three-phase power for 12 hours for the agricultural fields in the delta districts, he said. Ten percent of the desilting works undertaken by the Public Works Departemnt in 'A' and 'B' canals to a length of 1,072 km have been completed. As for the 'C' and 'D' canals, the desilting works have been carried out to a length of 3,160 km. Last year, the work was completed to a length of 1,400 km. Accompanied by Collector Praveen P. Nair, Mr. Dakshinamoorthy inspected a demonstration of mechanised planting at Manganallur village in Kuttalam block.
02 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. Assembly disinfected after staff tests positive||Four new COVID-19 caseswere reported in Puducherry on Monday. With one of the patients, a multi-tasking staff who was briefly assigned to the Assembly testing positive, the third floor of the complex was temporarily sealed for disinfection. The Chief Minister’s chamber and rooms of Ministers were also disinfected as a precautionary measure before they were reopened. S. Mohan Kumar, Health Director, said people in the Assembly who are likely to have interacted at close quarters with the staff were under surveillance. The four new cases were confirmed during tests carried out on 51 persons. While one person was from Annai Theresa Nagar, two others were from Kombakkam. There are 22 containment zones demarcated across the city.
02 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Screening kiosks set up at bus stands||Corporation Commissioner R.Sadheesh on Monday reviewed the functioning of COVID-19 screening kiosks the Corporation has set up on the new and old bus stand premises. Mr.Sadheesh said the kiosks would be manned by the Corporation health officials and they would provide COVID-related assistance to the public. “As transport services have resumed, passengers travelling from other places to Salem can get their temperature checked at the kiosks. If a passenger is feeling sick, he/she could approach the kiosk for assistance,” he said. The Commissioner said the bus crew had been advised to get their temperature checked at the kiosks before starting their trips. The recent COVID-19 positive cases reported within the Corporation limits were persons who travelled from other places to the district and containment measures had been taken, he said.
02 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Inflow into dam increases||The inflow into Mettur Dam increased on Monday. According to officials, the water level in the dam stood at 101.05 ft and the stored capacity of water in the dam was 66,208 mcft. The inflow was 4,159 cusecs and outflow 1,000 cusecs. The shutters of the dam are scheduled to be raised on June 12 for irrigation in Delta region.
02 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Demonstrations held in front of PWD offices||Members of the Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam, affiliated to the Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged demonstrations in front of the offices of the Public Works Department in Thanjavur district on Monday demanding proper execution of desilting works in the district. The demonstrators who raised slogans in support of their demands later submitted petitions at the PWD offices urging the government to execute the works in a proper and fair manner without giving any room to malpractice, display of bill boards containing the details of the works at the work sites, the formation of vigilance groups comprising local farmers as members to ensure proper execution of works and others. Meanwhile, the Tamil Maanila Vivasaya Thozhilalargal Sangam, affiliated to the Communist Party of India, submitted representations to the Block Development Officers in Thanjavur district urging them to employ the agricultural labourers in the desilting works taken up under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme at an outlay of Rs. 64.86 crore. Demanding that the number of job days is increased to 200 days under the scheme, the Sangam wanted the daily wages to be fixed at Rs. 700 per day.
02 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘They are grasshoppers and not desert locust’||The Tamil Nadu Rice Research Institute (TRRI), Aduthurai, has said that the grasshoppers found in different parts of the State are not desert locust and do not pose any serious threat to crops as feared by farmers in different districts of Tamil Nadu. In a press release, the Tamil Nadu Rice Research Institute Director, V. Ambethgar said that the Institute was keeping vigil over the locust activity in the Cauvery Delta districts. Although there are over 250 species of grasshoppers in Tamil Nadu, only a few indigenous species such as rice, coffee, calotropis and cone-nose grasshoppers are noticed at the enzootic level. Use neem-based formulations Farmers are advised to use neem-based formulations if these indigenous grasshopper species attain pest status and furthermore the prevalence of diversified bird fauna in this region would act as an efficient predators on these local grasshoppers, Dr. Ambethgar said. In the event of spotting of any new form of grasshoppers, the farmers could contact the Institutes’s Entomologist, P. Anandhi for further guidance, Dr. Ambethgar added.
02 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Abandoned woman admitted to TMCH||A Hindi-speaking 20-year-old woman who was moving around aimlessly at Sengipatti on Monday was admitted at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital (TMCH). According to the district secretary, All India Democratic Women’s Association, S. Thamizhselvi, the woman with her luggage was spotted at Sengipatti. As she was found weak, she was brought to the (TMCH). During interrogation by the police it was ascertained that the woman worked as a domestic helper at a house in Easwari Nagar, Thanjavur, and was abandoned by her employer's family at Sengipatti on Monday. The Sengipatti police have registered a case and are investigating, Ms.Thamizhselvi said.
02 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Postcard campaign demanding Kumbakonam district held||A postcard campaign demanding a new district with Kumbakonam as headquarters was held at Kumbakonam on Monday. The demonstrators, organised under the banner of the Coordination Committee for Kumbakonam District, gathered near the Head Post Office. They brought thousands of postcards carrying slogans demanding bifurcation of Thanjavur district into Thanjavur and Kumbakonam districts. The postcards were sent to the Chief Minister. The demonstrators led by the Committee organiser, M. K. Stalin raised slogans in support of their demand before handing over the postcards to the postal staff for dispatch to the Secretariat, Chennai. Representatives of traders associations, consumer organizations, vegetable market vendors associations and lawyers association participated in the campaign.
02 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Some took their boats to sea, some stayed away||After a gap of 90 days, mechanised boat fishermen from Thoothukudi Fishing Harbour ventured into the sea in the early hours of Monday. The fishermen, who struck work on March 5, demanding permission for multi-day deep sea stay fishing, remained idle till May 31 as the annual fishing ban period started on April 15. However, the Centre lifted the ban earlier than the usual June 14 and allowed fishing operations to resume on June 1. With lockdown restrictions still in force, it was decided that 120 of the 240 boats would be allowed to go for fishing on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The second batch of boats would operate on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. On Monday, the first batch of 112 of 120 boats ventured into the sea and returned to base with their catch. As the fishermen, sporting masks, entered the harbour, they were screened with thermal scanners. A similar procedure was followed when traders arrived to buy fish in the evening. In Rameswaram, fishermen stayed off sea as resolved by their associations at a meeting held in Pamban 10 days ago. According to Jesu Raja, leader of an association, they planned to venture into the sea from June 15 for more than one reason. The exporters had expressed inability to open their shops due to non-availability of workers, who were mostly migrants. Above all, the fishermen in coastal hamlets remained indoors almost for over 60 days due to COVID-19 and, hence, could not repair their boats that were damaged by cyclone Amphan in May.
02 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Cousins commit suicide in Thoothukudi||Two cousins allegedly committed suicide by consuming liquor laced with poison near Kurumbur on Monday. Police said P. Thoosi Muthu, 18, of Yogarathinam Nagar and his cousin Ajit Kumar, 22, of the same area, were unemployed. As their families censured them to find jobs, they picked a heated argument with their parents, saying that they could not get employment due to COVID–19 lockdown. Whenever the problem aggravated, Thoosi Muthu and Ajit Kumar used to consume liquor and pick arguments with their parents. Consequently, the pressure on the duo to find jobs increased. Upset over this, the two youth consumed liquor laced with poison at Kurumbur railway station and died on the spot. Kurumbur police, who sent the bodies for post mortem, have registered a case. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
02 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||875 leave for Bihar||A total of 875 migrant labourers from Bihar, who were working in southern districts, left for Bapudham Motihari in a Shramik special train from the railway station here on Monday. Of them, 538 were from Thoothukudi and 337 from Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts. The train, which left Thoothukudi at 5 p.m. would reach Bapudham Motihari at 9.55 a.m. on Thursday (June 4). Medical teams screened the passengers before boarding the train. Officials made arrangements for food and water. Meanwhile, a group of migrant labourers from West Bengal staged road roko at Beach Road – Harbour Road Junction on Monday evening, demanding operation of special trains to West Bengal. After Sub-Collector Simranjeet Singh and Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi, Prakash pacified them with the promise that a special train would be operated to West Bengal within a week, they gave up their agitation.
02 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||After a hiatus, Uzhavar Sandhai opens at Anna Nagar||The Uzhavar Sandhai at Anna Nagar, one of the well patronised farmers’ markets in the city, reopened after a gap of about 10 weeks on Monday. It was one among the three Uzhavar Sandahis that were closed days prior to the lockdown that came into being on March 25. The farmers, who usually sell vegetables at Anna Nagar, were asked to shift to the Central Bus Stand. The district administration opened a temporary market at Anna Nagar on the Uzhavar Sandhai open ground to accommodate the retail traders of Gandhi Market, which was closed to prevent large scale congregation of people to buy vegetables and fruits. But ever since the closure of Uzhavar Sandhais, there had been voices in support of reopening. They claimed that the space available at Uzhavar Sandhais was suitable to enforce social distancing norms. Moreover, only a group of farmers set up shops at the temporary market at the Central Bus Stand. They also urged the Collector to reopen the Uzhavar Sandhais. Since, public transport resumed on Monday, the temporary markets at the Central Bus Stand and the Chathiram Bus Stand were closed. Following this, the Uzhavar Sandhai at Anna Nagar resumed its function from Monday. Similarly, the temporary market, which had been functioning at Chathiram Bus Stand, was shifted to St. Joseph’s Higher Secondary School. “It is a good homecoming for us. Business is dull as many of our regular customers are unaware of the change. We hope that business will pick up in the days to come,” said B. Pushpa, a farmer at Uzhavar Sandhai at Anna Nagar. In the absence of bus transport, many farmers could not bring their produce to the markets in Tiruchi. There would be no problem hereafter as the bus services had begun on Monday, she said.  Business is dull today as many of customers are unaware of the change. We hope that business will pick up in the days to come B. Pushpa Farmer at Uzhavar Sandhai at Anna Nagar
02 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Public transportation begins riding on safety measures||Bus services of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) which had been suspended in the State since the enforcement of the lockdown resumed in zone 4 in the central region on Monday morning. The Central Bus Stand in Tiruchi city saw commuters from other districts in zone IV - Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai travelling for work. City buses too, began plying to the relief of commuters who had been depending on private vehicles and auto rickshaws. In a meeting at the Central Bus Stand before resumption of services, senior officials of the TNSTC instructed drivers and conductors to ensure they wear facemasks and gloves at all times. They were also asked to ensure that all passengers wear masks for the entire duration of the journey. Buses in the district will ply from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. At the Central Bus Stand, a counter has been created at each of the three platforms where a staff member checked the body temperature of travellers using a thermal gun. Following the check, they were allowed to board the buses. Conductors offered hand sanitiser to the passengers as they entered. On three-seaters, the middle seat was required to be left empty while on two-seaters, only person was allowed to sit. A wash basin was made available with a soap dispenser for the use of bus drivers and conductors at the bus stand. Drivers were also required to ensure that the buses were disinfected at the end of each trip. The TNSTC has made arrangements to provide Zinc and Vitamin tablets to all employees to increase immunity, an official said. Speaking to The Hindu , a TNSTC officer at the Central Bus Stand said that by 10 a.m. on Monday morning, at least four buses each had departed to Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai in the zone. A fleet of 330 buses, including city buses and mofussil buses were operated on Monday. Only 50% seats were allowed to be occupied. At the end of the day, the passenger footfall was lesser than expected, a senior official of the TNSTC said. “Most buses departed with only 20% of the seats being occupied. Hopefully number of passengers will increase,” he said. Many unaware of e-pass Buses to Karur district, which has been included in Zone I also began plying. However, many passengers and officials were not aware of the need for an e-pass to travel to the district in a different zone. "We were not told to check for any e-passes. Did the government not say that passes are not required?" a conductor on a Karur bus asked. Most passengers aboard the Karur bus were employees headed to work in the district. “My employer asked us to come to work from today after over two months. Since the buses are plying, we are back to work,” a passenger said. S. Jayanthi, another passenger who had been stranded in Tiruchi while visiting her mother boarded the bus to return to her hometown in Karur. “I came to the bus stand only to check if there were buses to Karur. Since it is plying, I’m headed for home now,” she said. In Ariyalur district, 90 buses were operated to the six districts in the zone - Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Tiruchi, Perambalur and Pudukottai. About180 drivers and conductors were called for duty to operate the buses on Monday. All have been given Vitamin tablets, Zinc tablets and kabasura kudineer to boost immunity. Buses were operated to Erode, Coimbatore and other centres in zone 1 from Karur. Public transport services resumed in Pudukottai district with 192 buses being operated on Monday. The buses were run with 60% of passengers. Collector P. Uma Maheswari inspected the resumption of the public transport services at the new bus stand in the town. Passengers wearing mask were alone permitted to travel. Bus services of the State Transport Corporation, Kumbakonam, resumed with 50% of the fleet hitting the roads at Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts. According to official sources, buses from the STC depots in the district were sanitised at the bus stands too before the passengers were allowed to board the vehicles. The passengers were also screened for COVID-19 symptoms before boarding the buses. While the commuter patronage for intra-district and inter-districts services in the Zone remained at the optimum level, not much of passengers could be seen in the town services operated by the Corporation in the two districts.
02 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T online exams progressing smoothly||Online exams being conducted by the National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi (NIT-T) for final year students have progressed well without any technical glitch, according to officials. An exclusive portal has been created for the faculty members for uploading the question papers for the exams being conducted in the forenoon and afternoon sessions. The examinations will end on June 12. Question papers in the portal are downloaded by the students with their institutional credentials. After completing the exam of two-hour duration, the students are allowed to take 45 minutes, in view of the variations in the strength of internet connectivity across the country, to upload the answer scripts in the PDF format, S. Shanmugam, Dean-Academic, said. In the event of students facing difficulty, they are permitted to use email. About 1,794 students in the final year of B.Tech, B.Arch and PG programmes have appeared for 79 subjects over the last few days, Prof. Shanmugam said, adding that the approval of the Senate was awaited for extending the online exams for the other students. The students were prepared for the exam by the faculty during the summer vacation, which had to be advanced due to the pandemic, from April 15 to 30. The NIT-T had earlier developed a dedicated web portal https://studymaterial.nitt.edu/login.php for uploading the study materials. Students accessing the study materials using their official email ID credentials from various parts of the country and abroad were also been recommended appropriate online courses in SWAYAM portal for cross references. Besides, faculty members also conducted online lectures through video-conferencing. Since good broadband connectivity was not available everywhere, recorded online lectures were sent to the students. Faculty had also used other platforms such as google drive, google classroom, Email and WhatsApp, to clear the doubts of the students. Online assignments completed by students were considered as internal assessments. NITPY results on June 25 The National Institute of Technology - Puducherry (NITPY), Karaikal, is also in the midst of conducting online exams for all the students. The exams are slated for completion for all classes on June 22. “We are looking forward to publishing results for the final-year students on June 25, to enable them to pursue higher studies or other options early on,” NITPY director K. Sankaranarayanasamy said. Measures had been initiated to further strengthen the online teaching-learning system, he said.
02 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Showrooms open but business dull, say traders||Large textile, utensils and jewellery showrooms, which had remained closed for more than two months following the nationwide lockdown, opened shop on Monday. With the resumption of business activities, NSB Road that houses a number of big and medium sized textile showrooms, utensil shops and jewellery marts wore a familiar look with traffic congestion and large crowds. Besides large showrooms, small shops, pavement traders, fruit and flower sellers have also returned to business on a full scale. Similarly, all textile shops on Big Bazaar Street, Chinnakadai Street, West Boulevard Road, Fort Station Road, Chathiram Bus Stand and Singarathope also reopened on Monday. As per the conditions imposed by the Government, most textile showrooms made elaborate arrangements to ensure social distancing and safety norms for customers. Sarathas, one of the textile showrooms, in the city followed a three-stage system while allowing customers inside. Upon entering the premises, customers were required to wash their hands with soap and then with hand sanitizers. In the third stage, they were screened for fever with thermal scanner. Customers were allowed only in small groups. Customers, who turned up without face masks, were denied entry. Almost all shops were opened with a limited number of workers. Workers between the age group of 18 and 50 were only called for duty. “We are happy to resume our business at last. It is really a tough time. It may take months to recover. But we hope for the best and we commit to adhere to all safety and social distancing norms,” M. Roshan, Managing Director, Sarathas, Tiruchi, told The Hindu . Though the big showrooms resumed business after about 10 weeks, business was not up to the expectation on the first day, traders said. The usual enthusiasm was missing from the customers. Since the showrooms were not allowed to use air conditioners, customers felt uncomfortable going around the showrooms. Even big sized fans, specially acquired, offered little comfort in the sweltering heat. ‘It is very tough to be in showrooms without A/C. But, we have no other option but to adhere to the government orders and cooperate in the fight against COVID-19 virus,” said M. Krishnamurthy of Palakkari, a customer at a textile showroom on NSB Road.
02 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||It is time to reopen Gandhi Market too, say traders||Wholesale and retail traders of the Gandhi Market are turning increasingly restive as the market, one of the biggest in the region, has remained closed for more than 60 days and the demand for reopening the market was getting increasingly shriller. On Monday, a section of traders at the market urged the district administration to reopen the market. The traders, led by M. K. Kamalakannan, president, Gandhi Market Vyabarigal Munnetra Sangam, presented a petition to District Collector S.Sivarasu seeking the reopening of the market in view of the hardship faced by traders. Other traders associations at the market owing allegiance to the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu have already urged the district administration to take steps to open the market. In his representation, Mr. Kamalakannan pointed out that the market was closed on March 30 in view of the lockdown imposed to check the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. “We cooperated with the district authorities and moved to the temporary markets, but traders have undergone untold suffering and suffered heavy losses over the past two months. We were expecting the authorities to open the market on Monday, but were disappointed. We hope the market will be opened at least on June 8,” Mr.Kamalakannan told The Hindu . There is no justification to keep the market closed when most other shops and establishments have been allowed to open as per the relaxations announced by the government, he contended. He dismissed the contention of possible overcrowding at the market stating that the crowd would grow thinner if all other small markets and shandies in the district were allowed to function. He alleged that adequate arrangements and facilities were not made at the temporary wholesale market, which initially functioned on the service lanes on the Chennai bypass road at Ariyamangalam and was later shifted to G. Corner, and at the temporary retail markets across the city. The temporary markets did not even have toilets for traders who spent long hours there, he said. In the absence of proper shelters, the couple of summer showers had caused extensive losses to traders as the vegetables were damaged. Besides, traders did not have a place to take shelter and had to do business braving the rain, he said. Traders also had to shell out transportation charges for transporting the vegetables to G.Corner and other markets. Since the leftover stocks could not be stored at the temporary markets, they had to incur additional expenditure to transport the same to shops or their homes. “Given the poor demand and thin margins, the additional expenditure has been causing heavy losses for the traders,” Mr. Kamalakannan said. Besides, a large number of small businesses functioning in and around the market have remained closed for the past two months. Besides, daily wage labourers were also facing much hardship due to the closure of the market, he said and demanded that steps be taken to open the market at the earliest with appropriate time restrictions and enforcement of personal distancing norms. Mr. Kamalakannan said traders had planned to surrender their Aadhaar cards to the Collector as a mark of their protest but held back as Mr. Sivarasu has assured to take up the issue with the government. “The Collector said a decision will be taken by the government,” Mr. Kamalakannan said and added that the traders would decide on their next course of action if the market was not opened on June 8.
02 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Deivanai translocated to rehabilitation centre||Days after the Thiruparankundram Sri Subramania Swamy Temple elephant trampled its mahout to death, the animal was translocated to the Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre at M.R. Palayam near here on Monday. Thirteen-year-old ‘Deivanai’ was brought in a lorry accompanied by forest officials and a mahout to the rescue centre in the morning. A forest veterinary officer examined the animal which was thereafter fed with fruits and green fodder. Forest Department officials said the health condition of the animal was normal and the pachyderm was put in a separate shed. It slowly began to mingle with one of the captive elephants accommodated inside, said the officials. This is the seventh captive elephant to be accommodated at the Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre established adjoining the Tiruchi – Chennai national highway. A proper dietary schedule every day would be prescribed for ‘Deivanai’ by the veterinary officer, the officials said adding that regular examination of its health would be conducted. The first captive elephant that was accommodated at the rescue and rehabilitation centre was Malachi from Madurai district. Thereafter, three more elephants – Sandhya, Indhu and Jayanthi owned by the Sri Kanchi Kamakoti Mutt which were in the custody of two private institutions were translocated to the centre following a directive from the High Court. The fifth captive elephant christened ‘Gomathi’ was shifted from Tiruvidaimarudhur in Thanjavur district to the centre. The sixth elephant was 60-year-old Jameela from Tirunelveli district in March this year. In Madurai, Deputy Commissioner of the Subramaniya Swamy Temple M. Ramasamy said the elephant came to the temple from Assam in 2015. He said that following the incident, three persons, including one from Aruppukottai, who were looking after the elephant were scared to go near it. “The elephant was tethered under a neem tree. But the caregivers were scared to take it inside the ‘Yanai Mahal.’ But the staff gave her food regularly. Using hose pipes, they bathed her twice a day,” he said. The Deputy Commissioner said the elephant was going through her estrous cycle when she became violent. This was the third violent incident with the elephant, he added.  (With inputs from   Madurai Bureau)
02 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Eleven more test positive in central region||Eleven patients, including four transgender women, from the central region tested positive for COVID-19 here on Monday. Of the 11 patients, five hail from Ariyalur, one from Perambalur, one from Pudukottai and four from Thanjavur districts. In Ariyalur, four transwomen aged 60, 21, 55 and 25 who had travelled to Mumbai where they had been working returned to the district on May 28, when samples were lifted. They were made to stay at a quarantine facility until the results declared that they had tested positive. The fifth patient, a 26-year-old man travelled to Meensurutti in Jayankondam block to his uncle’s house from Nagapattinam. He suffered from COVID-19 symptoms and influenza-like illness (ILI). The patient was tested on arrival and has been shifted along with the four transwomen to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital where they are undergoing treatment. Including these patients, the total number of positive cases in the district is 370. In Thanjavur, four patients, all who returned from Chennai tested positive for the virus. Two women aged 46 and 55 and two men, both 34-years-old were tested on May 30 after they began to show cold and fever symptoms. All four have been admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital for treatment, officials here said. A man hailing from Perambalur tested positive for COVID-19 in Chennai. Aged 33, he belonged to Alathur in Perambalur but had been working at a hospital treating patients for the novel coronavirus in Chetpet, Chennai. Officials in Perambalur said that he had not visited the district in over three months. He is admitted to a private COVID-19 hospital in Chennai and is undergoing treatment. A 22-year-old man hailing from Pudukottai town tested positive on Monday. The patient is undergoing treatment at the Ranees Hospital. Meanwhile, five patients hailing from Tiruchi and one from Theni who were undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) recovered from the infection and were discharged on Monday. The patients were provided with fruit baskets and were sent home on ‘108’ ambulances, official sources here said. As on Monday, 13 patients from Tiruchi, two from Ariyalur, one from Chennai are undergoing treatment at the MGMGH while five people who returned on a flight and one person who travelled on a Sharmik special train are being monitored at a quarantine facility.
02 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Nagercoil special first to chug||Train services from and via Tiruchi on select routes resumed on Monday with ‘moderate’ passenger traffic. The first special train left for Nagercoil via Madurai early in the morning. The passengers were screened using thermal scanners at the Tiruchi railway junction where Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police personnel were deployed. Barricades and ropes were put up at the entrance to ensure personal distancing among passengers. Railway sources said over 280 passengers who had booked their tickets in advance had boarded from Tiruchi Junction in the Tiruchi – Nagercoil special train with select stoppages en-route. Only reserved ticket holders travelled in the train that departed at 6 a.m, said Railway Protection Force sources. Being the first train, passengers began to arrive at the station from 4.45 a.m. and were guided by the railway department staff. With the State government making e-pass mandatory for rail passengers for inter-zonal journey, the district administration had set up a help desk for passengers arriving without pass. A team of revenue officials were deputed at the desk to facilitate passengers arriving at Tiruchi from various destinations without e-pass. The sources said around 78 passengers boarded the Madurai- Villupuram special train from here. The third train to arrive at Tiruchi was the Coimbatore–Mayiladuthurai Jan Shatabdi special train in which around 138 passengers boarded from here. Although the announcement that e-passes were mandatory was made only Sunday evening, many passengers who arrived by the Coimbatore–Jan Shatabdi express had the passes, said revenue officials. A passenger, Michael, who had come with his family to Tiruchi, said he was not aware of the e-pass rule. Upon arrival at Tiruchi junction from Coimbatore, he was guided by the revenue officials to approach the help desk. Mr. Michael was on his way to Villupuram district via Tiruchi. P. Bhuvaneswari of Madurai complained that she couldn’t get the e-pass on Sunday due to connectivity issues in the mobile phone. She had come to see her parents in Tiruchi. The help desk arranged e-pass for her return journey to Madurai on Tuesday.
02 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Bharathidasan University gets nod to fill up 54 vacancies||Bharathidasan University has received the green signal from the higher education department to recruit new faculty to fill 54 vacancies for the positions of Assistant Professor, Associate Professor and Professor. The government had earlier put on hold the recruitment process to ensure adherence to roster system reservation in vogue in State universities. With a plan to conduct the direct recruitment as per the latest UGC guidelines for central universities, the BDU had, last year, put in place a procedure for filling the posts whereby the institution is deemed as one unit rather than individual department. The 200-point roster was followed on that basis. The Higher Education Department had subsequently issued a circular that the UGC’s guidelines on recruitment of faculties to central universities does not apply to State Universities. However, the BDU continued with the process on the ground that its recruitment notification was issued months before the circular was issued. As per the earlier schedule, the interview for direct recruitment was fixed on January 22, 24 and 25. There was an overwhelming response for the direct recruitment notification. According to university sources, there were as many as 1,600 applications, including a good number of applications from candidates in front-ranking teaching and research universities abroad. However, the recruitment process was put on hold in anticipation of government clearance. In a communication to BDU Registrar dated May 28, Principal Secretary of Higher Education Apoorva said: "You may proceed with the appointment of teaching posts in the Bharathidasan University in accordance with the UGC guidelines, and for the purpose of reservation of the posts, the university shall be taken as one unit.” A week prior to the communication from the Principal Secretary of Higher Education the Bharathidasan University Professors Association had made a representation to the Minister for Higher Education K.P. Anbazhagan stating that the BDU, to maintain its A+ accreditation by NAAC, has to fill up sanctioned faculty positions in many of the deaprtments where in the recent past a good number of professors had superannuated. Filling of vacant faculty positions was the main criteria for evaluation and ranking done by apex bodies such as NAAC, FIST (Fund for Improvement of Science and Technology Infrastructure in Higher Educational Institutions, and for world ranking among universities, R. Sakthivel, president of BUPA, and K. Vetrivel, Secretary, said in a letter to the Higher Education Minister.
02 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mingling with others||The elephant reached the Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre at M.R. Palayam on Monday. Thirteen-year-old ‘Deivanai’ was brought in a lorry accompanied by forest officials and a mahout. The pachyderm was put in a separate shed later. It slowly began to mingle with one of the captive elephants accommodated inside, said the officials. This is the seventh captive elephant to be accommodated at the sprawling Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre established along the Tiruchi–Chennai highway. A dietary schedule would be prescribed for ‘Deivanai’ by a veterinary officer and its health would be monitored .
02 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tamil outfit functionary held for burning CM’s effigy||A member of a Tamil outfit named ‘Tamil Desa Makkal Munnani’ who had set afire to an effigy of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at Tiruverumbur on the city's outskirts on Monday was arrested. The accused G. Raghu (30) of Bharathipuram in Tiruverumbur resorted to the act to condemn the State government alleging that it had failed to curb the spread of COVID-19 virus. Police sources said Raghu brought an effigy and set it afire and left the spot. On information, police personnel conducted enquiries and arrested Raghu.
02 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Migrant labourers from Odisha head back home||A total number of 379 migrant labourers from Odisha were sent to their native State by a Shramik special train from Tiruchi on Monday. The labourers had been working in Tiruchi, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Sivaganga districts. An official press release said the workers who were brought from various districts to the Tiruchi railway junction were provided with food packets and seen off by Collector S. Sivarasu and other officials. Personal distancing was ensured among the labourers when they boarded the train.
02 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Power supply would be suspended in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Wednesday owing to maintenance works to be taken up on the high tension power lines from the Tiruverumbur sub-station: Chennai Bypass Road, Keezha Vibuthi Praharam, Karthikeyan Garden, Malligaipuram, Keezha Kondayampettai,Iraniamman Temple, Tagore Street, Periyar Thottam, Ponnurangapuram, Thiruvalarsolai, Panaypuram, Thirupalthurai,Uttamarseeli, Mela Vetti Street, Keezha Vetti Street, Koutharasanallur, Killikoodu,Palkarar Kalam, Kallanai Road-Muthiyor Illam,Sai Baba Temple, Pugazh Estates and Ponni Delta.
02 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Bus services, mechanised fishing partially resume in southern districts||The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation on Monday operated 50% of its bus fleet from 18 depots in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts. Although officials were prepared to press into service 450 buses attached to the depots, the miniscule number of passengers was a dampener. City buses and mofussil routes to Ambasamudram, Veeravanallur, Tenkasi, Shencottai, Sankarankovil, Valliyoor, Nanguneri, Thoothukudi and Tiruchendur were operated. Sanitisers were kept at bus termini and only those with masks were allowed to board the disinfected buses. Drivers and conductors too had masks and gloves and were screened with thermal scanners starting work. Most of the city and mofussil buses operated in Tirunelveli were seen plying with only 30% passengers. “Due to fear of infection, people are avoiding buses to reach their destinations, particularly workplaces. Those using public transport will increase gradually and reach the permissible passenger capacity level of 50% before next week,” said conductors. At Venthankulam new terminus, buses had to share space with lorries carrying farm produce and wholesale vegetable traders shifted from Nainarkulam Vegetable Market. Consequently, free movement of buses to second and third bays were affected. After complaints from bus crew and commuters, steps were taken to move out the lorries. Private bus operators, who had appealed to the State government to waive taxes for the lockdown period, did not operate their vehicles on Monday, saying they would take a decision only after the government made its stance clear. In Tenkasi district, 32 buses plied to various destinations with a few passengers. In Thoothukudi district, 151 buses were operated to Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Tiruchendur, Kovilpatti, Ottapidaaram, Udangudi, Srivaikundam and Vilaathikulam. Only those running between Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli enjoyed decent patronage. With the old bus stand under construction under smart city programme, the terminus was shifted to a nearby school playground when the lockdown was clamped. After the lockdown, a vegetable market operated from the playground. It was moved to a ground near new bus stand. Public transport was not restored in Kanniyakumari district on Monday. Consequently, buses from Tirunelveli were operated only up to Valliyoor. Moreover, those who did not carry e-pass were not allowed to cross check-posts at Aralvaimozhi and Anjugramam.
02 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Vital components for KKNPP reactor shipped by Russian supplier||Russian supplier OKB Gidropress has shipped vital components meant for the fourth reactor of Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project (KKNPP), which is under construction. On May 28, OKB Gidropress completed the shipment of a set (135 pieces) of step electromagnet drives of the reactor control and protection system (CPS drives SHEM-3) to St. Petersburg sea port, from where the consignment will reach KKNPP. The shipment commenced after completion of approval tests on the benches for hot running-in and after acceptance inspection of the drives. The vital equipment for the reactor were inspected by representatives of Nuclear Power Corporation of India (NPCIL). “The inspectors were satisfied by the quality of production,” said an official statement from Rosatom, Russia’s State Atomic Energy Corporation.
02 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||3 fresh cases in Tirunelveli||Tirunelveli district reported three fresh COVID-19 positive cases, including two from other States, on Monday. The total number of cases in the district stood at 355. Kanniyakumari and Tenkasi districts recorded two fresh cases each to take their tally to 69 and 88 respectively. Thoothukudi added one more case, taking the tally to 227. Tirunelveli now has 105 active cases, Thoothukudi 79 cases, Kanniyakumari 34 cases and Tenkasi 23 cases.  Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district recorded one more positive case, taking the total number of positive cases to 124. Ninety of the positive cases were from other districts or States. The number of active cases is 66. A 70-year-old patient from Dindigul, who tested positive on May 28, died on May 31 at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. According to the State medical bulletin, the woman had comorbidities, including uncontrolled diabetes, systemic hypertension and anterior wall myocardial infarction. She was brought to the GRH on May 25 and her test was taken on May 27. In Madurai, the count of positive cases remained at 268 as there were no positive cases reported on Monday. One patient was discharged, and number of active cases stands at 100.
02 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Over 30,000 students to appear for Class X exam in Tiruppur||A total of 30,602 students will write the Class X public examination in Tiruppur district from June 15 to 25, said District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Monday. He chaired a review meeting on the preparation for the examinations, in which Tiruppur Chief Educational Officer R. Ramesh and other officials participated. The 30,602 students will comprise 29,746 students (14,835 boys and 14,911 girls) from 349 schools and 856 private candidates, a release said. Class XI exam The one examination that was not held for Class XI will be held on June 16, which will be written by 26,092 students (25,911 students and 181 private candidates). As part of COVID-19 precautionary measures, only 10 students will be made to sit in a classroom. Masks and hand sanitisers will be provided to the students before the start of the examinations. Students will be writing the examinations in their own schools. The 349 examination centres in the district will each have one Chief Superintendent and one Departmental Officer. A total of 2,985 teachers will be appointed as hall invigilators. A team of 200 teachers will act as flying squads for Class X public examinations and six custodian centres will be set up for the question papers, a press release said.
02 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two trains leave Tiruppur Jn.||The Salem Division of Southern Railway operated two Shramik special trains from the Tiruppur Junction to Bihar on Monday. The trains were bound for Muzaffarpur and Hajipur, which left the junction at 2 p.m. and 9 p.m. respectively, railway officials said. Both the trains transported 1,600 passengers each. As of Monday, 27 Shramik special trains have been operated from the Tiruppur Junction to six States.
02 June 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure better price for cotton cultivators’||With the auctioning of cotton at the regulated markets of Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees in delta districts scheduled to commence from the first week of this month, cotton cultivators have pleaded with the governments to ensure that the procurement process adopted in the markets help farmers get a better price for their produce. In a statement, the State Deputy Secretary, Tamilnadu Vivasayigal Sangam, P. S. Masilamani has claimed that though various cash crops were introduced as an alternative to paddy in delta districts two decades ago, sugarcane cultivation had only survived. However, during the last eight years, several farmers have opted for cotton cultivation during summer in view of the climatic conditions during February-August. Since the return on investment in cotton cultivation always remain on the upper side compared to paddy cultivation, several farmers in the delta districts have gone in for cotton cultivation this summer in spite of the good storage level at the Stanley Reservoir, he added. As plucking of cotton has commenced in some areas, the offer from traders was hovering around Rs. 25 per kilogram which was just half the minimum support price for cotton announced by the government last year. The association called upon the government to ensure that a farmer-friendly procurement process be adopted in the regulated markets in the Delta districts and also insisted that the Cotton Corporation of India should take part in the auctioning. It urged the Union government to lift the ban on export of cotton as the stocks in the mills were yet to get depleted.
02 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nilgiris will remain closed to tourists||The Nilgiris Collector on Monday announced that despite ease of travel restrictions, the district would remain closed to tourists. Collector J. Innocent Divya said only people having work would be allowed into the district. “All tourist spots, cottages, hotels and lodges will remain shut,” Ms. Divya said, issuing a warning that people found to be travelling to the district for non-essential work or on holiday maybe fined and their vehicles seized. Zone 1 The Nilgiris has been classified in Zone 1, grouped with Coimbatore, Erode, Karur, Salem and Namakkal, meaning people from these districts travelling to the Nilgiris do not need an e-pass to enter the district. However, a system has been placed to check people if they are travelling only for important work. “People using private vehicles to travel must ensure that there are only a maximum of four people in a car, including the driver,” said the Collector, adding that if a vehicle is found with more people, action would be taken against the occupants. Starting Monday, 160 TNSTC buses within the Nilgiris and to other districts are being operated. To ease congestion The district administration and the police will keep a check on traffic and may even make the Mettupalayam-Coonoor-Udhagamandalam and Udhagamandalam-Kotagiri roads one-way to ease congestion.
02 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Limited patronage||The Virudhunagar region restarted bus services on Monday with half of its fleet that carried fewer passengers. However, patronage was poor. “Not even 25% of passengers were seen in the buses,” said a TNSTC officer. Out of the 181 mofussil buses, 88 buses were operated. However, the buses could be operated only with the newly classified zones that included Madurai, Virudhunagar, Theni, Dindigul, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga. Similarly, out of 237 town buses, 134 buses were plied. The buses were being operated to cover all routes with lesser number of trips.  The buses would be operated from 6 a.m. from the bus stand and all buses would return to the depot at 9 p.m. No night bus service has been allowed. While the crew would be working in two shifts, the roaster has been prepared in such a way that all employees get duty evenly.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Five more test positive in Coimbatore, one in Salem||The number of people who tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore increased to 151 on Monday with five cases added to the district since domestic flight services started at the Coimbatore International Airport from May 25. On Monday, a woman employee of Coimbatore Collectorate who worked in the prisons section tested positive for the disease. District Collector K. Rajamani confirmed to The Hindu that the woman employee who returned after a training in Chennai tested positive for the disease. Collectorate disinfected Following this, the first floor of the old building at the Collectorate was sealed and disinfected on Monday. The woman, who came to Coimbatore from Chennai by road, was said to have come for duty for the last three days. Efforts were being taken to test those who worked with the woman. As per the COVID-19 media release issued by the Health Department on Monday, there were five active cases in Coimbatore district. Coimbatore was having 146 positive cases since May 3 and the figure touched 151 on Monday. Health Department sources were not available to elaborate on these new five cases, though they were said to be air passengers who arrived from other States. As per the release, 10 persons who landed at Coimbatore International Airport since May 25 tested positive for COVID-19. This included those who hailed from Coimbatore. As on May 31, 3,185 passengers landed at the airport from cities namely Chennai, Delhi, Bengaluru and Hyderaband airports. A police constable tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. He was involved in the arrest of an accused in women harassment case who tested positive recently. As many as 16 cases were reported in Salem on Monday. Among them, six persons have travelled to Salem from other States and 10 persons have contracted the disease within Corporation limits, said health officials. In Namakkal, three women and a man, who have travelled to the district from Maharashtra have tested positive for the disease on Monday.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||First train to Assam leaves Hosur||Over 1,700 Assamese workers journeyed their way back in the first train to Assam from Hosur on Monday. With this, the number of migrant workers that had departed from Hosur had crossed a little over 10,000, all paid for by the State government. The past few days have seen departures of Shramik Express trains for migrant workers to each State determined by the number of those registered to travel for those States. The days also testified to relentless efforts by the authorities and volunteers to send home migrant workers in trains. Keeping up with that tradition of responding to activists acting on behalf of migrant workers, a group of 30 Assamese workers form Dharmapuri, who had wanted to travel in the train and had reached out to Hosur Tahsildar K. Venkatesan were immediately accommodated. The workers, who had boarded the government buses from Dharmapuri and were falling behind in reaching the station in time were provided help by the Tahsildar. He along with Abdul Bari, a coordinator with COVID-relief on behalf of the Jamaaths arranged for a bus to pick up the workers from Hosur bus stand. In the interim, to make up for the delay, the registration of workers was done on their behalf by Mr. Bari himself. Volunteers from the Muslim community kept up with the rigour of providing food for each migrant worker to last through the journey period. Earlier, Collector S. Prabhakr, who has ensured his presence at the station to see off each train, was also present and oversaw the food bags being provided tp the workers.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu reports 1,162 new cases||People used to come in with dengue shock syndrome. Similarly, in COVID-19, a person may feel alright, but his/her lungs will be involved. This is why we are screening persons with Influenza-Like Illness across the State. Early detection will help in reducing mortality,” he said. When a person with co-morbidites seeks medical help late, it is a big challenge for doctors, he added. Of the 1,162 new patients - 685 men, 473 women and four transgender - 50 persons had returned from other States. Of them, 32 had returned from Maharashtra, 10 from Delhi, three from Karnataka and one each from Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal by road and rail. One person who returned by flight from Haryana also tested positive. Apart from Chennai, Chengalpattu reported 48 new cases, Tiruvallur had 33 cases, Tiruvannamalai had 10 cases and Kancheepuram had nine cases. Till date, 92 of the 2,731 persons who returned by international flights have tested positive for COVID-19, while 21 of the 11,872 persons who returned by domestic flights have tested positive. Of the 10,270 persons who returned by train, 244 persons have tested positive, while 1,271 persons who returned by road have also tested positive. With another 11,377 samples tested on Monday, the total number of samples tested till date increased to 5,03,339. Testing of 636 samples is under process. Price cap for tests The Indian Council of Medical Research had fixed Rs.4,500 as the charge for COVID-19 testing in private laboratories, the Minister said, adding: “If we test around 12,000 samples a day, 80% of these tests are conducted in government hospitals. We held a discussion with private laboratories and have insisted that they bring down the cost to Rs.3,000. They have agreed to this, and a formal announcement will be made soon. Private laboratories, including those in corporate hospitals, have given their consent.” On charges for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals, he said, “We held three to four rounds of discussions with private hospitals. A Government Order fixing the charges for COVID-19 treatment will be issued within two days. This will fix the charges under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, and put a price cap for treating COVID-19 patients.” (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||V.O.C. Port gears up to receive Indians returning from Colombo||Indian naval ship INS Jalashwa will bring around 900 passengers stranded in Sri Lanka to V.O.C Port on Tuesday (June 2). The naval ships are repatriating Indian nationals stranded abroad under the Centre’s ‘Operation Samudra Setu’ (Sea Bridge). In order to conduct the disembarkation process in a seamless manner on Tuesday, preparations are being made jointly by the district administration, customs, Port Health Organisation (PHO), immigration and Indian Navy. Port Chairman T.K. Ramachandran, Collector Sandeep Nanduri, Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan and other senior officials inspected the designated berth and passenger terminal and reviewed the arrangements. Before disembarkation, PHO will screen all passengers. Personal protection equipment will be given to all of them and their luggage will be disinfected by port authority. They will be transited from the berth to passenger terminal by buses arranged by the district administration. On arrival at the terminal, their antecedents will be checked and they will be asked to download and configure ‘Aarogya Setu’ app in their smart phones. After completion of customs and immigration formalities, the passengers will be guided to their buses. In order to complete the customs and immigration formalities in a seamless manner, the port has made all arrangements in Berth No.14 and passenger terminal. Breakfast and lunch will be served to passengers by the Port and district administration. The two bodies, along with Indian Navy, Customs, Immigration and Port Health Organisation, have formulated stringent standard operating procedure for disembarkation of expatriates, a statement said. The naval ships will also bring Indians stranded in Maldives (June 7) and Iran (June 17) to Thoothukudi, Mr. Sandeep said.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘No evidence of bonded labour’||No prima facie evidence of bonded labour was found despite allegations regarding a brick kiln in Dharapuram block, Tiruppur district, said Dharapuram Sub-Collector Pavankumar G. Giriyappanavar on Monday. He said that a complaint was received that 17 workers from two families were being treated as bonded labours at the kiln in Thirumalaipalayam village and that two of them were physically abused allegedly by the owners of the kiln. The workers were from Karungalipattu village in Villupuram district and belonged to Irula community, which falls under the Scheduled Tribe (ST) list, the complaint said. “Prima facie, it does not look like bonded labour issue. It seems like a clash between group of workers,” Mr. Giriyappanavar said. However, Dharapuram police as well as the revenue officials are investigating this matter, he noted. On Monday, activists from various organisations including Social Awareness Society for Youths and Pazhangudi Irular Pathukappu Sangam visited the brick kiln to investigate the complaint. Mr. Giriyappanavar said that the district administration arranged vehicles for 17 workers to be sent to their hometown in Villupuram district on their request.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fish eye||
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Takes charge||K. Chellathurai assumed office as Joint Commissioner (JC) and Executive Officer of Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple in Madurai on Monday. The Joint Commissioner replaced N. Natarajan who held the post for six years. Mr. Chellathurai served as Joint Commissioner of Thiruverkadu Devi Karumariamman Temple in Chennai.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 update||Tilll June 1   Coimbatore district  Persons tested +ve so far: 151 Persons recovered: 145 Death: 1 Active cases: 0  Tiruppur district  House quarantined: 1,475 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on Monday) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stranded woman admitted at TMC||Members of the Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association staged a demonstration at Kumbakonam on Monday urging the government to issue an order directing the cooperative societies and banks to disburse crop loans for the 2020-21season. The demonstrators led by the Association secretary, Sundara Vimalanathan, raised slogans in support of their demand and claimed that the farmers were unable to avail crop loans for the current crop season in view of the delay in issue of the GO. Normally, the governments would issue the GO well in advance in order to help farmers avail the loans from the banks and the societies from April 1 onwards for the crop season, they said.
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||May saw an almost six-fold increase in cases in State||Karnataka saw a huge increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in May. From 565 cases on April 30, the number of positive cases rose to 3,221 by May 31 — an almost six-fold increase. And, of the 2,656 patients who tested positive in the month, 1,669 were inter-State travellers. The numbers doubled from 589 on May 1 to 1,056 on May 15, before shooting up to 3,221 by May 31. This was mainly because of the influx of returnees from other States. The number of cases started shooting up once the State eased lockdown restrictions on May 18. At least nine districts, apart from Bengaluru Urban, reported over 100 cases during this period, and cases in nearly 10 affected districts have had a doubling rate faster than the State average. Given the surge in numbers, the State, like Kerala, is now focussing mostly on symptomatic cases. Karnataka has also adopted the Centre’s new discharge policy that states that a patient can be discharged after 10 days of hospitalisation without a COVID-19 test if he/she has not had fever and requirement of oxygen on three consecutive days. Making efforts to conserve the available resources for symptomatic cases and the aged and ailing persons, the State has now projected (based on mathematical modelling) that the number of cases will likely touch two lakh in the coming months. Projected numbers The State had earlier projected 87,196 cases and had mobilised resources based on these estimates. However, based on the incidence of cases in four countries which have comparable population connectivity — Italy, Iran, China, and Spain — and based on district-wise population, connectivity and density, the Department of Disaster Management has now projected that the number of cases may touch two lakh. The estimation is that only 15% of the projected positive cases will require hospitalisation and 5% ICU admission in Bengaluru, the hotspots and the rest of Karnataka. The influx has made it inevitable for the authorities to revise quarantine rules that now make institutional quarantine mandatory only for returnees from Maharashtra. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education), said the State has been ramping up facilities based on the increase in number of cases. “With the relaxation of the lockdown norms, many people who earlier wanted to return to their home States are now preferring to stay back where they are. We will have to wait and watch if the numbers will stabilise in the next few days,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is the nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, admitted that those home quarantined could be potential carriers of the virus. He said the onus was now on people to ensure the infection does not spread further in the community. “Although the lockdown has been relaxed, people should follow the same precautions they were taking during the lockdown,” he said.
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Bail protocol, standardisation needed to ease undertrial burden in prisons’||Constituting an estimated two-thirds of the country’s prison population, undertrial prisoners are a substantial burden on jails, many of which are known to be running at over 100% capacity. Concerns over hygiene and safety are now growing in the COVID-19 situation, which demands social distancing and cleanliness. But, as a recent study on the decision-making process of bail reveals, it is “entirely discretionary” and “rests heavily in the hands of judges of lower criminal courts.” The study, “ Re-imagining bail decision making: An analysis of bail practice in Karnataka and recommendations for reform”, was conducted by not-for-profit Centre for Law and Police Research, supported by the Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives. Conducted through in-person court observations in different magistrate courts and based on a review of court records of criminal cases in Bengaluru, Tumakuru, and Dharwad, the study found that the nature and classification of offences, punishment prescribed, and availability of effective legal representation have a substantial impact on decisions to detain an accused. More SLL offences The researchers engaged with cases in lower criminal courts in the three districts at the ‘pre-trial’ stage - when the accused is first produced after arrest. From the court observations, they noticed that Special and Local Law (SLL) offences constitute a substantial portion of the docket in the lower criminal courts.In Bengaluru, IPC cases formed a majority of the composition of first production cases and bail was more frequently granted to IPC offences over SLL offences, the report said. Bail was granted at a lower rate to non-bailable cases in Bengaluru and Dharwad as per the court observations study, while in Tumakuru, bail was granted more in non-bailable cases. “Significantly, in all three districts, bail was not granted by the courts even in some bailable cases where bail is a matter of right, and accused were remanded to either judicial or police custody. Across the three districts, the rate of bail was high in case of offences punishable with imprisonment of one to three years. At first production in Bengaluru, a higher sentence prescribed for an offence meant a lower chance of securing bail and no person accused of an offence punishable with death or life imprisonment secured bail,” it added. The study, among other things, concludes that classification of offences as ‘serious’ and ‘non-serious’ must be revisited to ensure that bail is granted early on in the pre-trial stage. ‘Find non-custodial ways’ Sudhir Krishnaswamy, founder trustee of CLPR and Vice-Chancellor, National Law School of India University, told The Hindu the study shows that a large number of undertrials are paying for relatively minor offences, and for relatively short periods of detention. “If you send them into the system now with the COVID-19 risks, you will get a very high infection rate. The policy upshot of the study is that you must not send people in for these short durations. We have to distinguish between convicts and undertrials. So, at least with the undertrials, there can be a policy that we don’t send them to custodial detention and the police interrogation and inquiry can continue,” he said. The study mentions how Bengaluru has only three jails, including one in Bengaluru Rural, despite being the fifth most populous urban area in India. Dharwad and Tumakuru have five and four jails respectively. But Prof. Krishnaswamy says there are two ways of looking at this situation: “One is that you find ways to deal with people in a non-custodial way, and the other is that if you are going to put people in custody, you have to ensure minimum conditions. But from experiences around the world, increasing prisons is an expensive and partial solution. People who are not a physical harm to society need not be in custody.” Simpler protocol To begin with, Prof. Krishnaswamy said, a simple protocol can be put in place that all judges making bail decisions should apply. “What is happening today in bail decision making is quite erratic by geography and offence. We need to standardise. We have not systematised our bail decision making in over 100 years. This is what we need to do immediately, through which we will benefit in the number of people in custody and the COVID-19 situation,” he added.
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students studying abroad are running out of time, money||Several students studying in foreign universities, who had come to India for a short vacation, are now stuck in different cities. Classes are to commence soon, but the students are unable to book tickets and have been left in the lurch. Many of them have visas expiring in the months of June andJuly and have to get back before that date as they are required to apply for visa extension at the immigration office in their respective countries. Students studying in many European countries have their examinations in the third week of June. Some others are required to be present to defend their Master’s thesis. “Failure to reach in time will result in many of us losing an academic year while adding to our financial debts,” said a group of Indian students who study in Germany in a statement. Many students also said interviews for internships and jobs have been put off or cancelled as they could not return in time. The students also said their savings were diminishing because of payment of rent, insurance, and loans, and the rates of Air India flights were not affordable. Costly affair Amrutha Varshini, an M.Sc. student from Berlin, Germany, said she had come to Bengaluru on March 12 and had scheduled a return flight on April 15, but it was cancelled because of the lockdown. “A one-way ticket costs around Rs. 90,000 and it is very difficult for students to shell out so much money on tickets.” She said that she was supposed to intern in July and was pressed for time to return to Germany. Another student, from Brussels in Belgium, said she has written multiple letters to the Ministry of External Affairs and Air India as her flight scheduled in March was cancelled. “I had booked a flight from New Delhi to Paris, but later had to cancel it because in Europe you can enter another country only if there is no direct flight to your country. After I booked the ticket to Paris, I saw a flight to Brussels. So I had booked that flight, but have still not got any refund or update on my cancelled flight to Paris,” she said.  A one-way ticket costs around Rs. 90,000 and it is very difficult for students to shell out so much money on air tickets Amrutha Varshini,M.Sc. student from Berlin, Germany
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 sample testing crosses three lakh in Karnataka||Although there is a huge backlog of samples in various laboratories, the number of samples tested cumulatively in the State crossed three lakh on June 1. As many as 3,04,816 samples were tested as on Monday, and of these a total of 3,408 had tested positive. The State now has 63 labs approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), of which 38 are government labs. Karnataka is now the State with the third highest number of labs, after Maharashtra (79) and Tamil Nadu (72). Meanwhile, a day after reporting its biggest spike on a single day, with 299 positive cases, the State saw 187 new cases and one death. Of the new cases, 117 were inter-State travellers. A 90-year-old resident of Bengaluru, who was admitted on April 24 and shifted to the ICU on May 22 because of oxygen desaturation, developed sepsis and multi-organ failure. He died late on Sunday night. While Raichur had reported the highest number of cases — 83 — on Sunday, Udupi took the top spot on Monday with 73 cases, including 33 Maharashtra returnees. It was followed by Bengaluru Urban with 28 new cases, including three policemen. Of the new cases in Bengaluru, 22 were returnees from Maharashtra. Kalaburagi came third with 24 cases, all of whom were people who arrived from Maharashtra, including a four-month-old baby boy.
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bifurcation process in PWD takes on caste dimension||The move to bifurcate the Public Works Department (PWD) workforce in Karnataka, on the face of it, seems to be for administrative ease. However, it appears to be taking caste connotation, as nearly 1,400 Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (SC/ST) engineers, who were appointed to fill backlog posts, are staring at a curtailed career. The engineers, with over 15 years of experience, have been asked to choose the departments they would want to stay with after bifurcation. They have been given the option of remaining in PWD or going to Water Resources or Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Departments. As many as 746 assistant engineers and 501 junior engineers appointed to fill backlog posts in 2003-2004 and 142 assistant engineers who received work orders in 2015, having seniority with retrospective effect, have been awaiting promotions. “The hitch is that if they chose to go to other departments, they will lose seniority. The bifurcation exercise has been done to prevent SCs/STs from moving up to higher posts. We are urging the government to first publish the seniority list as per the directions of the Supreme Court in the case pertaining to consequential seniority and then effect promotions as per the list. The department can be bifurcated later,” said D. Chandrashekaraiah, president of State Government SC/ST Employees Coordination Committee. A delegation has met Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi to highlight the issue. “By promoting all deserving candidates, seniority will be maintained without which these engineers will end their career in posts they joined in.” Public Works Department sources acknowledged that there were issues pertaining to promotion, but argued that the bifurcation will affect engineers from all communities. The bifurcation process is still on and the government is yet to receive a final report, PWD sources said. In fact, sources said, as against the earlier departmental promotion committee (DPC), there are now three DPCs, leading to confusion. “Legally and ideally, the promotions have to be given after drawing up the seniority list. Bifurcation can be taken up later and option should be given only after effecting promotion. This appears more of a political decision than an administrative one,” said the source.
02 June 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Modi will increase Central share of taxes to Karnataka: Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa expressed confidence that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would increase Karnataka’s allocation of Central share of taxes in the coming days, while hailing him on completion of first year in office in his second stint. Addressing a press conference in Bengaluru, Mr. Yediyurappa sought to downplay Karnataka’s Central share of taxes dwindling. “Both the State and Centre are facing financial problems. I am 100% confident that in the coming days, the PM will release more funds to Karnataka.” Attack by Opposition Opposition parties have been critical of both the Centre and the State government ever since the 15th Finance Commission, in its interim report for 2020-21, reduced the State’s share of Central taxes by over 1%. The Opposition had even taken the State government to task in the recent State legislature session over the Centre rejecting the 15th Finance Commission’s recommendation of a special grant of Rs. 5,495 crore to Karnataka for 2020-21. Listing the assistance given to Karnataka from the Centre under Mr. Modi’s leadership in the first year, he said the State had received a total of Rs. 17,249 crore as Central allocation and other transfers besides an allocation of Rs. 10,079 crore for Central-sponsored schemes. In addition to this, Mr. Modi had provided flood assistance of Rs. 1,869 crore to Karnataka, he said. The other projects assisted by the Centre included inauguration of the Kalaburagi airport and development of the Shivamogga airport. Central allocation had also been made for Bengaluru-Dharwad, Mysuru-Kushalnagar, Shikaripur-Ranebennur railway lines (Rs. 3,085 crore), railway workshop in Kolar (Rs. 485 crore), 148-km railway sub-urban railway line project (Rs. 18,600 crore), he said. The State also had 49,12,445 PM Kisan Samman scheme beneficiaries, he pointed. Hailing the role of the PM in handling the COVID-19 situation, the CM said the Centre had given Rs. 2,351 crore to Karnataka to distribute eight lakh tonnes of food grains to poor people during the tough times.  Kaayaka yogi Describing PM Modi as a kaayaka yogi, the Chief Minister said 70% of the people in the country wanted Mr. Modi to not only complete his full term, but also become PM again.
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Why were adequate Shramik specials not run, asks Kharge||Veteran Congress leader and former Union Minister Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday hit out at the Union government for handling the exodus of migrants workers in a shoddy way during the lockdown and said Railways Minister Piyush Goyal should resign from the post for his poor handling of Shramik special trains. Addressing presspersons here on Monday, Mr. Kharge, who has served as the Railway Minister, said Indian Railways has 13,000 trains and 2.3 crore people commute daily in trains across the country. Instead of operating an adequate number of Shramik trains, the Railways operated only a few for ferrying stranded migrants to their homes. “The Railways had never witnessed such a mess before,” he said. Because of inept handling of the Railways, many migrants lost their lives walking long distances. In Aurangabad, 16 migrant labourers were crushed to death while they were sleeping on railways tracks. All migrants labourers could have been ferried to their natives places before the announcement of the lockdown, he said. The government was deaf towards difficulties faced by migrants. Many trains reached destinations several hours later and this resulted in chaos at railway stations. The Indian Railways had lost its independent powers under the Prime Minsiter Narendra Modi-led government. In fact, the government has scrapped separate Railway budget and merged it with the Union budget, he pointed out. Noting that the Centre’s Rs. 20 lakh crore had benefited no one so far, Mr. Kharge said the revival of the economy was possible only by putting the money into the hands of the people. The negative growth rate in manufacturing and construction industry would slow down the economic growth rate in the future, he said. Many people died because of hunger and poor shelter facilities provided by the government. Mr. Kharge said both the State and Union governments had failed in handling the coronavirus pandemic. He addressed the press conference following instructions from the party high command.
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Help desks for migrant workers in Bengaluru||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has set up help desks for migrant workers at all its citizen service centres. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar has issued a circular in this regard. A press release issued on Monday stated that the help desks would be manned by the jurisdictional Assistant Revenue Officers. They will help workers, who wish to return to their home towns, register on the State government’s Seva Sindhu portal. The help desks will be set up at all citizens service centres in BBMP limits and will have multi-lingual name boards, the release stated.
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vivekananda statue: Time is not right, says DKS||The Congress lashed out at the State government over its proposal to install a 120-ft statue of Swami Vivekananda near Bengaluru and said the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party was ‘pushing an agenda’ and had misplaced priorities amid the COVID-19 pandemic and related financial difficulties. Speaking to reporters on Monday, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar said, “On the issue of installing a Vivekananda statue, we do not have any objections, but this is not right time to do it.”
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many await results even after returning from institutional quarantine||Many who underwent paid institutional quarantine in the city after returning from other States are still awaiting their test results. They alleged that despite repeated requests for a copy of test results, the authorities only told them orally that they had tested negative before sending them home. Many also claimed that they were not even given a certificate stating that they had undergone the mandatory institutional quarantine. Adeeth Cariappa, who hails from Kodagu, underwent institutional quarantine in the city after returning fromKarnal in Haryana. When he left for his home town, he was stopped at the check-post with officials asking him for documents. “I did not have any document to prove that I had undergone quarantine and tested negative,” he said, adding that they let him go after they saw the seal on his hand, which had almost faded away. Travel troubles Tushar N., a student who was quarantined at a hotel near BEL Circle, said officials told him that they would give his report within four days. “It has been five days since I was sent home and eight days since my swab sample was collected. I still have not got my report and BBMP officials are not responding to our calls or messagesnow,” he said, adding that many of his friends were facing problems from neighbours as they did not have any document of proof. One person who didn’t want to be named said the people in his apartment complex were refusing to believe he had completed quarantine and tested negative as he did’not have a test result copy. Meanwhile, a few people have received emails informing them that they had tested negative. Chikkanna Krishnappa, who underwent institutional quarantine, said he received an email informing him that his wife, son and he had tested negative. “While checking out of the hotel, a few of us demanded a certificate stating that we had tested negative, which we were given,” he said. Most people who stayed in government quarantine centres said they were provided with certificates stating they had tested negative. “The tahsildar and medical officers spoke to us and we were given a certificate,” said Prakash B., who was at a government quarantine centre. Ravikumar Surpur, Special Commissioner for Health and Infrastructure, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, said he would look intothe matter.  It has been five days since I was sent home and eight days since my swab sample was collected. I still have not got my report and BBMP officials are not responding to calls or messages now Tushar N., student quarantined in Bengaluru
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||D.K. Shivakumar taking over as Congress State chief put off again||The formal ceremony for Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar to take over reins has been postponed once again following the continuation of the lockdown norms by the Centre till June 7. The State Congress had planned to hold the progamme on June 7. Citing the Centre’s lockdown norms, the State government has not allowed holding of the programme on Sunday, Mr. Shivakumar said at a press conference here. The seven-time MLA and former Minister was appointed as the KPCC president in March by party chief Sonia Gandhi. First he was supposed to assume charge on May 31, a Sunday. But, since there was a complete lockdown, the event was postponed. Later it was scheduled for June 7, which also falls on Sunday. Once again, owning to lockdown norms, the State denied permission to hold the programme, he said.
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Submit report in two weeks’||The Legislature Committee on the Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes has directed the Commissioner of Social Welfare to submit a report within two weeks on the status of implementation of the Supreme Court order with respect to consequential seniority. This has come in the light of complaints that several departments have not adhered to the orders, by not notifying the seniority list.
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Security personnel at police HQ quarantined||As many as 28 security personnel deployed at the police headquarters have been quarantined and the entire premises sanitised after one of them tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. All police staff have undergone COVID-19 tests. The constable who tested positive was taken to Victoria Hospital for treatment. He has identified his primary and secondary contacts. All senior officers, including Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood and other ADGPs work at the headquarters. However, it is suspected that the constable did not enter the main building where the senior officers’ chambers are located. However, the entire building has been sanitised as a precautionary measure, a senior police officer said.
02 June 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM wants govt. hospitals to handle emergencies||Responding to allegations that many government hospitals were not handling emergency cases, CM B.S. Yediyurappa said he would issue necessary instructions to rectify this. At a press conference here on Monday, he denied that there was a shortage of COVID-19 testing kits.
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Polls for four RS seats from State on June 19||In the midst of the pandemic, State politics is set to see some action as the Election Commission on Monday notified elections for four seats to Rajya Sabha from Karnataka. The elections will be held on June 19 as the members are set to retire on June 25. The EC’s notification came for a total of six seats, including four from Karnataka. Election for one seat each from Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have also been notified. Congress members Rajeev Gowda M.V. and B.K. Hariprasad, BJP member Prabhakar Kore and JD(S) member D. Kupendra Reddy are set to retire after completing their term.  The ruling BJP with 117 members in Legislative Assembly will easily win two seats as against one seat it currently holds. The counting of voters will be taken up at 5 p.m. on June 19. In the light of COVID-19, the commission has directed the Chief Secretary to depute a senior officer from the State to ensure that containment measures are complied with during the conduct of elections. While the ruling BJP is witnessing an internal strife of sorts as Belagavi strongman Umesh Katti has been pitching for his brother’s candidature, the Congress and JD(S) could come to an understanding to ensure JD(S) retains its seat. Senior politicians from Karnataka, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda and former Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge are expected to be fielded by their respective parties.
02 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Daily allowances not reduced||The Law and Parliamentary Affairs Department has clarified that the 30% cut was not applicable to daily allowances related to meeting attendance both inside and outside the State, travelling allowances, and vehicle allowances (per km) of legislators. In the wake of COVID-19, about a month ago the State government had cut 30% of legislators’ salaries and allowances.
02 June 2020||BIDAR,KARNATAKA||Bidar hospital gets virology laboratory||A Molecular Virology Laboratory has been established at the Bidar Institute of Medicine Sciences (BRIMS), Bidar. The facility was formally inaugurated by Minister of Animal Husbandry and Haj and Wakf Prabhu Chavan on Monday. The laboratory will help early diagnosis of viral diseases such as chikungunya, bird flu and influenza.
02 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||AYUSH officer’s rare sense of duty||In a rare display of his sense of duty, District AYUSH Officer Sangamesh Kalahal worked till midnight on May 31, the last working day of his service. The staff and officers of health-related departments have been engaged in tireless discharge of duties in the wake of COVID-19 epidemic for last about three months. Interestingly, the norms allow for handing over charge to the succeeding officer in case an outgoing officer’s last day of service falls on the public holiday. Notwithstanding this norm, Dr. Kalahal preferred discharging his duties during these times of crisis till late in the night and handed over charge to the new officer Meenakshi Avalur Shantanna at midnight on May 31. This display of commitment towards duties has come in for praise. Dr. Kalahal said that the government norms have it that a day starts from midnight. Employees are given specific schedule of work to ensure their physical and mental well-being, though wages are paid for full 24 hours. However, government employees should be ready to work extra hours at the cost of their personal comfort during times of crisis. Moreover, discharging duties during a time of crisis is a rare opportunity to stand up for a public cause, he said. Dr. Kalahal was given a farewell by the department staff here on Monday.
02 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Industrial work will be normal in three months as migrant workers will return’||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said that the industrial scenario in the State would be back to normal in a couple of months as they were expecting return of migrant workers within two-three months. Addressing a press conference here on Monday, Mr. Shettar said that migrant workers who had gone back to their native places because of the fear of COVID-19 pandemic were likely to return to the State as their main objective of coming to Karnataka was that they could not find jobs in their respective States. Admitting that many of the industrial units had been hit by reverse migration of workers, he, however, maintained that many industries had resumed operations now and soon they would be back to normal with the return of migrant workers. The Minister said that the stimulus package announced by the Union government had been well received by the industries. He said that the Rs. 3 lakh crore package for small and medium enterprises would help them come out of the crisis and initiate growth. Referring to the grievances in the sector, he said that they would be addressed soon. Taking a dig at the former Congress president Rahul Gandhi for his comments against lockdown and relaxation measures, the Minister said that instead of standing by the side of the Union government in a time of crisis, Mr. Gandhi and his party were making unnecessary criticism. To a query on the relaxations being given under lockdown even as the number of cases were increasing, Mr. Shettar defended the action saying that livelihood was as important as life. He said that lockdown was imposed to save lives and now being relaxed to create livelihood opportunities and give a fillip to the economy. ‘Helpless’ On the demand for withdrawing the property tax hike in the twin cities, the Minister said that the State government was helpless and it could not initiate complete roll back of the hike as the municipal corporation was duty bound to increase taxes every three years. This apart, reforms also mandated hike of taxes by urban local bodies and it was related to conditions set by the Union government to raise loans by the State governments, he said. Mr. Shettar said that although he raised the issue during the Cabinet meeting, it was opposed by the Finance Department. He said that the municipal corporation, meanwhile, had been empowered to reduce the hike by 5 %. The corporation had also been authorised to extend the 5 % rebate on tax remittals till July 31, he said. Listing out the achievements of the Union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the last one year, Mr. Shettar said that under the leadership of Mr. Modi the country had effectively fought the pandemic. MLA Shankar Patil Munenakoppa, MLCs Pradeep Shettar and S.V. Sankanur and others were present.
02 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||10 kg free foodgrains sought for the needy||Ensuring social distancing and wearing face masks in view of COVID-19, members of All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) staged a demonstration outside the district administrative complex here on Monday putting forward a set of demands relating to people affected by lockdown. Addressing the agitators, State vice-president of the organisation K. Neela sought distribution of 10 kg free foodgrains to all those in need for the next six months, all essential items without cost through the public distribution system, and providing MGNREGA work for 200 days, among other demands.
02 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 positive cases cross 300 in Kalaburagi||With 24 new COVID-19 positive cases reported on Monday, the total number of people infected in Kalaburagi district jumped to 305 which included seven deaths and 128 people recovered and discharged from hospitals. The new cases included a four-month-old baby girl (P-3,315), a three-year-old girl (P-3,375), a seven-year-old boy (P-3,376) and an eight-year-old girl (P-3,377). All the new cases have had a history of travelling to Maharashtra. Just as they tested positive, they were shifted to the designated COVID-19 hospitals.
02 June 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Private city, service buses resume operations in twin districts||After over two months, private city and service buses resumed their operations in Mangaluru city and undivided Dakshina Kannada, respectively, on Monday. Passenger response was moderate while city buses were near full to their capacity with social distancing being practised during morning peak hours. The Dakshina Kannada Bus Operators Association, the umbrella organisation of city bus operators in Mangaluru, deployed about 125 of the total 350 odd buses, initially — rationing between routes. “The response was good,” said association president Dilraj Alva. But for rainfall, the response would have been a little better, he told The Hindu . However, very few travelled after the morning peak hours, he added. Similarly, private express buses too started their service between Mangaluru and Udupi and other places, including Karkala and Kundapur, in a staggered manner. Occupancy was moderate on these routes too. Buses were completely sanitised inside as well as outside before their first service at the State Bank Bus Terminal as per the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Sanitisers too were provided on the buses for passengers. Like in the morning peak hours, buses were full in the evening peak hours. Only those who had essential work as well as those on employment made use of the services even as people appeared to have desisted from unnecessary travel. Anitha Shetty, a resident of Konaje who works in a private firm in Mangaluru, said that resumption of city bus services has helped her commute between the city and workplace. Otherwise, she would have lost her job, Ms. Shetty said.
02 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Olinda Pereira laid to rest||Olinda Pereira (95), a social activist and founder-principal of the School of Social Work, Roshni Nilaya, was laid to rest here on Monday after her students, friends and well-wishers offered tributes to her. She passed away on Sunday. Pereira served as the principal of the School of Social Work between 1961 and 1982. She later founded Vishwas Trust that now takes care of elderly persons and runs a 24-hour helpline for them. Born to Martin Bernard and Lilly Pereira in 1925, Pereira belonged to the Society of the Daughters of Heart of Mary India Province South. She had her BA degree from St. Agnes College, Mangaluru, and did her MA from Banaras Hindu University. She was conferred with the Mahatma Gandhi Peace Award by McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada; Sandesha Award; and Women of the Year award by the Mangalore University, in recognition of her social service.
02 June 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Prohibitory order||Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code (Cr.PC) will be in force between 9 p.m. and 5 p.m. from June 1 to June 30 in Raichur, according to an order from the Deputy Commissioner.
02 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Poor response in Udupi||There was poor response to the limited bus service provided by the private bus operators on some routes in Udupi district on Monday. Usually, the Udupi-Mangaluru route is the busiest. Private buses began operating services on this route only today after the lockdown was announced in March. But while there were passengers on buses to Mangaluru, Bhaskar, a bus conductor, said here that the response was poor. There was, however, some increase in the number of passengers on the Udupi-Kundapur route. A private firm, Bharati, started its operations on Udupi-Kundapur on May 13 when the district administration allowed private operators to start their operations. Other companies too began their operations on this route. “Compared to the last two days, the response is better today. But we still require more passengers,” said Rajanna, bus conductor. “People have made arrangements with their friends and relatives to reach their places of work on two-wheelers or four-wheelers. It will take a week for passengers to come back to buses,” said Sadik, another bus conductor. Meanwhile, after providing a week-long free service in Udupi city, private operators today started charging passengers for their travel. “The response is lukewarm,” said Preetam Kumar, bus conductor. General secretary of Canara Bus Operators Association and president of Udupi Private City Bus Owners Association Kuilady Suresh Nayak said: “The response is very poor for both city and service routes. We hope it will improve in the coming days.”
02 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||73 test positive for COVID-19 in Udupi||As many as 73 persons, including four police staff, tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Monday. This is the highest single-day spike in such cases in the district. Of the 73 persons, 68 had been traced by the district administration. The administration was trying to contact the remaining five persons but they had kept their mobile phones in switch-off mode. “We will trace these five persons immediately and we will also shift them to the COVID-19 hospital,” said Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha here. Of the 68 persons, 61 had had travel history from Maharashtra, while three had had travel history from Dubai. The remaining four were police staff. Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan said here that the four police staff who had tested positive were from the District Armed Reserve (DAR) Police Headquarters. All these 68 persons had been shifted to the COVID-19 hospitals in the district. The four DAR staff had been shifted to the Dr. T.M.A. Pai Hospital, the designated COVID-19 hospital here. “Those who are asymptomatic will be treated in the taluk COVID-19 hospitals. But pregnant women, children, those aged above 60 and critical patients would be treated at the Dr. T.M.A. Pai Hospital,” Mr. Jagadeesha said. Meanwhile, the Shankarnarayana Police Station was taken up for sanitisation as a police staff had tested positive for COVID-19 on May 31. The police station, which has been temporarily shifted to a government school, would start operating from its original location on Wednesday. Sanitisation would also be taken up at the District Armed Reserve Police Headquarters here on Tuesday. The district has 196 active COVID-19 cases. One person died of the disease on May 14. As many as 63 persons had recovered from COVID-19 and have been discharged from hospitals in the district.
02 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||More beds planned||District in-charge Secretary M. Maheshwara Rao said on Monday that more hospital beds would be arranged for treating persons suffering from COVID-19 and related problems in Udupi district. Chairing a review meeting here, Mr. Rao said that the necessary number of doctors and staff would be provided for this. Besides providing ventilator facility in the taluk government hospitals, the district administration should identify private hospitals having ventilator facilities so that their services could be utilised. The district administration should give importance to instruments being used for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. It should give necessary training to the staff treating these patients. Gram panchayats should be given information on those who had returned to villages from other States. They should keep an eye on those under home quarantine in the villages, Mr. Rao said.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||The digital way||
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Coop. Dept. to auction assets of ‘corrupt’ officials||In a move to check misappropriation of funds in district credit cooperative banks in the State, the Cooperation Department has decided to evaluate the assets and liabilities of 21 DCC banks and auction properties of officials and directors if found to be siphoning of funds. Minister S.T. Somashekar reviewed the functioning of DCC banks and said banks would be given rankings based on their performance, and would be evaluated either by NABARD or a private agency. With many cases of misuse of funds being reported in DCC banks, he directed officials of the department to appoint officers for auctioning of properties of directors/administrators involved in corruption. He also instructed a probe into the Rs. 92-crore scam in DCC Bank, Kalaburagi. It was alleged that the management committee had siphoned funds by sanctioning loans to relatives and friends.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||For clean water||
02 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||AC road work tender to be launched soon||The State government will soon launch the tendering process of the work to reconstruct the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has said. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, the Minister said the Cabinet had given its nod to the detailed project report (DPR) last week. The work would be completed in three years at a cost of Rs. 625 crore. The reconstruction would help prevent flooding of the 24.14-km road during the monsoon season. According to the Minister, 20.04 km of the road would be raised and strengthened, spending Rs. 172.47 crore. Five flyovers would be constructed at a cost of Rs. 125.35 crore. The flyovers would come up between the Onnamkara bridge and Mankombu Junction (370m), Mankombu Junction and Mankombu culvert (440m), Jyothi Junction and Parasseril bridge (260m), Ponga culvert and Pandarakulam (485m), and near Mankombu Thekkekara (240m).Three existing bridges, at Kidangara (420 m), Nedumudi (480 m) and Pallathuruthy (420 m), would be widened. The Minister said further construction of nine causeways was being planned at Poovam (30 m), near Merpal road (10 m), Mampuzhakary Junction (60 m), Vezhapra road (20 m), Memories Hotel (20 m), Near Avies Hotel (50 m), Nedumudi petrol pump (90 m), Poopally Junction (100 m), and Ponga (20 m) at a cost of Rs. 39.51 crore.
02 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||No student will miss classes at Kanjikuzhy||When the government decided to turn to online classes in view of COVID-19, Sikha Suresh, a Class 8 student of Government Durga Vilasini Higher Secondary School, Charamangalam, was far from enthused. Her family did not have a smartphone to access the online lessons and her parents, one a construction worker and another an Anganwadi helper, were not in a position to buy one after the pandemic-induced lockdown took a toll on the family’s finances. But she did not miss a lesson when the classes restarted on the virtual platform on Monday; the Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat has provided Sikha and similar indigent students in the area with smartphones. “When I came to know that classes would go virtual, I felt a bit disappointed. But the panchayat gave me a smartphone. I attended the physics class taken by my teacher through a videoconferencing app on Monday. I also downloaded the KITE Victers application,” says Sikha, who hails from Kootuveli at Kanjikuzhy. Her mother, Sunitha Suresh, thanked the panchayat authorities for the gesture, which allows her two children, the youngest a Class 3 student, to continue their studies. Fund from mask sale M.G. Raju, president, Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat, says the local body will provide smartphones to 72 students. “We have identified 72 students who do not have smartphones or television sets at home. We are giving them phones priced around Rs. 5,000,” he says. The panchayat bought the phones using the money it received from the sale of more than a lakh masks.
02 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Two more cases in Alappuzha||Two more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. Officials said that one of the patients, a 50-year-old woman from Arthunkal here, had reached the district from Kuwait on May 27. Second patient The second patient, a young woman from Neelamperoor, came on board a train from Delhi on May 22. Both were shifted to a hospital, for treatment. Cases touch 49 With the latest reported cases, the number of COVID-19 cases in the district touched 49. Of these, 41 remain active. Seven people made a full recovery, while one person succumbed to the disease. A total of 4,990 people have been kept in quarantine/isolation in the district.
02 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||In Wayanad, tribal students are off the online grid||Access to the online classes that began for schools and colleges on Monday was well-nigh impossible for students of many tribal communities in Wayanad. At stake is the future of around 31,000 children, including Plus Two students, in around 3,000 tribal hamlets in the district. Poor infrastructure in remote tribal hamlets is the prime reason for their plight. The failure of various departments in sensitising the community to the new system seems to be another contributing factor. “Many parents, especially in tribal communities such as the Paniya, Kattunayaka, and Adiya, are yet to understand the relevance of online classes,” says T. Krishnan, a tribal activist. Forest hamlets such as Kurichiyad, Chettyalthur, Kumizhi, Pampumkolly, Manimunda, and Ponkuzhi lack even proper electricity supply, not to mention the Internet connectivity, adds Mr. Krishnan.  K.C. Cheriyan, project officer, Integrated Tribal Development Project, says the SC and ST Development Department will provide television and dish antenna if electricity and Internet connections are made available in the remote areas. Collector’s version “We are trying to get more laptops, Internet connections and televisions wherever required,” says District Collector Adeela Abdulla. “It is not an easy task but we are trying to bridge the gap. The district administration has approached banks in the district, seeking their corporate social responsibility fund for the purpose,” she says.
02 June 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Jan Shatabdi passengers stranded at Kannur||Passengers who had booked tickets to travel by Jan Shatabdi Express from Kannur were stranded at the railway station after the train was suddenly rescheduled to begin operation from Kozhikode on Monday. The train, which was scheduled to operate the service from Kannur to Thiruvananthapuram, was supposed to leave the railway station at 4.30 a.m. However, without providing any information to the passengers the train left for Kozhikode by 12.20 a.m. This left the passengers fuming as the railway authorities pointed fingers at the district authorities for rescheduling the train service from Kozhikode. A railway official said the train was rescheduled following a directive from the State government. Around 450 passengers were at the station to board the train from Kannur. After the train was rescheduled, it left Kozhikode with 199 passengers on board, said the official. District Collector T.V. Subhash said the decision was taken considering the increasing cases of COVID-19 in the district. People can book for trains, including Nethravati Express and Mangla Lakshadweep Express, which have stop at Kannur.
02 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fault lines in online teaching exposed||The gaps in online mode of learning were exposed on the first day of the new academic year on Monday after a survey revealed that as many as 13,032 schoolchildren in Ernakulam did not have access to smart phone or television. Enrolment They have been enrolled in classes 1 to 12 in government, aided and unaided streams and figure among the approximately 2.5 to 3 lakh schoolchildren in the State without the necessary facilities at their homes to access e-content, according to the Ernakulam wing of Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, under the General Education Department. “We hope to provide them with access to either television or the Internet within a week. The Education Department has sought the co-operation of elected representatives, local bodies, and voluntary organisations to arrange the facilities required,” said Usha Manatt, District Project Co-ordinator, Samagra Shiksha, Kerala. CPI(M) offers help The Piravom mandalam committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] was among the organisations that extended support for setting up the facilities and enabling children to get access to online classes on Victers channel. 600 students to benefit “We have made arrangements to provide the facilities to nearly 600 students at Piravom, Koothattukulam, and Thripunithura,” said Shaju Jacob, secretary, CPI(M) Piravom mandalam committee.
02 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||3 more positive cases in Ernakulam||Three persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Monday. One is a 38-year-old woman from Kuruppampady who had reached here from Kuwait on May 27. She had been quarantined at a COVID care centre and was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Ernakulam, after she developed symptoms on May 28. The other patient is a crew member of Air India Express. The 49-year-old Thevara native was working in the Gulf sector of the airlines and was tested positive for the disease during a routine check-up. She too was moved to the MCH. The third positive case is a 31-year-old from Palarivattom. He had driven a tempo traveller that brought 12 persons from Mumbai to various parts of Kerala on May 15. All the 12 passengers had tested positive for the virus. He had been in quarantine since his arrival here. Though asymptomatic, he was advised to undergo the test. He was shifted to the MCH after the disease was confirmed. As many as 33 patients are under treatment for COVID-19 in the district. Ninety-three are in hospital isolation, including eight persons who were added to the list on Monday. Meanwhile, a medical bulletin issued by the MCH indicated that the condition of the 80-year-old woman who was undergoing treatment in the corona ICU, had deteriorated as the infection has affected her heart and kidneys. On ventilator support, doctors are trying to maintain the oxygen level in her body.
02 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Work from home stressful for most, finds survey||An online survey on the impact of work-from-home on employees during the lockdown has found that work was more “stressful and lethargic” than working from office for most persons. Nearly 87% of the respondents felt that companies must evolve clear work-from-home policies focused on the well-being of employees and their motivation. The online study conducted by Your Amigos Foundation, a Kochi-based NGO, explored the physical, social, psychological, and financial effects of work-from-home on 165 working professionals of different age groups drawn from across the country, predominantly South India. Nearly 49% of the respondents were experiencing work-from-home for the first time in their careers. Extended working hours was a major grievance, with 55.2% claiming to have worked for more than their usual office hours and 91% among them complained of doing so without receiving due incentives. About 59% complained of increased workload. Leave denied “Participants also complained of difficulties in getting leave unlike during normal time as companies questioned the need for leaves when they were already at home. About 33.3% claimed that they were denied leave,” said Devas Boban, founder of Your Amigos Foundation. Health concerns marked the work-from-home arrangement for most employees with 38.2% complaining of frequent headaches, 56.40% of back pain and nearly 52% of sleep disorders. While 54% noticed considerable decrease in their ‘me time’, 41.80% said they spent quality time with their families. About 63% reported a spike in their personal expenses due to a surge in electricity and internet charges, which went hand-in-hand with pay cut suffered by 30.30%. The study suggested “a sustainable and comprehensive pay structure” specifically for employees working from home. It also recommended a suitable work schedule that ensured work-life balance of the employee without compromising on productivity. Adjunct to this was a leave policy that would help maintain this balance besides establishing confidence and trust between employees and employers. Personal expenses It also called for a suitable solution to compensate for the inevitable personal expenses of employees while working from home. Employers have been urged to develop various online recreational or leisure activities to engage, refresh and motivate employees. A proper support system and regular participatory feedback process establishing a solid two-way communication link was another recommendation.
02 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Online learning only a temporary measure, says Ekbal||Online learning is not an alternative to formal education though it lets children sitting at homes in this pandemic crisis learn something rather than remain idle, B. Ekbal, educationalist, has said. “The traditional form of classroom learning will resume once the situation turns normal. Online learning will then give way for traditional learning methods,” he said as schools and colleges began experimenting with the virtual mode of teaching and learning on Monday. Positive view Dr. Ekbal said he held a positive view about online learning. There was nothing wrong in children learning something while confined to the indoors in this COVID-19 scenario, he added. “With the relaxations coming into effect, parents and family members have started going out for their jobs and other daily activities. Let children learn something or other while being at home at this point of time,” he said. On the lack of adequate internet facilities in colleges and homes of many students, he pointed out that educational institutions and the authorities could identify such shortcomings and come up with solutions to overcome it. “The acceptance of online learning by many in Kerala, who had earlier opposed it, is a welcome sign. We can use the lessons learnt from this online learning process in the future,” he said. Good content Dr. Ekbal said that the Victers channel was airing good educational content for long. “It was only that many were not aware of it. Students were also utilising the facility along with the services provided by Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE),” he said. Dr. Ekbal, who is member of the State Planning Board, had a word of appreciation for the smooth conduct of the SSLC, higher secondary exams amidst the pandemic. “Many had opposed the conduct of the exams in these times, but it was done efficiently and without any complaints,” he said.  The traditional classroom learning will resume once the situation turns normal. Online learning will then give way for traditional methods B. Ekbal Educationalist
02 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Heart recipient’s children pledge to donate organs||It was the heart of 50-year-old Laly Gopakumar, who died in Thiruvananthapuram, that gave life to Leena, 49, from Kothamangalam. And Leena’s children, Shiona and Basil, reciprocated the good gesture by pledging to donate their organs. Donor cards were handed over to the siblings by Dr. Usha Samuel, nodal officer, central zone, Kerala Network for Organ Sharing (KNOS), at a modest function held at Lisie Hospital here on Monday. Leena underwent the transplant surgery on May 9. After Laly of Chembazhanthi was declared brain dead at KIMS Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had intervened to arrange a helicopter to fly the heart of the deceased for transplant within four hours to Kochi. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja participated in the function through videoconferencing. Dr. Jose Chacko Periapuram, who led the transplant surgery, and his team of doctors and the nursing and paramedic team were present at the function. K. Lalji, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Ernakulam, spoke on the occasion. Archbishop Antony Kariyil and Lisie Hospital director Father Paul Kureedan participated.
02 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘No substitute for campus training’||Historian and educationist Rajan Gurukkal says that campus education with face-to-face teaching cannot be substituted by the online mode. In a chat with The Hindu , he said there is a need for the technology to evolve as there appears no alternative now other than online teaching and learning. It is a fact that many rural students are unable to access online teaching due to lack of connectivity. Nevertheless, this cannot be held as an excuse for teachers and students to put up organised resistance against the online move, the only alternative during a period of crisis. Poor students have to be provided with tablets containing learning material and online lectures until connectivity is established. Online mode is going to stay as a new normal and strengthening of the online tools is not optional anymore. Teleconferencing seminars with experts appearing online were not common earlier. Today conference means teleconference and seminars are being substituted by Webinars. “We have to make it part of the routine for which we need to develop the necessary technological infrastructure and build up in-house expertise. Institutions and governments have to bring about necessary changes in the organisational structure for facilitating the new normal in the higher education sector. We have to think about the ways and means of developing online teaching tools and providing training in their effective use. Some of the teachers use online teaching in amateurish ways of their own under the pandemic lockdown pressure. It is necessary to turn them into professionals,” he said.
02 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bail cancelled, murder accused arrested||A youth who managed to obtain bail from the Kerala High Court after concealing facts in a case of rape and murder near Valparai of a 17-year-old girl from Alappuzha, was remanded in custody on Monday. The accused, Safarsha of Panangad in Kochi, was arrested immediately after the High Court revoked the bail order and directed the police to take him into custody forthwith. Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan ordered the arrest of Safarsha who is accused of raping and killing the minor girl. He had been granted bail on May 12 after the government pleader submitted that the charge sheet had not been filed in the case by the investigating officer within the statutory period of 90 days. This gave rise to the allegation that the prosecutor had deliberately concealed the filing of the charge sheet during the hearing of the bail plea. Subsequently, the State government moved the High Court, seeking recall of the bail order. The government pointed out that the charge sheet had been filed on March 23, the 84th day of registering the case, and, as a result, the Sessions Court had dismissed the bail plea. But the fact was not clearly conveyed to the prosecutor. The court heard the case through videoconferencing. The court noted that it was prima facie clear that the petitioner had misled the court. The court posted the case to June 3.
02 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Businessman’s murder: verdict tomorrow||The verdict in the case relating to the murder of Shamsudeen, 59, owner of King Shoe Mart, in 2013 will be pronounced by the Ernakulam Additional Sessions Court on Wednesday. The charge is that Joshi of Maradu killed Shamsudeen on Market Road, Netoor, over a real estate deal. The probe into the case was led by G. Venu, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Aluva. He was arraigned as accused on the basis of circumstantial and scientific evidence as there was no eyewitness. A total of 28 persons deposed as witnesses before the court. Three arrested The Aluva police arrested three youths on the charge of attempting to break into a jewellery outlet near the Aluva private bus stand on Sunday. The accused are Saju Sabu of Thuravur and Akhil and Jaison of Ramapuram. They attempted to break in using driller, blades, iron rods, and wires, the police said.
02 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||400 Kitex workers put in quarantine||Around 400 migrant workers, mostly women, from the Kitex garment company here were sent to quarantine in a school building at Kizhakkamblam on Monday when they came out demanding that they be sent home. Company sources said the workers had been told through phone messages that there were trains taking them home and in response to which they got out of their hostels around 11.30 a.m. When they started moving towards the nearby railway station, government officials stopped them. They were put up at the school building for the time being. Their names were registered and arrangements were being made to send them home, said a member of the Kizhakkambalam panachayat. According to police sources, a group of migrant workers from Kitex were being accommodated at a government school at Kizhakkambalam on Monday. Hailing from Jharkhand they were proceeding towards Aluva railway station when they were stopped and sent to Kizhakkambalam. MP seeks probe Benny Behanan, MP, has demanded an inquiry into the allegation that women workers from Jharkhand were not paid wages for six months by the Kitex group.
02 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Five more expatriates test positive in Kollam district||Five more persons from Kollam, all of them expatriates, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday. They include three women who travelled on the same flight from Kuwait and two others who boarded from Abu Dhabi and Bahrain. The 39-year-old Ettiva resident, 41-year-old Anchal resident and 45-year-old Melila resident had travelled on J9-1405 Kuwait-Kochi flight on May 26 and were in institutional quarantine at Oachira. Their samples were collected as part of sentinel surveillance and they were shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Parippally, after they tested positive. The other two patients are a 40-year old from Thrikkovilvattam who travelled on IX-1538 Abu Dhabi-Thiruvananthapuram flight on May 29 and a 51-year-old from Prakkulam who travelled on Bahrain-Kochi Air India Express on May 28. At present the district has 40 active cases and the Health Department is awaiting the report of 306 samples. Lathicharge Meanwhile, the police resorted to lathi-charge to disperse migrant workers who assembled near the Kollam Collectorate violating social-distancing norms to seek tickets for the special train to West Bengal leaving Kollam on Monday. Most of them had lost their jobs during the lockdown. Authorities promised them that more trains would be arranged for their travel.
02 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Church, KSCDC join hands for food security||In an initiative to ensure food security post COVID-19, the Church of South India (CSI) will join forces with cashew labourers to convert 50 acres of fallow land into farmland. While the green task force of the Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC) will be in charge of the initial range of agro services, the parishioners and the clergy will actively participate in the upkeep of the farms. “Sixty-two churches coming under the Kollam-Kottarakara diocese spread across Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Pathanamthitta will take up organic farming. Vegetables and tuber crops will be cultivated along with cashew plants and farming will start on June 5, World Environment Day,” says Bishop Oommen George. The decision is inspired by Chief Minister’s call to attain self-sufficiency in food production. “We had tried this before, but not all churches were very keen on taking up the challenge, mainly due to the shortage of manpower. Now the KSCDC will be setting up the farms and the rest will be handled by the individual churches. These farms will provide work to local residents and the income from the harvest will go directly to the churches. If a church cannot maintain the farm, the diocese will take over the responsibility,” he says. “Shortage of raw material is the biggest challenge faced by the cashew sector that employs lakhs of people. It is also an attempt to revive the sinking industry as it will help the corporation procure more raw cashew nuts.” The Church has identified around three acres attached to the Bishop’s House to construct a model farm. “The land has been lying idle for a while and we are planning to set aside a stretch for aquaculture in consultation with the Fisheries Department,” says the bishop. The KSCDC has a plantation wing, mainly of female workforce, trained in organic farming in a bid to provide them maximum working days. “We will provide them free saplings and will offer the Church all support. The church can sell all the raw cashew nut to the government in the future,” says KSCDC chairman S. Jayamohan.
02 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||83-year-old, 2 others recover from virus||Three persons including an 83-year-old woman who recovered from COVID-19 were discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital here on Monday. Officials said the persons who recovered from the disease were an 83-year-old woman from Manganam, 23-year-old woman from Meenadam and a 47-year-old man from Karukachal. From Dubai The old woman had landed from Dubai and was remaining in institutional quarantine when tested positive for the virus. The woman from Meenadam had reached Kottayam from Bengaluru while the Karukachal native came from Abu Dhabi on May 18. No fresh cases Meanwhile, the district here on Monday reported no fresh cases of the disease for the second consecutive day. As many as 17 persons from the district are under treatment for the disease while 26 others are under observation in hospitals. The total number of sample tests conducted till Monday was 4,001 and of this, the test results of 626 samples are yet to be received. As many as 5,908 persons including 693 persons who landed from various overseas destinations remain in quarantine in the district. Migrant workers leave A batch of 1,464 inter-State migrant workers from West Bengal returned to their home State on board a Shramik Special train to Behrampore Court railway station. The passengers were brought to the railway station on 44 KSRTC buses and the train departed Kottayam by 2.20 p.m. With this, the total number of migrant workers who returned from Kottayam to their home States has become 7,491.
02 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Elderly couple attacked, woman killed||In a shocking incident, a 60-year-old woman was murdered while her 65-year-old husband sustained grievous injuries after unidentified assailants broke into their house near Thazhathangadi on Monday. The deceased woman was identified as Sheeba while her husband Sali has been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital with serious injuries. The incident came to light on Monday evening when a relative, on a request by the couple’s daughter from abroad, visited the house. They were found lying in a pool of blood. Police soon rushed to the spot. The assailants allegedly attempted to break open the vaults in the house and decamped with a car. “The hands and legs of the both persons were tied using metal wires and besides attacking with a sharp-edged weapon, attempts were also made to electrocute them. An LPG gas cylinder too was kept open inside the room where the couple lay,” said a police officer. Initial investigations suggested the attack and murder took place only a few hours prior to the police’s arrival. Investigators are awaiting a post-mortem report for further details.
02 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Door-to-door waste collection may resume soon in Kozhikode||The door-to-door waste collection within Kozhikode city limits under the aegis of the Haritha Karma Sena is expected to resume within a week. Health standing committee chairman K.V. Baburaj said the Sena had been equipped to carry out the task. The services of the Sena was unofficially suspended during the lockdown after its members failed to turn up for work mostly out of fear and due to travel restrictions. As a result, the waste disposal system in the city, which depended heavily on daily door-to-door collection, was disrupted, and people began dumping waste in public places. The implementation of the ban on single-use plastic was also affected with home delivery platforms using disposable plastic containers and carry bags. It resulted in rampant burning of plastic waste in many parts of the city. The decision to resume Haritha Karma Sena operations is expected to be made at the Corporation council meeting on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the waste that has accumulated at the Corporation’s recycling plants at West Hill and Njeliyanparamba, both managed by Niravu waste management company, is being shifted to Niravu’s new warehouse at Nallalam. Niravu project coordinator Babu Parambath said plastic waste was being cleared from the plants in preparation for the fresh batches of waste that would be brought in once the Sena resumed work. Mr. Parambath said around 100 truckloads of waste had been shifted to the new warehouse where it would be baled (compressed) and stored, to be transported to Karnataka once inter-State transportation resumed.
02 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Online classes begin without major glitches in Malabar||The first day of online classes for school students passed off without major glitches in the northern districts. Children from coastal and tribal areas of in some parts of the region, however, could not make use of the online facility. Barring reports of slow Internet connectivity and power disruption in a few places, the e-classes in Kozhikode concluded on the first day without any major trouble. Mohammed Tholhath, a Plus Two student in humanities stream at Chendamangallur Higher Secondary School, said there was not much of a problem in comprehending the subjects. He had English classes in the morning and geography in the evening. Meanwhile, Samagra Shiksha Keralam district coordinator A.K. Abdul Hakeem said that online meetings could be held from June 3 to make these classes more effective. The help of resource persons had been sought to ensure that differently-abled students were given special attention. Connectivity issues Heavy rain and problems in Internet connection disrupted the streaming of the online classes in Kannur district on Monday. While a large number of students attended the online classes streamed on Victers Channel and others on their computers and mobiles, many students encountered difficulties due to disruption in Internet connection and lack of access to cable or dish networks. For a student of Thotada high school, having no access to either Internet and disruption of the channel due to heavy rain caused problems. A resident of the Samajwadi Colony in Kannur town, she said though her father had an Android mobile, she could not watch the classes as her father, who is a labourer, had taken the phone away at work. The District Level Protection Committee of Public Education decided to formulate measures to ensure classes at home for school students in the district. Kannada medium As teachers took classes for students in Malayalam and English languages, those living in the border areas of Kasaragod district who mostly speak Kannada and Tulu, were in a fix. There are about 40,000 students who are studying in 180 Kannada medium schools in the district. There were no Kannada medium classes available on Victers Channel. Assistant Education Officer Yathish Kumar Rai, Kumbala, said that the groundwork for preparing the video in Kannada was in the process. In Malappuram Over seven lakh children in Malappuram district experienced the online school re-opening on Monday. Deputy Director of Education (DDE) K.S. Kusumam said around 64,000 children could not make use of the online facility in the district. Most of them were in the coastal and tribal regions of the district.
02 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Goats killed in suspected tiger attack||An unidentified wild animal, suspected to be a tiger, attacked a loafing shed at Chembanoda in Chakkittappara grama panchayat and killed four goats on Sunday midnight. Six other goats had a narrow escape as the house owner woke up and rushed to the shed. Though Forest Department officials and a veterinary surgeon reached the spot for inspection, they could not confirm the presence of a tiger as claimed by the farmer. Footprint samples were collected from the spot. The panchayat authorities have urged farmers to be more vigilant and secure their livestock.
02 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kerala Bank office opened||M.Mehboob, chairman of Consumerfed, opened the Kozhikode regional office of Kerala Bank here on Monday. He said that the bank would support the weak economy of the State through various loan schemes so as to ensure food security and to make Kerala self-sufficient. The 100 branches of Kerala Bank in Kozhikode and Wayanad districts come under the Kozhikode region of the bank, a press release said.
02 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||New IT firm at Cyberpark||The Cyberpark in Kozhikode became the venue of operation for a top company on Monday when IT solutions provider Lilac Infotech Private Limited set up office on the 45-acre campus, adding to the government’s aspiration of boosting IT and IT-enabled services in north Kerala. Elamaram Kareem, Rajya Sabha MP, inaugurated the unit in the presence of Lilac Infotech founder-director Mithun K. and CEO Shafi Bin Meeran and Cyberpark general manager C. Nireesh. The company has availed a 1,900-sq.ft shell space at Sahya IT SEZ building at Cyberpark. The firm will have 25 IT professionals in the initial stage. Lilac Infotech provides technology solutions and custom software for development of mobile apps and websites besides quality assurance and digital marketing, enterprise resource planning and data analytics.
02 June 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||14 cases in Malappuram||Fourteen new COVID-19 cases were confirmed in Malappuram district on Monday. All the patients had been in quarantine after having returned from other States and countries. Five of them had returned from Mumbai on different dates, while three had returned from Chennai. The others had arrived in Malappuram from Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Jeddah, Moscow, Dubai, and Kuwait on different dates. All of them were shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. Additional District Magistrate N.M. Meharali urged people with symptoms not to directly approach hospitals. “People with symptoms should contact the control cell at 0483 2737858, 2737857, 2733251, 2733252, 2733253,” he said. 14 in Kasaragod Fourteen more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod on Monday. The patients include a three-year-old girl and 13 men. Two patients had returned from Qatar and 12 from Maharashtra, said District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas. With this, the total number of patients receiving treatment in the district has reached 96. There are 3,766 people under observation in the district. In Kozhikode No fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Kozhikode on Monday. A patient from Thrissur undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital here was cured of the infection. According to a release, the district now has 33 patients. With four patients being transferred from the medical college hospital to the Lakshadweep Guest House, the first-line treatment centre there has 18 patients. The medical college hospital now has 11 patients from Kozhikode. Three persons are undergoing treatment at Kannur and one Air India staff is at the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, Malappuram. Three persons from Kasaragod and one each from Kannur and Malappuram too are at the medical college hospital, Kozhikode, and a Thrissur native is at MVR Cancer Centre and Research Institute here. Six patients undergoing treatment in Kannur were shifted to a private hospital in the city. The number of patients under observation stands at 7,788.
02 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Gurukulam staff without pay for 8 months||The Vasthu Vidya Gurukulam, a self-supported State-run institution at Aranmula attached to the Department of Culture for promoting traditional architecture and mural paintings, is in a financial crisis. Its 21 employees have not received salary for the past eight months. Started in 1993, the gurukulam could develop a self-sustainable model over the next 10 years. Its consultancy wing could generate revenue of Rs. 10 lakh a month through engineering consultation, documentation of heritage buildings, diploma and certificate courses in traditional architecture and mural painting, and sale of mural paintings. The gurukulam needs to pay Rs. 5,30,190 as salary to its 12 permanent staff, besides Rs. 1,83,000 for the nine temporary staff every month. The institution is without a full-time executive director after the retirement of its founder executive director in 2017. Director of Cultural Affairs Department T.R.Sadasivan Nair, was given additional charge of executive director for the next one year. However, Mr. Nair was replaced by Karunadas, a Department of Archaeology official for the next one year on deputation. Mr. Nair, who was given charge of the institution again a few months ago, said the finances of the institution were in the doldrums. The gurukulam is a grant-in-aid institution entitled only to Plan funds for developmental activities. It has to depend on its revenue from engineering consultancy work and the mural art division for meeting the salary of its staff, he said. Mr. Nair said the institution used to have a healthy fixed bank deposit and generated enough revenue to pay its staff. The gurukulam had sought non-Plan allocation from the government to pay salary to its employees, he said. Inquiry sought T.K.A. Nair, principal secretary to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who is the gurukulam chairman, said the executive director should order an inquiry into the entire affairs and plug revenue loss of the institution.
02 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Four more cases in Pathanamthitta||Pathanamthitta reported four more cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 50. A 26-year-old pregnant woman who came to her home at Kulanad from Bahrain on May 22, a 30-year-old woman who reached her home at Manthuka from Kuwait on May 26, a 36-year-old woman of Kadambanad who came from Kuwait on May 26, and a 25-year-old man who came to his home village of Cherukol from Kuwait on May 27 were the four persons who tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. Cure and care A total of 21 persons were cured of the infection and 30 patients are undergoing treatment as on Monday. A total of 26 patients are undergoing treatment in hospitals in Pathanamthitta itself while the remaining four persons at hospitals outside the district, according to an official bulletin. Also, 4,103 persons were placed in quarantine. The bulletin said a total of 226 nasal and throat swab samples sent from the district to the virology laboratory in Alappuzha were tested negative for COVID-19 on Monday. Survey A survey conducted by the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, has revealed that 4,819 schoolchildren in Pathanamthitta do not have access to television or the Internet, which will in effect keep them out of the newly launched hi-tech teaching sessions. Education Department sources told The Hindu that efforts were under way to provide either of the two facilities to these children by next week itself. As per the survey, the number of students in the district, from Classes 1 to 12, in the previous academic year was 1,02,341.
02 June 2020||Special Correspondent,KERALA||Inter-district buses to be back on road soon||The government has decided to allow the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation and private stage carriers to operate inter-district services soon, to withdraw the hike in fare of ordinary bus services and to remove the seating restrictions on them. A decision on seating stipulations and fare of inter-district services will be taken only after a meeting on Tuesday. With this, passengers will be allowed to sit on all seats on ordinary buses. Earlier, only one person could sit on a seat meant for two persons and only two persons were allowed to sit on seats meant for three. The minimum fare in ordinary buses of Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and private stage carriers will be Rs. 8 from Tuesday, reduced from Rs. 12. Two in autos Inter-district travel in private cars is also permitted but there should be only three passengers in addition to the driver. In the case of autorickshaws, the number of travellers should not exceed two. The government would place containment zones under ‘curfew’. It would severely curtail the movement of people and vehicles in such epidemic hotspots. Citizens in such localities should remain indoors and venture only for medical emergencies or in the event of the death of a close relative. However, they have to get the prior clearance of the local Station House Officer in writing. Following Monday’s decision, KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director M.P. Dinesh issued orders asking unit officers to levy the old bus fare from June 2 and withdraw the seating restrictions. However, passengers will not be allowed to stand and travel on buses. They will have to wear masks and services will be restricted as night curfew is in force in the country from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. Private buses Lawrence Babu, chairman of the Joint Action Council of Bus Owners, said a decision would be taken after consultations since the private buses were still incurring losses. The government’s move comes in the wake of the Union Ministry’s guidelines for phased reopening (Unlock I) that allows unrestricted movement of goods and persons in the inter-State and intra-State corridors. The State Transport Department has favoured the resumption of inter-district services. However, a high-level meeting chaired by Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran on Monday decided not to commence inter-State services. Liquor sale The Excise Department has allowed private clubs with FL4 permit to sell liquor to resume the sale of alcohol as takeaways to members from Tuesday. Satyajit Rajan, Additional Chief Secretary, Excise, said in his order that clubs could sell liquor only to registered members. They should not allow consumption of alcohol on their premises. Moreover, the clubs could charge members only the MRP rate fixed by the Kerala State Beverages Corporation. Not more than five members should be allowed in the club at a time.  Inter-district travel in private cars permitted with three passengers in addition to the driver.
02 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||First Bell rings in the ‘new normal’||The rain kept its date with school reopening on June 1, but everything else was different. The school gates did not open, there was a deafening silence, and even the first bell that rang was a virtual one. On the first day of the 2020-21 academic year, students watched on television and other online platforms as teachers took lessons remotely, scripting a new chapter in school education. First Bell, the programme on the KITE Victers channel and other online mechanisms, began with a message by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan reminding students of education’s ‘new normal’ where owing to the restrictions necessitated by COVID-19, traditional classes were not possible. The classes got under way with a half-an-hour English session for Plus Two students. After two hours, it was time for Class 1 students to hear the recorded classes. Up next was a slot for Class 10 students. The online lessons, for students from Classes 1 to 12 except 11, are available on the Victers channel through the cable network and a couple of direct-to-home service providers. They are available live on the portalwww.victers.kite.kerala. gov.inand on Facebook (facebook.com/victerseduchannel), and on the Victers YouTube channel youtube.com/itsvicters after transmission. The programmes will be telecast again – the same day or the weekend. The telecast in the first week will be on a trial basis. The classes will be repeated in the same order from June 8. The Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, estimates that nearly 2.6 lakh to 3 lakh of the 43 lakh schoolchildren in the State have no access to television with cable connection or phones or computers with the Internet. Opposite view Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala termed the government’s decision to start online classes hasty, saying it did not benefit over half the students. Children in coastal, tribal, and hilly regions could not view the classes for lack of facilities. Minister for Education C. Ravindranath said that to address this problem, local bodies would make arrangements for viewing the classes. Government officials said resources such as libraries, study centres, Kudumbashree units, Akshaya centres, and KITE’s hi-tech facilities would now be mobilised. Vrinda S.K., a Plus Two Science student at Government Higher Secondary School for Girls, Cotton Hill, said though they were familiar with ICT education in school, it was still a new experience to start the school year. The videos were successful in creating the classroom vibe, though doubts could not be asked rightaway. Preetha K.L., Principal, said they had received a feeback that most of the students had watched the classes and liked them. They had also asked subject teachers for notes on topics. A meeting of teachers was being planned to decide how to provide additional support to the students in terms of reference material and so on.
02 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3 more cases in capital||Three more imported COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Monday, taking the number of people being treated here to 48. While two patients came from other States by road, the third person arrived on a special flight. Those diagnosed with the disease include a 28-year-old Pothencode native who had come from Maharashtra on May 16, a 26-year-old from Nalanchira who came from the UAE on May 26 and a 55-year-old man from Perumkuzhy who returned from Chennai on May 27. The district administration placed 669 persons under quarantine on Monday. With this, the number of people who are being monitored for symptoms has gone up to 11,577. Among them, as 9,856 people are in home quarantine. Besides, 1,579 persons are under observation in 17 coronacare centres in the district. Thirty-six symptomatic persons were admitted to various hospitals on the day, while six people were discharged after recovering from ailments. Tightening the enforcement of lockdown norms, the City police ordered the closure of a restaurant on the Sabapathy Kovil Street in Chala for violating guidelines by serving food to customers on its premises. Its owner was booked under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020, among other laws. Seventeen persons were charged for other lockdown violations, and petty cases were registered against 212 people in the city for not wearing masks outdoors. Through Inchivila As many as 117 persons entered the State through the Inchivila inter-State border. While 112 persons came from Tamil Nadu, two each were from Chhattisgarh and Karnataka, and one person came from Bihar. All were sent home. The district administration said that 2,777 persons had arrived at the Thiruvananthapuram Central railway station on 14 trains since the resumption of the special services. Of these, 2,059 persons had come from New Delhi.
02 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM rules out large gatherings||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday ruled out allowing large gatherings, religious or otherwise, for now. He said he would confer with religious leaders on the proposed opening of places of worship from June 8. The Centre has disallowed gatherings till June 30. It might issue guidelines for States regarding religious congregations later. Mr. Vijayan said allowing large gatherings at the current juncture could jeopardise reverse quarantine. The measure is to protect persons above 65 years and those with co-morbidities from contracting the coronavirus infection.  The government has allowed the Guruvayur Sreekrishna temple to permit marriages. However, not more than 50 persons could attend an event. The Devaswom has to ensure that visitors maintained physical distancing and adhered to the disease prevention protocol. The State has also allowed marriages in auditoriums and wedding halls with the same set of restrictions. Cinema shooting Cinema shooting could resume in a limited manner at indoor locations, studios and sets. No outdoor filming would be allowed. A location should not have more than 50 persons at any given time. “You can also shoot on the premises of houses and so on,” Mr. Vijayan clarified. Filming of television serials and reality shows could recommence in a restrained mode with not more than 25 persons at the scene. Mr. Vijayan warned chartered flight operators from overcharging Gulf returnees. He said they could only charge the airfare fixed by the Central government.  Allowing large groups at the current juncture could jeopardise reverse quarantine. Pinarayi Vijayan Chief Minister
02 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Valiyathura residents at the mercy of the sea||A two-storeyed building painted pink was once Augustine’s home at Kochuthope. There was also a tiled front yard and sea just yards away that made it quite picturesque. “This was my home before the waves took it away,” he says. The house now remains in his memory and in a photograph that Augustine keeps along with another one on how the house looked after the calamity struck. The coastal hamlet of Valiyathura has many such stories and they keep adding every monsoon. “Over the years, the waves have taken three rows of houses,” says Albert, 74, a Valiyathura local. Pointing out the row of houses that now stands closest to the sea he says, “That was once the fourth line.” As the 2020 monsoon season sets in, local people are wary of what is in store. Against the threat of the marauding waves, debris of houses and makeshift seawalls destroyed in the past and cement sacks packed with sand form perhaps the only line of defence. Their long-standing demand for a proper seawall remains unfulfilled. To the south of the Valiyathura pier, huge boulders have been stacked for a short distance, but vast stretches remain undefended. On May 22, the government issued administrative sanction for carrying out three anti-sea erosion works at Valiyathura for Rs. 4 crore. All three involves “urgent construction of protection walls” along three stretches. “The Chief Engineer (Irrigation and Administration) will implement (the work) on urgent disaster management work basis,” the order issued by B. Ashok, Secretary (Water Resources), reads. But the residents do not feel the wall would get completed before the monsoon. “Boulders were stacked over a small distance last year. Then they told us that the trucks could not go further because the streets are narrow,” a resident said. Families that lost their houses to the sea moved into government-built flats at Muttathara in 2018. But families from Valiyathura and Kochuthope who faced the brunt of coastal erosion in the past one year are languishing in two old warehouses close to the pier where they face privacy issues. Physical distancing also remains a challenge in such a scenario. The only visible concession to the COVID-19 situation is that cots are placed some distance from one another. “We want to move out of here. Both my husband and my son-in-law have health problems,” says Stella, an occupant. Her husband Edwin, 63, fell ill when out fishing in December. No work Work is also hard to come by with the weather prompting the government to temporarily ban fishing. “During the rainy season, our men won’t be able to fish for three whole months. How will we live?” asks Cicily, an elderly occupant who sells fish to eke out a living.
02 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Graded restoration of train services||The graded restoration of passenger train services, suspended since March 25 due to the COVID-19-lockdown, began in the State on Monday. Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kozhikode Jan Shatabdi special (02076) that left here at 5.45 a.m. was the first to commence service. Of the 600 passengers who reserved tickets, 585 boarded the train, railway sources said. Thiruvananthapuram Central-Ernakulam Junction (06302) daily special left here at 7.45 a.m. The train, introduced in place of Venad Express, offers connectivity to Mangala Express from Ernakulam. The only 2% occupancy on the train baffled railway authorities. Railway sources said the link was provided at the request of the State government and would continue. Occupancy Compared to the 67% occupancy on the Thiruvananthapuram-Kozhikode Jan Shatabdi special, its pairing train had only 27% occupancy. A top railway official said Jan Shatabdi specials (02082/02081) would be run only up to Kozhikode, as per a request from the State government. Jan Shatabdi special (02082) would leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 2.45 p.m. on all days except Tuesdays and Saturdays and reach Kozhikode at 10.17 p.m. Jan Shatabdi (02081) special will leave Kozhikode at 6.05 a.m. on all days except Wednesdays and Sundays and reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 2.25 p.m. Hazrat Nizamuddin- Ernakulam-Hazrat Nizamuddin Mangala Express (02618/02617) and Mumbai LTT- Thiruvananthapuram Central-Mumbai LTT Netravati Express (06345/06346) also commenced services. Ernakulam- Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Duronto Express (12283/12284) is the other train that has received the nod. Patronage to Mangala Express and Netravati Express from the State was also poor, the railway official said. However, the trains starting from Nizamuddin and Mumbai to Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram Central were full. Screening Railways made elaborate arrangements to handle the passengers. Entry and exit points were regulated. Only passengers with confirmed tickets who arrived 90 minutes before the departure of the trains were allowed to enter the platform. Face masks were compulsory and thermal screening was done and only asymptomatic people were allowed to travel. Entry of passengers to the platform was closed 15 minutes before the train departed. App needed On long-haul trains, passengers will not be provided blankets. All passengers have been asked to download and use the Aarogya Setu application.
02 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Schools, colleges may reopen in July||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Monday that the government would consider reopening of schools and educational institutions and resumption of campus life only in July. The Centre said it would issue guidelines for the recommencement of campus education and allied academic activities after the first phase of the staggered lockdown relaxation ended on June 30. Kerala awaited the strictures, he said at his daily media briefing on the COVID-19 situation in the State. Mr. Vijayan said students who had missed the online classes on June 1 should not worry. Repeat sessions Teachers would repeat the sessions on the Victers channel and other online platforms. The government had put 1,20,000 laptops, 7,000 projectors and a large number of televisions to help educators take learning to children. He said school and college teachers should ensure that online teaching benefited all sections of students. They could organise special classes for students with limited access to cable TV and online platforms of learning. He said 99.92% of students appeared for the SSLC examination. The percentage of attendance for higher secondary and vocational higher Secondary examinations were 98.3 and 98.92 % respectively. Low-interest loans The Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) would set up neighbourhood study centres for children without access to smartphones, television sets, or the Internet. The KSFE would also give low-interest loans to members of the Kudumbashree Mission to purchase laptop computers. Only those women who were members of the KSFE micro-chit scheme would be eligible for the loan. Mr. Vijayan encouraged philanthropists and businesses to sponsor remote learning centres for underprivileged children in tandem with the KSFE.
02 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Second-phase valuation for SSLC, HSE exams begins||Valuation of answer scripts for the SSLC and higher secondary education (HSE) examinations resumed in the State on Monday. The second-phase valuation of higher secondary answer scripts got under way in 92 centres. The camps recorded 98% attendance. The valuation of some Plus Two subjects had been completed in the first phase in May. The remaining will be taken up in this phase. Only once these are valued will the valuation of Plus One answer papers begin. By June 6 The valuation of all but the Mathematics Plus Two papers is expected to be completed by June 6. The Mathematics examination was the last to be held on May 30. The answer scripts will take a couple of days more to reach the valuation camps, expected to be wrapped up in a week. The tabulation process will be held simultaneously, and the entire valuation process is expected to be completed by June 15. The SSLC valuation kicked off in 38 centres in the State. The attendance was 57%. Six-thousand teachers have been posted for valuation duty. The low attendance was attributed by officials to the poor turnout in districts with maximum hotpsots. The papers remaining from the first phase valuation are being valued initially. Valuation of Physics, Maths, Arabic, Urdu and Sanskrit papers will begin on June 4, and Chemistry on June 5.
02 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree making face shields||The Kudumbashree has started production of disposable face shields for health workers. The face shields offer protection over and above that provided by face masks and goggles for doctors, nurses, and other health- care workers who interact closely with COVID-19 patients and are at high risk of disease transmission. So far, 2.8 lakh orders have been received across the State through the Kerala Medical Services Corporation (KMSC), of which the Thiruvananthapuram district mission hopes to supply between 1 lakh and 1.5 lakh shields. The one-time use shields are made using OHP (overhead projector ) sheet, polyfoam sheet, and non-woven cloth, which are cut, glued, and pressed together. The entire process is done by hand. Three units are manufacturing the shields in the district, with more likely to be engaged. In all, 25-odd Kudumbashree women are involved in the work. The units have supplied 25,000 face shields till now to the Karunya warehouse on the medical college campus. The shields are being supplied to KMSC for Rs. 20 apiece. However, it is likely to be priced higher for other clients owing to the labour involved. Besides the face shields for Rs. 20 a unit, Kudumbashree also hopes to bring out another line for online sale that is of improved quality and design and priced in the Rs. 50-80 range.
02 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Reading fest to be held online from June 19||The 25th edition of the P.N. Panicker Memorial National Reading Day – Reading Month Celebration will be observed across the country in the online mode this year on account of COVID-19. In an official release here recently, the P.N. Panicker Foundation stated the NITI Aayog directed all States and Union Territories to observe the occasion and organise various programmes in educational institutions, local bodies and other places to promote technology-enabled reading. The festival will commence on Day of Reading on June 19 and will continue until July 18.
02 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala Bank comes into being||The corporate business office and regional offices of the Kerala Bank came into being on Monday. Minister for Cooperation Kadakampally Surendran inaugurated the regional office here. The corporate office is located at Ernakulam and regional offices in Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kozhikode and Kannur. Each regional office covers two districts. In addition each district has credit processing centres too. Decisions have been made on the number of posts, sections, and division of responsibilities for officers too. The bank has released new lending schemes and it would be beneficial for the common man and farmer. The bank will provide all modern banking facilities and services, the Minister said.
02 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No community transmission, asserts CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan categorically said here on Monday that even though 30-odd COVID-19 cases with no epidemiological link had been reported in Kerala, this did not indicate community transmission. It was only natural to miss a few contacts when a patient’s contact tracing over 14 days was done. So if one of these “missing contacts” developed the disease and no epidemiological link could be established, these did not constitute community transmission, he said.   When such a case was reported, further epidemiological investigation was conducted around the case to detect if there were any more cases in the locality. But till date, no such cluster of cases had been reported in the State, indicating that there was no community spread, he claimed. Since no one had any idea if these 30 cases had had a contact with a patient or a primary contact, these cases should be considered as secondary contacts. This was true only in the case of COVID-19.
02 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Navjot Khosa takes charge as Collector||Navjot Singh Khosa took charge as the Thiruvananthapuram District Collector on Monday. She said that the district administration would go ahead with the same kind of vigilance, even though the number of COVID-19 cases are less here compared to the northern districts. Priority will be given for pre-monsoon cleaning activities. A native of Bathinda in Punjab, she is an IAS officer of the 2012 batch.
02 June 2020||Thottappally (Alappuzha),KERALA||Locals wary of move to widen sandbar||The Thottappally Pozhi (sandbar at sea mouth) and its vicinity in Purakkad grama panchayat are witnessing a beehive of activities nowadays. Around 25 excavators are engaged in loading heaps of mineral-rich sand into trucks. The sand is then transported to a unit of the Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd (KMML) at Chavara. The entire activity is taking place under police protection. “Around 100 loads are transported every day,” says a supervisor. On May 22 around 550 trees close to the pozhi were axed to widen and deepen the mouth of the pozhi to ‘‘ensure the smooth flow of water from Kuttanad through the Thottappally spillway to sea’’. In no time, the KMML, which has signed an agreement with the Irrigation Department, started removing the sandbar and the sand at the place where the trees once stood. Besides, deepening of the channel downstream of the spillway is planned, for which a dredger has been brought. According to officials, the KMML has been given permission to extract two lakh cubic metres of sand at the rate of Rs. 465 per cubic m. The move has, however, not gone down well with the local people, especially the fishers. They are not against the breaking of the pozhi, an annual process. But, they fear the government nod for large-scale extraction of black sand in the name of flood mitigation measures is intended at extending the mineral sand-mining in the region. Coastal erosion feared Fishermen say it will lead to livelihood, health, and environmental issues. “The coastline is prone to severe coastal erosion. Several years of mining at the Thottappally harbour, which came to a halt last year, has only aggravated the situation. Several people have been displaced after their houses were wiped off due to sea erosion. Sand-mining, without a study, will be detrimental to the people living along the shorelines from Valiazheekal to Punnapra,” says Johnson K., a fisherman. Saji Jayamohan, secretary, Green Roots Nature Conservation Forum, says the widening of the pozhi will result in the intrusion of saltwater into Kuttanad during high tide. “To ensure the flow of water from Kuttanad, the government should deepen the leading channel (upstream) of the spillway,” Mr. Jayamohan says adding the opening of the new mining site will force Olive Ridley turtles to totally abandon the coast. The Irrigation Department last month awarded the work to dredge the 11-km-long leading channel to a contractor. Arun K. Jacob, executive engineer, Irrigation Division, Alappuzha, says: “It is important to remove the sandbar and widen the pozhi. We also started dredging the leading channel. All the works are making good progress. There is no need to have any apprehensions,” Mr. Jacob says. The resistance against the mining activity is spearheaded by the Janakeeya Samithi.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||DGP calls it a day by sleeping on office floor||Director General of Police (DGP) Jacob Thomas made his last day in office memorable as Managing Director of the Metal Industries, Shoranur, by sleeping on the office floor on Saturday night. He retired from service on May 31. He chose to sleep on the floor because he found himself symbolically at the base. “I could sleep and experience how it is at the base. It was comfortable. I could sleep assured that there was no further place to fall down. Besides, I was in touch with the ground,” Mr. Thomas told The Hindu philosophically. He said he chose to sleep in office as there were no hotels or rest houses available because of the lockdown. He had carried his own food. A former Director of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau, Mr. Thomas had fallen out with the government for initiating investigations against some VIPs, including a Minister. He earned the wrath of the politicians and the bureaucracy for publishing his autobiography Sravukalkkoppam Neenthumbol (Swimming With The Sharks). He was suspended. Satisfied man “But I am retiring a satisfied man after 34 years of service. I will not be in shackles any more. And now I can contribute to society much more than I could during my service,” he said. Mr. Thomas began his career at the sub-district level as ASP of Thodupuzha in 1986. His career ended as Managing Director of the Metal Industries, Shoranur. “My career end too has been at sub-district level. But I am close to the ground and stable,” he laughed. Mr. Thomas said he was harassed and haunted like none else. “There were moves to file a chargesheet against me even five days before my retirement,” he said. Although the government had tried to demote him as Additional DGP, no order was served. It was learnt that there were desperate attempts to serve him yet another suspension. Thanks to COVID-19 lockdown, Mr. Thomas retired his career as an officer in the rank of the DGP.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In protest mode||
02 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two killed in accident||Two women farm labourers died when a car hit them at Parakuvandlapalli in Tanakal mandal of the district on Monday morning. Tanakal Sub-Inspector of Police B Rangadu said that a Kolar-bound car coming from Madanapalle hit the two women, Ramalakshamma(50) and Muthamma(45), while they were on their way to work. The two died on the spot and the driver of the vehicle has been taken into custody for interrogation. Bodies have been shifted to government hospital for post-mortem.
02 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan resorting to autocratic rule: JC||Former Anantapur MP J.C. Diwakar Reddy has alleged that the YSRCP government under the leadership of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is resorting to autocratic rule in the State. Participating in a programme organised to mark the 24th death anniversary of former President Neelam Sanjiva Reddy on Monday, Mr. Diwakar Reddy said Mr. Jagan fears Prime Minister Narendra Modi and listens only to him. “Mr. Jagan is taking all decisions unilaterally and he is not even listening to his Cabinet colleagues,” he said after garlanding a statue of Neelam Sanjiva Reddy. Accusing Mr. Jagan of misusing the massive mandate given by the people in the last general elections, the former MP said, “Mr. Jagan has been taking decisions, not adhering to democratic norms. He is even ignoring the decisions given by courts.” SEC case Referring to the delay in reinstating N. Ramesh Kumar as the State Election Commissioner (SEC) , Mr. Diwakar Reddy said there was no wrong in the State government planning to appeal against the High Court order. “The government should allow Mr. Ramesh Kumar to continue in the post,” he observed.
02 June 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Godavari begins maiden run after two months of lockdown||As many as 900 passengers left by the Godavari Express Special, as trains resumed operations after a two-month lockdown due to COVID-19, from the Visakhapatnam railway station on Monday. The passengers started arriving at the Gnanapuram-side of the railway station at around 2.30 p.m., much before the scheduled departure of the train at 5.20 p.m. The railways had also asked passengers to arrive two hours in advance in view of the COVID-19 protocol to be followed at the railway station. They were asked to form a queue and the gate was opened around 3.30 p.m. The passengers were allowed in batches of 10 at a time onto the platform (PF-8). An infra red camera was fixed to a stand and it was connected to a computer screen at the entrance to the platform. Some senior citizens and children were asked by the authorities as to why they booked their tickets, when the government has advised them not to travel except in emergencies. The senior citizens said they were stuck for over two months in the city due to the lockdown. Civil Defence volunteers checked the masks of passengers and stopping those who failed to wear them. TTEs were provided with a face shield to protect them from the virus. “Today this train (Godavari Express) will stop at all the regular stations and pick up passengers and we are awaiting further guidelines from the Railway Board on stoppages from Tuesday,” Senior Divisional Commercial Manager G. Suneel Kumar told this correspondent. Station Director Raja Gopal said: “Godavari Special and AP Express Special have been presently cleared for operation from Visakhapatnam Junction. Falaknuma and Konark Express are the other special express trains which will pass through Visakhapatnam. Another 377 passengers can board the train en route as its total capacity is 1,277.” A good number of passengers, who had to board the Visakhapatnam – New Delhi AP Express, which was scheduled to leave at 10 p.m., were seen waiting outside the station for more than five hours in advance. “We are yet get any official communication regarding provision of stoppages at intermediate stations in the State from Tuesday,” Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastav told The Hindu , when contacted in the evening.
02 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||E-learning: ANU gets global certification||Acharya Nagarjuna University has got QS I-Gauge E-Lead certification for excellence in ensuring preparedness of Indian higher education for the digital age. ANU has become the first Indian university to receive e-learning excellence for Academic Digitization Certification from the coveted QS I -Gauge – the Indian wing of QS Ranking learning excellence. The certificates were conferred virtually and colleges were assessed on the quality of online education. The I-Gauge has certified ANU as a globally recognised and benchmarked higher education institution to offer online education programmes. Online classes and e-learning need to be benchmarked with the best in practices and this certification ensures that ANU is meeting exceptional parameters and offers the best and engaging solution to its students. Vice-Chancellor, ANU, Rajasekhar Patteti, said that ANU has always tried to benchmark its teaching, learning and quality assurance systems with the best available ones in the world. The key process of promoting effective online learning involved transforming the user journey of students and faculty members from a physical classroom to an online platform, ensuring a seamless transition. The online system required video connectivity for video and audio conferencing for groups and individuals with online direct messaging, and resource sharing from any access point like phones, laptops or handheld tablets. "With captive student data, we set up the virtual technology infrastructure expeditiously and efficiently with complete data protection," said the V-C.
02 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Attender tests positive at secretariat||An attender of the department of Agriculture tested positive at the fourth block of the secretariat in velagapudi promoting the staff to vacate the premises. The General Administration Department (GAD) has begun sanitising the whole premises and Sodium Hypochlorite solution was sprayed on the main roads. The man came from Nellore and was posted at the Agriculture Department. The police said that RT-PCR tests conducted on the staff revealed that a man tested positive. Tests would be conducted on the remaining personnel, police said. ``Random tests conducted on the personnel revealed that one man tested positive and we have sent samples of other personnel too. We have also restricted movement into the block 4 of the secretariat,’’ said DSP, Thullur, Srinivasa Reddy. With news that the Covid-19 has made its mark in secretariat, panic sent in among the staff. The GAD also placed thermal screening equipment and sanitisers at the entry and exit points of the secretariat.
02 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu criticising YSRCP for mileage’||Public Affairs Advisor Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu was criticising all decision of the government even as 3.54 crore people have been benefited by various welfare schemes. Speaking to the media on Monday, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy alleged that Mr. Naidu was rejected by the people for his mercantile nature. “The policies adopted by Mr. Naidu while at office affected the livelihoods of many and put the democracy at stake. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is striving hard for the welfare of the weaker sections. Mr. Naidu is launching tirades against the government to get political mileage,” he said. He further said that the main Opposition party was continuously filing petitions in courts and pushing the judiciary to exercise executive powers.
02 June 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman, son die after consuming sanitiser||A woman and her son died after consuming sanitiser solution at Chennur in Kadapa district on Monday. Vijayalakshmi and Sriram Naik, residents of Ellamma Gudi street, died after drinking the contents of a hand sanitiser bottle. As neighbours alerted the police after the two collapsed, they were rushed to RIMS hospital, where they were pronounced dead. Police, who found the two to have consumed the sanitiser for getting ‘a high’, have registered a case and are investigating. SP’s appeal Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan advised the public not to get addicted to ganja, solution, whitener and sanitiser and lose their lives. He pointed to the Chennur mishap, while referring to the spate of cases where addicts had taken to such products, presuming them to be a cheaper alternative to alcohol. “The government has established de-addiction in the State to save such persons,” he said and requested the public to dial 100 for help in such cases.
02 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown leaves Kuchipudi gurus in the lurch||At least 600 families of Kuchipudi dance teachers devoted to grooming the young talent are struggling to earn their livelihood owing to lockdown imposed to check the COVID-19. The lockdown imposed in March has a telling impact on their lives in many ways. The dance schools remain shut and the students can not attend the home-run institutions of the independent dancer teachers. A majority of the Kuchipudi dance teachers are from four districts in the State. Nearly 100 dance teachers are in Krishna district, excluding those belonging to Kuchipudi village, where the classical dance form flourished. More than 100 are in Guntur and East Godavari districts each. The Rayalaseema region has also a decent number of dance teachers, according to the Kuchipudi Art Academy (KAA) in Chennai. Women are a considerable number among these dance teachers, who support their families from the earnings from the dance classes, besides pursuing higher studies. ‘Govt. should bail us out’ The State government terminated the services of around 200 dance teachers employed in government schools in December 2019, forcing them to earn their livelihood by running independent institutions. “Hundreds of Kuchipudi dancers across the State are in an immediate need of aid to survive the lockdown. A majority of them are even struggling to manage their food. The State government must consider their plights and bail them out,” says Kuchipudi Art Academy (Chennai) Secretary Venkat Vempati. Online campaign People from the classical dance fraternity and other sources are providing essential commodities and financial support to the dance teachers, but it is far from the adequate, says Mr. Venkat. Last week, a Hyderabad-based Kuchipudi dancer, Bhavana Pedaprolu, launched an online campaign by sharing the plights of the Kuchipudi dance teachers in the State. “We have identified at least 600 dance teachers who are in need of food and aid. We are able to provide essential commodities to barely 200 teachers by Monday,” says Ms. Bhavana. Vijayawada-based Bhagavatula Venkata Rama Sarma, a Kuchipudi dance teacher said that it’s time the government came to the rescue of the dance teachers. “The dancers do not have an immediate alternative option to earn their livelihood. Since a majority of them do not wish to reveal their ordeals, their problems go unnoticed,” he says.
02 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Confusion over ‘gas leak’ in Kakinada||Tension prevailed for some time on Sunday night as locals alerted the police and revenue authorities on the leak of an unknown gas from a factory in the Autonagar area, on the outskirts of Kakinada city. Inspector of Factories, Kakinada, V. Suresh told The Hindu, “The locals have witnessed the leakage reportedly from some factory in the Autonagar area. However, they could not figure out the exact factory from which the gas has been leaked.” “Till Monday morning, we do not have any clue on the gas that was reportedly leaked from the Autonagar area. We have launched an investigation to identify the leakage and the company ,” Mr. Suresh said. The officials from the AP Pollution Control Board, revenue and police are also engaged in the field inspection. No local has been found reporting any health complications.
02 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Check out some marine diversity at rly. station!||The Forest Department has developed an interpretation centre on marine life at the Kakinada city railway station where it will display the marine biodiversity of the Kakinada coast. It will showcase 15 species of fish, 10 species of molluscs, sea snake, jellyfish and octopus. All of them have been collected from the Kakinada coast. The fish species - Tiger Shark, Indo-Pacific Sailfish, Bull Shark, Yellow-fin Tuna and Dolphin - will be displayed in aquariums. The Indo-Pacific Sailfish is believed to be the fastest fish in the sea. The fish species have been caught in the blue waters near the Kumbabishekham site on the Kakinada coast. “These are the most exploited species on this coast,” Mr. Anant Shankar, Divisional Forest Officer (Wildlife), Rajamahendravaram, told The Hindu . “The marine species chosen for display do not come under any marine life protection Acts. The project aims at introducing the public to the marine diversity of the coast,” he added.  Joint effort Inspired by the project designed by Mr. Anant Shankar, the South Central Railway (Vijayawada) authorities have pitched in to develop the interpretation centre at the Kakinada city railway station. The Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) has funded it. “Instead of any office building, we have chosen the railway station as the suitable site to set up the centre so as to enable more people to take a look at the mangrove ecosystem and the marine diversity of the Kakinada coast,” said Mr. Anant Shankar. Scientists D. Mahesh Babu (Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary) and Kumpatla Balaji have executed the project. “It is likely to be thrown open for public in a few days. Visitors will get to know every detail of the marine species on display,” said Mr. Mahesh Babu.
02 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine Mumbai returnees test positive in E. Godavari||At least 29 persons, including nine migrants who returned from Mumbai, tested positive for COVID-19 in East Godavari district on Monday, District Medical and Health Officer M. Mallik said. Of the total cases reported, eight persons belonged to Dwarapudi and had link with Gollala Mamidada village that has become the hotbed of infections in the district. Meanwhile, the village itself reported seven more patients on Monday. Two persons belonging to Rajamahendravaram and one from quarantine centres at JNTU-Kakinada and two more persons belong to rural parts in the district. The health condition of all the patients was stable and they were responding to treatment, the official said.
02 June 2020||Kurnool,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Polavaram, Veligonda water for farmers soon’||The State government is committed to early completion of the Polavaram and Veligonda irrigation projects and provide water to farmers, Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar has said. “Prakasam district will get water in September from the Veligonda project,” the Irrigation Minister said after visiting Srisailam Dam on Monday. Mr. Anil Kumar, along with Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh, inspected the minor repair works being undertaken on the dam structure. They entered the tunnel of Srisailam Dam and took stock of the entire functioning of the gates with Superintending Engineer S. Chandrasekhar Rao who gave a detailed account to both the Ministers. “The head regulator project work at Veligonda will be completed by the year-end and water will be provided to farmers to fulfil the ‘Jalayagnam’ dream of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy,” said Mr. Anil Kumar, adding that farmers in Prakasam, Kadapa and Nellore districts would also get water from Veligonda project this year. Head regulator works The Minister also inspected the head regulator works at Kollam Vagu. “These works will be completed by June 25. The remaining project work up to 250 meters will also be finished to ensure water supply to Prakasam district farmers by the September-end,” he said. Rehabilitation package The second tunnel work up to 7.5 km would be completed within 18 months and it would serve 1.18 lakh acres of ayacut. The rehabilitation package would be also given to the project oustees by the time the project works are completed, he said.
02 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grameena Bank registers growth in business||The Andhra Pragathi Grameena Bank recorded a business growth of Rs. 3,612.78 crore during the last financial year (2019-20) by doing a total business of Rs. 31,825 crore. On the bank’s 15th formation day on Monday, its chairman A. Venkata Reddy complimented the bank staff for serving the account holders with dedication and earning their confidence. Delivering the message on a digital platform to the staff of Nandyal regional office, he thanked the customers for believing in them and repaying loans on time, thus keeping the bank’s finances healthy. The bank had deposits to the tune of Rs. 16,150.71 crore as on March 31 (Rs.16,767.83 cr deposits as on May 31) compared to Rs. 14,296.45 crore by March 31 last year, registering an increase of Rs. 1,854.26 crore. The Non Performing Assets were Rs. 279.94 crore showing a marginal rise of Rs. 5.80 cr., said V. Koteswara Rao, Nandyal Regional Manager at the press conference. The lending of the bank was Rs. 15,390.03 crore by March 31, registering a growth of Rs. 1426.20 crore over previous financial year. The bank introduced ‘Pragathi COVID-19’ loan scheme and provided financial assistance of Rs. 106.10 crore to 15,490 borrowers during the lockdown period, he said.
02 June 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 new cases in Prakasam, Nellore||Coronavirus cases continued unabated as 10 new cases, five each in Nellore and Prakasam districts, were reported in the last 24 hours. COVID-19 hotspot Sullurpeta accounted for all the five new cases in Nellore district. Of them, Gandlaveedhi in the temple town reported two cases, while Vanamthoppu, Mohanaiahnagar and Ganapatinagar one each. Meanwhile, eight persons were discharged from the COVID hospital, taking the number of recoveries to 189 in the district. With this, the number of active cases stood at 63 in SPSR Nellore district. As Unlock 1.0 came into force on Monday, health officials began testing of all persons entering the State by road from Tamil Nadu at the Tada check-post. Sentinel surveillance for COVID was conducted across the revenue divisions of Nellore, Atmakur and Kavali covering people from different walks of life and age groups to understand the magnitude of the spread of the disease. Undeterred by the surge in cases, people thronged the Kanakamahal Centre and other business centres in Nellore city as the shopkeepers opened their shops outside the containment zones. Rural areas on alert While the first spell of cases in Prakasam district were reported mostly in urban clusters like Ongole, Chirala, Chimakurthy, the infections are now spreading in rural areas, keeping the health officials on tenterhooks. One case each was reported in Ulavapadu, Jalapalem, Vetapalem, Karedu and Bestavaripeta on Monday and containment strategy was unveiled in these places. With this, active cases rose to 26 in the district.
02 June 2020||Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||96% of beneficiaries get pension on the first day||District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz said that 96.12% of pensioners in the district received their pension amount on the first day on Monday. He said out of the total 4,76,126 persons 4,57,663 have received pension at their doorstep from the ward and village volunteers. A total of Rs. 109.12 crore has been disbursed. G. Konduru mandal stood first as 98.85% pensioners have received the cash while Musunuru with 94% disbursement stood last among the mandals, he said.
02 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rayalaseema Express chugs out of Tirupati station||The station premises sprang to life and turned abuzz with passengers on Monday as 02793 Tirupati – Nizamabad Rayalaseema Express became the first regular train to chug out of the Tirupati railway station after a long gap. Barricades, queue line markers and direction boards were arranged on Sunday at the lounge and platforms in a hurried manner. The train had two second AC, six third AC, eight sleeper and four second sitting coaches. Members of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and other wings made arrangements at the station to ensure social distancing among passengers. The queue of passengers arriving into the station was made to pass through a four-step process. After taking hand wash with sanitiser at the entrance, the passengers underwent thermal screening to get checked for symptoms of fever. After they moved out of the counters, the policemen checked them for a confirmed ticket. Finally, they were sent towards the platform with ‘Aarogya Setu’ application on their mobile phones. Goodies distributed TUDA Chairman and Government Whip Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy arranged essential commodities for the Hamalis(loading and unloading staff), who remained out of work for a long time during the lockdown period. His son Chevireddy Harshith Reddy distributed rice and pulses to the workers on the railway station premises on Monday. Station Director Naga Ramana Sarma, Chief Commercial Inspector Parameswara Raju and station manager Rajendra Prasad took part.
02 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constable killed in road accident||A constable working at Tirumala Two Town police station was killed in a road accident under Chandragiri police station limits here on Monday. The deceased, identified as A. Jayachandra (45), was a native of Vaddivaripalli in KV Palle mandal of Chittoor district and was residing in Muthyala Reddy Palle area in Tirupati. As per reports, Mr. Jayachandra was riding a two-wheeler on the Tirupati-Chittoor highway when he was hit by an unidentified vehicle near Thondavada village late on Sunday. He died before the police arrived at the station on receiving the information. The body was shifted to SVR Ruia Government General Hospital for autopsy.
02 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM asks officials to prepare guidelines on e-cropping||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials to prepare guidelines for e-cropping, including crop planning, and e-marketing requirements of farmers by taking Rythu Bharosa Kendra (RBK) as a unit. Addressing a review meeting on e-cropping and e-marketing on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said mapping of crops should be done under each RBK and Agriculture Advisory Boards at the district and mandal levels should help the farmers prepare the crop plans to ensure a balanced output. Seed supply “The e-cropping should be a comprehensive exercise comprising details of crops sown by each farmer and the same should be displayed at RBKs and village secretariats. Seeds should be made available as per the crop plans,” said the Chief Minister. An e-platform should also be created for the sale of farm produces and it should be the endeavour of the Marketing Department to directly buy 30% of the produce from farmers. e-marketing would ensure the sale of the remaining produce.  The Chief Minister said that grading and packing facilities should be provided at the village level with strict adherence of quality standards for better movement of the produce. “Quality of agriculture produce, timely payment to farmers and transportation are the key factors to make e-marketing a successful initiative,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Cold storage He also instructed the officials to submit an action plan for the work on godowns and cold storages. Chief Advisor to Chief Minister, Ajeya Kallam; State Agriculture Mission Vice-Chairman M.V.S. Nagi Reddy and other officials were present in the review meeting.
02 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Operation of special trains begins||With Indian Railways restoring partial train services for passengers from Monday, nine special trains started their operations in South Central Railway (SCR) and about 13,000 passengers are availing of the train services in the zone. Elaborate arrangements were made to receive the passengers at Hyderabad, Secunderabad, Guntur, Tirupati, Vijayawada and H.S. Nanded Stations so as to ensure coordinated movement and social distance and other precautions as per the COVID-19 norms. Indian Railwas introduced 200 special trains across the nation on Monday, according to SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya. The nine special trains are: Train No. 02723 Hyderabad – New Delhi Telangana special express, Train No. 02791 Secunderabad – Danapur special express, Train No. 07202 Secunderabad-Guntur Golconda special express, Train No. 02704 Secunderabad – Howrah Falaknuma special express, Train No. 02728 Hyderabad – Vishakhapatnam Godavari special express, Train No. 02793 Tirupati – Nizamabad Rayalaseema special express, Train No. 02715 H.S. Nanded – Amritsar Sachkhand special express, Train No. 02702 Hyderabad – Mumbai CST special express, Train No. 07201 Guntur-Secunderabad Golconda special express. Mr. Mallya, who monitored the arrangements in the zone, advised the officers to be alert and supervise the smooth running of train operations to ensure safe travel of the passengers at different stations.  Safety measures “Railway stations have been cleaned and disinfected for the safe travel. Separate entry and exit gates have been nominated to handle the incoming and outgoing passengers at the stations. Thorough checking arrangements have been made to ensure that only confirmed passengers are allowed to enter the stations. Thermal screening of all the passengers is carried out and only asymptomatic passengers are being allowed into the Stations. Sanitizers are made available for all bonafide passengers. Checking is being done to ensure that all passengers are wearing face masks/face cover. Thermal screening is being done for all the passengers alighting from the special trains arriving at all stations and contactless thermal screening and ticket checking system has been introduced at Vijayawada and Guntur stations to avoid physical contact,” the GM said. The entire activity would be recorded through surveillance cameras, said Vijayawada Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas, who reviewed the situation, and enquired about facilities with the officers of various branches.. “As many as 12 trains will touch Vijayawada division and the services are running smoothly,” the DRM told The Hindu . Chief Public Relations Officer Ch. Rakesh appealed to the passengers to follow the guidelines, maintain social distance and hygiene on trains and on platforms and cooperate with the railway officials. Staff Reporter from Guntur adds: Meanwhile, the Hyderabad-bound Golconda Express chugged out of the Guntur Railway Station. Divisional Railway Manager Mohan Raja and Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Narendra Varma were present when the train left the station. The SCR, Guntur, followed all protocols while allowing passengers to board the train. According to the SCR, Guntur, only passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the railway station and passengers must wear masks at the entry and during the travel. Passengers should observe social distancing both at the station and on trains, and on arrival at their destination, passengers should adhere to health protocols as prescribed by destination State/UTs. The railways has made arrangements for physical distancing at the entry and exit points at the station. Screening of passengers was done at the entry points and thermal screening was done.
02 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police pick up murder suspects||Police probing the group rivalry and the murder case of Thota Sandeep in the city, have reportedly picked up a few suspects involved in the clash. The Central Zone police handed over the body to family members after conducting post-mortem on Monday. Police arranged bandobust at the victim’s residence and at the Government General Hospital as a precautionary measure. Investigation officers suspect that area domination, supremacy and land settlements might have led to the clash, in which Sandeep was killed and several others were injured. Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao constituted six teams to crack the case. Based on the video clips which went viral, police trying to identify the accused. Patrolling intensified Meanwhile, tension prevailed in the Patamata area where the clash occurred on Sunday night and police intensified patrolling.
02 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu, Lokesh booked for ‘violating’ COVID protocols||The police have registered cases against TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his son N. Lokesh on charges of violation of the guidelines on COVID-19. Acting on a complaint lodged by Nandigama Bar Association member B. Srinivas Rao on May 30, the Nandigama police registered a case under Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases (ED) Act, 1987 and other IPC sections against Mr. Naidu, Mr. Lokesh and others. Mr. Naidu and Mr. Lokesh arrive in Vijayawada from Hyderabad by road on May 25. They entered into the State through the Garikapadu checkpost. Mr. Naidu, who has Z Plus security, crossed the A.P.-Telangana borders, along with his security personnel, personal secretaries, assistants and others in a convoy of eleven vehicles. ‘No protective gear’ Mr. Srinivas Rao, in his complaint, alleged that Mr. Naidu and Mr. Lokesh came out of their vehicles and showed the victory symbol to the party cadres. They also shouted slogans in favour of the party. “Mr. Naidu and his son violated the COVID-19 protocols while entering into the State. They did not wear any protective gear. The TDP activists arranged vehicle rallies and followed the convoy up to some distance, ignoring social distancing norms,” Mr. Srinivas Rao alleged. “Following a complaint Mr. Rao, we registered a case. We are investigation the alleged violation of the COVID-19 protocols by the TDP leaders,” said a police officer. Footage under scanner It is learnt that the police are scanning CCTV footage, video clippings and photographs associated with Mr. Naidu’s visit published by the media .
02 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanna demands CM’s resignation||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy step down, owning responsibility of the multiple setbacks suffered by his government during his one year at office. “The first year of YSRCP government at office is marked by several retrograde measures. Leader of Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu kept blaming the Centre for the situation in the State after bifurcation and paid a heavy price for it,” Mr. Lakshminarayana told the media here on Monday. The BJP leader alleged that the Polavaram project was delayed further due to reverse tendering process which was intended to award the works to the contractors close to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy and some influential YSRCP leaders. Besides, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy made a mess by proposing three capitals, while his predecessor Mr. Naidu showcased Amaravati as a global city in the making, but failed to make it a reality despite receiving good financial support. Court judgments “The slew of High Court judgments against the government’s flawed decisions. The court order against the promulgation of A.P. Panchayat Raj (Second Amendment) Ordinance-2020 has exposed Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s ineptitude,” said Mr. Lakshminarayana. He said that the Chief Minister should not act as a dictator of sorts just because the YSRCP was in a commanding position, Mr. Lakshminarayana added.
02 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power staff JAC stages protest against draft Bill||The Andhra Power Employees' Joint Action Committee (APPEJAC) staged protests across the State, including at Vidyut Soudha here, on Monday protesting against the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in response to the call given by National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers. APPEJAC Chairman P. Chandrasekhar and convener M. Vedavyasa Rao said in a press release that on the advice of highly paid consultants, the quarterly Fuel Supply Adjustment (FSA) cost was withdrawn in 2013 and annual true-up was introduced and due to the delay in the admission of true-ups (Rs. 9,000 crore from 2014-15 to 2018-19 ) the sector has been sinking. Therefore, action needed to be taken on the consultants, who should be blacklisted if necessary, they demanded. The power purchase and employee costs were over-projected in the last five years resulting in a mess-up. The Electricity Regulatory Commission (ERC)’s estimate of agriculture consumption was about 12,000 Million Units (MU), whereas the actual consumption was around 14,000 MU. There has been no recovery of this cost and a consequence, the overall losses have mounted. Another problem was the ERC allowing only a 5% hike in tariffs against the consistent year- on-year 10% increase in the input costs. The ERC should review the performance of the sector on a quarterly basis regarding the tariffs, realisations made, losses, etc,. and make course corrections instead of waiting for one full year.  Huge mismatch The Interest During Construction (IDC) was going up steeply due to inordinate delays in the completion of projects. The APPEJAC office-bearers said the installed capacity of various types of generation in the country was about 370 Gigawatts (GW), whereas the demand was only about 200 GW. The targeted renewable energy generation for 2020-22 was 175 GW and the installed capacity stood at 90GW. Instead of sorting out these issues, the Central government brought about the draft Bill which envisaged several measures that were bound to be counter-productive. If the said Bill is not dropped, the power sector would end up in a state of complete ruin, the APPEJAC warned.
02 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uma dares YSRCP to debate on poll manifesto||TDP leader Devineni Umamaheswara Rao has dared the government advisor and YSRCP leader Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy for an open debate on the fulfilment of the promises made in the ruling party’s election manifesto. “Had the budget session conducted in March, the TDP would have exposed the corruption of the YSRCP. Despite a strength of 22 MPs, the party has failed in getting the Central funds for Polavaram project,” Mr. Umamaheswara Rao told the media on Monday. Referring to the allegations made by the YSRCP on Velugonda project, Mr. Umamaheswara Rao said works worth of Rs. 63,370 crore were completed during the TDP’s tenure. But, the YSRCP leaders were alleging that corruption to the tune of Rs. 56,700 crore took place. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy posted a tweet on Velugonda project claiming that works on stretch of only 600 metres were done. “The government is not updating the progress of Polavaram project online. It should game for an open debate on the claims on the poll manifesto,” Mr. Umamaheswara Rao said. He demanded that the government must disclose the details of funds spent on irrigation projects .
02 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Curbs on entry into State by road will continue’||Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang has said there will be no relaxation of the current restrictions on inter-State travel by road. While several States, including neighbouring Telangana, have lifted restrictions as per the guidelines of the fifth phase of the lockdown, the State has decided not to open borders. In a late night release on Sunday, Mr. Sawang said all the people coming to the State have to get e-pass from the Spandana portal (spandana.ap.gov.in).  Home quarantine He said those coming from places with a low incidence of COVID cases have to undergo home quarantine for 7 days and those coming from high incidence areas place have to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine and would be tested and further advised seven-day home quarantine if tests come out negative. He said any decision of relaxation of inter-State movement would be announced. Meanwhile, the Department of Health and Family Welfare said that all persons entering the State would be tested at the border check-posts.
02 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shramik trains: State seeks additional stoppage point||Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney has appealed to the railway authorities to provide one additional stoppage to the 11 pairs of trains (22 trains) that will criss-cross over 70 railway stops across Andhra Pradesh. This is for proper monitoring of the movement of rail passengers and to make necessary arrangements to contain the spread of COVID-19, she said. In a letter addressed to the Chairman of the Railway Board, New Delhi, Vinod Yadav, she thanked the Railways for running the special Shramik trains for inter-state movement of the migrant labour and stranded people. She informed him that AP had facilitated movement of over 1 lakh migrant workers to their native States of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Northeastern states through 80 special Shramik trains. Now, the Railways plans to run 200 trains across the country and of them, 22 trains will traverse through AP touching 70 railway stops in the State. The state has to make arrangements to meet COVID-19 and other protocols at these railway stops. She said that though public transport within the State had been made available, it would be very difficult to receive and manage such big number of people at 70-odd railway stations and conduct proper testing. The rail authorities thus could consider providing one additional stoppage, she said.
02 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Heritage Foods striving to empower dairy farmers’||Heritage Foods has been striving for the welfare of dairy farmers across the country through its Heritage Farmers Welfare Trust (HFWT) by offering various services for free, said its Executive Director Nara Brahmani. On the occasion of World Milk Day celebrated on June 1, Ms. Brahmani said that the company has been playing a key role in empowering dairy farming with a variety of programmes, including cattle feed distribution, free veterinary care, educating farmers on better cattle management practices and also facilitating credit flow from banks, according to a release. The company’s current milk procurement process covers over 12, 000 villages across the country. It currently procures 14 lakh litres milk per day from 3 lakh farmers spread across India.
02 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll mounts to 64; 105 new cases in State||The State witnessed two more deaths and 105 new coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 64. Both deaths were reported in Kurnool district. As many as 10, 567 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and with the new numbers, the tally has gone up to 3,676. With 34 recoveries, the total has gone up to 2, 366. At present, there are 1, 246 active cases. Of the 105 fresh cases, 76 are of locals while 28 are migrant workers and one is of a foreign returnee. The number of active cases which came down earlier is now increasing by the day. A week ago, there were only about 900 active cases. Testing ratio The total tests conducted so far are 3.83 lakh and the tests per million population ratio has been put at 7, 232. The positivity rate stands at 0.94% and the recovery rate is 64. 36%. Death rate has been put at 1.74%. Meanwhile, the cumulative cases of from other States (migrant workers) reached 448 and 249 of them are active.
02 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA/VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT panel submits report on gas leak; one more suspected death||The five-member committee formed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to inquire into the gas leak incident at LG Polymers factory in Visakhapatnam submitted its report on Monday. B. Seshasayana Reddy, a retired judge, who is heading the committee informed the NGT that gross negligence on the part of the factory management resulted in the accident. He said safety protocols had been ignored and human error was to be blame. Besides, the inquiry panel said the factory did not have an effective on-site emergency plan. Twelve persons died and hundreds were hospitalised after inhaling toxic styrene gas that escaped from a massive storage tank on the premises of LG Polymers at R.R. Venkatapuram in the port city in the early hours of May 7. Respiratory problems Meanwhile, Y. Kanakaraju (45), who was reportedly affected by the monomer vapour from the plant at Venkatapuram, died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Visakhapatnam on Monday. The victim was suffering with respiratory problems, nausea and bloating of stomach for the past five days, according to CPI(M) Greater Visakha City Committee secretary B. Ganga Rao. More victims He alleged that the number of victims of the styrene vapour leak was increasing with each passing day. He recalled that P. Venkayamma (73) of Venkatapuram had died while going treatment on the night of May 26. While her relatives claimed that she had died due to respiratory problems, doctors said that she suffered dehydration. He said that Satish Kumar of Nandamuri Nagar was admitted to a private hospital with burning sensation in the eyes, bloating of stomach and respiratory problems on Sunday. A week ago, Karteek was admitted in a critical condition to the King George Hospital (KGH). “The post-mortem report of Venkayamma is still awaited. In Kanakaraju’s case, since he died at a private hospital, an FIR has to be lodged with the police and the body sent to the KGH for post-mortem,” Dr. G. Arjuna, Superintendent, said on Monday evening.  ‘Procedure ignored’ Meanwhile, CPI(M) State secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao alleged that the body of Kanakaraju was sent to his home without filing an FIR with the police or sending it for post-mortem.
02 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic makes many institutions go digital||The COVID-19 pandemic has led to increased acceptance of digital technologies in Visakhapatnam, the main industrial hub of the State. Almost 90% of the IT and IT-Enabled Services (ITES) have opted for work from home (WFH) for their employees by incorporating new processes and changing the reporting structure. “Over 20,000 employees working in 156 IT and ITES firms have gone for WFH,” Software Technology Parks of India Joint Director M.P. Dubey told The Hindu . Another positive development is the growing acceptance of online module of teaching by the educational institutions during the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of COVID-19. “Even some of the schools and tutorials are teaching via the video link,” he pointed out. He said that about 15 IT companies developed citizen-centric apps to mitigate the sufferings induced by the COVID-19. Giving a fillip to the ‘Digital India’ campaign, many consumers are using digital wallets and gateways for various payments. Leveraging technologies has become the order of the day. “We are supplementing the government’s efforts to contain the situation by integrating everything – from tracking, data entry to testing – to give a 360 degree view for quick decision-making,” said G. Muralikrishna, managing director of Fluentgrid. Painting a rosy picture about digital transformation, IT Association of Andhra Pradesh (ITAAP) president R.L. Narayana said the pandemic had underscored the significance of Industry 4.0. “A company’s future will be decided on its preparedness for acceptance of automation, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and robotic technologies,” he stated.  15 IT companies developed citizen-centric apps to mitigate the sufferings induced by the COVID-19 M.P. Dubey Software Technology Parks of India Joint Director
02 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire breaks out in a godown||Fire broke out in a godown storing scrap and waste material at Marturu village in Atchutapuram mandal in the district on Monday. Cause unknown The reason for the incident was not immediately known. No casualties were reported. Fire tenders from Anakapalle, Elamanchili and Special Economic Zone, Atchutpuram, were rushed to the spot which extinguished the fire in about two hours, in-charge District Fire Officer Surendra Anand said. Panic grips residents Huge flames billowing out from the godown created panic for some time in the area. The loss due to the fire was being estimated. The godown owner used to procure waste material from the nearby Brandix India Apparel City, which makes intimate apparel for clients in the United States and Europe.
02 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land grabbers will not be spared, says Kannababu||The YSR Congress Party government will not spare a single inch of government land to be grabbed by persons howsoever influential they may be, said Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu here on Monday. He addressed the media along with party general secretary and parliamentary party leader V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, Vizag MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana and others after a review meeting on the first year of government formation by YSRCP. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Kannababu said that they had already formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to bring those attempting to grab the government land to book. “As part of decentralised development, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has decided to form Executive capital in Visakhapatnam, legislative capital in Amaravati and judicial capital in Kurnool,” he said indicating the land prices in Visakhapatnam would shoot up once it becomes the Executive capital. Declining to specify any timeline in making the city the Executive capital, he justified the bid to sale a few parcels of land in Visakhapatnam and Guntur to raise funds for welfare schemes. “TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu had initiated sale of government lands and gifting away large land parcels to industrialists for peanuts whereas the YSRCP is very choosy in selling plots through e-auction to ensure transparency,” he stated. Mr. Kannababu, who is the district in-charge Minister, said the people of Visakhapatnam were euphoric over the Executive capital decision and it was the responsibility of the government to protect the lands. He also directed the district authorities to initiate severe action against land grabbers. House sites The Minister said after a thorough scrutiny of beneficiaries finalised during the TDP reign by the AP Township & Infrastructure Development Corporation, he said among 43,000, 16,000 ineligible persons had been rejected. He said they had received new applications from both rural and urban areas and they were being screened strictly on merit. Mr. Kannababu said the Chief Minister would launch house site patta distribution to women beneficiaries from July 8.
02 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspended doctor Sudhakar’s mother meets CBI officials||Krishna Bai, mother of the suspended doctor Dr. Sudhakar who is facing charges of creating public nuisance, visited the CBI office here on Monday and interacted with the investigating officers. She was accompanied by members of Dalit organisations. Based on the direction of the High Court , the CBI is probing into case of the suspended anaesthetist of the Narsipatnam Area Hospital. The CBI on Friday filed cases under the Sections 120-B, 324, 343, 379 and 506 of the IPC against some police personnel, government employees and others for alleged criminal conspiracy, voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons of means, wrongful confinement for three or more days, theft and criminal intimidation. On May 17, the suspended doctor was taken into custody on charge creating nuisance on the NH-16 near Thatichetlapalem and sent to KGH for alcohol test . He was later sent to Government Hospital for Mental Care for the assessment of his mental health. Since then, Dr. Sudhakar has been on a 14-day observation at the hospital. Acting on the PILs filed by a few people, the case came for hearing, and the High Court taking a magistrate’s report into consideration asked the CBI to investigate the case. On Saturday and Sunday, the CBI officials visited KGH and questioned the case medical officer Dr. Vamsikrishna and physician Dr. Kanakamahalakshmi. CCTV footage They also scanned the CCTV camera footage to see how Dr. Sudhakar was brought to the KGH and by whom he was shifted to the mental hospital. It is learnt that they also verified various documents at KGH such as the case sheets, medical reports, alcohol test report and MLC report. On Monday, the CBI officials were supposed to collect the hard disk containing the footage and interact with two house surgeons. It is learnt that they visited the spot from where the doctor was taken in an auto by police and visited the police station concerned.
02 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Have no differences with Chief Minister, says Vijaya Sai||YSR Congress Party national general secretary V. Vijaya Sai Reddy on Monday scoffed at the reports appeared in a section of media and on social media platforms that he had been sidelined by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy owing to differences. Terming such reports as ‘concocted’, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said said that he had remained a close follower of Mr. Jagan since the formation of the YSRCP and even when the then Congress government foisted cases against them. “I will stay with him (Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy) till death,” he said. At a press conference held by Ministers K. Kannababu and Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao after a review meeting here, the YSRCP MP clarified that he would remain a committed worker in the party till his last breath. Referring to cases filed against some YSRCP supporters for certain postings on social media on the directions of the High Court, Mr. Vijaya Sai said he would take side with those who were on the right path. “Being the in-charge of the party’s social media platforms, I will fight for all those who are innocent,” he said. Micro-blogging sites Mr. Vijaya Sai also alleged that in some cases, detractors of the party had created fake accounts on Twitter and other micro-blogging sites and made several posts with an aim of tarnishing the image of the YSRCP and its leaders.
02 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fishermen hit by ice shortage as new season begins today||After a long gap, the fishing harbour here turned into a beehive of activity on Monday, a day before commencement of the new fishing season. The fishermen anchored the boats from March 24 after the announcement of lockdown and later the annual fishing ban came into force from April 15. Taking into consideration the loss of livelihood suffered by them preceding the ban, the annual holiday to facilitate breeding has been reduced to 47 days. Instead of June 15, the ban ended on May 31. The AP Mechanised Boat Operators’ Welfare Association and the Dolphin Boat Operators’ Welfare Association informed the Fisheries Department that they would delay commencement of the new season by a day after holding Gangamma Jatara to express their obeisance to the Goddess of Water. June 2 falling on Tuesday is considered auspicious for the Goddess. It is a tradition among fishermen to offer turmeric water and coconuts during prayers seeking good harvest before going on a voyage. The premature end of ban period has led to severe shortage of ice as the 20-odd plants are left with little time to prepare it. Further, they are short-staffed as many workers from Odisha had gone home due to COVID-19 lockdown. “We expect that the problem will be solved in a week or so,” D.V.R. Raju of the Visakha Ice Plant Owners’ Association told The Hindu .  Rationing A sort of rationing has been done forcing only a few boats to load ice containers. As a result, only a few boat will venturing into the sea and that too for a voyage lasting one or two days. “Out of 700-odd mechanised boats we are expecting 20-30% to undertake short voyages initially due to shortage of ice,” Joint Director of Fisheries K. Phaniprakash said. COVID precautions In order to prevent crowding at the Zero Jetty, the venue of auction, alternative venues are being arranged in the harbour area. Police assistance has been sought to enforce social distancing at the auction venues and the vending place for retailers.
02 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||LG Polymers and Bhopal tragedies have a common thread, says activist||Social activist and founder of Sambhavna Trust Satinath Sarangi says that there are glaring similarities between the Union Carbide gas disaster in Bhopal and the LG Polymers styrene monomer leakage on May 7 that killed 12 and hospitalised over 580 persons, in Visakhapatnam. The design of both plants was unsafe and had incorporated outdated technology, he tells The Hindu . He feels that both plants stored, used and emitted massive quantities of inherently hazardous chemicals in the midst of densely populated settlements. According to him, the absence of disaster preparedness was manifest in both instances. Trained personnel were replaced by untrained casual workers, with the sole intent of maximising profit, he alleges. Referring to LG Polymers continuing to function without proper environment clearances, he remarks that regular and deliberate negligence of government regulatory agencies in overseeing the operation of the plant is clear in both cases. Factors missing in report Satinath, who has been fighting for the Bhopal gas victims ever since the occurrence of the tragedy, feels that the NGT report misses out on some key factors. “There is no mention of styrene oxide that is far more toxic. No mention of fetotoxic and genotoxic impact of exposure to styrene. Most importantly, the NGT report entrusts it to LGPI to carry out risk assessment study. The company has been asked to prepare a health monitoring programme at least for five years and this is like asking the fox to assess the damage to the chicken population,” he said. The context of genotoxic impact of styrene exposure is limited for five years, whereas the period of health monitoring should be at least for 25 years, he adds. According to Mr. Satinath, government agencies such as NEERI and ICMR in the past had consistently downplayed the short and long-term impact of the disaster on environment and the people’s health and lives. “NGOs with required professional knowledge and experience were kept out of Bhopal then and also in the case of LGPI in Visakhapatnam now,” he alleges. Govt. flayed The social activist is also critical about the government paying the compensation. “Like in Bhopal, public money is being used by the government here to provide compensation to victims, without any legal justification. Why should public pay for the crimes of the corporation?” he asks. Mr. Satinath also points out that the police had downplayed the incident by not registering criminal cases under relevant IPC sections.
02 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Methanol death toll increases to five||The death toll in the methanol case has gone up to five, with two more persons from Kasimkota in Visakhapatnam district succumbing to it, late on Sunday night at KGH. The two, who died while undergoing treatment, have been identified as V. Manikyam (63) and P. Dorababu. The three who died earlier were K. Anand (48), D. Nookaraju (61) and R. Apparao (45). All were daily wagers from Kasimkota. On Sunday afternoon, seven persons consumed methanol or methyl alcohol, which was stolen by Anand from a pharmaceutical company, where he worked as a daily labourer. Had a party Anand had invited his friends for a party at his house in Kasimkota and seven of them had consumed the chemical, thinking it to be a pure form of alcohol and it would give them a good high. While Anand and Apparao died at the spot before they could be shifted to a hospital, the others died while undergoing treatment at KGH, said Anakapalle (Rural) circle inspector Mr. Narasimha Rao. Two others who apparently consumed lesser quantity fell sick and are undergoing treatment at KGH. They are stable, as per the police. The eighth person did not consume anything and is fine, said the police. “We are investigating the case and checking how the chemical was smuggled out of the factory,” said Mr. Narasimha Rao.
02 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HRF gives representation to probe panel||The Human Rights Forum (HRF) on Monday submitted a representation to the State-constituted High Power Committee (HPC) to probe into the styrene monomer vapour leak from LG Polymers India (LGPI) plant at Venkatapuram in Visakhapatnam. The vapour leak on May 7 killed 12 people and hospitalised over 580 persons. Given the seriousness of the accident and the many human rights violations, the HRF had observed that LGPI should not only be heavily penalised, but its management and individual executives must be prosecuted under IPC and other laws. The HRF is also of the opinion that there is no alternative to closing down the plant permanently. “The land occupied by LGPI is ceiling surplus land that vested in the government. It should be resumed and utilised for genuine public purposes after assessment of soil and groundwater quality and their remediation,” said V.S. Krishna, A.P. and TS coordination committee member. HRF members also pointed out that LGPI had been operating without a valid, mandatory environmental clearance. This was admitted by the company in a notarised affidavit dated May 10, 2019. “This is an illegality and these facts were in the knowledge of the AP Pollution Control Board and the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change,” alleged U.G. Srinivasulu, HRF State president.
02 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT hears ex-official’s plea||The plea submitted by former bureaucrat E.A.S. Sarma on the damage caused to the public health and environment due to the gas leak had come up for hearing at the National Green Tribunal (NGT), New Delhi, on Monday. Mr. Sarma told The Hindu that he had made a plea before the regional bench of the NGT in Chennai and it had come for hearing on Monday in New Delhi. “In my plea I have questioned how a foreign company operating in India could be so careless. I have also questioned how did APPCB grant Consent for Establishment (CFE) and Consent for Operation (CFO) in the beginning of 2019 for the unit’s expansion and how did the company function without obtaining the environment clearance from MoEF,” Mr. Sarma said.
02 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dry rations distributed to the needy||Dry rations and sanitisation kits were distributed unorganised daily wage workers, domestic servants, rag pickers, homeless persons by volunteers of SEEDS (Social Educational and Economic Development Society), Dharani Social Welfare Society and Visakhapatnam City Makers Forum Organisation at various places.
02 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATC||Joint Collector M. Venugopala Reddy directed the officials to ensure transparency in the supply of sand. At a review meeting on sand supply with officials of the AP Mineral Development Corporation here on Monday, he said when the vehicles meant for supply of sand, were changed, the details of new vehicles should be entered at the check post.
02 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five held on charge of ganja sale||The One Town police nabbed a five-member gang on charge of consuming and selling ganja near the Fishing Harbour on Monday. According to One Town police, the five persons, including one degree student and one engineering student, were consuming ganja near the Fishing Harbour on Monday and also trying to sell some quantity, when they were caught. The police team also seized 2 kg dry ganja, which the gang members say that they procured it from a smuggler near the railway station.  Investigation on We are investigating the case, said Mr. Chandrasekhar.
02 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||SBI opens SME regional office in Vizag||State Bank of India on Monday inaugurated SME regional office as part of reorganisation. The region caters to SMEs mainly hit by COVID-19 pandemic. On Day One, the bank sanctioned and disbursed SME loans to the tune of Rs. 40 crore under Guaranteed Emergency Credit Line Scheme to 150 borrowers.
02 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. trying to grab lands of MANSAS trust, alleges Ashok||Former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju on Monday alleged that the YSR Congress Party government was trying to defame Maharaja Alak Narayan Society of Arts & Science (MANSAS) Trust and grab its valuable lands. Addressing the media here along with his daughter Aditi Gajapathi Raju, he alleged that the new chairperson of the Trust Board Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju had been talking about many issues without having any knowledge about the Trust’s rules and regulations. “Ms. Sanchaita had not even attended the funeral of her father P. Ananda Gajapathi Raju. However, she was appointed as chairperson of the Trust. The government’s intention is to disturb all the educational institutions and temples which are under the jurisdiction of the Trust established in 1958,” he said. “We will try to protect the lands in the interest of the public,” said Mr. Ashok. Ms. Aditi said that politics should not disturb the activities of the Trust since it was established to ensure quality education for all sections of the society.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Limping back to normalcy||
02 June 2020||BALKONDA (NIZAMABAD DIST.),TELANGANA||Farmer’s experiment with apple farming bears fruits||A new chapter unfolded in the horticulture cultivation of the district with a progressive farmer Yeleti Limba Reddy being successful in the experimental farming of apple which is unknown to the State hitherto. The Hariman-99 variety developed by Hariman Sharma of Pannaiyan village in Bilaspur district in Himachal Pradesh planted by Limba Reddy on 2 acres some one year four months ago in Venchiryal village in Mupkal mandal came to fruition now. However, the crop is not used for consumption for the first two years, and from third year onwards, it can be marketed for commercial purposes. Mr. Reddy, who has expertise in horticulture cultivation for 30 years, come to know of the Hariman-99 variety through YouTube. The variety can withstand hot weather and can be raised in plains. Mr. Reddy consulted Mr. Hariman Sharma and sent a cheque for the plants and got 500 saplings through a courier service. He is the second farmer from Telangan to have gone for apple farming. Two years before him, a tribal farmer, Balaji, raised the crop in Adilabad. However, he planted only 15 saplings. Mr. Balaji also raised a few plants at Rashtrapathi Nilayam at Bollaram in Hyderabad and was honoured by the President. The longevity of Hariman variety plant is a maximum of 40 years and gives 40 kg crop every year in the initial years. Seven eight years later, 100 kg crop can be harvested from each tree. Thus, even in the worst condition, Rs. 7 lakh to Rs. 8 lakh can be earned on each acre, said Mr. Reddy. “Apple orchard needs watering from time to time and I am growing it in organic method. Flowering starts in January and crop can be reaped in June or July,” he said . Minister for Roads and Buildings V. Prashanth Reddy, who visited the orchard on Thursday, appreciated Mr. Reddy for his initiative.
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||60% of cases reported in May from GHMC area||Of the 1,660 COVID-19 cases detected in the month of May, 1,004 or over 60% were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, according to details provided in medical bulletins issued by Telangana Health department. What’s more, the cases are no more limited to a few pockets of Hyderabad, but detected across the city. The remaining 654 cases came from other districts or were detected in migrants, foreign evacuees and deportees. At least nine districts reported zero cases in the past 14 days. Officials from the Health department said that better containment measures were taken in rural localities but when it came to the city, they were tough to implement. When number of cases detected only in GHMC are considered, the single day highest of 122 was recorded on May 31. Overall, cases started to spike after relaxations of lockdown norms from May 16. Ten days before that, liquor shops had opened. COVID-19 cases recorded in the past four days give an idea about the upward trajectory. At least 303 cases were recorded in GHMC from May 28 to 31. And the cases are expected to only rise in the coming days. The high percentage and widespread cases in GHMC make it imperative for people to maintain precautions. However, many stepping out of home are not maintaining precautions such as wearing mask, observing physical distance and personal hygiene.  200 cases among elderly Senior officials in the Health department had earlier said that over 200 of the total cases were above 60 years old who had not even stepped out of home. They contracted the disease from someone from their family who went out and did not observe precautions. A majority of the COVID-19 deaths were among the elderly or those suffering from co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes and organ failure. Officials say they will continue surveillance of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and Influenza Like Illness (ILI). Health staff will also keep a close watch on spike in deaths from any locality. If they find any surge in SARI, ILI cases or deaths in a locality, they will have to conduct thorough probe of the extent of coronavirus in such areas.
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nine fully-booked trains start from Secunderabad, Nampally||Secunderabad and Nampally railway stations became a beehive of activity on Monday as hundreds of pre-booked passengers arrived to get into nine special trains bound for destinations as diverse as New Delhi, Danapur, Howrah, Visakhapatnam, Mumbai and Guntur among others on the first day of partial restoration of train services. Around 13,000 passengers were on these trains, four of which moved from Secunderabad platforms 1 and 10 while three of them began their journey from Hyderabad. The two others were Tirupati-Nizamabad Rayalaseema Express and H.S. Nanded-Amritsar Sachkhand Special Express. Senior railway officials informed that there was good demand for the trains and waitlists were issued for up to 100 passengers. Only those with confirmed tickets were advised to come to the respective stations 90 minutes in advance for the mandatory thermal screening and non-contact ticket checking. While each of the stations had opened one entry and one exit, the amount of rush convinced the railway officials concerned to open up few more entry and exit points from Tuesday. “There is a lot of positive change in railways like screening, social distancing and ticket checking. I am Central government employee and going to join work in Nagpur,” said Revathi, a passenger. Another passenger, Gulshan Kumar, who was bound for Danapur, said, “I have been stuck here for the last two months and am thankful for this service. All safety precautions seem to have been taken care of.” Contact-less sanitisers were placed for passengers and masks were mandatory. “I have been waiting for a while for trains to begin as I have to go to Delhi,” said another passenger, P.R. Reddy. “We have been here for the past three months and are now leaving for our hometown, Guntur, as we came to know a train is running,” said an elderly passenger, Sambasiva Rao. SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya visited the Secunderabad station to check on the arrangements. The trains that were run include No. 02723 Hyderabad – New Delhi Telangana Express, No. 02791 Secunderabad – Danapur, No. 07202 Secunderabad-Guntur Golconda Express, No. 02704 Secunderabad – Howrah Falaknuma Express, No. 02728 Hyderabad – Vishakhapatnam Godavari Express, No. 02793 Tirupati – Nizamabad Rayalaseema Express, No. 02715 H.S. Nanded – Amritsar Sachkhand, No. 02702 Hyderabad – Mumbai CST and; No. 07201 Guntur-Secunderabad Golconda Special Express.
02 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS government has many reasons to pat itself||Telangana State which celebrates its sixth State Formation Day on Tuesday has a reason to feel proud and satisfied as its major initiatives in key sectors to realise its ultimate goal of making the State a model to the country are on track and some of them as in the irrigation sector are closer to realising their grand objectives, according to the ruling party functionaries. The State that came into existence with the slogan of ‘Neellu, Nidhulu and Udyogalu’ for the region and its people, turned around sectors like power, irrigation and provided a revived focus on health and education in public sector to make government educational institutions and hospitals and health care centres make a mark amidst domination by the private sector. Under the stewardship of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who led the movement for a Statehood for Telangana, and achieved the goal of Statehood, TRS government conceived, conceptualised and executed several flagship programmes under irrigation, agriculture, health, infrastructure, industry and information technology, afforestation and greenery. The State pioneered Rythu Bandhu investment assistance scheme, Rythu Bima which became model for the rest of the country and so also its Mission Bhagiratha drinking water scheme to every household, Palle Pragathi and Pattana Pragathi programmes to focus on sanitation, hygiene and make the villages and urban areas as models. The ambitious Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project to utilise Godavari waters, when completed, would bring 235 tmc ft of water for irrigation and irrigate 45 lakh acres. The government’s ultimate aim is to give irrigation facility to 1.25 crore acres by completing Kaleshwaram and several other irrigation projects to meet irrigation and drinking water requirements and make agriculture profitable for farmers. The government sources said that in the united State, Rs. 94,000 crore were spent on irrigation sector for 23 districts in 10 years and in Telangana State, over Rs. 50,000 crore were spent on irrigation sector in four years. The crisis in power sector was overcome within six months after formation of the State to put an end to power cuts. Telangana was the only State providing 24x7 power supply to agriculture sector from January 1, 2018 free of cost and 30% of power generated was being utilised for free supply. The power generation went up from 7,778 MW in 2014 to 15,980 MW now including 3,681 MW of solar power. In the next three years, another 10,000 MW would be generated to make Telangana a power surplus State. The distribution and transmission sectors were also being strengthened and construction of sub-stations and power transformers, distribution transformers and other power infrastructure was taken up at a cost of Rs. 27,770 crore. In health sector, several innovative schemes were introduced and medical and health infrastructure was strengthened in public sector and achieved bringing down maternal and infant mortality rates. It set up 20 ICU units with 10 beds each to deal with emergencies in 25 district and area hospitals. It also set up diagnostic centres in district headquarters to conduct 58 types of tests. Under ‘Amma Vodi’ scheme, emergency 102 vehicles were introduced to bring pregnant women from their homes to the government hospitals. It pressed 104 vehicles into service to provide mobile medical services in rural areas. In the education sector, the number of residential educational institutions increased to 959 as Telangana government so far set up 661 new residential schools for SC,ST, BC and minorities and it was extending overseas scholarships to SC, ST, BC, EBC and minorities students. Welfare remained at the heart of governance apart from development programmes and spending close to Rs. 40,000 crore on various welfare schemes like Aasra pensions, Kalyana Lakshmi, food security among others.
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||280 junior doctors staying in OMC hostels tested||Around 280 junior doctors staying in Osmania Medical College hostels at Koti are waiting for their turn to get tested for COVID-19 after seven post-graduate (PG) students were detected to have contracted the virus by Monday afternoon. Results of two of the seven students were received late on Sunday night. The first case from the college was detected on Saturday. A gynecology PG student who attended duty at Modern Government Maternity Hospital, Petlaburj, tested positive. Thereafter, six more were detected with the infectious disease. At least two of them stayed at the hostel. An alumnus, who also tested positive, had been staying on the college campus. Senior Health officials and the college administration have been keeping a close watch on the situation. Members of Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) demanded tests to be conducted on all the doctors who are attending duties. “We have decided to test 280 house surgeons and PG students — 100 males and 180 females — who stay in the hostel. The process of collecting swab samples has started. Results will be known in a day or two,” officials said. On Monday, the junior doctors were seen standing in serpentine queues at the hostel to give their swab samples. If one tests positive, they will be isolated at home or at the hospital depending on severity of the disease. If results are negative, they will be quarantined at the hostel itself. As of now, the hostel is not declared a containment zone. Junior doctors walk in and out of the hostel to attend duties. Mess facility at the hostels, however, is closed. Junior doctors either cook or buy food parcels from canteen. “A decision regarding closure of the hostel will be taken based on the test results,” officials said. If several of them are detected with COVID-19, it would mean less number of doctors at government hospitals. Junior doctors’ demands TJUDA members continued to demand reintroduction of process of quarantining doctors after attending duties for five to 10 days, which was followed during lockdown. They have also urged officials to provide separate accommodation as the junior doctors fear spreading the infection to their family members at home. Meanwhile, junior doctors at other hospitals who attend COVID-19 patients said that a few among them might also test positive if tests are conducted on them.
02 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||16-year-old boy kills grandmother for pension money||A 16-year-old boy allegedly murdered his sexagenarian grandmother at Moinabad on Sunday night after she refused to give him money to meet his expenses. Police said that Kavali Venkatnamma (65) was smothered to death at her house in Sriramnagar. Moinabad police said that the offence took place around 10 p.m. “Their neighbour’s saw the boy beating her grandmother with a belt for her pension money. They warned him too. Later, at night, he smothered her to death,” the investigators said. His father passed away a few years back and his mother and two siblings went to a village. Man succumbs to injuries In a case of hit and run, a private employee suffered severe injuries and succumbed on Monday at KPHB Colony. The victim, Yalala Swamy Venkata Ramana, 36, from KPHB Colony, was hit by an unidentified auto-rickshaw at a foot over-bridge at Seventh Phase. The accident took place at around 8 p.m. on Sunday and soon he was rushed to Sankhya Hospital where he died while undergoing treatment on Monday evening. Newly-married minor girl found dead A 17-year-old girl, who got married two months ago, was found dead at her parents' house in Gumdal village in Doma mandal of Vikarabad district on Sunday night. She committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan around 6.30 p.m. According to Doma Sub-Inspector G Suresh, the victim was depressed as her husband, Shiv Kumar Reddy (22) of the same village, was refusing to take her home. “They were in love and got married three months ago with their parents' consent. They were living in Hyderabad, and before lockdown, she came to her parents home to appear for Class X board exams,” the officer said. Later, when the exams were postponed, she went back to Hyderabad, and again in the April first week, Mr. Reddy dropped his ‘minor’ wife at her parents' house. “Since then, he did not return to take her back and was avoiding her calls and messages,” Mr. Suresh said.  (Roshni - Suicide prevention helpline: 914066202000 and 6666 1117).
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Look after migrant workers at brick kilns, HC tells govt.||Telangana High Court on Monday asked the State government to look after migrant workers employed in brick kilns in different parts of the State during the lockdown. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a PIL petition on the plight of migrant workers depending on brick kilns to eke out livelihood, passed the interim direction. Retired lecturer S. Jeevan Kumar, who filed the plea, sought a direction from the court to the Telangana government to shift the nearly 1.5 lakh migrant labourers working at brick kilns. Hail from Odisha These workers are spread across 810 brick kilns in the districts of Rangareddy, Sangareddy, Medchal, Malkajgiri, Warangal, Karimnagar, Peddapalli, Rajanna-Sircilla, Nizamabad, Nalgonda, Khammam and Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri. The petitioner’s counsel, Vasudha Nagaraj, told the bench that contractors brought these workers from western parts of Odisha to Telangana to work in brick kilns during November last year. Normally, they work in brick kilns till May-end or onset of monsoons. They live with their families and children in the vicinity of the brick kilns in temporary sheds or huts. The lawyer maintained the contractors pay Rs. 300 to Rs. 400 a week as wages to these workers. For the entire period from November to May-end, each worker is paid between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 30,000. Due to lockdown, the contractors are now disowning the workers. In some cases, they were not even paying workers wages citing lack of market for the bricks due to lockdown. The contractors stopped payments to the workers compelling them to leave for their State on foot, the lawyer said. Some of them were seen walking on Medchal highway to reach their villages in Odisha.  The bench asked Advocate General B.S. Prasasd to provide basic amenities like temporary shelter, water and food to the workers till transportation arrangements are made for them to reach their respective destinations. The HC directed the Registry to tag this PIL petition along with another one filed by professor Rama Shankarnarayan Melkote about government ‘dumping migrant labourers’ on the border of the State near Adilabad. The bench already appointed an advocate commissioner in the professor’s PIL petition to ascertain facts about migrant labourers getting stranded at Medchal. Both the PIL pleas would be heard on Tuesday.  Due to lockdown, the contractors are disowning the workers. In some cases, they are not even paying workers wages citing lack of market for bricks. Vasudha Nagaraj, Petitioner’s counsel
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Saved Banyans in Chevella found axed, mutilated||Scores of banyan trees on Chevella-Manneguda route, which had been saved from felling by the ‘Save Banyans of Chevella’ campaign a year ago, were found to have been ruthlessly hacked or burnt during the lockdown period. Environmental activists, who had been instrumental back then in protecting the trees from being axed, were shocked to find about 20 to 30 of them either burnt at the stem base or hacked altogether when they took a tour to the location post lockdown. “I shot a video of all the trees when they were numbered for axing last year. Later, I took several trips to the area till the lockdown began and they were all there. Now I find that several of them have been damaged at the stem level, hacked or burnt. I can say with utmost certainty that this happened during the lockdown period,” says P. Uday Krishna from Vata Foundation who had initiated the ‘Save Banyans of Chevella’ campaign through a petition on Change.Org with 35,000 signatures. Pictures of the tree remnants speak louder than words. Stems of a few of the trees were either partially burnt or partly hacked, a few others were hollowed out, and a few more hacked altogether. Forest officials in charge of the trees claimed that the banyans were damaged back in June 2019 by miscreants, about which a complaint was reportedly filed in the police station of Chevella too. However, the report by the then Forest Range Officer attributed it to ground fire. As per officials, a total of 24 trees were damaged during that time. Mr. Uday Krishna, however, disputes the claim. Foliage on several trees is found to be still fresh and alive, and ash from burning could still be found near the base, which disproves the claim, he says. In 2019, he and his team had counted 900 Banyan trees between Chevella and Manneguda which were marked for felling to make way for widening of the National Highway between Hyderabad and Bijapur. Thousands of trees up to Chevella had already been axed by then. After working up a storm by way of petitions to various agencies and vigorous campaigns, he and other environmentalists could finally halt the axing. There has not been any progress on the road widening front since then. “In fact, I represented to the Chief Minister’s office, top officials, NHAI and Roads & Buildings department then to allow me to translocate the trees to the fresh road margins. There was no response. Later, I approached villages in the neighbourhood and several private property owners who were more than willing to adopt the trees if translocated,” Mr.Uday Krishna shared.
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||6-year TRS rule a saga of unkept promises: Congress||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and working president A. Revanth Reddy observed that the six-year rule of Telangana Rashtra Samithi in the State would be remembered mostly for unkept promises. Speaking separately here on Monday, the two Congress leaders and MPs from Nalgonda and Malkajgiri, respectively, alleged that the TRS government had successfully pushed Telangana ideologues K. Jayashankar and Kaloji Narayana Rao into oblivion during the last six years. It had also put the movement slogan of ‘neellu, nidhulu, niyaamakaalu’ (water, funds and employment) in cold storage and pursued only those policies which would benefit the ruling party. Recollecting his wordy duel with Minister G. Jagadish Reddy in Nalgonda on Sunday, the TPCC chief stated that farmers were not benefited by loan waiver announced by the ruling party so far this year. He reiterated the Congress demand for one-time settlement of loan waiver to farmers as was done in Chhattisgarh within an hour of the Congress government coming to power last year to clear farmers debt of Rs. 11,000 crore in one stroke. TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy said while students, artistes, RTC employees and Singareni workers led by M. Kodandaram spearheaded the movement for statehood, its fruits were being enjoyed by a select few. The TRS government has failed to respect and recognise even the sacrifice of martyrs and even cases against the agitators were not lifted so far. On the slogans of water and jobs, he said while Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was planning to take away water, jobs had never knocked the doors of the unemployed youth of Telangana all these six years. The list of unkept promises such as three-acre land to landless Dalit families, and others was very long, he pointed out.
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Travellers to/from AP should register first||Citizens going to Andhra Pradesh either by trains or by air or by road on buses should compulsorily enrol their names in Spandana website of the government indicating the reasons and buy tickets only after approval. Each and every passenger will thermally screened on arrival at disembarkation points, according to rules framed by the medical and health department. Persons travelling from ‘high risk’ areas like Maharastra, Gujarat, Delhi, Chennai, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan with symptoms will be transported to the nearest quarantine facility for seven days, when they will be tested and if found to be negative, they will moved to seven more days of home quarantine. If they test positive, they will be sent to COVID hospital or care centre. Even asymptomatic persons will be moved to the seven-day quarantine in their respective districts and tested after seven days and if negative, it will be seven days of home quarantine and if it is positive, they will be sent to COVID hospital/care centre. However, people above 60 years of age, pregnant and lactating mothers, children below the age of 10 years and those suffering from terminal illnesses like cancer, chronic, kidney stones, stroke, etc will be exempted. Exemption is given to business persons from home quarantine if they furnish a negative report from a ICMR-certified laboratory within three days of arrival. Or, swab samples will be sent for testing and till the results are out they will be on paid quarantine facility. If the test is negative he or she can attend to the business works and return. For citizens returning from other ‘low risk’ States, swab samples will be collected on arrival and sent for home quarantine. If the test is positive they will be shifted to the nearest COVID care centre if home quarantine is not practicable. For international passengers, each one will be tested and sent to institutional quarantine for seven days and if negative post this period, it will home quarantine for another seven days. International passengers arriving from high incidence countries of Middle East, it will be 14 days of institutional quarantine even for asymptomatic cases. They will also be tested on arrival and after seven days. If found positive, they will be shifted to COVID care centres. However, exempted groups are the same as domestic passengers. Home quarantine is to be strictly monitored daily with help of ANM-APHealth App through personal visits and the list will also be shared with local police for strict compliance with any deviation to be reported to the higher authorities, the new stipulations said.
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Power utilities’ staff stage protest||Employees of four power utilities in the State and affiliated to over two-dozen associations/trade unions staged lunch-hour demonstrations wearing black badges across Telangana on Monday protesting the amendments proposed by the Centre to the Electricity Act. The protests were staged in response to a call given by the National Co-ordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers (NCCOEEE), a broad-based platform of all major federations of power sector of which Telangana State Power Employees Joint Action Committee (TSPEJAC) is a member. Speaking at protests at various places leaders of the JAC alleged that the move to amend the Electricity Act was mainly aimed at privatising the power distribution in States and Union Territories. Over 1.5 million employees working for power utilities owned by State and Central governments took part in the protests held across the country on Monday, the JAC leader said. Terming the bill ‘ “anti-farmer and anti-domestic consumer” they said the bill would pave the way for privatisation of the entire power sector in the country in phases. Once the bill would take shape of an Act and is implemented, the farmers would have to pay average monthly power bills of Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 6,000, while domestic consumers would have to pay at least Rs. 8 to Rs. 10 per unit of energy consumption for consumers using up to 300 units a month, JAC leaders N. Padma Reddy, E. Sridhar, P. Rathnakar Rao, P. Sadanandam, P. Beesi Reddy, M.A. Vazeer, B. Kumar Chary and others said.
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS rebuts claims of TPCC leaders||Government Whip Karne Prabhakar has criticised the Congress leaders stating that they were trying to spread lies to defame the TRS government. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, Mr. Prabhakar said people were well aware as to who supported late Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy government’s decision to enhance the water drawal capacity of Pothireddypadu head regulator from 11,000 cusecs to 42,000 cusecs in 2005 and reiterated the State government would continue its fight against Andhra Pradesh’ plans to increase the capacity of the system one more time by another 40,000 cusecs. Helping hand Meanwhile, former MP K. Kavitha has come forward to help an economically poor tribal student who secured a seat in the prestigious IIM Ranchi by extending financial support — paying a fee of Rs. 1 lakh a year to pursue higher education there. Son of agricultural labourers in Kalwakurthy area, Mahesh Kurukula, managed to get a seat in IIM Ranchi but his parents were not a position to pay the fee. He appealed to the former MP over a social media platform seeking financial support to get admission into IIM. The former MP responded immediately to Mr. Mahesh’s tweet and offered financial support to him. She congratulated Mr. Mahesh on his achievement.
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP plans Krishna Water Struggle Committee||Telangana unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday has resolved to form a ‘Krishna Waters Struggle Committee’ to seek justice to the State in allotment of adequate water and to protest against the ‘secret-pact’ between Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on utilisation of the river waters. This was stated by party president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay after a day-long meeting of top party leaders and experts at the party office, including Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, former president K. Laxman, general secretary P. Muralidhar Rao, MLC N. Ramchander Rao and others. Mr. Sanjay claimed that Telangana has been denied rightful share of Krishna river water for many years during the united Andhra Pradesh days and even now after the formation of Telangana State there has not been much of a difference. In fact, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao government had failed to put up a strong argument in favour of rightful share of waters before the Brijesh Kumar Tribunal and had looked the other way even when the neighbouring State was taking up several projects indiscriminately.  Planned protests The meeting decided to take up the protest programme in a planned manner and the modalities of the struggle committee are to be finalised shortly where the failure of TS government will be highlighted, he maintained. The BJP leaders charged that Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao had only written a token letter protesting against these projects whereas the party had convinced the Centre to hold a Krishna-Godavari River Board meeting. Former MP Vivek Venkateswami, former minister D.K. Aruna, former MLC P. Sudhakar Reddy, State general secretary Premander Reddy and others charged the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government with being mired in irrigation scams by going for redesign of existing projects and criticised it for being unable to protect the interests of Telangana.
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DRDO fashions another COVID disinfection unit||Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has developed a disinfection unit named ‘Ultra Swachh’ to disinfect a wide range of materials, including personal protective equipment, electronics items, fabrics, etc. The Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences, the Delhi-based laboratory of DRDO, has developed this product with industry partner Gel Craft Healthcare, Ghaziabad. The system uses an advanced oxidative process comprising of multiple barrier disruption approach using ‘Ozonated Space Technology’ for disinfection. The system is double layered with specialised ozone sealant technology assuring trapping of ozone for the necessary disinfection cycle. It also has catalytic converter to ensure environment friendly exhaust — only oxygen and water. Safety standards The system is in compliance with international standards of industrial, occupational, personal and environmental safety. Ultra Swachh comes in two variants — Ozonated Space and Trinetra Technology. Trinetra technology is the combination of ozonated space and radical dispenser. Treatment is optimised with automation for quick disinfection cycle. The system operates on 15 ampere, 220 volts and 50 Hertz power supply. It has been provided with safety features such as emergency shutdown, door interlocks, dual door, delay cycle, and leak monitors, etc. to ensure safe operations for longer duration. Cabinets of different sizes will be available for the industry, an official spokesman informed on Monday.
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||City outskirts to get 300-km. new CC roads||The GHMC has sanctioned new CC roads for the city outskirts where no pucca roads exist till now. A total of 300 kilometres of CC roads have been sanctioned with an expenditure of Rs. 170 crore, Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan informed during a meeting with the Engineering Department and CRMP agencies. Mr. Ram Mohan has issued directions to the officials to leave margins for pipelines and cables by the new roads so that digging of the road is not required in future. The Mayor has also warned against digging the city roads at will, and asked the CRMP agencies to ensure no road cutting takes place on the 709 kilometres of roads handed over to them. No department has the right to dig up CRMP roads without their permission, he asserted. Some other agencies are using the lapsed permission up to May 15 to take up the digging now, which cannot be permitted. Keeping in view the recent rains that lashed the city, Mr.Ram Mohan has asked the CRMP agencies to restore the damaged roads within 24 hours. He also asked the Projects Wing to complete the pending foundations and pillars of the SRDP structures within one week so as to facilitate traffic. He also issued instructions to officials on de-silting of nalas, water stagnation, sanitation, and other monsoon works. Earlier in the day, Mr.Ram Mohan launched the special sanitation drive taken up by GHMC from Lalitha Nagar of Musheerabad circle. The drive will continue till June 8.
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM asked to address lacunae in existing schemes for ryots||Even as Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao disclosed recently that an important announcement that will surprise the world will be made soon for the agriculture sector and farmers in a week, organisations working for the welfare and rights of farmers requested the government to first address the lacunae in the implementation of existing schemes and policies. While the schemes like loan waiver, Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bima, among others, which are already in implementation are laudable for their positive provisions, there are many lacunae in their implementation, organisations like Rythu Swarajya Vedika and National Alliance for People’s Movement said calling attention of the government to the shortfalls in the implementation of the schemes. As a result, the funds under these schemes not only got misused, but they also did not improve the lot of farmers and their families continue to be caught in deep crisis. The genuine farmers cultivating various crops could not come out of debt trap. The reports of National Crime Records Bureau highlighted that there was no let up in farmers’ suicides and these suicides were validated by reports in the media and information compiled under the RTC Act , the RSV and NAPM representatives said. The organisations urged the government to do the ground work like identification of genuine cultivators in every survey number of agricultural landand correction of farmers’ revenue records .
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor greets people||Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan has greeted the people of Telangana on the sixth anniversary of the Formation Day of the State. In a message issued here on Monday, the Governor said: “Formed on this day in 2014 as the 29th State, after a hard-fought peaceful people’s movement never seen before in the annals of the country’s history, Telangana State has made rapid strides in all spheres of development, besides becoming the torchbearer for many innovative development and welfare programs for other States to emulate. “People’s happiness quotient is the barometer to measure the success of any government. I am confident that the combination of the State government and the people of Telangana will prove its mettle, and will realize the most cherished goal of ‘Bangaru Telangana’ soon,” she said in her message. Governor’s birthday On the occasion of the State Formation Day and Governor’s birthday on Tuesday, the Governor would inaugurate a Goshala and plant fruit bearing saplings on the premises of Raj Bhavan. She also would presents awards to the winners in the “Chancellor’s connect” at Darbar hall.
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pension, salary deferment pleas posted to June 15||The Telangana High Court on Monday posted a batch of PIL petitions challenging deferment of pensions by 25% to retired employees and salaries by 50% of serving employees by State government to June 15. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy heard the separate pleas filed by senior lawyer S. Satyam Reddy, lawyer Ravi Shankar Jandhyala and some retired government employees on these matters. Pensioners told the court that they are dependent on pension to meet all their expenses. With the government deciding to defer 25% of their monthly pension, the pensioners are finding it difficult to meet their medical expenses in the lockdown period, their lawyer said. Advocate General B.S. Prasad sought adjournment of the matters stating that government would be ready to present its arguments on the matters.  In another PIL petition, the bench said it cannot direct GHMC to take action against industrial units causing pollution since the civic body is occupied in tackling coronavirus pandemic. The bench was hearing the plea seeking a direction to the civic body to close down industries damaging environment in Shastrinagar, Tatanagar, Katedan and other localities where some persons are operating industries without permission from the government. The petitioners alleged that such factories, by releasing wastage into drains, are causing irreparable damage to the environment. The bench directed the GHMC authorities to file a detailed counter affidavit explaining how many industries were put on notice and closed for damaging the environment.
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress petitions Governor on OU lands||A delegation of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) called on Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at Raj Bhavan here on Monday and complained about the government silence on the grabbing of Osmania University lands by a cooperative housing society. Led by Congress Legislature Party leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka, senior party leaders V. Hanumantha Rao and T. Jayaprakash Reddy and others met the Governor and took the matter of grabbing of OU lands by private persons. Speaking after meeting the Governor, the Congress leaders alleged that with the help of some individuals in power in the State and at the Centre, Tualsi Cooperative Housing Society, is grabbing the university lands. They said that they requested the Governor to instruct the State government to get the university land by Survey of India and protect the valuable land. Stating that the government is wilfully neglecting the universities by denying them required funds and by not filling vacancies as part of its plans to privatise education at higher (university) level.
02 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Traffic curbs in city today||In view of Telangana formation day celebration at Gunpark on Tuesday, the Hyderabad traffic police issued an advisory. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will visit Gunpark, opposite Public Gardens, Nampally, to pay tributes to the Telangana Martyrs at 8.30 a.m. Traffic will be stopped or diverted from 8.30 a.m. to 9 a.m. at Raj Bhavan Road, VV Statue Khairatabad, Nirankari Circle, Old Saifabad police station, Ravindra Bharathi Junction and AR Petrol Bunk Nampally Road. “We request the public to take note of the above programme and plan their movements accordingly and cooperate with the police station,” said Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar.
02 June 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Ration dealers protest demanding commission||The ration dealers in various parts of Karimnagar district are again on agitation with their charter of demands, including payment of commission for distribution of rice during the lockdown period and insurance coverage of Rs. 50 lakh to each ration dealer. On Monday they wore black badges and distributed rice to ration cardholders, though they had planned closure of shops. They alleged that the government had not paid them commission for distribution of free rice to ration card holders in the district since March. Quoting an instance of death of a ration dealer in Peddapalli due to COVID-19 a few days ago, the ration dealers demanded that the government provide them safety kits, sanitisers etc.
02 June 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Woman, child killed in road accident||A woman and her three-year-old daughter were killed on the spot when a speeding truck hit the bike on which they were riding pillion at Thallampadu village near here on Monday. The victims were identified as 25-year-old N Sujatha and her daughter of Suryapet district.
02 June 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Endless wait for bodies of migrant workers||They lost their family’s breadwinner six months ago, but still haven’t been able to bring back Paidi Jagan Reddy’s body from Saudi Arabia where he was employed. Poor and uneducated, they have been running from pillar to post requesting for help, but to no avail. Jagan Reddy (59), a native of Kalojiwadi in Tadwai mandal, travelled to the desert country through agent to work as shepherd in the province of Tabuk where he reportedly died of a heart attack. His body was kept in the mortuary of a hospital in Tayyib-Ism, a small town in north-western Saudi Arabia. He is survived by wife Sangavva, sons Ravinder Reddy and Rakesh Reddy. Ravinder is also a migrant labourer, currently in Dubai. Jagan Reddy’s only daughter, Latha, is married and her husband Santhosh Reddy works in Dammam of Saudi Arabia. As the family owns just one acre of land which is unyielding, Sangavva is eking out her living as a coolie. She often suffers from epileptic fits. Since her husband’s death, she has approached many officials and elected representatives for help in bringing back his body for last rites but in vain, said Latha, who also works as a coolie. The family met Patkuri Basanth Reddy, president of Gulf Telangana Welfare and Cultural Association, on Monday, seeking his assistance. Sharing a similar fate as the Reddys is the family of Komera Ramulu, another migrant worker in Malaysia who died of heart failure three months ago. Belonging to Ekeenpur in Korutla mandal of Jagtial district, Ramulu had gone to work in United Palm Oil plantations in Hutan Melitang at Perak in Malaysia nine months ago to earn enough money to clear his Rs. 8 lakh debt. He has left behind his wife Sayamma, two minor sons and a minor daughter. Due to penury and Ramulu’s inability to send home money, his children discontinued school to work in the fields, said the deceased worker’s brother-in-law, Allepu Bhoomaiah. Mr. Basanth Reddy said he unsuccessfully tried through members of his association and embassies to bring back the bodies. “It could not be possible. Total lockdown is a reason for the delay in process. Only the Central and State governments can initiate steps to bring the bodies,” he added.
02 June 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||319 Odisha workers home bound||As many as 319 migrant workers from Odisha who were stranded due to lockdown in Mopal and Makloor mandals here were sent to Karimnagar in nine RTC buses on Monday. The workers were employed at brick kilns and construction sites, and travel to their villages in Odisha in a Shramik Special from Karimnagar. Authorities have provided them sanitisers, face masks and food packets. Before allowing them to board the buses, the medical and health personnel subjected them to thermal screening and other health examinations at the Rajiv Gandhi Auditorium here amid tight security. Collector C. Narayana Reddy and Commissioner of Police Kartikeya supervised the arrangements and checks. Municipal Commissioner Jitesh V. Patil, RDO Venkataiah, ACP G. Srinivaskumar and Traffic ACP Prabhakar Rao were present.
02 June 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Employees of power utilities protest||Electricity employees and officers staged a demonstration protesting against the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill-2020 by the Centre, in front of the Power House, here on Monday. Wearing black badges, members of different electricity employee associations held a lunch hour demonstration for one hour and shouted slogans against the proposed Bill. They decided to continue struggles under the banner of TSPEJAC till the proposals were withdrawn by the Centre.
02 June 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Share your lands with us, help us continue as farmers’||Telangana will never forget the sacrifices made by the oustees who gave up their lands to enable the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project become a reality, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said after launching the pumping of water from Markook pump house into Kondapochammsagar, in the presence of Tridandi Srimannarayarayana China Jeeyar Swamy, on Friday last. The Chief Minister referred to the villages — Mamidyala, Bahilampur and Thanedarpally — that were submerged under the Kondapochammasagar and said that the government would provide employment to the youth of the displaced families in the food processing industries that would be established near the Tunkibollaram Rehabilitation and Resettlement Colony Some of the displaced farmers from Mamidyala made a fervent appeal to Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao and other leaders who have significant land holdings to part with a portion of their holdings to ensure that the displaced farmers not only continue to till the land but also reap the benefits provided by the Kaleshwaram Project. Making it clear that they were not happy with having to join the class of landless persons, residents of Mamidyala — E. Mattadamma, Patchimadla Balanarsu and others — wrote letters a day prior to release of water into Kondapochammasagar to Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao, Industry and IT Minister K. Taraka Rama Rao, former MP K. Kavitha, chairman of Forest Development Corporation V. Pratap Reddy and former MLA T. Narsa Reddy. “We were the residents of Mamidyala village in Mulugu mandal who were forced to give up everything to Kondapochammasagar. Once proud farmers, now we are not in a position to enjoy the fruits of Godavari water,” the displaced farmers wrote. “You can recognise our sacrifice by sharing only a part of yourand take compensation under Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act – 2017 (Telangana Amendment).from the Siddipet District Collector Your kindheartedness will be recognised by society forever.”
02 June 2020||WARANGAL RURAL DT.,TELANGANA||State will set up godowns in every constituency: Errabelli||The State government has decided to construct godowns in every constituency to help farmers stock their produce, said Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao. He was launching a special sanitation drive at Varikol village in Nadikuda mandal here on Monday. MLC P Srinivasa Rao Reddy, district Collector M Haritha, Panchayat Raj Principal Secretary Sandeep Kumar Sultania, MLA Ch Dharma Reddy and others were present. The minister listed out the welfare programmes taken up by KCR government for farmers. He said there were times when farmers did not get marriage alliances. There were times when farmers committed suicide due to losses and suffered on account of shortage of power and water. “Now it is all history. You can see uninterrupted power and plenty of water,” he said, urging the people to strengthen the hands of K. Chandrasekhar Rao who was striving hard to turn the very face of Telangana. The State government despite problems spent Rs. 30,000 crore for paddy procurement, spent Rs. 7,000 crore for Rythu Bandhu and there are many such initiatives. MLC Pochampally Srinivasa Reddy wanted the people to plant more saplings and improve greenery in the villages. He promised to bring more infrastructure development to the village.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Cleaner environs||
02 June 2020||Bhopal,||Workers who returned in trucks, buses test positive in M.P. districts||About 70 of the 93 infected migrant workers in Morena district, the most for any district of Madhya Pradesh, had travelled back crammed in trucks, buses or private vehicles which contributed to the infection spread, besides the fact that most of them were returning from the country’s COVID-19 hotspots, said district officials. Racked by uncertainty over the lockdown’s duration with many running out of money and food, workers desperately tried to return home by any means — few boarded the Shramik Special trains. Madhya Pradesh, besides being a central passageway for workers returning to other States, saw the return of 14,29,171 workers between April 15 and June 1, of whom 430, or just 0.03%, had tested positive for COVID-19 so far, said the State’s Health department. Morena, which borders Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, apart from reporting the most cases had collected the most number of samples, at 2,124, from workers and passengers. Workers returned mostly from hotspots such as Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Pune, New Delhi, Agra and Surat, and unknowingly ended up infecting their families back home, explained District Chief Medical and Health Officer R.C. Bandil. Dr. Bandil said that barely anyone who came by train had tested positive. “It was mainly those who came huddled in trucks and small vehicles.” For instance, nine of 12 passengers, including a pregnant woman who had travelled in a mini truck from Ahmedabad, tested positive. “You can imagine how closely they would be sitting on the two-day journey, with less than a foot’s distance between two passengers,” he said. In Rewa district, 24 returned workers and passengers have tested positive. “Invariably all who tested positive returned by trucks or buses, and no one from trains,” said Rewa CMHO R.S. Pandey. “We found six cases who travelled in the same truck,” he added. Most of the workers had returned from Mumbai, Surat and Ahmedabad.
02 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab imposes ‘COVID cess’ on liquor||Liquor is going to cost more in Punjab as the State government on Monday imposed a ‘COVID cess’ on the sale of alcohol. The Punjab government has raised additional excise duty and additional assessed fee on liquor in the range of Rs. 2 to Rs. 50 depending upon the type of liquor. The move, that was cleared by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, will help the State mop up an additional revenue of Rs. 145 crore in the current fiscal, said an official statement. The State is facing a revenue shortfall of Rs. 26,000 crore, which is 30% of the total budget revenue estimates for FY 2020-21, necessitating some tough measures to generate additional revenue, said the Chief Minister. He accepted the recommendation of the Group of Ministers, which was constituted on May 12 to examine the matter, to levy additional excise duty and additional assessed fee on liquor during the current financial year. The proceeds of the additional levy will be utilised entirely for COVID-related expenditure, said Capt. Amarinder, directing the Department of Excise and Taxation to charge the cess in the current year, at the time of issuance of permits for transportation of liquor from L-1/L-13 (wholesale licences). In line with the recommendations, the Department of Excise and Taxation has decided to impose additional assessed fee on imported foreign liquor and imported beer, and additional excise duty on other types of liquor.
02 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘COVID-19 cases are rising in Gurugram due to easing of curbs’||In the wake of a sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases in Gurugram over the past few days — the numbers have almost trebled since May 26 — Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri on Monday asserted that the administration was prepared to deal with the situation. He claimed that the city has provisions for 4,000 beds and 400 ventilators in private and government hospitals and another thousand beds would soon be added in the government facilities. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Khatri attributed the spike in cases to the easing of lockdown restrictions and Gurugram’s proximity to areas with high incidences of infection. “Though the cross-border movement was regulated, the borders were never fully closed,” said Mr. Khatri. He claimed that 50-60% of cases reported in Gurugram so far were linked to neighbouring areas. “When we had 250 cases, as many as 141 were linked to neighbouring areas,” said Mr. Khatri. Total of 903 cases As per the state health bulletin for June 1, Gurugram has recorded 903 cases and four deaths. The total number of active cases is 615. On May 26, the district had only 317 cases. Gurugram not only has the highest number of cases in the district but also accounts for almost half of the State’s active cases. Mr. Khatri said the administration had issued Standard Operating Procedures for industries and others to contain the spread, running a Helpline-1950 that had received around 1.03 lakh calls and issued directions to the private hospitals and nursing homes to not to turn away COVID-19 patients. He claimed the number of sample collections had been increased from 250 per day earlier to around 600-650 per day and the restrictions in the containment zones were being enforced strictly. “If required, almost 80% of the beds in the city hospitals could be reserved for COVID-19 patients, though only around 150 beds are occupied as of date. Around 2,000 more beds could be added by converting hotels into paid isolation centres,” said Mr. Khatri. He said only 30 patients required ventilator support thus far, though none in the government hospitals. Besides, around 20 patients were serious and given intensive care. A special quarantine and sample collection facility was set up for the policemen at the Police Lines.
02 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||800 migrants from Bihar left stranded in stadium||More than 800 migrants from Bihar, including women and children, were left stranded at Tau Devi Lal Stadium here on Monday after they could not be accommodated in a Shramik Special Train. Blaming lack of “coordination” between government agencies, Gurugram Nagrik Ekta Manch member Capt. (retd.) Rupinder Kaur said that a special train was scheduled to leave from Gurugram on Monday and migrants from four districts had come to the stadium on buses. The train, the administration said, was to carry migrants from Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha. “But the administration realised that the number of migrants from Bihar was swelling and stopped entry to them. As many as 17 buses, including 11 from Rewari, carrying migrants from Bihar were then sent back after they were made to wait for hours,” said Ms. Kaur.  Sub-Divisional Magistrate (Sohna) Chinar Chahal told The Hindu she had made arrangements for the stranded workers to be sent to Bihar in buses.
02 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Religious places, hotels and malls to reopen in Assam from June 8||The Assam government has allowed places of worship, hotels, restaurants and shopping malls to open among a slew of activities from June 8. A notification from the State government on Monday said shooting of films and videos in open spaces and studios, operation of barbershops and parlours for hair trimming only, yoga, morning walk and jogging in open spaces and public parks without any sitting arrangement, have also been allowed with immediate effect. The relaxation is with a few riders. Operators of all activities allowed have to maintain strict maintenance of social distancing norms while barbers have to wear masks and gloves and ensure frequent sanitisation. Religious places and places of worship have been told not to let in more than 20 people per hour. The number of attendees would have to be reduced if such a place has a small area. All religious institutions have also been instructed to issue disposable paper tokens to regulate the number of visitors and ensure safe disposal of tokens before they enter the precincts. “Hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services will have a maximum of 50% of total capacity at a time. For the performance of yoga, morning walk, jogging, etc., in open spaces and public parks, persons entrusted with the responsibility of maintenance of the areas shall be responsible for maintaining social distancing and hygiene norms,” the notification said.  Schools to remain closed However, all educational institutes, coaching centres, cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places have not been allowed to reopen. Same with social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions, and other large-scale congregations.
02 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan back to normal as most curbs go||Except the hotspots where curfew was clamped to check the spread of COVID-19, shops and offices reopened in all the towns of Rajasthan and traffic on the roads became normal with the movement of private and commercial vehicles across the State on Monday. The State government’s guidelines for the fifth phase of lockdown gave wide-ranging relaxations to the public at large. Under the new guidelines applicable till June 30, the State government has done away with the zone system for classification of districts according to their virus infection cases. Though the Union Home Ministry has permitted opening of shopping malls and places of worship from June 8, they will continue to remain closed in the State. The Walled City of Jaipur, where curfew was in force since March 26 for prevention of community spread of COVID-19, witnessed heavy congestion on the roads, as people ventured out to buy essential items. Policemen forced the closure of several shops where huge crowds had gathered without paying attention to the social distancing norms. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot asked the people of the State to remain alert, saying the COVID-19 remained “very much a threat” and the fight was still on. “Our safety lies in following the guidelines of personal hygiene and social distancing. We need to take all precautions compulsorily until we overcome,” he said.  Containment zones Jaipur Police Commissioner Anand Srivastava said 23 containment zones around the houses of COVID-19 patients had been identified in Ramganj, Galta Gate, Manak Chowk, Subhash Chowk, Kotwali and Nahargarh areas in the Walled City, where curfew would remain in force. Some densely populated narrow lanes and markets in the Walled City will also remain closed. Historical monuments and tourist places in the State reopened after over two months of closure. The Department of Archaeology and Museums organised cultural events and performances by folk artistes at 32 monuments, including in Jaipur, on the occasion. The monuments will open four days a week for the first two weeks in June and will later open daily for the tourists. Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeev Swarup, who issued the guidelines for lockdown 5.0, said the new rules were aimed at “cautious resumption” of normalcy through precautionary and safety measures.
02 June 2020||Lucknow,||Court denies bail to Lallu||A special MP-MLA court on Monday rejected the bail plea of Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajai Kumar Lallu, arrested on charges of alleged forgery of documents of buses arranged by his party for ferrying stranded migrant labourers during the COVID-19 lockdown. Judge P.K. Rai said Mr. Lallu was not entitled for bail at this stage as the offence was serious in nature.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi seals borders for a week||The Capital’s borders have been sealed for a week in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases in the city, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday, adding that feedback from citizens will be considered on reopening the borders. The announcement as well as lack of clarity on Inter-State movement from neighbouring States triggered mass confusion and congestion at the borders. Mr. Kejriwal said that feedback on reopening the borders could be sent to the Delhi government till 5 p.m. on Friday. “Today I am here to ask for your guidance on a very important question: should the borders of Delhi be opened? There is an important aspect of this question. COVID cases are rising in Delhi, which is a matter of worry but there is no need to panic. I say this because the AAP government has invested a lot in developing the healthcare infrastructure of Delhi in the last five years,” he said. “As soon as we open the borders, people from across the country will come to Delhi for better treatment. We have capacity of 9,500 beds for COVID-19 treatment in Delhi hospitals as against 2,300 patients today, but all the beds will be occupied in just 2-3 days if we have an influx of patients from across the country,” he added. “Please send in your suggestions. You can WhatsApp your suggestions at 8800007722, or email atdelhicm.suggestions@gmail.com.You can also record your suggestions on the number 1031,” said the CM. Mr. Kejriwal’s announcement to seal the borders left many disappointed. ‘Playing ping-pong’ Hoping to meet her parents in Dwarka after almost three months, Gurugram resident Sonia Abrol, a corporate lawyer, said all her hopes had been dashed. “It seems the two governments are playing ping-pong with the people,” said Ms. Abrol.  Criticising the move, Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said: “Delhi also has large central government hospitals like AIIMS, Ram Manohar Lohia and Safdarjung. How can Mr. Kejriwal decide that no patient from other States will come to these hospitals for treatment?” At the Delhi-Gurugram border, Sub-Inspector Vijay Singh, deployed at the border on National Highway-48, said commuters turned up in droves due to rumours that Haryana had lifted movement curbs. Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri said there were no formal orders so far on inter-State movement. Traffic chaos Meanwhile, massive congestion was also witnessed at the Noida and Ghaziabad borders. Vehicles piled up at Kalindi Kunj, Mayur Vihar and DND Flyway leading to long traffic jams. In a tweet, Delhi Traffic Police said that vehicles other than those involved in essential services will require a movement pass. Later in the day, the Gautam Buddha Nagar police extended till June 30 the curbs imposed across Noida and Greater Noida under CrPC Section 144 in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||Capital records 990 new cases||A total of 990 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 20,834, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. Also, 50 more deaths have been reported, taking the count to 523. But only 12 of these deaths were reported in the past 24 hours. Of the total cases, 8,746 people have recovered and there are 11,565 active cases. With the ongoing spike in the number of cases, the number of containment zones has gone up from 73 on May 18 to 124 on Monday. A containment zone has a stricter form of the lockdown and people are not allowed to leave or enter a containment zone. Meanwhile, a New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) employee who had tested positive for COVID-19 died, said NDMC officials. “He was around 35 years of age and repaired sewer lines. He came to the office last on May 23 and said that he was not feeling well and went home. Later, he was tested positive and died on Sunday,” the official said. The official said that the NDMC is in the process of giving a compensation of Rs. 15 lakh to the family of the deceased. In total, 33 NDMC employees have tested positive for the virus so far.  Parks open  Lodi Gardens, Nehru Park and Talkatora Garden will be open to walkers and joggers between 5.30 a.m. and 11.00 a.m. and from 4.30 p.m. to 8.30 p.m. till June 30, the NDMC said. But open gym, yoga, and any other activities is not allowed. Earlier, these parks were open from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m., and 3.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||Post-lockdown grooming: salons open now but business trimmed||Opening shops after over two months of COVID-19-induced lockdown, salons and barbershops are taking some precautions to curtail the transmission of the virus in a trade that makes social distancing impossible. But more than the disease, costs of continuing business weigh heavy in the minds of the owners. Naveen Chauhan from Bhogal, who runs two salons in Kalkaji, said he will have to shut at least one down immediately because he can’t pay the rent anymore. With a rent of nearly Rs. 1 lakh/month, Mr. Chauhan said he was negotiating with his landlord to waive or reduce the amount but he was not acceding. On Monday, Chauhan had customers at his salon getting haircuts and even manicures. But the precautions seemed to be weak — the clients were not wearing masks. Mr. Chauhan said strict precautions would be taken starting Tuesday. “We had just opened up to clean the store but people started coming in and we decided not to refuse because most of the staff does not have any money,” he said, adding that they were surviving on rice and dal provided at a government school nearby. In terms of precautions, he plans to allow a limited number of staff inside his store, install sanitiser dispensers inside and outside, and ensure all staff to wear masks. Clients cannot be forced to wear masks while giving a haircut, he said, adding that he usually accommodates five clients at a time but will allow only two of them now. He said that he did not fire any of his staff, but has been forced to reduce their salaries and set up an incentive system where they would be coming in on a rotation basis. Asim Alvi, who has two new stores in Kalkaji, said he would close one as most of his staff have gone back to their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh. Like others, he said rent was a major concern for him as well. “The government should have intervened but instead, they are forcing us to pay rent as well as carry on business. We are also scared of getting infected but we can’t sit at home,” he added. Anish, who works at a salon, has not been able to pay rent for the last two months. While the salon he works at, is yet to open, but he said the owner has promised to provide them with face shields and other PPE kits. The salon business is likely to see a major dip in revenue, said owners. People are unlikely to come in for facials as weddings are not taking place now, they said, adding that costs are also likely to increase with the need to buy masks and gloves for the staff.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC disposes of plea on non-payment of wages||The Delhi High Court has disposed of a petition claiming non-payment of wages to workers during lockdown with liberty to the employees to approach the authority concerned under the Delhi Shops and Establishments Act, 1954. Justice Navin Chawla stated that “the petition raises disputed questions of fact which cannot be adjudicated while exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India”. The petition, by some employees of a car rental service, has sought direction to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to implement its March 29, 2020 order passed under Section 10(2)(l) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The MHA order had directed the State government to issue necessary orders to their District Magistrate/Deputy Commissioner and Senior Superintendent of Police, etc. to take measures to ensure that all the employers make payment of wages to their workers during the lockdown. The High Court noted that while the petitioners claimed that they had been in continuous and uninterrupted employment of the company, this was disputed by the company, which claimed that the services of the petitioners were availed of only on work basis and not as permanent employees. Delhi government’s standing counsel, Sanjoy Ghose, assured the High Court that as and when such application is filed by the petitioners, “endeavour shall be made to dispose of the same as expeditiously as possible and preferably within a period of three months of its receipt”. The High Court also made it clear that “in such proceedings, both parties shall provide full assistance to the authority concerned and shall not take any unnecessary adjournment”.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘I have stayed in plastic gowns for hours without food’||Mahmood Saifi’s joy knew no bounds when he got his kidnapped son back after six years with the help and intervention of late External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, in the matter. This incident is four years old but the 46-year-old man still and does not let any opportunity to help the ones in need go. As the lockdown was announced in March, Mr. Saifi, a resident of Seemapuri, lost his job of a mechanic with a noted brand’s service centre in Ghaziabad. When he was asked by a friend if he would be willing to work as a driver for a private ambulance service working for Lok Nayak Hospital, he grabbed the offer. He was told that the job would include transporting COVID-19 patients and bodies and would bring him Rs. 15,000 a month. He joined on April 23 after having stayed at home and out of work for a month. Ever since, he has taken no leave. “My former boss asked me to join again, but there are a few drivers who are willing to transport COVID-19 bodies or patients. When I was in despair, I met a lot of people who were God-sent for me. Yes, I had agreed to do the job as I was in need of money. But I will continue to do it till the situation gets better irrespective of the fact that the money is less,” he said, adding that his previous employer paid him Rs. 25,000 per month. However, he said, his willingness to work for a good cause has led to a “social boycott”. Recalling the time when he had started, he said he had to lie at home about the job. He had told his wife that he was going to work as a driver. However, two days later, his wife happened to attend a call from the hospital and got to know his “secret”. Within a day or two, his neighbourhood also came to know about it. What followed was hurtful. “They all stopped talking to me or coming near me. In fact, they also made a PCR call and told the police that they could contract the virus because of me. Eventually, a doctor from the hospital had to speak to the police and the matter was resolved. Our entire family is still getting such treatment by most of the neighbours,” he said. Sharing other hardships of being a COVID-19 designated ambulance driver, Mr. Saifi said that the situation got better after the government allowed cremation on wood pyres but earlier, the drivers used to bring three-five bodies to the cremation ground and would stay for five-six hours till the vehicles were emptied. “The number of bodies were thrice the number of working CNG machines. I have stayed for hours without food and water in either plastic gowns or PPE kit. We used to feel dehydrated,” he said. To keep themselves and their families safe, drivers take precautionary medicines every night after dinner and before going home, “I call my wife and tell her the time I will reach. When I enter, they all need to lock themselves in a room while I straight away enter the washroom for bathing and washing clothes,” he said, adding that he makes at least four-five rounds from hospital to cremation grounds and graveyards, often with families of COVID-19 patients. Mr. Saifi also said that his son’s story dates back to 2016. He said that the late External Affairs Minister had even tweeted about his son. In 2010, his son Sonu was kidnapped and taken to Bangladesh where he was made to work as a domestic help. A neighbour there found him and was determined to find Sonu’s parents. He reached Delhi and found Mr. Saifi — six years after Sonu’s kidnap. The involvement of the Ministry was required to bring the boy back home. A journalist then helped the family and tweeted to the Minister who took up the matter and helped him come back.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||Mobile clinic for COVID-19 testing started||Delhi Chief Secretary, Vijay Dev, on Monday flagged off a bus named ‘Corona Testing Mobile Clinic’ to collect samples for COVID-19 testing. The vehicle has been equipped with ultraviolet light for sterilisation. Mr. Dev said the performance of the bus in the South district will be reviewed and if found successful, they will extend the facility to other districts. The bus will be used in containment zones and other areas. The bus has artificial intelligence-enabled thermal imaging camera, air-tight separate cabins for doctors and technicians, contactless WiFi-enabled control panel, separate gates for doctors and patients among other facilities, the government said.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. runs social media campaign against govt.||The Delhi Congress on Monday ran a social media campaign against the Delhi government with an aim to highlight the latter’s “failures” in dealing with the pandemic. The hashtag — #FailKejriwalSarkar — was used by the social media department of the Delhi Congress to share tweets from Delhiites and party leaders about the problems being faced by people due to the alleged miss-governance. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said Mr. Kejriwal relaxed the lockdown rules, resulting in cases rising substantially every day and had now decided to open up markets and other activities that were prohibited during the lockdown. “Mr. Kejriwal is following the guidelines of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and is not using his wisdom as Chief Minister before taking a decision to unlock,” Mr. Kumar said. He added that Mr. Kejriwal sealed the borders of Delhi without realising that many people travel to Delhi and vice versa for work, thus creating chaos at the borders, and is now asking feedback from the people, though he had not bothered to discuss the matter with his own MLAs and the Opposition parties when he sealed the borders. “Mr. Kejriwal is seeking the opinion of the people so that he can make the people scapegoats for the failures and incompetence of the Kejriwal Government,” Mr. Kumar added.
02 June 2020||New delhi,||HC seeks details on safety, sanitisation of safai karamcharis||The Delhi High Court on Monday ordered the city government and the three civic bodies to submit details of the number of sanitation workers in their jurisdictions and the number of Personal Protective Equipment kits provided to them on a daily basis to help then protect themselves from COVID-19.
02 June 2020||Alok Deshpande Mumbai,||COVID-19 pandemic delays scheme for tribal students||The Tribal Development Department’s ambitious scheme of admitting selected tribal students to renowned schools across the State from Class I and II in the coming academic year, has been deferred due to financial constraints in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Tribal Development Minister K.C. Padvi on Monday clarified that the scheme has not been cancelled, only suspended for this year. “The process of identifying schools for tribal students usually starts in March-April, which could not happen this year. In addition, the pandemic has severely hurt the State’s finances, resulting in expenditure cuts,” said Mr. Padvi. As much as 71% of the tribal department’s budget is spent on education. “With cuts announced for the ongoing fiscal, the department will not be able to run this scheme for new students this academic year,” he said. The Minister clarified that students already admitted to schools will continue to pursue their education unhindered. “If conditions improve, we may even decide to restart the scheme in the coming two to three months,” he added. The scheme which began in 2010-11, encourages selected tribal students from Class I and II to pursue their education in renowned residential schools with the State government paying the fees. At present, 50,269 students are studying under this scheme. Mr. Padvi said that the department is also setting up 52 new English and semi-English schools for tribal students. “The idea is to provide quality English education with qualified teachers. We are making sure that no student misses out on education,” he said.
02 June 2020||Mumbai,||10 NDRF teams ready; police shift homeless||As a cyclone is expected to hit Mumbai, Thane and other parts of the State, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has placed 10 teams on standby, while the Mumbai Police have started relocating the homeless to temporary shelters. NDRF officials said three teams are on standby in Mumbai, two in Palghar, two in Raigad, and one each in Thane, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. Their exact locations of deployment will be decided as per latest information from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday. “Keeping in mind the dual challenges of responding to situations in the middle of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have provided kits to all our personnel. Each kit comprises two full face masks, elbow-length gloves, raincoats with extensions that cover the face, soaps, sanitisers and detergent. All our personnel have been briefed on the procedures to be followed in light of the pandemic,” Commandant Anupam Srivastava, NDRF, said. Meanwhile, the Mumbai Police have started shifting people to safety. Officials said the lockdown rules will be enforced even more strictly over the next two days so that presence of people on the streets can be kept to a minimum. “We are moving the homeless and those staying in temporary or unsafe structures to safer locations. This is being done in collaboration with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. Messages are being sent out via social media platforms, urging citizens to stay indoors, while patrolling and deployment is being planned in accordance with the task at hand,” Mumbai Police spokesperson DCP Pranaya Ashok said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has kept its disaster management control room on high alert. All 24 ward offices have been ordered to relocate people living in flood-prone areas to nearby schools. The BMC has appealed to people not to step out during the period of the cyclone and not to stand under trees. ( With inputs from Tanvi Deshpande )
02 June 2020||Pune,||APMC vegetable market reopens with caution||The agricultural produce market committee (APMC) market at Gultekdi, which opened on May 31 after nearly two months of lockdown, witnessed a cautious resumption of business, operating well below its normal activity. Only 200 of the usual 1,500 trucks carrying agricultural produce entered Pune’s largest wholesale centre for vegetables and fruits, Market Yard, on Sunday and roughly the same number of vehicles came in on Monday as well, APMC officials said. With several COVID-19 positive cases found among traders at the APMC, authorities are taking no chances and have come up with a stringent set of rules to check the spread of the contagion. “We have made a number of changes in our operations since Sunday to prevent further outbreak of infection among traders, labourers and other personnel working here. Only 50% of the traders and their agents will be keeping their shops open every day. This way, we will prevent overcrowding,” said Pune APMC administrator B.J. Deshmukh, adding each trader would get a chance to transact business every alternate day. Furthermore, he said only one truck carrying agricultural produce would be offloaded in front of each shop. “The number of vehicles entering Market Yard has been significantly reduced to 200. Thermal screening of every person entering the yard is done while physical distancing and other precautions have to be strictly followed. Now that we have restarted business, we hope that the city’s residents will not have to face any shortage of fruits and vegetables,” Mr. Deshmukh said. The grocery and grain wholesale market within the APMC had resumed operations on May 25 after being intermittently shut during the lockdown. Meanwhile, retailers in Pune’s Mahathma Phule Market have demanded that the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) permit them to resume operations as well.
02 June 2020||Sonam Saigal Mumbai,||HC bats for RT-PCR method to test frontline staff in Vidarbha||The Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court on Monday said all frontline workers, including those who are asymptomatic, in hospitals and containment zones in Vidarbha shall be entitled to be tested for COVID-19 using RT-PCR (Rapid Antibody and Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) method. A Division Bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Citizens Forum for Equality seeking these tests on medical staff, police personnel and others working with COVID-19 patients. In a 37-page judgement, the court directed District Collectors or Commissioners, municipal corporations or Chief Executive Officers, municipal councils or competent authorities in the Vidarbha region to immediately use the RT-PCR tests. The NGO also sought directions for the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to frame appropriate guidelines for conducting these tests to safeguard their lives, as guaranteed under Article 21 (Right to Life) of the Constitution. The Bench directed ICMR to frame appropriate policy on this and prescribe the protocol for periodical testing of frontline workers in Vidarbha region with the RT-PCR method, within a week. The court said frontline workers, including doctors, nurses, police personnel, and sanitation workers are performing a “herculean” task by putting their lives at risk to protect the lives of others. “They are the warriors and soldiers in this process,” the court said, and added it was of the view that frontline workers are covered under the definition of suspected cases and hence, should be tested.
02 June 2020||Washington,||White House calls for ‘law and order’||The White House on Monday called for “law and order” and blamed agitators for a sixth straight night of violent nationwide U.S. protests triggered by anger over racial inequities and excessive police force. Police and fire departments fought into the night to quell chaos of fires burning near the White House and shops looted in New York City and Southern California. The National Guard said it had deployed in 23 States and Washington, D.C. The unrest, which erupted as the country was reopening after lengthy lockdowns to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus, began with peaceful protests over the death of a black man, George Floyd, in police custody in Minneapolis last Monday. Under curfew Dozens of cities across the United States remain under curfews at a level not seen since riots following the 1968 assassination of civil rights activist Martin Luther King Jr. “We need law and order in this country,” White House spokeswoman Kayleigh McEnany told Fox News. She said Antifa, an anti-fascist group, was “certainly behind” the violence. U.S. President Donald Trump, who on Sunday branded the group a terrorist organisation, was due on Monday to meet his top law enforcement officer behind closed doors and then hold a call with Governors, law enforcement and national security officials. Mr. Trump has made no major public statement to address the growing crisis but has issued a flurry of tweets, describing protesters as “thugs” and urging Mayors and Governors to “get tough”. He has threatened to utilise the U.S. military. Critics accuse Mr. Trump, who is seeking re-election in a November 3 election, of further stoking conflict and racial tension rather than seeking to bring the country together and address the underlying issues. Further disruption “He’s not helping... He is not leading, he is causing further disruption,” Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms told CNN on Monday. “Unless he is going to speak unity and respect and reconciliation and reform for our communities, then I don’t think that he should make a statement at all. It will only make matters worse.” Atlanta was among a string of cities where protests turned violent. Floyd’s death was the latest in a string of similar incidents involving unarmed black men in recent years that has raised an outcry over police force and racism, and reignited outrage across a politically and racially divided country that has been hard hit by the COVID-19 pandemic.
02 June 2020||Sydney,||Google rejects Australia’s call for payout||Google has rejected demands it pay hundreds of millions of dollars per year in compensation to Australian news media under a government-imposed revenue sharing deal. The company’s top executive in Australia said Google made barely Aus$10 million ($6.7 million) per year from news-linked advertising, a fraction of a government watchdog’s estimates for the sector. In an effort being closely watched around the world, Australia is set to unveil plans to force major Internet firms to share advertising revenue they earn from news featured in their services. The country’s competition regulator, the ACCC, has estimated that Google and Facebook together earn some Aus$6 billion ($4 billion) per year from advertising in Australia. Loss of revenue Leading news publishers have demanded the two companies pay at least 10% of that money each year to local news organisations, which they say have lost the vast majority of their advertising revenue to the global technology giants. Mel Silva, Google’s managing director for Australia, dismissed such figures as wildly unrealistic. “We all agree that high-quality news has great social value, but we need to understand the economics as well,” Ms. Silva said in a blog post on Sunday. She said Google last year earned just Aus$10 million in revenue from clicks on ads placed next to news-related search queries. “The bulk of our revenue comes not from news queries, but from queries with commercial intent, as when someone searches for ‘running shoes’ and then clicks on an ad,” she said. Ms. Silva also denied ACCC arguments that the tech firms gain significant “indirect benefits” from displaying news since the content draws users to their platforms. News “represents only a tiny number of queries” on Google, accounting last year for barely one percent of actions on Google Search in Australia, she said. The Google executive said her company on the other hand provided Australia’s news media with “substantial” value by sending people to their websites. She said Google search accounted for 3.44 billion visits to large and small Australian news publishers in 2018, valuing those referrals at more than Aus$200 million per year for the news companies.
02 June 2020||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong bans Tiananmen vigil for first time in 30 years||Hong Kong police on Monday banned an upcoming vigil marking the Tiananmen crackdown anniversary citing the COVID-19 pandemic, the first time the gathering has been halted in three decades. The candlelight June 4 vigil usually attracts huge crowds and is the only place on Chinese soil where such a major commemoration of the anniversary is still allowed. Last year’s gathering was especially large and came just a week before seven months of pro-democracy protests and clashes exploded onto the city's streets, sparked initially by a plan to allow extraditions to the authoritarian mainland. But police rejected permission for this year's rally saying it would “constitute a major threat to the life and health of the general public”, according to a letter of objection to organisers obtained by AFP. Hong Kong has managed to keep the virus mostly in check, with just over 1,000 infections and four deaths. Bars, restaurants, gyms and cinemas have largely reopened in recent weeks. In the last two days five local infections were reported, breaking nearly two weeks of zero tallies. Organisers accused police of using the virus as an excuse to ban the rally. “I don’t see why the government finds political rallies unacceptable while it gave green lights to resumption of schools and other services ranging from catering, karaoke to swimming pools,” said Lee Cheuk-yan, chairman of the Hong Kong Alliance which has organised every vigil since 1990. The alliance called on residents to instead light a candle at 8pm on Thursday and observe one minute of silence wherever they can. “If we are not allowed to light a candle at a rally, we will let the candles be lit across the city,” Mr. Lee said. End one-party rule Mr. Lee also vowed that the alliance would continue to chant the slogan “end one-party rule” during the commemoration despite Beijing’s recently announced plans to impose a law criminalising acts of subversion, secession, terrorism and foreign interference. Beijing says the law — which will bypass Hong Kong’s legislature — is needed to tackle “terrorism” and “separatism”. Opponents fear it will bring mainland-style political oppression to a business hub supposedly guaranteed freedoms and autonomy for 50 years after its 1997 handover to China by Britain. The 1989 Tiananmen crackdown occurred when China’s leaders sent tanks and troops to quell student protesters calling for democracy and an end to corruption. Hundreds were killed, with some estimates suggesting that more than 1,000 perished. Three decades on, it remains one of the most sensitive subjects in mainland China and any mention of it is strictly censored. But in Hong Kong the memory of what happened is kept alive. The annual vigils swelled before the 1997 handover to China and have become especially charged in recent years as many Hong Kongers chafe under Beijing’s rule. This year’s anniversary is likely to coincide with Hong Kong’s pro-government stacked legislature voting for a law banning insults to China's national anthem.
02 June 2020||Beijing,||Protests show chronic disease of racism in U.S.: China||China said on Monday that unrest in the United States highlighted its severe problems of racism and police violence, and exposed Washington’s double standards in supporting Hong Kong’s protesters. “Black people’s lives are also lives. Their human rights must also be guaranteed,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told reporters in Beijing, referring to the death in custody of an unarmed black man in Minneapolis. Police violence “Racism against ethnic minorities in the U.S. is a chronic disease of American society,” Mr. Zhao added. “The current situation reflects once more the severity of the problems of racism and police violence in the U.S.” Chinese diplomats and state media have seized on the violent unrest sparked by the death of George Floyd to accuse the U.S. of hypocrisy and compare American protesters with pro-democracy demonstrators in Hong Kong. Mr. Zhao on Monday said the U.S. government’s response to protests at home was a “textbook example of its world-famous double standards. “Why does the U.S. lionise the so-called Hong Kong independence and black violence elements as heroes and activists, while calling people who protest against racism ‘rioters’?” Mr. Zhao asked. China has insisted that “foreign forces” are to blame for the turmoil in Hong Kong, where pro-democracy protesters — described by Beijing as rioters — have marched in the millions since June last year and often clashed with the police. Foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying also took aim at Washington. “I can't breathe,” she said on Twitter, with a screenshot of a tweet by U.S. State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus that had criticised China’s policy in Hong Kong. Ms. Hua was quoting the words Floyd was heard saying repeatedly before his death — after a police officer knelt on his neck for nearly nine minutes.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A secretive, far-left movement with no official leader||Seeking to assign blame for the protests that have convulsed cities across the country, U.S. President Donald Trump said on Sunday that the U.S. would designate Antifa, the loosely affiliated group of far-left anti-fascism activists, a terrorist organisation. Mr. Trump’s critics noted, however, that the U.S. does not have a domestic terrorism law and that Antifa, a contraction of “anti-fascist,” is not an organisation with a leader, a defined structure or membership roles. Rather, Antifa is more of a movement of activists whose followers share a philosophy and tactics. They have made their presence known at protests, including the “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, in 2017. The members It is impossible to know how many people count themselves as members. Its followers acknowledge that the movement is secretive, has no official leaders and is organised into autonomous local cells. It is also only one in a constellation of activist movements that have come together in the past few years to oppose the far right. Antifa members campaign against actions they view as authoritarian, homophobic, racist or xenophobic. Although Antifa is not affiliated with other movements on the left — and is sometimes viewed as a distraction by other organisers — its members sometimes work with other local activist networks that are rallying around the same issues, such as the Occupy movement or Black Lives Matter. The goals Supporters generally seek to stop what they see as fascist, racist and far-right groups from having a platform to promote their views, arguing that public demonstration of those ideas leads to the targeting of marginalised people, including racial minorities and members of the LGBTQ community. “The argument is that militant anti-fascism is inherently self-defense because of the historically documented violence that fascists pose, especially to marginalized people,” said Mark Bray, a history lecturer at Dartmouth College and the author of Antifa: The Anti-Fascist Handbook . Many Antifa organisers also participate in more peaceful forms of community organising, but they believe that using violence is justified because of their views that if racist or fascist groups are allowed to organise freely, “it will inevitably result in violence against marginalised communities,” said Mr. Bray.  Although the Merriam-Webster dictionary says the word “Antifa” was first used in 1946 and was borrowed from a German phrase signaling opposition to Nazism, more people began joining the movement in the United States after the 2016 election of Mr. Trump to counter the threat they believed was posed by the so-called alt-right, Mr. Bray said.  The reactions The movement has been widely criticised among the mainstream left and right. After the protests in Berkeley, California, in August 2017, U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi decried “the violent actions of people calling themselves Antifa” and said they should be arrested. Conservative publications and politicians routinely rail against supporters of Antifa, who they say are seeking to shut down peaceful expression of conservative views. These critics point to moments when purported Antifa members have been accused of sucker-punching Trump supporters. Ruth Ben-Ghiat, a professor of history at New York University who studies fascism, said she worried that Antifa’s methods could feed into what she said were false equivalencies that seek to lump violence on the left with attacks by the right, such as the killing of a protester in Charlottesville by a man who had expressed white supremacist views. “Throwing a milkshake is not equivalent to killing someone, but because the people in power are allied with the right, any provocation, any dissent against right-wing violence, backfires,” Ms. Ben-Ghiat said. Between 2010 and 2016, 53% of terrorist attacks in the United States were carried out by religious extremists — 35% by right-wing extremists and 12% by left-wing or environmentalist extremists, according to a University of Maryland-led consortium that studies terrorism. Militancy on the left can “become a justification for those in power and allies on the right to crack down,” Ms. Ben-Ghiat said. “In these situations, the left, or Antifa, are historically placed in impossible situations.”NY Times
02 June 2020||Tehran,||Iranian scientist jailed in U.S. to return||Tehran said on Monday that scientist Sirous Asgari, one of more than a dozen Iranians behind bars in the U.S., is set to return to the Islamic republic within days. Mr. Asgari was accused by a U.S. court in 2016 of stealing trade secrets while on an academic visit to Ohio. But the 59-year-old scientist from Tehran’s Sharif University of Technology was acquitted in November. The academic told British newspaper The Guardian in March that the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency was keeping him in a detention centre in Louisiana without basic sanitation and refusing to let him return to Iran despite his exoneration. “Dr. Sirous Asgari’s case has been closed in America and he will probably return to the country in the next two or three days,” said Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman Abbas Mousavi. Iran’s Foreign Ministry said last month that Mr. Asgari had contracted the novel coronavirus while in U.S. custody.
02 June 2020||Tokyo,||Japan city to ban phone use while walking||It is a scene repeated the world over: pedestrians glued to their phones while walking, causing collisions and sometimes accidents. No more, says one Japanese city. Officials in Yamato city, near Tokyo, on Monday submitted a bill to the city assembly to stop people from using their phones while walking. “The number of people using smartphones has rapidly increased and so have the number of accidents” in the densely populated area, city official Masaaki Yasumi said. “We want to prevent that,” he said. But Mr. Yasumi said there will be no punishment for those unable to tear themselves away from their screens in the street. Posters and messages will inform citizens of the rule, expected to take effect from next month.
02 June 2020||Moscow,||Constitutional reforms vote on July 1, says Putin||Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Monday that a delayed vote on constitutional reforms allowing him to potentially stay in power beyond 2024 would be held on July 1. “We will carry out the national vote on amendments to the Constitution of the Russian Federation on July 1,” Mr. Putin said in a video-call with election officials.AFP
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Jammu, the pawn on the Kashmir chessboard||Ten months after the dilution of Articles 370 and 35A, new laws have been laid down and administrative structures are beginning to take shape. After months of a lull in the Jammu region, tempers remain subdued. The silence is borne not out of reconciliation, indifference or optimism, but fear of reprisal, post August 5, 2019, as well as Jammu’s inherent dilemmas. Subsumed aspirations Injected with highly potent doses of ultra-nationalism and integrationist politics, Jammu has lived for years under the illusion that the burden of protecting nationalism and national security rests on its shoulders. In the last seven decades, it has willingly trampled on its own aspirations to perpetuate an agenda of nationalism. This has been at the risk of transgressing into divisive politics which began metamorphosing into a thoughtless counter-narrative of Kashmir, further bolstered by the rise of the Hindu right wing in India. Caught between Hindu nationalistic winds blowing from the south and Kashmir domination plus conflict, Jammu’s political, social and economic aspirations were already buried long ago. Instead of drawing on its unique strength of pluralism and diversity, Jammu’s political discourse has oscillated between nationalism, polarisation and a sense of discrimination at the hands of Kashmiris. The muted reaction to the political, geographical and economic changes last year largely stems from these dilemmas that are deeply embedded, apart from a sense of fear and, more recently, due to restrictions amid the COVID-19 lockdown. In the last few months, Jammuites have felt let down. The market economy has witnessed disruption on account of two factors — political and economic uncertainty due to the August 5, 2019 move and the Kashmir lockdown which froze Jammu’s trade and economy. The partial Internet ban has also caused further heartburn, with people left wondering why they are being punished in spite of being nationalists and despite Jammu having no recent history of violence or any law and order problem. After the gazette notification of March 30, 2020, which lays down the rules for domicile status, under the amended Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Civil Services (Decentralisation and Recruitment) Act, along with repeal or amendment of about 100 J&K State laws, the rules of engagement have become clearer, beginning a process of introspection in Jammu. Sense of loss For those inspired by Hindu nationalism, the sense of triumph at having finally “shown Kashmiris their place” is overwhelming. Jammuites also hope for a better share of the spoils when the gerrymandering of boundaries begins as part of the delimitation process. But largely, this does not induce any optimism of political empowerment and a sense of parity with, if not domination over, Kashmir. Instead, there is a huge sense of loss and an equally overwhelming sense of being let down by an ideological party they had vested trust in and by a powerful Prime Minister they so ardently admired as part of the nationalisation project. Much of Jammu may not share Kashmir’s anxieties of a demographic change. However, Jammu’s youth are worried that they may lose their jobs and educational seats to the new ‘domiciles’. With the Agrarian Reforms Act abolished — it defined land ownership and fixed the ceiling area at 121/2 standard acres — the doors have been opened for all Indian citizens triggering worries of the entry of real estate sharks and investments by companies with deep pockets, thereby upsetting the existing economy of Jammu and damaging the ecology. While business investments from outside could boost employment, the existing units operating on a temporary lease basis do not instil confidence as they have offered limited jobs for locals, most often on contractual basis. The exact number of people who are likely to benefit from the new domicile law in terms of jobs is unknown. According to the domicile law, anyone who has resided in J&K for 15 years or has studied there for seven years will get the domicile right. The benefits would also be extended to children of all central government employees who have served for “a total of ten years”, not necessarily a continuous period. Jammu’s anxieties are more pronounced. First, most settlers who could gain immediate benefits are based there. These include about two lakh West Pakistan refugees, over 300 families of sanitation workers, and, more importantly 29 lakh migrant workers, many living in J&K for decades. Higher wages and free school education made J&K an attractive hub for them. Jammu’s geographical, cultural and religious proximity with the Indian heartland also makes it a more lucrative destination for those who would like to avail themselves of the domicile rights or make investments. Third, the absence of a violent conflict offers a salubrious climate for settlement, unlike in the Valley. Jammu’s high potential for prospective settlers engenders fears of a large-scale scavenge hunt for business opportunities, land purchase and jobs by outsiders. Triple impact A hub of trade, Jammu’s business has flourished in the last seven decades due to pilgrimage tourism and interdependence with the Kashmir region. While the latter will receive a major setback due to the economic slump in the Valley as well as the embitterment of Kashmir’s business circles with the political positioning of Jammu’s traders, investments from outside do not quite induce the confidence of employment or inclusiveness. Jammu would have looked forward to a sustainable and inclusive economic road map, but hopes have been dashed because the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in its six-year tenure has not shown any inclination towards being an economic visionary. Another fear is of Dogra culture facing extinction. Jammu’s Hindu belt, despite its brush with Hindutva politics, has been the most cosmopolitan part of J&K. Its greatest strength has been the ability to assimilate many cultures and the influx of people from other parts of the State due to economic reasons and conflict. But that appears to have reached a saturation point, and threats to the Dogra identity are not unfounded. Politically, Jammu is unlikely to gain. If a delimitation of electoral constituencies is done on the basis of area, and not population alone, and the 25 Assembly segments reserved for Pakistan Administered Kashmir (PAK), laying vacant since the 1950s, are filled up with PAK refugees as is being speculated, Jammu’s fattened share at the expense of the Kashmir Valley is a possibility. That may enhance the likelihood of J&K getting its first Hindu Chief Minister. The BJP’s integration project may spring an unpleasant surprise for the people of Jammu if the likely choice for the post turns out to be an outsider. At best, more constituencies and a Hindu Chief Minister could make it a symbolic victory for Jammu. Jammu has long suffered in terms of a political vacuum, which has also deepened the sense of discrimination. Its political significance in national politics has been only to serve as a prop in the hands of New Delhi to counter the Kashmir narrative or to strengthen integrationist politics. Now, with the administrative project of integration achieved and Kashmir’s politics stepping down into virtual servitude, Jammu’s political worth has further diminished. The only thing that can reverse this is if Jammu is able to reimagine itself and assert itself politically. That is wishful thinking not only in view of its political limpness in the past but also because Jammu’s socioeconomic landscape would have undergone a sea change, irreparably so, by the time a constructive political consciousness begins to awaken. On the whole, Jammu has not only been left empty-handed but it also feels let down and robbed. That feeling has just begun to sink in. Anuradha Bhasin Jamwal is Executive Editor, Kashmir Times
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A new architecture in quake-prone areas||A few days after the Kutch earthquake in January 2001, I was ringing the doorbell at Arthur C. Clarke’s Colombo villa-cum-futurist office. Its architecture was as unique as its occupant, its fitments as distinctive as their owner. It had been my intention to call on the great man ever since I arrived in that city to work in India’s High Commission. The urgent always overtakes the important and in some cities like Colombo, more than in others. So, with one urgency coming over another I could not pay that call. Predicting earthquakes The visionary was ‘confined to a wheelchair’ is how one would normally put it. But Clarke was not confined to anything, let alone to something on wheels. He moved from room to room, inviting me into the house and into a conversation with the ease of a skater. I did not have to start. He opened the conversation with the subject of the earthquake. “I have spent three weeks in Ahmedabad as a guest of the Sarabhais,” he said, “and so my sense of sorrow is all the greater.” There is not much one can say in response to such a deeply felt remark and I was quiet for a long minute before asking Clarke if, in his view, we would ever come to the position of being able to predict earthquakes. “Strange, you should ask that,” he said with excitement. Wheeling himself to one of his bookshelves, he pulled out a squat volume. It was a book co-authored by him, Richter 10 . Clarke autographed the volume, placed it in my hands and wheeled himself to behind his desk. I turned the book’s pages and saw the novel opened with a dramatic forward: “Many years ago I was standing in a Delhi hotel when I became aware of a faint vibration underfoot. ‘I had no idea,’ I said to my hosts, ‘that Delhi has a subway system’. ‘It doesn’t,’ they answered. That was my one and only experience of earthquakes.” Reading any further with the author sitting in front of me would have been rude and so I closed the volume with a few words of thanks. Before I could finish, he returned to my question. While earthquake prediction may take some more time, he said, what should be done is to inaugurate a new architecture in quake-prone areas which would deny the seismic activity its logical end — devastation. Back home, I read the novel. It was gripping not as a story as much as a scientist’s vision of what humanity may well encounter. The protagonist, Lewis Crane, has been crippled and orphaned in an earthquake. But does he go under? Not at all. He grows to be a physicist and a Nobel Laureate with a passion for devising a method for earthquake prediction. I did not meet Clarke again but that conversation has stayed with me as the subject was to crop up a year and a half later when, stationed in Oslo, I was headed to Reykjavik with letters of concurrent accreditation signed by President Abdul Kalam. I was in my office and phone operators at both ends had told me who was calling and I was all attention. “Kalam speaking.” “Good afternoon, Rashtrapatiji. Honoured to get this call. Are you keeping well, Sir?” “Oh yes. Fantastic.” “Happy to know that, Sir.” “Now... You are going to Iceland. Please ask them how their work in earthquake anticipation goes.” “I will do that, Sir.” “You know Iceland is volcanically active.” “I have gathered that, Sir.” “So, find that out and let me know.” “Of course, Sir...” A few pleasantries followed before he hung up having tuned me to an aspect of diplomacy I would have neither dreamed of — creative engagement in what President Kalam would call “core competence”.  The conversation brought to life Clarke and our conversation in Colombo. In Reykjavik, I did find out what the President had asked. “You see, Mr. Ambassador,” I was told by a senior seismologist. “It is like a cerebral situation. The brain suffers a series of mini-strokes like the equivalent of 1 or 2 on the Richter scale. You will not feel them. Such small tremors are not recorded either, except by the seismograph. We see the behaviour of those ‘mini-tremors’ and conclude by the frequency and the velocity of the series as to when a big quake is likely to occur. We have progressed in our work but much more needs to be done.” Preparing for the ‘big one’ Today India has a sophisticated set of monitors embedded beneath the soil’s surface in many vulnerable points as a result of President Kalam’s lively interest and the earnest follow-up by successive Ministers in charge of Earth Sciences. India probably has collaborations with other countries in this field as well which can only be described as a life-and-death one. But even as cyclones intensifying their frequency and velocity makes us anxious about our littoral safety, tremors having rocked Delhi with disturbing frequency since April this year must make us want to know how prepared we are for the ‘big one’, should it visit Himalayan and sub-Himalayan India . And this ‘over and above’ the pandemic. The Himalayas are young and restive. Are our cities, towns and villages on and around the Himalayas safe against such a shock? Are we regulating high-rise constructions in zones of high vulnerability like Delhi and hill stations? Is it time for a second look at dams and nuclear power installations in the region for their quake-resistant standards? Clarke’s Richter Ten is fiction but not fantasy. Not for us in India, Pakistan, Afghanistan where the subcontinent’s pushing into upper Asia has not stopped. How many of us recall how many died and were rendered homeless in Latur (1993), in Kutch (2001) or even in the Indian Ocean tsunami (2004)? And the one of 2005 which left 79,000 officially dead in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and 1,500 in Jammu and Kashmir, and more recently, the one that all but flattened Nepal (2015, 8.1 ‘Mercalli Severe’)? We are not to get alarmed. But we are to be alert. And that includes short-, medium- and long-term action. The short term requires that vulnerable buildings be identified and plans for their occupants’ safety made. The medium term requires that a new architecture regime be made mandatory for all builders and developers. The long-term action has to include a de-congesting of our cities. If South Africa can have one political capital, another legislative capital, a third judicial capital and a fourth business capital, why should we not think of such a dispersal at the Centre and in the States ? And it has to include a clear-eyed survey of dangerous densities, vulnerable heights, clogged accesses. New Delhi is receiving political and architectural attention for a major overhaul of its official buildings. New Delhi and much more seem to be receiving seismic attention as well that could do more than overhaul. But if not yet predictable and certainly not preventable, that seismic plan can yet have its impact blunted if we think and act betimes. Gopalkrishna Gandhi is a former administrator, diplomat and governor
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||India, China and fortifying the Africa outreach||The COVID-19 pandemic has been a great leveller across the world. But its effects stand to be devastating particularly in Africa, where economic and public health conditions are extremely vulnerable. Although African countries moved quickly to curb the initial spread, they are still woefully ill-equipped to cope with a public health emergency of such magnitude due to shortages of masks, ventilators, and even basic necessities such as soap and water. Such conditions have meant that Africa’s cycle of chronic external aid dependence continues. Africa needs medical protective equipment and gear to support its front line public health workers. As Asia’s two largest economies and long-standing partners of Africa, India and China have increased their outreach to Africa through medical assistance. Their efforts are directed to fill a part of the growing African need at a time when not many others have stepped in to help. Beijing’s donation diplomacy China, being Africa’s largest trading partner, was quick to signal its intent to help Africa cope with the pandemic. It despatched medical protective equipment, testing kits, ventilators, and medical masks to several African countries. The primary motive of such donations has been to raise Beijing’s profile as a leading provider of humanitarian assistance and “public goods” in the global public health sector. China’s billionaire philanthropy was also in full display when tech founder Jack Ma donated three rounds of anti-coronavirus supplies. These consignments were transported mostly by Ethiopian aircraft. Chinese embassies across Africa have taken the lead by coordinating both public and private donations to local stakeholders and have also embarked on a donation blitz of cash even as the sub-optimal quality of China’s medical supplies and its deputing of medical experts have been a major cause for concern. Beijing’s ‘donation diplomacy’ in Africa aims to achieve three immediate objectives: shift the focus away from talking about the origins of the virus in Wuhan, build goodwill overseas, and establish an image makeover. For the most part, it succeeded in achieving these ends until China faced widespread backlash over the ill-treatment of African nationals in Guangzhou city. The issue quickly grew into a full-blown political crisis for Beijing. But for the most part, China has been successful in controlling the Guangzhou narrative due to the depth of its political influence in Africa. It is no secret that China relies heavily on diplomatic support and cooperation from African countries on key issues in multilateral fora. For example, Beijing used African support for securing a win for Chinese candidates as the head of Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and in the World Health Organization (WHO). On Africa’s part, the problem lies in the deep disjuncture and credibility gap between Africa’s governing class, the people, the media and civil society. Even when criticisms have been levelled against Chinese indiscretions, it has hardly ever surfaced at the elite level. Overall, China’s donation diplomacy towards Africa during COVID-19 has received mixed reactions, but Beijing’s advantage lies in its economic heft and political influence in Africa. New Delhi’s focus For India, the pandemic presents an opportunity to demonstrate its willingness and capacity to shoulder more responsibility. The fact that even with limited resources, India can fight the virus at home while reaching out to developing countries in need is testament to India’s status as a responsible and reliable global stakeholder. Nowhere has India’s developmental outreach been more evident than in Africa with the continent occupying a central place in Indian government’s foreign and economic policy in the last six years. Africa has been the focus of India’s development assistance and also diplomatic outreach, as evident in plans to open 18 new embassies. These efforts have been supplemented by an improved record of Indian project implementation in Africa. India’s role as ‘the pharmacy of the world’, as the supplier of low-cost, generic medicines is widely acknowledged. Pharmaceutical products along with refined petroleum products account for 40% of India’s total exports to African markets. India is sending consignments of essential medicines, including hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and paracetamol, to 25 African countries in addition to doctors and paramedics at a total cost of around Rs. 600 million ($7.9 million) on a commercial and grant basis. The initial beneficiaries were the African Indian Ocean island nations of Mauritius, the Seychelles, Comoros, and Madagascar under India’s ‘Mission Sagar’. While transportation and logistics remain a concern, most of the consignments have already reached various African states. A timely initiative has been the e-ITEC COVID-19 management strategies training webinars exclusively aimed at training health-care professionals from Africa and the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) nations and sharing of best practices by Indian health experts. Nigeria, Kenya, Mauritius, and Namibia have been beneficiaries. Across Africa, there is a keen interest to understand the developments and best practices in India because the two share similar socioeconomic and developmental challenges. There is also growing interest in research and development in drugs and vaccines. A few African countries such as Mauritius are pushing for health-care partnerships in traditional medicines and Ayurveda for boosting immunity. The Indian community, especially in East African countries, has also been playing a crucial role in helping spread awareness. Prominent Indian businessmen and companies in Nigeria and Kenya have donated money to the respective national emergency response funds. Country-specific chapters of gurdwaras and temples have fed thousands of families by setting up community kitchens, helplines for seniors and distributing disinfectants and sanitisers. The contrasts Both India and China, through their respective health and donation diplomacy, are vying to carve a space and position for themselves as reliable partners of Africa in its time of need. Burnishing their credentials as humanitarian champions is the name of the game. But there are significant differences in the approaches. For China, three aspects are critical: money, political influence and elite level wealth creation; strong state-to-state relations as opposed to people-to-people ties; and hard-infrastructure projects and resource extraction. India’s approach on the other hand is one that focuses on building local capacities and an equal partnership with Africans and not merely with African elites concerned. As these two powers rise in Africa, their two distinct models will come under even greater scrutiny. And both New Delhi and Beijing might find that they need to adapt to the rising aspirations of the African continent. Harsh V. Pant is Director, Studies at the Observer Research Foundation (ORF) and Professor of International Relations at King's College London. Abhishek Mishra is a Junior Fellow at ORF, New Delhi
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Chaos and insensitivity reign||Every time the Tamil Nadu police find migrant workers walking, they put them in a bus and drop them off in Chennai or close to where they were staying, said environmentalist Nityanand Jayaraman. He called it a game of Snakes and Ladders. But the migrants do not give up; they start all over again the next day, on the same route, hoping that they can at least cross the border. Of course, this is no guarantee that they will be able to continue. At times they are brought back, even from Vijayawada by the Andhra Pradesh police and offloaded on the roadside. This also means that, in order to go beyond police checkpoints, migrants have to move like criminals. They get off the highway, walk through fields, shrubland, around water bodies and then rejoin the highway beyond the checkpoint. With governments refusing to provide advance information on trains, migrants do not know what to do. They have been cheated so many times that they do not trust any official. Information about train schedules is learnt through silent whisper networks. The government may claim that it keeps this information close to its chest in order to prevent crowds at the railway station. But if a schedule is published at least a week in advance, there would be no mad rush. This will also help citizen support groups mobilise specific migrants groups to reach the station depending on the train’s destination. Between Anna Nagar in Chennai and Gummidipoondi in Tiruvallur district, there are many colleges and marriage halls lying vacant on either side of NH 16. They can be easily used to accommodate most of the migrants who have begun their long walk home. But this has not happened. Some shelters have been set up by the government, but we were told that they are full. Treatment in shelters We went to one government shelter in Puduvoyal in Tiruvallur. It was around 1.00 p.m. and volunteers were providing lunch. We were enquiring about 22 migrant workers who had come in the morning but we did not know whether they got in or not. As we stood outside under the watchful eyes of the cops, one migrant worker from West Bengal tried to enter the shelter. Within seconds, he was slapped and chased out by a policeman. The pandemic has only increased the pressure on the police force, which means more anger is unleashed on the migrants. Earlier that morning, a few hundred migrants were beaten when they wanted to enter the shelter. The man I mentioned waited in a corner just outside the gate, still hoping to get in, only to be told that he should ask Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for help. Migrants who have found room in a shelter or a seat in a train are reminded that they are the fortunate ones who need to be grateful. The chaos and insensitivity is evident everywhere. At times, members of civil society had to inform the police about the location of the local government shelter or availability of space. Coordination between the local police and revenue officials and between districts has been abysmal. At the Red Hills junction, some migrants from Jharkhand were being told to leave. “The shelter nearby is full. What can we do?” said the revenue inspector. After some cajoling, he said, “We cannot handle people from Jharkhand today. We have to first send those from Chhattisgarh on the train.” What will these people do, we asked. They had no answer. “Why can’t officials keep them within their own districts,” the official complained. An inter-district fight on who should take care of migrants is also in play. Some migrants have used their limited savings to buy cycles for the ride home. The new fancy of the exercise-obsessed upper-middle class is cycling. But here we have people who do not have the extra cash being forced to buy a cycle just to go home. A few weeks ago, a man was found dead in Kavarapettai, near the Tamil Nadu-Andhra Pradesh border, while cycling home to Odisha. A dystopian world Over the past few weeks, the number of migrants on the road has come down. That is only because of the work of volunteer groups and the pressure they have applied on the government. Late last month, the Madras High Court instructed the State government to publish a list of shelters that can be accessed by workers in distress, and the state and the Railways Ministry to publish a schedule of Shramik trains. But this must indeed be a dystopian world if courts need to intervene for such fundamental matters. And if the courts refuse to do so, as in the case of the Supreme Court, no one is held responsible for governmental inaction. Earlier, even in the worst of times, migrants found their way home on a bus, train or truck. But today, they have been made to beg and suffer for no fault of theirs. It is clear that, even after so much outcry, migrant workers continue to be treated as irritants. T.M. Krishna is a musician and author. His most recent book is ‘Sebastian And Sons: A Brief History of Mrdangam Makers’
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||For a strong and vibrant Bar||Over the past few weeks, there has been a lot of criticism about the functioning of the judiciary. The Supreme Court’s inaction in addressing the concerns of migrant workers attracted sharp criticism from several quarters, which is why the apex court woke up from its slumber and took suo motu cognisance of the issue. It is in this context that the showcause notice issued by the Bar Council of India (BCI) to Dushyant Dave and other members of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) has to be viewed. Notice was issued to them for not having obeyed the BCI’s May 10 resolution and for having made derogatory remarks against the resolution. This is an attempt to curb the independent functioning of lawyers and lawyers’ associations. Instead of looking at criticism as healthy and necessary, the powers that be feel that the Bar is intimidating. Infighting within the SCBA The current issue has its genesis in Justice Arun Mishra’s description of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, at an international judicial conference in February 2020, as an “internationally acclaimed visionary” and a “versatile genius”. These statements drew severe condemnation from various quarters, including the SCBA which said: “The SCBA believes that any such statement reflects poorly on the independence of the judiciary and so calls upon the Honourable Judges not to make any statements in future nor show any proximity or closeness to the Executive, including Higher Functionaries.” However, on May 7, the Secretary of the SCBA, Ashok Arora, called for a general body meeting on May 11 for the removal of Mr. Dave as President and from the primary membership of the SCBA alleging misuse of the body for political purposes. The next day, the SCBA’s Executive Committee suspended Mr. Arora saying his actions were against the interests of the association. Instead of working out a remedy within the SCBA, which was the only proper course as it is an independent body that functions within its own laws, Mr. Arora made a representation to the BCI against the resolution removing him as secretary. The BCI, at its meeting held on May 11, strangely assumed powers and passed a resolution reinstating Mr. Arora. Mr. Dave rightly criticised the resolution of the BCI, which in turn promptly issued the showcause notice. Does the BCI have the powers to interfere in a Bar Association’s internal matter? There is no such provisions under the Advocates Act of 1961 and the BCI rules. The BCI appears to be relying on the provisions of Section 7 of the Advocates Act, which lays down the functioning of the BCI. However, Section 7 does not justify such intrusion by the BCI into an independent Bar Association’s affairs. Dangerous incursions The BCI’s action is surprising as a Division Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court said in its judgment in Bar Association Lahar v. State Bar Council of M.P. and Another (2018): “...no provision of statute or any Rule has been brought to the notice of this Court…. conferring power to the State Bar Council to interfere with the election process and internal affairs of the Bar Associations.” By arbitrarily encroaching upon the SCBA’s internal functioning, the BCI is at cross purposes. So far it has been confining its role to maintaining professional standards of lawyers towards clients. But it is now playing a supervisory role over the SCBA which is not provided for in the statutes. In fact, it is the Bar Associations that have played a larger role in protecting the integrity and independence of the judiciary. Such dangerous incursions by the BCI have a deep and pervasive effect on the independent functioning of the Bar Associations not only in the Supreme Court but throughout the country. With a strong executive, the importance of an independent judiciary becomes all the more important. Consequently, the role of the Bar Associations to question and safeguard the institution assumes importance. A strong and vibrant Bar is a sine qua non for a fair and fearless judiciary. N.G.R. Prasad & K.K. Ram Siddhartha are advocates at the Madras High Court
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Ominous signals||India’s economy is in a severe slowdown that is only going to get worse in a pandemic-stricken world. Three months after Finance Ministry mandarins prognosticated that India’s growth slowdown had bottomed out, the latest economic data has belied that prediction. Crucially, the GDP growth estimates for the January-March quarter and the full fiscal year barely reflect the impact of the public health crisis and the stringent lockdowns, which were imposed nationwide only from March 25. The NSO’s estimates show fourth-quarter and fiscal 2019-20 growth slumped to 3.1% and 4.2%, respectively, the slowest pace in 11 years. The government says the lockdown impacted data flow, and with statutory reporting timelines extended the estimates would likely undergo revision. However, the fact that Gross Value Added numbers for the first three quarters have been revised significantly downwards shows that the economic malaise was deep and widespread even before the novel coronavirus landed on Indian shores. Four of the eight industry sectors that together comprise the GVA are now revealed to be in far worse shape than was reported earlier. This includes manufacturing, which contracted for a third straight quarter and shrank by 1.4% in the fourth quarter; construction, a major job generating activity that continued to weaken and contracted 2.2%; and the two largest services categories. The revisions in the trade, transport, hotels and communications, and financial, real estate and professional services sectors have cut third-quarter growth figures by 1.6 and 4 percentage points, respectively. The economy is visibly mired in a demand drought that is unlikely to abate any time soon. Private consumption spending, which accounts for 55-60% of GDP, extended a downtrend as growth slid to 2.7%. Investment activity contracted for a third consecutive quarter and shrank 6.5%. Data coming in for the current fiscal are revealing the devastating impact that the lockdown has had. Output at the eight core industries that represent 40% of the Index of Industrial Production contracted by an alarming 38% in April. Merchandise exports shrank 60% in the same month. The RBI, which cut interest rates on May 22, was categorical in its assessment that a recovery would likely start only from the October quarter. For even that to materialise, the Centre must act. Its package so far has been focused on credit enhancement measures that ease supply side constraints and structural reforms that may bear fruit over a longer horizon. But the imperative now is to bite the bullet and opt for a massive fiscal stimulus that actually puts cash in the hands of consumers and the millions of jobless youth in order to help revive demand.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Workforce habits||Over two months into the national lockdown, India’s workforce, ostensibly blessed to be part of its much-vaunted demographic dividend, is in complete disarray. There is the visibly disturbing narrative of a few million workers trying to get back home from their respective urban lives as resources run out and lack of adequate living space hits hard in the face of a virus that requires physical distancing. They used their feet, often facing police wrath, till the administration allowed trains and buses to move again. While swathes of informal sector workers are moving away from their adopted base, the remaining 10% of the workforce that is formally employed with social security benefits are beset by pink slips, furloughs, or salary cuts. The trend, driven by the slump in economic activity, cuts across sectors. Restrictions have eased slightly, but a return to normalcy has proved challenging even for the firms that are allowed to operate, largely due to inadequate manpower. Industry representatives have pleaded with the Labour Ministry to cajole workers to return to their workplaces on being summoned, and if that does not prove effective, make them liable for action under relevant industrial labour legislation. Relaxations have also been sought in statutory wage payments for April and May when little work happened. Several States offered a temporary fix — stretching permissible working hours from eight to 12, so that productivity can improve even with less-than-optimal staff strength. While Rajasthan withdrew such an order, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and some others have used the occasion to embark on a purge of labour laws, citing the need to spur investor confidence and revive job creation. Labour unions have protested this wholesale scrapping that would leave employees vulnerable in many aspects. Being a concurrent subject in the Constitution, States, however, need the Centre’s nod to effect these changes and, for now, Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar appears disinclined to agree. Official instructions to keep paying employees amidst the lockdown have not worked evenly, while tweaks such as lowering the EPF contribution rate do not amount to much relief for firms or their staff. While the nature of work is changing and greater spending is needed on hygiene, the immediate challenge is to inspire employee confidence. Most migrant workers are running scared of the pandemic. Getting them home safely is a first step and giving them an emergency income support till the worst of the pandemic subsides is the next. But for them to return to work enthusiastically over time, it is equally critical to reorient India’s current approach to urban and industrial housing, workplace social security and minimum wage standards. The Centre must begin a dialogue with States on this front. Ineffective paper laws such as the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act of 1979 can be reviewed thereafter.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The U.P. Hills (From an editorial)||From the time Meghalaya was formed there has always been an uncomfortable feeling that similar demands for sub-States may come from other parts of the country. Leaders belonging to several political parties have raised the demand that the eight hill districts in the Kumaon and Garhwal areas of Uttar Pradesh should be formed into a State on the analogy of Meghalaya. The view that U.P. is one of the few States that will do better if split into two has been widely held in post-war years. But the danger is that once people in authority begin to take such questions seriously, more problems are likely to be created than are solved. It is being argued that the hill districts have to face special disadvantages in being part of a huge State and particularly that their location so far away from the capital has been an administrative handicap. This argument is weak because there are similar regions equally distant from Lucknow where no demand for a sub-State has been made. A case is often made out on the basis that the hills are usually inhabited by tribal people between whom and the plain-dwellers there are some essential differences in their outlook on life. While many will question the validity of even this point, it cannot be denied that States like Nagaland and Meghalaya have been born out of it.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||Auto sector shows some signs of life||The Indian automobile sector saw some demand returning in May after zero sales in April as partial operations resumed, albeit with supply disruptions and labour issues, after almost two months of nationwide lockdown. The wholesale figures for May are only a fraction of monthly sales that automobile manufacturers saw in the pre-COVID-19 months. As per industry estimates, wholesales of passenger vehicles (PVs) stood at about 37,000 units in May 2020 against more than 2.39 lakh in May 2019. The country’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki sold a total of 18,539 units in May 2020. This included wholesales of 13,865 units in the domestic market, and sale of 23 units to other OEMs. The company exported 4,651 units following resumption of operations at Mundra and Mumbai ports, it said. Hyundai Motor India said in May it received close to 15,000 customer bookings across models and about 11,000 new cars were delivered to customers. The company posted a cumulative sales of 12,583 units last month. Tarun Garg, director (sales, marketing & service), Hyundai Motor India said, “In an extremely challenging market environment, HMIL made a humble beginning towards normalcy.” Honda Cars dispatched 375 units to dealers in the domestic market. Rajesh Goel, senior vice-president and director, marketing and sales, Honda Cars India Ltd., said, “The domestic wholesales last month was, of course, quite limited due to the negligible inventory available at our factory before the lockdown.” Mahindra & Mahindra sold a total of 9,076 vehicles in the domestic market. Exports stood at 484 vehicles. Veejay Nakra, CEO, automotive division, M&M Ltd., said, “Our performance during May has been muted, due to the challenges the industry is facing. As new lockdown norms are being announced, we are hopeful of demand gaining traction in the coming months.” Meanwhile, Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) said it sold a total of 1,639 units in May 2020. Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, sales and service, TKM said, “Retail sales (sales from dealers to customers) have been much higher compared with wholesales (TKM sales to dealers), thereby helping us reduce the month-closing inventory levels at dealerships.” Relatively newer entrant MG Motor India said it sold 710 units in the retail market during the month. Rakesh Sidana, director, sales, MG Motor India, said, “Supply chain disruption coupled with stricter credit financing along with non-operation of some dealerships due to the lockdown have impacted our sales in May. We hope to restore normalcy from July onwards.” Two-wheeler sales In the two-wheeler segment, market leader Hero MotoCorp said it dispatched 1,12,682 units in May 2020. TVS Motor Company said it was seeing a progressive opening of dealerships across the country and overseas in the last two weeks of May, along with a steady pick up in retail customers over the past few days. “During the month of May 2020, the company registered domestic two-wheeler sales of 41,067 units.” Royal Enfield posted sales of 19,113 motorcycles in May 2020, with domestic sales of 18,429 units.
02 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Markets look up as lockdown curbs ease||Indian equity benchmarks gained strong ground on Monday, with the Sensex surging over 1,000 points in intraday trading as investor sentiment received a boost with the government easing lockdown restrictions. The positive trend in Asian markets acted as a catalyst. The 30-share Sensex gained 879.42 points, or 2.71%, to close at 33,303.52. Earlier in the day, it gained 1,250 points to touch a high of 33,673.83. The broader Nifty settled the day at 9,826.15, up 245.85 points, or 2.57%. Market participants attributed the rally to a combination of domestic and global factors, even as the number of COVID-19 cases in the country continues to rise significantly on a daily basis. According to Aamar Deo Singh, head, Advisory, Angel Broking, the markets surged on the back of a positive trend in the Asian markets and the Indian government relaxing curbs on most economic activities even as the lockdown in containment zones has been extended till June 30. “The rally was broad based, with advances outnumbering declines by 15:1 in CNX Nifty 500. Overall, sustaining above the current levels is very crucial for a move towards the 10,000 mark in Nifty, in the near future,” added Mr. Singh. On the BSE, close to 1,900 stocks ended the day in the green as against about 600 stocks that declined. Among the Sensex pack, stocks such as Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank, HDFC, TCS, Bajaj Finance, Hindustan Unilever, State Bank of India and ICICI Bank contributed the most to the day’s gains. As many as 25 stocks in the Sensex pack gained on Monday, while stocks such as L&T, Hero Motocorp and Nestle India, among others, lost ground. FPIs turn big buyers Incidentally, foreign investors also bought shares in huge quantities on Monday, with the net buying pegged at Rs. 1,575 crore. In May, foreign portfolio investors were net buyers at Rs. 14,569 crore after two consecutive months of selling.
02 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Petrol, diesel sales surge in May as restrictions lifted||State-owned oil marketing companies (OMCs) witnessed a more than 70% increase in petrol consumption and a more than 60% increase in that for diesel for May 2020 over April 2020 as the easing of lockdown curbs kicked in. The demand for sensitive petroleum products is likely to rise even more in June with the further easing of restrictions, even as the OMCs have increased prices with effect from June 1. Indian Oil Corporation (IOCL), India’s largest fuel retailer, witnessed a more than 70% growth in petrol sales to 10,11,020 kilo litres (KL) in May compared with April. Similarly, diesel sales had risen by more than 60% to 23,73,094 KL in May compared with April. However, sales are yet to reach the levels seen in May 2019. “Compared with May 2019, petrol sales have fallen by 35% and diesel sales by 28%,” a senior IOCL official told The Hindu.  The OMCs are expecting sales to return to normal levels by June, when most of the curbs may be lifted. “With significant improvement in May, in June, we expect our sales to reach the pre-lockdown period, if not more,” a BPCL director said. The OMCs have increased the price of aviation turbine fuel (ATF) by almost 50% with effect from June 1. A KL of ATF will cost Rs. 33,575 in Delhi, Rs. 38,543 in Kolkata, Rs. 33,070.5 in Mumbai and Rs. 34,569 in Chennai. Global LPG prices rise Cooking gas prices have been increased by Rs. 11.5 a cylinder to Rs. 593 in New Delhi and Rs. 590.5 in Mumbai respectively due to an increase in international LPG prices. In Kolkata and Chennai, the LPG prices have been increased by Rs. 31.5 and Rs. 37 a cylinder to Rs. 616 and Rs. 606.5 respectively. The retail selling price of LPG (in Delhi) for May was reduced from Rs. 744 to Rs. 581.50 per cylinder for all consumers in line with the drop in international prices. However, this increase will not impact the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala (PMUY) beneficiaries as they are covered by the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana and entitled to a free cylinder till June 30. The prices of petrol and diesel have been increased by Rs. 2 a litre in Mumbai to Rs. 78.32 and Rs. 68.21 respectively as the State government decided to hike the cess on the two fuels. Petrol and diesel prices, however, remained unchanged in other metros.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet committee okays Rs. 50,000 cr. infusion for MSMEs||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs on Monday approved Rs. 50,000 crore equity infusion for micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) with an aim to help them enhance capacity, while also encouraging them to get listed. Besides, approval was given for a subordinate debt of Rs. 20,000 crore to provide equity support to stressed MSMEs. This is likely to benefit two lakh MSMEs. Union Minister of MSME Nitin Gadkari said ‘big industry people buy and sell stocks in the share market’, but the facility was not available for MSMEs. “We have created an initial fund of Rs. 10,000 crore, after adding more funds it will become a Rs. 50,000 crore fund. The MSMEs, which export, whose turnover and GST record is good... some MSMEs export worth thousands of crores, they don’t need to depend on the bank.” “We will buy equity in them to fund them... maximum 15%... they will get strength because of this equity. When they go to the stock exchange... Their share prices will go up... when it reaches a particular level, we will sell our shares and then invest in others.” This revolving fund can grow up to be Rs. 2 lakh crore in the next 2-3 years. The CCEA, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, also approved the new definition of MSMEs increasing the investment limit to Rs. 50 crore and turnover to Rs. 250 crore for medium enterprises. Likewise, for micro enterprises, the investment limit will be Rs. 1 crore and turnover Rs. 5 crore, while for small enterprises, the investment limit will be Rs. 10 crore and the turnover Rs. 50 crore. “It has also been decided that the turnover with respect to exports will not be counted in the limits of turnover for any category of MSME units, be it micro, small or medium,” an official release said. “This is yet another step towards ease of doing business. This will help in attracting investments and creating more jobs in the MSME sector,” it added.
02 June 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Can allow non-profit organisations to list on social stock exchanges’||A working group constituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) on social stock exchanges has recommended allowing non-profit organisations to directly list on such platforms while allowing certain tax incentives to encourage participation on the platform. The idea of a social stock exchange (SSE) for listing of social enterprise and voluntary organisations was mooted by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman while presenting the Union Budget 2019-20. According to a release issued by the capital markets regulator, the group has recommended allowing non-profit organisations to directly list through issuance of bonds while recommending a range of funding avenues, including some of the existing mechanisms such as Social Venture Funds (SVFs) under Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs). “There is a great opportunity to unlock funds from donors, philanthropic foundations and CSR spenders, in the form of zero coupon zero principal bonds. These bonds will be listed on the SSE,” stated the report. The group has also suggested a new minimum reporting standard for organisations that raise funds on social stock exchanges. It also suggested that for-profit social enterprises be allowed to list on the platform but with enhanced reporting requirements. The working group has also suggested that the social stock exchange can be housed within the existing national bourses like the BSE and the National Stock Exchange. “This will help the SSE leverage existing infrastructure and client relationships of the exchanges to onboard investors, donors, and social enterprises [for-profit and non-profit],” said the report.  The idea of a social stock exchange was mooted by the Finance Minister while presenting Budget 2019-20
02 June 2020||MUMBAI,||M&M tractor sales beat lockdown blues||Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.’s (M&M’s) Farm Equipment Sector (FES) in May 2020 sold 2% more tractors in India at 24,017 units compared with the 23,539 units sold in May 2019. This is despite issues associated with the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19. Total tractor sales (domestic and exports) during May 2020, however, were slightly lower at 24,341 units against 24,704 units, down 1.46%. This was on account of the 72% decline in exports because of logistical issues and problems in export markets. In May 2020, the company could export only 324 units against 1,165 units in May 2019. Hemant Sikka, president, FES, M&M, said, “The timely relaxation of the lockdown for the agricultural sector helped ensure the speedy recovery of tractor demand during May 2020.” “In the near term, farmer sentiment is likely to remain positive due to several developments, including a robust rabi crop production, higher procurement, good price realisations and the forecast of a normal monsoon that bodes well for a good kharif crop. All these augur well for tractor demand going forward,” he said. “With reservoirs being much above the long period average last year, the winter crop saw a 10% increase in sowing. Despite challenges owing to labour unavailability as well as unseasonal rainfall towards the end of March and early April, we are expecting a bumper rabi harvest this year,” said Hetal Gandhi, director, Crisil Research. “With farmers realising payments for the rabi crop, we are seeing some pent up demand leading to buoyant tractor sales compared with other automobile segments,” she said. “The pent up demand is also owing to unrealised sales during festivals such as Gudi padwa and Ugadi which coincided with the beginning of lockdown 1.0. It is also important to note the top 25 clusters (34 districts), that have almost 70% of COVID cases, account for less than 10% of tractor sales, hence tractor retail sales have been less impacted by the lockdown compared with cars that have more than 25% of retail sales from these clusters,” she added. Meanwhile, Escorts managed to hold ground by selling 6,454 units in India compared with the 6,488 units sold in May 2019, a drop of 0.5%.
02 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Retailers’ body calls for uniformity in reopening||The Retailers Association of India (RAI) has stressed the need for uniform reopening of retail stores across India, after the Ministry of Home Affairs allowed States to open such stores as per their own guidelines. “This has led to multiple interpretations and rules that have inconvenienced customers and retailers, while continuing to severely impact demand and sales. The problem has been compounded by the change in the definition of stores,” RAI said. Large standalone stores are considered malls in Gujarat, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Assam and this has led to issues, it said. Also, States like Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu have prohibited stores from operating air-conditioners inside stores. Stressing the need for uniform standard operating procedures for any part of the reopening process, Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO, RAI, said, “Business is floundering, millions of jobs are at stake and we need a policy framework that allows for non-discriminatory reopening of retail and time-bound resolution of fiscal and legal matters.” This would make it easier for retailers to do business and ensure convenience and safety of customers. It could also allow for longer store hours which could help avoid crowding, RAI said.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Flipkart’s bid to enter food retail rejected||The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) has rejected Walmart-backed Flipkart’s proposal seeking an approval for entry into the food retail sector, citing a regulatory issue, an official said on Monday. The government permits 100% foreign direct investment in food retail for food produced and manufactured in India. Last year, the company had set up a new local entity — Flipkart Farmermart — to focus on food retail in India, and had applied for requisite licences from the government. A company spokesperson said that Flipkart intended to re-apply for the permit.
02 June 2020||MUMBAI,||RIL rights issue subscribed 1.1 times||The rights issue of Reliance Industries (RIL), which will close on Wednesday, was subscribed 1.1 times till Monday. According to data with the stock exchange, bids were received for 46.04 crore equity shares as against 42.46 crore shares on offer. Further, while the BSE has received applications for 44.85 crore shares, bids for 0.57 rights shares were received in the National Stock Exchange (NSE). According to market participants, the rights issue has been oversubscribed since the shareholders are applying for a higher number of shares than their entitlement.
02 June 2020||Chennai,||Indian Bank unveils loan scheme for MSMEs, Mudra units||Indian Bank has introduced IND GECLS COVID-19, (Guaranteed Emergency Credit Line Scheme), a special product for MSME, Mudra and other business enterprises to meet their working capital needs. These enterprises can avail themselves of loans of up to 20% of the outstanding credit. The maximum loan amount is Rs. 5 crore, the bank said in a statement.
02 June 2020||Chennai,||LVB CEO gets extension||The Reserve Bank of India has approved the extension of tenure for Lakshmi Vilas Bank’s MD and CEO, Subramanian Sundar by six months. This is the second extension given to Mr. Sundar who was the MD & CEO (interim) from January 1, 2020 to April 30. His tenure was further extended to May 31, the bank said in a filing. On Monday, the board extended his tenure till November 30 or till the appointment of the new CEO, whichever is earlier.
02 June 2020||Chennai,||Drop-in pitches could be lively, says Sriram||Life is about grabbing opportunities. When S. Sriram joined the Australian team in 2015, his role was that of a spin bowling consultant. Over the years, so impressed the hard-to-please Australians have been with Sriram’s commitment and knowledge that he is now an assistant coach with the side. Australia’s resurgence after the sandpaper scandal — where the emphasis has been on good, hard cricket and player behaviour — has been remarkable. There was much introspection and the process was gradual. Then, in the Ashes, Australia’s famous never-say-die attitude came to the fore. Pensive Langer Sriram vividly remembers the Headingley Test. “When last man Jack Leach joined Ben Stokes, England needed 73 more. We thought we had won the match but coach Justin Langer was pensive. He reminded us about Stokes and what he could do.” That was a day when things went horribly wrong for Australia. Nathan Lyon missed collecting a throw that could have decided the Ashes and the side wasted a review though Sriram believed it was the right call given the situation. The devastated Australians did not speak to each other after the setback and left the ground quickly. “The next morning, we replayed the entire last wicket partnership during our meeting and discussed how we could have been different in our strategy,” Sriran revealed. Winning habit He added, “Our next game was against Derbyshire and coach Langer was keen that we win the match to get into the habit of picking 20 wickets again.” Australia crushed Derbyshire and displayed remarkable resilience to defeat England in Manchester to retain the Ashes. Teacher and disciple Marnus Labuschagne emerged the hero of the series. Sriram said, “His relationship with Smith was that of a teacher and disciple. They would go for breakfast together, practise together and hang out together.” Unspoilt Dwelling on India’s tour of Australia later this season, Sriram said, “There has been very little Australian rules football played this season. So the drop-in pitches in Melbourne and other places would be unspoilt, the grass would be fresh and the pitches could be lively.” Sriram conceded the defeat against India the last time around at home was a big blow. “We were getting bowled out in 70 odd overs and our pacemen did not get enough rest,” he said. And cricket without saliva? Sriram does not have an answer yet, although he believes the kookaburra ball, in any case, does not seam much after 25 overs.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Need an alternative to saliva’||India pacer Jasprit Bumrah says he won’t miss the hugs and high-fives as part of a wicket celebration, but will certainly miss applying saliva on the ball. He feels that an alternative should be provided to maintain the red cherry. “I was not much of a hugger anyway and not a high-five person either, so that doesn’t trouble me a lot. The only thing that interests me is the saliva bit,” said Bumrah in a chat with Ian Bishop and Shaun Pollock on ICC’s video series Inside Out.  Bumrah said not being able to use saliva makes the game more batsman-friendly. “If the ball is not well-maintained, it’s difficult for the bowlers. “The grounds are getting shorter and shorter, the wickets are becoming flatter and flatter. “So we need something, some alternative for the bowlers to maintain the ball so that it can do something — maybe reverse in the end or conventional swing.”
02 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Arjun’s strides unhindered||Arjun Erigaisi has not let the lockdown affect his winning touch. Telangana’s first chess Grandmaster has clinched the honours in a couple of online tournaments during this phase. “Honestly, the lockdown hasn’t made much of a difference to me. I love working on my game the whole day and that’s what I have been doing right through the lockdown, and also competing in online tournaments,” the16-year-old Arjun told The Hindu on Monday from his home in Hanamkonda (Warangal). The dream With all-out support from his parents — Dr. E. Srinivas Rao (neurosurgeon) and mother E. Jyothi (housewife) — the 2015 Asian Youth silver medallist is chasing his ultimate dream of becoming World champion.  “Nothing is impossible! All you need to do is put in effort and work really hard,” said the youngster inspired by former World champion Gary Kasparov. For him 2018 was a dream year, he said. He completed six norms — three to get the IM title and three for the GM title — thanks to the efforts and support of coaches B. Sampath, A. Sudarshan and N.V.S. Ramaraju. “Yes, it is nice to be the first GM from the newly-formed State. But, that is the past. I have to keep dreaming big and complement that with efforts that separate the ordinary from the champions,” said Arjun, the XI standard student of Shine School in his hometown. He is now being trained by Russian GM Viktor Mikhalevski. Arjun, who took up chess as a hobby and made his first big impact winning the State under-11 title in the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh, is now a force to reckon with quietly making big strides.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘She needs coffee to wake her up’||Rohan Bopanna took strong exception to former Wimbledon champion Marion Bartoli’s comments on doubles tennis when he appeared on Purav Raja’s Instagram chat show. Bopanna was upset about Bartoli’s recent remarks that doubles events should be cut and the money given to players competing in Challengers. “She doesn’t know enough facts,” he said. “She has played doubles and made a lot of money. She needs a cup of coffee. That will wake her up.” The latest edition of Chai with Raja featured Stephen Amritraj and his wife Alison Riske, ranked No. 19 in the world, ‘taking on’ doubles stars Aisam-Ul-Haq Qureshi and Rajeev Ram. Bopanna was tasked with deciding the winner. Ram, who won the Australian Open this year with Britain’s Joe Salisbury, pointed out that doubles only receives 19% of the total prize money. He said it could be marketed better. Except for the hot-button issue, it was a lively show, in which Riske and Amritraj were the runaway winners for their sharp answers and entertaining exuberance. “Stephen was firing away at the start, and they were on a roll. Alison made a pretty good effort,” said Bopanna. Pakistan’s Qureshi, who reached the 2010 US Open final with Bopanna, was very popular, with comments pouring in from adoring fans, but he did not fare quite as well with the questions, both tough and easy. He even playfully pleaded, “Should we skip this section?” before sportingly attempting to answer questions such as the one on the price of oranges in Amritsar. On his appearance in a Grand Slam final in New York, Qureshi said, “It was a life-changing tournament, life-changing moment. To reach the final, with my closest friend, Bopanna, was special.”
02 June 2020||KOLKATA,||Panghal, Krishan for Khel Ratna||The Boxing Federation of India (BFI) on Monday recommended names of World championships silver medallist Amit Panghal and former Worlds bronze medallist Vikas Krishan for the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award. The BFI recommended three other Worlds medallists — Lovlina Borgohain, Simranjit Kaur and Manish Kaushik — for the Arjuna Award. Panghal also won golds at the last Asian Games and Asian championships and a silver at the 2018 Commonwealth Games. He became the first male boxer from the country to win a silver at the World Championships last year. Panghal has not been considered for any National Sports Award so far because of the suspension he has served for an anti-doping rule violation. Vikas claimed gold at the 2018 Commonwealth Games and bronze medals at the Asian Games and Asian championships. Manish took bronze at the World championships last year. Prior to that, he had secured a silver from the Commonwealth Games. While Lovlina bagged bronze medals from the last two World championships, Simranjit took a silver each from the 2018 World championships and the 2019 Asian championships. All these boxers have secured quota places for the Tokyo Olympics. The BFI has also recommended women’s boxing coach Mohammed Ali Qamar and assistant coach Chhote Lal Yadav for the Dronacharya Award. Two-time Worlds silver medallist N. Usha’s name has been recommended for the Dhyan Chand Award.
02 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Tinu Yohannan appointed as Ranji coach||Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) has appointed former India medium-pacer Tinu Yohannan as Kerala Ranji Trophy coach for the upcoming season. The decision was taken at KCA’s general body meeting held through video-conference on Monday. The KCA’s cricket advisory committee had recommended Yohannan’s name from five candidates and it was accepted by the general body. The meeting also entrusted KCA office-bearers to choose coaches for the junior teams also for the upcoming season. “It is a huge honour as well as a challenge,” said Yohannan later. This is a second stint for Yohannan as Kerala’s chief coach. He was serving as the director of KCA’s High Performance Centre in Alappuzha when chosen for this job. Short tenure Tinu’s first tenure was restricted to three matches when he was appointed as interim coach when P. Balachandran was sacked midway during the 2016 season. “I am not new to the job. I had served as interim coach before and I have been associated with the team as a bowling coach and assistant coach for several years. It feels great when you are made coach of a team for which you have played for 12 years,” said Yohannan. “I know the expectations will be high especially after the poor performance last season. It is a fresh challenge but an opportunity for me. I think since I known all the players for many years my job will be a little easier. I have played with senior players like Rohan Prem and Sachin Baby and against Robin Uthappa. So I don’t think I will have any problem dealing with them,” he added. Yohannan also said he would chalk up the coaching plans once the restrictions are lifted by the State Government. Other decisions Meanwhile, the meeting also decided to start the functioning of the high performance centre only after receiving permission from the State government. The inter-district and zonal tournaments for this season will be rescheduled. In the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the elections to Kasargod, Kozhikode, Palakkad, Malappuram and Pathanamthitta district cricket associations will be held only after the completion of district leagues in these districts. The existing office-bearers and executive committees in these districts will continue till the next elections.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||Virat-Rohit is India’s defining pair: Sangakkara||Every cricketing era has a “defining pair” which builds the narrative and the duo of Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma is a special one for India in modern times, says Sri Lankan legend Kumar Sangakkara. Kohli and Rohit have aggregated nearly 35,930 across three formats and Sangakkara feels the duo has the same aura which Sourav Ganguly and Rahul Dravid had in the late ’90s and early 2000s. Something special “There is something very special about Virat and Rohit. The fact is that rules have changed and run-scoring might have become slightly easier in one-day cricket, but it’s incredibly hard with the volume of cricket that India athletes play,” Sangakkara said on Star Sports’ Cricket Connected.  Sangakkara feels that Kohli and Rohit deserve the respect also for the fact that players from the earlier era didn’t have to constantly play three formats. “So, I think you have to have a lot of respect for Rohit and Virat, but understand that it’s all because of the players that have gone before and have done all the hard work as well. “So, it’s a knock-on effect, so in every era, there’s always a defining pair and in the modern era, it’s Rohit and Virat for India for sure.”
02 June 2020||KOLKATA,||Archery coach Nanoma dies in accident||International archer-turned-coach Jayantilal Nanoma died in a road accident in Rajasthan on Sunday. He was 34 and is survived by his wife and daughter. Nanoma, an Asia Cup and Asian Grand Prix medallist in compound individual and team events in 2010, met with an accident while travelling from Banswara to Dungarpur in a car. Nanoma was employed as a District Sports Officer in Dungarpur. As a coach, he produced several National and international level archers from Rajasthan. He worked as a coach with Indian teams in different overseas competitions. He received the prestigious Maharana Pratap State Sports Award. Archery Association of India (AAI) condoled his death.
02 June 2020||KOLKATA,||CAB retains coaching staff||The Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) on Monday decided to retain the coaching staff, including head coach Arun Lal, of the elite men’s team for the forthcoming season. Following a meeting here, CAB also decided to retain cricket operations manager Joydeep Mukherjee, spin bowling consultant Utpal Chatterjee and bowling consultant (for different State sides) Ranadeb Bose. A camp for spinners, stress on fitness of players and team bonding, and emphasis on bowlers’ batting will be some of the focus areas ahead of the commencement of the new season.
02 June 2020||Berlin,||Dortmund rides on Sancho’s hat-trick||England winger Jadon Sancho scored a hat-trick in Borussia Dortmund’s 6-1 rout of bottom side Paderborn on Sunday that trimmed Bayern Munich’s lead at the top of the Bundesliga to seven points. The outstanding Sancho now has 17 goals and 17 assists in the Bundesliga this season. Second-placed Dortmund kept its remote title hopes intact as Sancho stole the limelight with teenage striker Erling Braut Haaland sidelined by a leg injury.  The result: Paderborn 1 (Huenemeier 72-pen) lost to Borussia Dortmund 6 (Hazard 54, Sancho 57, 74, 90+1, Hakimi 85, Schmelzer 89).
02 June 2020||Sydney,||Smith open to playing IPL if T20 WC is postponed||Australian batting star Steve Smith on Monday said he would be willing to take part in the IPL if the T20 World Cup scheduled in his country for October-November is postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The BCCI is eyeing a September-October window for the indefinitely postponed IPL. “When you’re playing for your country at a World Cup, that’s the pinnacle for one-day or T20 cricket, so of course, I’d prefer to play in that. But if that doesn’t happen and the IPL’s there, then so be it. IPL’s also a terrific tournament as a domestic tournament,” Smith said after returning to training with the New South Wales squad. Smith was named Rajasthan Royals captain.PTI
02 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Composer Wajid Khan passes away||Besaakhta (spontaneous) and zindadil (lively) are the words that singer Rekha Bhardwaj uses to describe music composer Wajid Ali Khan, of the Sajid-Wajid duo, who passed away in Mumbai in the wee hours of Monday. He was 43. Ms. Bhardwaj first met Khan at the recording of ‘Kanha’, a thumri she sang for Sajid-Wajid in the film Veer . Wonderful memories “It felt like I had known him for years…He was affectionate, fun-loving, full of life. One could keep talking to him about poetry and music…We worked on only one song together but I have wonderful memories of him,” she says.  Like her, Khan’s peers, professional associates and friends remember him for his sweet, ever-smiling face, twinkling eyes and tremendous warmth. “He was such a fine, humble human being,” says singer-composer Roop Kumar Rathod, who knew him as a child and, like everyone else, feels that he went away too soon. Singer Sonu Nigam had known him for 29 years. “I used to hang out outside the studio and he used to be inside because his father was a famous percussionist,” he says, and remembers having befriended him in his own days as a struggler. He got together with the duo in 1999 to do the iconic non-film album, Deewana , which became extremely popular with an entire young generation of listeners. “People would come and tell me that the album defined romance for them,” he told The Hindu on a phone call from Dubai. Family of musicians Khan came from a family of musicians. Sajid-Wajid’s father was respected tabla-player Ustad Sharafat Ali Khan, who was also one of the musicians for R. D. Burman. “A song like ‘Hudd hudd dabangg’ captured the mood of the film perfectly,” says film buff and music expert Pavan Jha, about their ability to compose keeping the film in mind. Sajid-Wajid got their first break in Pyaar Kiya To Darna Kya in 1998 and came to get identified with Salman Khan’s films — Tere Naam , Partner — which proved to be both a calling card to their success and also a limitation in terms of experimentation. They composed music for 80-odd albums. Mr. Nigam said Khan suffered a great deal in his last days. He was diabetic, had undergone a kidney transplant, and was on immunosuppresants, which is said to have led to an infection and multi-organ complications. According to Mr. Merchant, Khan was buried early on Monday morning at the Versova kabrastan.
02 June 2020||Mumbai,||NFDC Film Bazaar off to Cannes online||While Prateek Vats’ Eeb Allay Ooo posted mind-boggling numbers (about 150,000 views at last count) in its 24-hour run at the first online ‘We Are One: A Global Film Festival’, the lab where these fantastic independent films are sown, grown and nurtured — the National Film Development Corporation (NFDC) Film Bazaar — has entered into a defining partnership with Marche du Film (Cannes Film Market) this year, when everyone assumed all was lost for cinema, especially the small indies. The NFDC Film Bazaar, the largest film market of South Asia, will collaborate with the biggest international market, Marché du Film, in its first online edition, to be held from June 22-26, with the ‘NFDC Film Bazaar Goes to Cannes’ programme. ‘Goes to Cannes’ is in its eighth edition and is one of the premier events at the market. It will take place on June 22 and 23. As a part of this collaboration, five work-in-progress films from NFDC Film Bazaar 2019 will be pitched to international festival programmers, distributors and sales representatives at the Marché du Film Online. The business wing of Festival de Cannes, Marche du Film featured 12,527 participants from the film industries of 121 countries last year. The participating projects — all debut features — include Dostojee (‘Two friends’) by Prasun Chatterjee in Bengali; Fire in the Mountains by Ajitpal Singh in Hindi; Pedro by Natesh Hegde in Kannada; Shankar’s Fairies by Irfana Majumdar in Hindi; and Uljhan (‘The knot’) by Ashish Pant in Hindi. While three of the films are set in India’s rural interiors, two have Uttar Pradesh’s capital Lucknow as their location. The five Indian films will be part of the 20 curated projects from four festivals/ markets across the globe and will have a shot at striking major business deals.  One more Indian production, a documentary called The Borderlands , features in the ‘Goes to Cannes’ section through Hong Kong-Asia Film Financing Forum. It has been directed by Samarth Mahajan and produced by Akshay Gangwar and Sunil Doshi.
02 June 2020||June 02 2020 07:26 IST,||Sudoku - June 2, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Jail isn’t for detaining undertrials so as to send message to society’||“The remit of the court is to dispense justice in accordance with law, not to send messages to society,” the Delhi High Court has observed while rejecting the prosecution’s stance that granting bail to a man, arrested in connection with the recent north-east Delhi riots, at an early stage might send an “adverse message in the society”. Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani remarked that, “Prison is primarily for punishing convicts; not for detaining undertrials in order to send any ‘message’ to society’.” The HC while granting bail to Firoz Khan, a resident of Old Mustafabad here, questioned the veracity of the evidence collated by the police against him in connection with arsoning of a nearby confectionery shop. Firstly, the court pointed out that the supplementary statement of complainant, Mohd. Shanawaz, the shop owner, does not appear to identify Mr. Khan. Police presence Additionally, in the FIR, Mr. Shanawaz had recorded that when the rioters vandalised his shop, he called the police but since the phones were busy, he ran away to save his life. “In the teeth of this statement of the complainant that there was no police help on hand, Constable Vikas claims that he was present at the scene of the offence and inter alia saw the applicant commit the offences,” the HC highlighted. “Even on first blush, it is not understood as to why the complainant would say that he failed to reach the police by telephone, if Ct. Vikas was already present there,” the court questioned. No CCTV cameras It further queried how the Delhi police was able to identify Mr. Khan using footage of a CCTV camera of a local school which was placed 400 metres and a 5-minute walk away from the shop. The prosecution has admitted before the High Court that no CCTV footage is available of the the incident itself. And footage from some cameras that are installed by the PWD in various parts of the area was still awaited. Justice Bhambhani, additionally, said, “When offences are alleged to have been committed by an ‘unlawful assembly’, after concluding investigation, the State has been able to identify and name only two persons from amongst a crowd of some 250-300 persons”. The public prosecutor argued that there was sufficient basis to hold Mr. Khan in judicial custody. This was contested by senior advocate Rebecca M. John, appearing for Mr. Khan, on the ground that Mr. Shanawaz has not in any manner identified or connected her client to the alleged offences.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police chargesheet in riots case today||The Delhi police is likely to file a chargesheet tomorrow over the riots in Chand Bagh area of north-east Delhi, an officer said on Monday. The Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed to investigate the Delhi riots will submit the chargesheet in Karkardooma court. It will be naming suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain and 14 others for their alleged involvement in riots. Chand Bagh was one of the worst-hit area during the riots. IB staffer Ankit Sharma was also found murdered in a drain here. Viral videos After videos of rioters hurling stones and bottles from the terrace of a building, belonging to Mr. Hussain, went viral on social media on February 24, a police team and forensic experts went to the building on February 26 and recovered stones, bricks, petrol bombs, acid packs and inflammable substance from the roof. In the chargesheet, more than 50 people recorded their statement that was supported by other forensic and technical evidences. They will be submitting a 1,000-page chargesheet and it has enough evidences against the people named in the list. The police have named Mr. Hussain in around 10 cases that were registered during the riots.
02 June 2020||New Delhi,||DU to go ahead with open book exams||Despite facing opposition from several stakeholders, Delhi University pushed ahead with the conduct of at-home open book examinations (OBE) for its final-semester students with the release of guidelines for postgraduate students on Monday. Guidelines for undergraduates were issued last week. The university asserted that the examination would require limited Internet connection. Guidelines for examinations of intermediate semester students including those in NCWEB and SOL will be issued later this week.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Pak. spies had data on Army movement’||A day after two visa assistants of the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi were apprehended by the Delhi Police Special Cell for allegedly indulging in espionage activities, the police said that the officials were gathering information on movement of the Armed forces via trains. A report by the Delhi Police mentioned that information had been received from central intelligence agency a few months ago that a Pakistani agent, Abid, in Noida was involved in procuring and supplying confidential documents pertaining to the Armed Forces to his Pakistan-based mentor. On May 31, information was received that Abid would be in Karol Bagh at 10.30 a.m. with some secret information. A team was deployed and at 11.45 a.m. they spotted two persons, including Abid. A person approached them and handed over an envelope. The team then nabbed the duo. During questioning, Abid said his name is Nasir Gotam, a resident of Geeta Colony, and showed an Aadhaar card in support of his claim. The other person identified himself as Tahir. They both claimed to be residents of Geeta Colony. Confidential information on movement and deployment of Indian Army was recovered from the duo. During interrogation, the duo failed to identify where Geeta Colony is. They finally broke down and confessed.  Both are employed in the Pakistan High Commission and had reached Karol Bagh in a car belonging to the High Commission. “Abid operated under several fake identities to lure people working in organisations and departments of his interest. He posed by the name Gotam, a brother of a media person, to establish contact with an individual working in the Indian Railways. He tried to gain his confidence by pretending that he needed information about rail movements for his brother who was supposedly doing a story on Indian Railways and for which he was willing to pay money,” said a police officer But the the real motive was to lure and trap the railway employee and then acquire information about movement of Army units and hardware via trains, the officer added.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||IIT-D students may get ‘early graduation’ option||The Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT-D) on Monday said that in a meeting of the Senate, it was decided to offer students who have less than a semester of graduation requirements left, the option of an “early graduation” by end of June or go through a “regular graduation process” which will depend on the COVID-19 situation in the country. According to the current plans, IIT-D hopes to get the students back to the campus starting from July 2 in a phased manner but said that these dates can change depending on how the COVID-19 pandemic evolves. “Since there may be some delays in this, the time-bound early graduation plan is being offered. Students are not forced to take it, but will have the flexibility if they choose to exercise this option,” the statement read. It added that all early graduation requirements will be met through an online process and that no student will need to come to the campus.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jamia library becomes first to get digital scanner||Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) on Monday said it has acquired an overhead scanning device to scale up its digitisation unit. This will help promote teaching-learning and research in an online format and also promote the preservation of art, history and culture and other archival documents for posterity. “The digital preservation of these archival documents will not only provide easy accessibility of these resources to our national and international scholars but it will enhance the sphere of academic research,” the university said. It added that the high-speed scanner was acquired with the financial support of the National Archives of India. The university said that Dr. Zakir Husain Library is first among Central Universities of India to have such a scanner in the country.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Four held for duping people under govt.’s health scheme||Four persons have been arrested for allegedly duping over 4,000 people by promising them jobs under the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme, the police said on Monday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Crime Unit) Anyesh Roy said that the accused have been identified as Umesh (37), Rajat Singh (33), Gaurav (26) and Seema Rani Sharma (33). The police said that the National Health Authority, the agency which administers the health scheme, registered a complaint alleging that it received complaints over an “unscrupulous agency” which was portraying a false association with the scheme. The accused had created a fake website resembling the government site and placed advertisement for thousands of jobs. They charged aspirants Rs. 300 to Rs. 500 as registration fees, the police said.
02 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Take action against tree felling: NGT||Following a plea seeking action against felling of trees near Anand Vihar railway station and directions to treat effluents before being discharged into drains, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday directed the East Delhi civic body and Delhi Forest Department to take appropriate action. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “The grievance with regard to the treatment of effluents before discharge into the Anand Vihar drain in violation of the [Water] Act needs to be considered in the first instance by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee and the East Delhi Municipal Corporation.” “We are of the view that grievance against cutting of trees may be looked into, in the first instance, by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forest [PCCF], Delhi,” the Bench added. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by moved by petitioner Amit alleging felling of trees near the railway station and seeking directions to treat effluents before discharge. The Bench said, “The applicant is at liberty to present his viewpoint before the said authorities within 15 days. Necessary action will be initiated within two weeks thereafter.”
