02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers continue protest as no deal reached in talks with govt.||Talks between the Centre and the farmers demanding a rollback of the three recent farm sector legislation ended inconclusively on Tuesday. The farmers’ unions rejected the government’s proposal to set up a small expert committee to examine the three controversial laws. The lines of communication between the protesters and the government stayed open, however, with both sides agreeing to meet again at noon on Thursday. The farmer leaders were asked to submit a detailed critique with their specific objections to the new laws by Wednesday. The impasse on the ground continued, with several thousand farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, camped out on the borders of Delhi, blocking two entrances to the capital for the sixth straight day. “We wanted the government to suspend the three laws while the negotiations are held, but they said that would not be possible. They asked us to stop the agitation, but our protest will continue. It will be intensified until our demand for repeal of the three laws is met,” said Darshan Pal, president of the Kisan Krantikari Union, one of the Punjab farmer leaders present during the meeting. “They wanted to set up a committee but similar panels have not led to any outcome in the past,” he added. Apart from the 30-plus Punjab unions that have already had two rounds of failed talks with the Centre on this issue, the farmers delegation included Gurnam Singh Chadhuni of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) in Haryana, Shivkumar Kakkaji Sharma of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh (RKM), and Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), in a nod to the growing national nature of the protest. Despite widespread expectation that the government delegation would be led by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, the team of Central Ministers was unchanged from the last round of talks in November.
02 December 2020||Kolkata,||BJP the real challenge to Left in Bengal, says CPI(ML) chief||The BJP is the biggest political adversary of the Left parties in West Bengal, whereas the Trinamool Congress (TMC) is only a temporary and passing threat, Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) [CPI-ML] general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya said on Tuesday. “Rather than competing with the BJP against the TMC, the Left parties should compete with TMC against the BJP,” the Left leader told The Hindu . CPI(M-L) is not a constituent of the Left Front in Bengal but is part of the larger coalition of Left and secular parties who are organising movements together. Mr. Bhattacharya was in Kolkata on November 26, during the all-India strike called by Central trade unions. The point raised by the CPI(M-L) leader is important because the Left parties, particularly the Communist Party of India (Marxist), has been grappling with the fundamental question of who is a bigger political threat — the Trinamool Congress or the BJP — for past several years. During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the main slogan of the Left party was ‘BJP hatato desh bachao! Trinamool hatao, Bangla bachao’ (Remove BJP to save the country; Defeat Trinamool to save Bengal). The slogan was coined by veteran Communist leader and former State chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee. Clearly in the highly polarised poll battle of 2019, the slogan targeting two political adversaries simultaneously did not bear fruit and the Left failed to win a single Lok Sabha seat in West Bengal. Political observers of West Bengal feel that the question of who is the more dangerous political adversary has been the Left’s biggest political issue since 2018.  “This is the biggest ideological existential dilemma which the Left parties are facing for past few years,” political analyst Biswanath Chakraborty said. Explaining the premise of his argument that the BJP is a bigger political adversary than the TMC, the CPI (M-L) leader said the BJP “will turn Bengal into a battlefield which will serve the party’s interest in the rest of the country. Look what is happening in Kashmir — they have put the entire population in jail.” ‘Work to unite people’ “Today when the BJP is threatening to become the most important political force and Communists have become a shadow of what they used to be, one can easily imagine the kind of things they can do in Bengal,” Mr. Bhattacharya said. He said the Left parties should sensitise the “people of Bengal about the real and imminent threat of BJP” and the second part of campaign should focus on issues that unite the employed rather than harping on the issues that divide the people. “In Bihar, the reason why the anti- NDA forces did well and came very close to achieving the target was the whole agenda was employment, education, public health. Look at the issues for November 26. This should be the agenda for Bengal polls,” Mr. Bhattacharya said. The CPI (M-L) leader said is disturbing to see that the voice of Left against BJP was “muted” in West Bengal. “BJP coming to power in West Bengal will not be the party adding one more State to their kitty. BJP in Bengal will be the worst devastation and havoc that they can unleash in India,” Mr. Bhattacharya said. While the CPI (M-L) leader said the Trinamool Congress is mainly held responsible for the rise of the BJP in West Bengal he added that the CPI(M) should be “blamed for not being able to see the danger and confront it, and not being able to protect its own votes which have fallen to 7% from close to 50 % in the past few years.”  BJP coming to power in West Bengal will not be the party adding one more State to their kitty. BJP in Bengal will be the worst devastation and havoc that they can unleash in India Dipankar Bhattacharya Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) general secretary
02 December 2020||Pune,||Active cases dip as Maharashtra records 6,000 more recoveries||After nearly a fortnight of cases outpacing recoveries in the immediate post-festivity season, the number of discharges outweighed the case surge on Tuesday as Maharashtra reported 6,290 recoveries as opposed to 4,930 fresh COVID-19 cases. With this, the number of active cases, which had crossed the 90,000 mark, has now dipped to 89,098. The total case tally now stands at 18,28,826. The cumulative recoveries have reached 16,91,412, with the State’s recovery rate rising incrementally to 92.49%. As many as 95 deaths were reported, taking the total death toll to 47,246. “Of a total of 1,09,15,683 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,28,826 (case positivity rate of 16.75%) have returned positive, with nearly 60,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stands at 2.58%. Pune district reported a sharp spike of more than 900 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,54,010, while 32 deaths saw its total death toll reach 7,479. As per the district administration figures, the active case figure has declined marginally to 11,373, while its recovery rate stands at 94.26%. Mumbai city reported 724 new cases to take its total case tally to 2,84,191, of which 15,708 are active. Nine fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 10,893. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 400 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,14,313, of which 4,000 are currently active. Three deaths took the total death toll to 2,990. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported 11 deaths to take its cumulative death toll to 1,678. As many as 66 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 52,567, of which 2,187 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported only 26 cases and one deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 48,675, while the active cases have reduced drastically to 545. Its death toll stands at 1,711. Kolhapur reported its lowest surge of a mere eight cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 48,526. Its active case tally stands at 268. The total death toll remains constant at 1,645. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported 371 cases and three deaths as its total case tally reached 104,69, of which 1,907 are active. Its cumulative death toll stands at 1,709. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported a mere 36 cases, but eight deaths as its total case tally reached 54,015, of which 1,231 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,400. Dr. Awate informed that currently a total of 5,38,084 people across the State are in home quarantine and 6,420 are in institutional quarantine facilities.
02 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Two bodies retrieved after six fishermen go missing mid-sea||Bodies of two of the six fishermen who went missing after their fishing vessel capsized mid-sea off Mangaluru coast on Monday night were retrieved and brought to the shore on Tuesday afternoon, Coastal Security Police (CSP) said. The Coastal Security Police gave the names of the deceased as Preetham (25) and Panduranga Suvarna (58), both residents of Bokkapatna Bengre. A search is on for the remaining four missing fishermen — Chintan (21), resident of Bokkapatna Bengre, Ziaulla (32), Ansar (31) and Hassainar (25), all residents of Kasaba Bengre. In all, 25 fishermen were onboard a purse-seine fishing vessel, Shree Raksha, owned by Prashanth of Chitrapura-Kulai, that left the Mangaluru Fishing Harbour early on Monday morning. It capsized at around 9 p.m., said Police Inspector Pramod Kumar at CSP Headquarters, Udupi. After landing a good catch, the vessel was returning with about 17 tonnes of fish when it capsized, said CSP Inspector, Mangaluru, Gangi Reddy. Quoting the pilot as saying, he said that the pilot suddenly lost balance while taking a turn and the vessel began sinking at around 8 nautical miles off the Mangaluru coast. As many as 19 fishermen took out dinghies and escaped from the capsizing vessel, while six who were said to be inside the cabin could not come out in time. Those in the dinghies were rescued by another purse-seine vessel, Chamundeshwari, even as other fishing vessels around the area launched a search for the missing fishermen. Upon receiving information, Coastal Security Police, Coast Guard and the district administration launched a search operation to trace the missing fishermen. Mr. Reddy said that three CSP boats, including one from Malpe, and a Coast Guard vessel were involved in the search operations. The CSP took a diving team from Tannirbhavi, led by Javed, to the spot which recovered the two bodies. Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath visited the old port area and consoled the family members of the missing fishermen. Expressing grief over the incident, the MLA said that he would urge district in-charge and Fisheries Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari to get the maximum compensation released to the families of the missing fishermen. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, who visited the port area, consoled the family members of the fishermen and took stock of the rescue operations. CSP Superintendent of Police R. Chethan too visited the port.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Consistent efforts have led to a declining trend’||The Delhi government told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that its “consistent efforts” have seen a “declining trend” in the spread of COVID-19 infection since last week. It said the Capital was facing its third surge in cases, which started in November. The 170-page affidavit belies an equally voluminous affidavit filed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) last week, which squarely blamed the Arvind Kejriwal government for the “massive increase” in the infections and resultant strain on medical infrastructure. The Centre named Delhi as one of the 10 States which contributed to almost 77% of the active caseload. This prompted the remark from the court that States should rise above politics during the pandemic. In its affidavit, the Delhi government met the scathing accusations of the Home Ministry with a mellow rendering of statistics to prove that it was not sleeping on the job. Unlike the MHA affidavit, the Delhi government lauded the cooperation it received from the Union Ministries these months. In fact, the affidavit is peppered with references to the “guidance” and “hand-holding” the Delhi government had got from the Centre. Credit to MHA One of the references includes how the Delhi government, with the “support and guidance” of the MHA, the Health Ministry, expert agencies like the NITI Aayog and the ICMR, has “successfully responded to the pandemic”. It said 13 meetings chaired by the Lieutenant-Governor, along with various experts such as V.K. Paul, Member of NITI Aayog, were held to discuss the strategy. The Kejriwal government maintained that there is a decline in the number of positive cases/positivity rate, admissions and discharges from hospitals, bed occupancy and active cases in Delhi. Rejecting the Centre’s claim that the Delhi government was ill-prepared for the spike in cases in the festival season, the affidavit said the number of COVID ICU beds available in Delhi is 5,010, with an expected increase of another 1,522 beds. The affidavit said the number of ICU beds in government hospitals had increased from 109 on June 1 to 1,749 on November 29 whereas the number of beds in Central government hospitals increased to only 850 as of November 29 from 89 on June 1. Even in private hospitals the ICU beds increased from 111 on June 1 to 2,411 on November 29. The Delhi government affidavit said it had, at the peak of the festive season, ordered for the creation of 663 ICU beds. Another order was issued on November 19 to reserve 80% of the ICU beds in private hospitals for COVID-19 patients. This would have added 249 beds. Again, a third order was passed to reserve 60% of beds in private hospitals for infected patients, increasing the number by 2,644. The affidavit referred to how Mr. Kejriwal had written to the Union Home Minister to increase the number of ICU beds by 1,214 in Central government hospitals. It said the Delhi government, notwithstanding this request, went ahead to approve the procurement of 1,200 bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) machines, a kind of ventilator, from CSIR. It said 300 machines would arrive next week, with an equal number coming every week. It said the RT-PCR sample collection has increased substantially, and has, in fact, saturated the ICMR declared capacity of 38,000 in Delhi. The affidavit said 80,30,979 persons have been surveyed as of November 29. The survey would continue for another month. The statistics covered Delhi’s capacity to cremate its COVID victims. “As on date, Delhi is witnessing an average of 110 COVID-19-related deaths per day, whereas it possesses a capacity to cremate 415 bodies a day, with the capacity to further augment the same, if the need arises,” it told the court.
02 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||State on high alert as Cyclone Burevi closes in||With the deep depression over the southwest Bay of Bengal intensifying into a cyclone (Burevi), preparations are in full swing in the State for tackling weather-related emergencies. The government machinery has been activated on a war footing in the seven southern districts. In addition to this, eight teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) will be positioned in these districts by Wednesday noon. One team each will be deployed in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Alappuzha, and Ernakulam while Idukki will have two teams, officials of the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) said. Forces on standby The Army, Navy, Air Force and the Coast Guard also have been asked to remain on stand-by to handle emergencies. The southern districts are bracing for heavy to extremely heavy rainfall and lashing winds induced by the cyclone, which is expected to cross the Sri Lankan coast by Wednesday night with wind speeds touching 75-85 kmph and gusting to 95 kmph. Advancing westward, the weather system will emerge into the Gulf of Mannar and Kanyakumari region by Thursday morning. By early Friday morning, it is expected to cross the south Tamil Nadu coast between Kanyakumari and Pamban, IMD officials here said. Relief camps Instructions have been issued to prepare relief camps by Wednesday in locations prone to landslips, flooding, and coastal erosion. Sections of the public included in the vulnerable groups in the Orange Book of Disaster Management of the KSDMA will, if needed, be evacuated in advance to safe locations. Fishing activities also have been suspended till Friday. “Kerala can expect strong winds and heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy rainfall from Wednesday,” IMD Met Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, Director K. Santhosh said in an update. Red, orange alerts As per the updated weather advisory, red alert for extremely heavy rainfall has been issued for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, and Alappuzha on Thursday. Orange alert for heavy to very heavy rainfall has been issued for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki on Wednesday; Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki on Thursday; and Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki on Friday. Yellow alert has been issued for Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Palakkad on Wednesday; Thrissur and Palakkad on Thursday and Friday; and the seven southern districts on Saturday.
02 December 2020||Mysuru,||Hospitality sector registers 40% pre-COVID-19 turnover||The tourism sector in Mysuru is witnessing a slow but steady increase in visitors’ footfall after remaining sluggish for a few months during the initial stages of graded unlocking. The pandemic and the consequent lockdown starting March 25 had resulted in a virtual closure of the sector as people were confined to their homes while the migrant workers headed back to their respective native places due to job loss. But as per the Palace Board records, 78,615 tourists visited the monument in November as against 45,886 visitors in October. During September, the palace attracted 30,425 visitors and in August, 10,537. In the pre-COVID-19 times the peak tourism season was from October through January with a decline in February and March before picking up again during summer. The hospitality sector in Mysuru, which is dependent on tourism for it survival, has averred that the business turnover has picked up and they were achieving 40% of the earlier transaction on a regular basis since the last one month. ‘We’re optimistic’  Narayana Gowda, president of Mysuru Hotel Owners’ Association, said that the sector was optimistic of returning to pre-COVID level of turnover and normalcy by April 2021. “We have another 5 months to go to reach the milestone but there are already signs of recovery as most hotels and restaurants report turnover in the range of 40%.” Mr. Gowda said there are nearly 8,500 hotel rooms catering to various category of tourists – budget to luxury – and a 95% occupancy from the first week of December to first week of January was common in the pre-COVID times with 100% occupancy of hotels between December 24 and January 2. “But this year we will be happy if it breaches the 50% occupancy level given the present trend.’ However, the recovery also hinges on the resumption of mass transportation – mainly inter-State rail services. Bulk of the tourists visiting Mysuru at present are people from within Karnataka and there are not many from the rest of the country. Though there are a few long-distance trains in operation as also a few inter-State buses that are plying, the occupancy rates are not high. Officials in the tourism sector aver that it will take some more time for tourists from other States to return and until then intra-State tourism has to be encouraged.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu to set up commission to conduct survey for caste-wise data||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday announced that a commission would be set up to conduct a survey for collecting caste-wise data in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Palaniswami’s announcement came a few hours after a delegation of PMK leaders, led by Anbumani Ramadoss, met him at the Secretariat on a day the PMK launched an agitation for 20% reservation for Vanniyars in government jobs and higher education. In the morning, protests by PMK cadre paralysed vehicular movement for a few hours on GST Road in Chennai and a couple of highways in northern Tamil Nadu. The cadre also engaged in stone pelting, bringing an Express train to a halt in a Chennai suburb. According to the Chief Minister, the proposed Commission would examine the methodologies being adopted for collecting caste-wise data and based on that, it would conduct a survey to collect such data and submit a report to the government. Court case He pointed out that various political parties and social organisations had demanded a caste survey at different points in time. Moreover, as a case regarding the 69% reservation in Tamil Nadu was pending in the Supreme Court, such data was needed for the case, the Chief Minister contended. “Quantifiable caste-wise data in the present scenario is necessary for fulfilling such demands. Hence, only by collecting State-wide data would complete information become available,” Mr. Palaniswami said. Recalling former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s efforts towards ensuring “social justice”, Mr. Palaniswami said his government would follow in her footsteps. “Quantifiable caste-wise data in the present scenario is necessary for fulfilling such demands. Hence, only by collecting State-wide data would complete information become available,” Mr. Palaniswami said. Recalling former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s efforts towards ensuring “social justice”, Mr. Palaniswami said his government would follow in her footsteps. Reacting to the announcement, PMK founder S. Ramadoss said constituting the Commission would not yield immediate results. He reiterated that the government should immediately announce 20% reservation for Vanniyars. “We wanted a mango from Salem. But the CM’s statement is tantamount to planting a mango sapling only now and expecting us to be happy with it,” PMK spokesperson K. Balu said.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||GST inflows top Rs. 1 lakh cr. for second month in a row||Gross revenues from the Goods and Services Tax (GST) crossed Rs. 1 lakh crore for the second month in a row, with Rs. 1,04,963 crore collected in November 2020. This was 1.4% higher than a year ago but a tad lower than October’s collections. The pick-up in GST revenues over the last two months could reduce the shortfall in GST compensation dues to the States, but economists urged caution till December to assess if the economy is truly out of the woods after the festive demand factor has played out. Cumulatively, the GST revenues from the first eight months of 2020-21 add up to Rs. 6,64,709 crore, reflecting a 17.4% dip from the Rs. 8,05,164 crore collected in the same period of 2019-20. “In line with the recent trend of recovery, the revenues for November 2020 are 1.4% higher than the GST revenues in the same month last year. During the month, revenues from imports was 4.9% higher and revenues from domestic transaction (including import of services) are 0.5% higher than the revenues from these sources during the same month last year,” the Finance Ministry said in a statement.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Marginal increase in voter turnout||The city has slightly outperformed itself in the GHMC elections this time on Tuesday, by clocking 45.71 % overall polling in its 149 divisions. During last GHMC elections in 2016, the polling was at 45.3% for 150 divisions. This time, election at one division, Old Malakpet, was cancelled and rescheduled for December 3, owing to a mix-up in the symbol of the Communist Party of India. Despite the betterment in polling percentage, the laid back attitude of the city voter appeared more pronounced this time, vis-a-vis the high decibel campaign by a few political parties. Electioneering by political heavy weights such as Amit Shah seems to have had little impact on the turnout. GHMC Commissioner and Election Authority D.S.Lokesh Kumar announced the final polling percentage post midnight, previous to which, at 5 p.m., the figure stood at 35.8%. On Tuesday, the polling began at 7 a.m. at most centres without much ado, as there were no EVMs to give trouble this time. People began trickling in, and by 9 a.m., 3.1% polling was complete. A few polling stations such as the one at AV College, Domalguda, showed promise, with the booths recording over 12 %polling before 10 a.m. “I came to vote before I join duty at the hospital, as this is the only time I can spare,” said Surender Rao, a paediatrician who stood in the queue line all dressed up in the surgical suit. The same enthusiasm, however, was not visible at other polling stations. At one booth in Old Bowenpally, the polling had remained below 20 % even after 1 p.m. Young voters, whose contribution was expected to tip the scales, were conspicuous by their absence at several polling stations. The overall polling percentage rose to 8.9% by 11 a.m., 18.2 % by 1 p.m. and to 29.76 % by 4 p.m. For a total of 74.13 lakh voters, only over 22 lakh exercised their franchise by 4 p.m. By 5 p.m., the officials updated the figure to 35.8 %, with no further updates till after midnight. Officials under the condition of anonymity informed that the final figures were being noted down from the diaries of the polling officers, as they arrived to turn in the ballot boxes, so as not to give any scope for errors.
02 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Chief Secretary-led panel to draft policy to end Bengaluru’s parking woes||The State government on Tuesday set up a committee headed by the Chief Secretary to look into parking woes in Bengaluru and prepare an upgraded parking policy to ease the problem. The draft policy will include quantum of parking fee, method of collection and other guidelines. “Currently the city has smart parking in about 80 to 85 locations and it was felt that a similar facility has to be established in other pars. A new policy is being envisaged to prevent inconvenience due to haphazard parking. Tough measures have become a necessity,” BDA chairman S.R. Vishwanath told presspersons here after attending a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on the issue. Mr. Vishwanath pointed out that though Bengaluru has a higher registration of vehicles compared to Chennai, Kolkota or Delhi, it does not have good parking facility. “Parking in front of homes on either side of the road has turned out to be a bane. For months, cars are covered and parked. This has to end,” he added. Suggestions have been made that vacant sites in residential localities could be used for parking after BBMP enters into an understanding with site owners. “In the light of multilevel car parking not being used, suggestions have been made to ban parking in one kilometre of their radius so that car owners utilise the designated space,” he added. Another suggestion was seeking commitment letters from vehicle owners before being allowed to purchase the vehicle. “They should give letter stating they have parking facilities to be allowed to purchase vehicle,” he added.
02 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||HDMC tops State in PM-SVANidhi scheme||Continuous monitoring, proper coordination and sensitisation of beneficiaries have helped Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) to secure the top position among the municipal corporations with regard to implementation of Prime Minister’s Street Vendors AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM-SVANidhi). According to the State data on December 1, with an achievement of 102.75 in terms of the percentage of online loan applications received against the target under PM-SVANidhi, Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) is ranked No 1 among the municipal corporations. Against a target of 9,438 loan applications, the municipal corporation staff have been able to get 9,698 online applications from street vendors in need of assistance uploaded and process them. Of these 9,698 applications, 3,047 beneficiaries have already been sanctioned assistance. And, financial assistance has already been disbursed to 1,875 street vendors. Under the PM-SVANidhi, micro assistance of up to Rs. 10,000 is being given to street vendors at an affordable rate of interest. Apart from extending assistance to street vendors and making them repay regularly, they are encouraged to go digital in their businesses. Incentives and prizes are to given to encourage more digital transactions. A total of Rs. 3.08 crore has been sanctioned and Rs. 19.2 crore has been disbursed so far. At the State-level, Tumakuru Municipal Corporation is in the second position with an achievement of 100.76 % of the target. Against a target of 3,021 applications, it has received 3,044 of which 1,195 have been sanctioned and assistance disbursed in 664 cases. Mysuru Municipal Corporation is in the third position with 12,261 applications against a target of 12,455 (98.45 %). While 1,656 loans have been sanctioned, assistance has been disbursed in 740 cases there. However, Ballari Municipal Corporation which is in the fifth position has better percentage of sanctioned loans than those at the top. Of the 3,647 applications received, 1,728 beneficiaries have been sanctioned loans (42.11 %) and disbursement has been made in 1,145 cases (27.90 %). Brihat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) stands at the bottom [11th] as it has just achieved 19.33 % in terms of online applications. Against a target of 87,499 applications, only 16,915 online applications have been filed and loans have been sanctioned to 4,571 applicants (5.22 %) and, of them, only 1,186 (1.36 %) beneficiaries have received assistance. Community Affairs Officer of HDMC Ramesh Noolvi told The Hindu that extensive awareness among the street vendors helped the corporation exceed the target. “Under the guidance of our commissioner, we set up help desks at market places, distributed pamphlets, put up small information boards for sensitising the needy street vendors about the scheme, which helped us reach out to more people,” he said. In fact, post-COVID-19 lockdown, the number of street vendors has increased as many from semi-urban areas are coming to the twin cities to do business. “As per last year’s data, we had 6,175 street vendors in the twin cities. But it has almost doubled now. We want to cover all of them and accordingly, we have planned. While we are number 1 in the State, we stand 47th at the national level and I am confident that we will be in the top 10 at the national level in the next 15 days,” Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal told The Hindu . Help desks In a bid to reach more people and familiarise the street vendors with the digital mode of business, HDMC has set up help desks to provide QR Code free to vendors at the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Urban Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NULM) of HDMC in Hubballi and Dharwad. “It is being done to help vendors do more digital transactions as they will also receive additional benefits,” the municipal commissioner said.
02 December 2020||Mumbai,||No one can forcibly take away anything from Maharashtra: CM||A day before Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s visit to Mumbai to attract business and Bollywood to his state, his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said “no one can forcibly take away anything from Maharashtra”. Inaugurating the Mission Engage Maharashtra campaign of Chamber of Commerce and Industries, Mr. Thackeray. without naming anyone. said, “I am happy that you are taking an initiative for Magnetic Maharashtra. Maharashtra has a history and culture (different than others). Therefore no one can just come and take away from here,” he said. Mr. Thackeray added, “We are not scared of competition. But if someone is going to come here and take away against the will and with force then it will not be possible.” Mr. Thackeray’s statement comes a day after State unit of the Congress issued a warning over Yogi Adityanath’s visit to Mumbai and alleged that the meeting was a ploy to threaten industries here and Bollywood to shift to Uttar Pradesh. “For the last few months, central agencies are being used to threaten industrialists, and film personalities. We have all seen how NCB was used to defame Bollywood following the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. We have also seen in the past how many industries and projects were taken to Gujarat. Now this is likely to be repeated with the visit of UP Chief Minister,” said Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant. Mr. Sawant said that knowing how Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its governments have worked in the past, it is important that the Maharashtra government, Chief Minister and Home Minister stands firmly with the industry here. “This meeting of U.P. CM is nothing but to create fear in the minds of industrialists,” he added. After reaching Mumbai on Tuesday evening, the U.P. Chief Minister is expected to hold meetings on Wednesday with senior Bollywood producers and studio owners. He will also attend an investment meeting with top business houses of the country. He has already announced the setting up of a film city in Uttar Pradesh on the lines of Mumbai. He will also ring the bell at the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) to mark the issuing of bonds by Lucknow Municipal Corporation. ‘BJP scheming’ Senior Congress leader and Maharashtra PWD Minister Ashok Chavan meanwhile, alleged that the BJP was scheming to take away a “slice of Bollywood” to the northern State. “When BJP was in power in Maharashtra, many industries and offices were shifted to Gujarat. Though the government changed in Maharashtra, the BJP is now readying a script to take away a slice of Bollywood in the name of the Uttar Pradesh government. “Whatever had happened in the tenure of the BJP, we won’t let it happen again,” Mr. Chavan tweeted. “Earlier, importance of Maharashtra was reduced deliberately, but the then government kept quiet. BJP leaders took a lead in getting funds for the PM Cares Fund instead of getting for Chief Minister’s Fund only to make their seniors happy,” he said in another tweet.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses to entertain pleas seeking probe against Jagan||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain petitions seeking judicial inquiry or CBI probe against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the circumstances leading to the release of his letter addressed to Chief Justice of India levelling allegations against a sitting Supreme Court judge and State High Court judges. The court also declined a plea by one of the petitioners to issue a writ of quo warranto against Mr. Jagan for releasing the ‘confidential’ letter to the public and thus “misusing his office”. Besides, the Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul noted that it did not want any “multiplicity of litigation”. Justice Kaul said another Bench of the apex court headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan was already examining an appeal filed by the Andhra Pradesh government in a connected issue. This appeal, filed before Justice Bhushan, concerns a September 16 order of the High Court, staying the investigation into the “illegal purchase” of land in Amaravati. The High Court had also barred the State from taking any coercive action against the persons named in the FIR, which includes relatives of the Supreme Court judge and a former Additional Advocate-General, even as it restrained the media from reporting the case. The allegations in the FIR include abuse of official positions in the State, sharing of privileged information and causing loss to the public exchequer during the previous Telugu Desam Party regime. The letter, which Mr. Jagan sent the CJI on October 6, contained allegations in connection with the Amaravati land purchase case. It was this letter which was released on October 10 in a press conference. On Tuesday, Justice Kaul highlighted that Justice Bhushan’s Bench, on November 25, has lifted the gag order on the media. “So we have already entertained one petition [Andhra government’s appeal]. There cannot be any multiplicity of litigation... People cannot keep coming to us on this issue. This cannot be an endless exercise,” Justice Kaul told the petitioners. Advocate G.S. Mani, whose petition is the lead one, argued that the issue before Justice Bhushan’s court was not the same. But Justice Kaul persisted that consequences flowing from the case before Justice Bhushan may have an effect on every aspect of the issue, including the release of the letter. The Bench refused Mr. Mani’s plea to tag his petition along with the Andhra Pradesh government’s case before Justice Bhushan, saying this cannot devolve into a “merry game”. “A legal matter is being debated there, let it be debated,” Justice Kaul remarked. However, the court tagged a petition filed by advocate Sunil Kumar Singh, argued by advocate Mukti Singh, which said the conduct of Mr. Jagan amounted to scandalising and weakening public faith in the judiciary. Ms. Singh referred to the E.M.S. Namboodiripad case, in which the then Kerala Chief Minister was held guilty of contempt of court for his remarks against the judiciary. Recently, Attorney General K.K. Venugopal had refrained from giving his statutory consent to pleas seeking contempt of court action against Mr. Reddy and his Principal Adviser Ajeya Kallam. Mr. Venugopal said it was up to the CJI, who is “seized of the letter” to take an appropriate decision.
02 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder hits out at AAP ‘double standards’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of adopting double standards on the farmers’ protests, saying the party had “completely exposed itself” by implementing the farm laws in the midst of the crisis while claiming to be standing with the protesters. “Even as AAP was claiming to be supporting the farmers, the Delhi government has executed the farm laws through a gazette notification on November 23,” said Capt. Amarinder in a statement. He charged AAP with indulging in political games to further its electoral agenda. “AAP has been working behind the farmers’ backs all these days,” said the Chief Minister, pointing out that the notification was issued even before the farmers had embarked on their ‘Dilli Chalo’ march. “First, they failed to pass any amendment laws in the Delhi Assembly to negate the Central laws, as was done in Punjab. And now they have gone so far as to officially notify the agricultural legislations in Delhi. The party’s true intent and affiliation has been utterly exposed,” said Capt. Amarinder. AAP counters charge The Delhi government notified one of the three farm laws, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 that allows trade of foodgrains outside APMC mandis. The ruling AAP argues that the notification doesn’t dismantle mandis and only allows farmers to sell grains anywhere besides fruits and vegetables. “The farmers’ demand is that they should get MSP whether inside or outside the mandi. We support that statement,” the party said. (With inputs from special correspondent)
02 December 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata: Centre using agencies to destabilise our government||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused the Centre of using Central agencies to destabilise her government and and said the people of Bengal will not yield without a fight. “They are trying to disturb our government using Central agencies. I know they will do it more and more before the elections. People of Bengal will not leave an inch of land without a fight, however, much you want to defame us or use agencies,” she said at a press conference. She also accused the Centre of bulldozing the federal structure. Ms. Banerjee, while defending irregularities in cyclone Amphan relief, also raised the issue of and sought to know where is the money of Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) fund. “You are concerned about Rs. 25,000 of Amphan…. We did a review and even if some poor people who have taken it have returned it. What about lakhs and crores of PM Cares. Does the media know about it? Why was no audit done? The Centre keeps lecturing us,” she said. The Chief Minister defended her government on the non-implementation of the Centre’s Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi ( PM KISAN) and said her West Bengal’s “Krishak Bandhu” scheme was far better than the Central scheme. On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said without naming West Bengal some States were not allowing Central government benefits to reach farmers. “We have a separate scheme for farmers, why should we listen to them? Krishak Bandhu is a far better scheme. We do not discriminate between farmers.” She also said the State government has extended benefits of Swastha Sathi to all people of the State. The non-implementation of PM Kisan and Ayushman Bharat in West Bengal has been one of major political issues raised by BJP leadership. The Chief Minister has written to Centre saying that it willing to extend the scheme provided funds are transferred through the State government. Mamata targets CPI(M) While referring to the irregularities in the relief distribution, Ms. Banerjee targeted the CPI (Marxist). “You are raising about Rs. 25,000 of Amphan that has been duly distributed the CPI(M) should be ashamed of it. They are the biggest ally of the BJP. They should be ashamed of it,” she said. She appealed to Left supporters and said: “This is not a CPI(M) that you people know. The CPI(M) of Jyoti Babu and Buddha Babu [former Chief Minister Jyoti Basu and Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee] was lot better.” The CPI(M) leadership retorted by calling the State government ‘shameless’. Its leader Sujan Chakraborty said there has been huge corruption in Amphan. He said the High Court has directed a probe by the CAG in the irregularities during the distribution of relief for cyclone Amphan.  People of Bengal will not leave an inch of land without a fight, however, much you want to defame us or use agencies Mamata Banerjee Chief Minister
02 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||TDP MLAs, except Naidu, suspended again||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) MLAs, except party president and Leader of the Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu, were suspended for a day from the Assembly on Tuesday. This is the second consecutive day that the TDP MLAs were suspended from the House during this winter session. The Assembly took up a discussion on the housing schemes in the State. It led to heated exchange of words between the ruling YSRCP and the Opposition TDP. TDP leader and former Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu alleged that there was an inordinate delay in the payment of bills to the houses that were already constructed. Mr. Naidu on Tuesday accused the State government of hijacking the projects and programmes launched by the previous TDP government and renaming them after Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy without any scruples. Mr. Jagan would go down into history as a “sticker CM” forever, he said. Mr. Jagan, intervening the discussion, said that the YSRCP had clearly stated in its manifesto that 300 sft houses would be free of cost. It was promised during the padayatra that Rs. 3 lakh out of Rs. 6 lakh would be waived. The remaining Rs. 3 lakh would be shared by the State and Central governments. The TDP, however, was making issue out of nothing, Mr. Jagan said and further played his promise at Palacol in West Godavari district during the padayatra. The House witnessed a wordy duel between the Chief Minister and the Leader of the Opposition. The TDP MLAs raised slogans demanding that the government pay the pending bills. Following a suggestion from Legislative Affairs and Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, Speaker Thammineni Seetaram suspended 14 TDP MLAs for obstructing the proceedings of the House.
02 December 2020||KALABURAGI,||‘We’ll enact anti-love jihad law against all odds’||Terming the opposition, especially from the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah, to the proposed anti-love jihad legislation in the State as “minority appeasement”, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi asserted that his government would enact the law against all resistance. “The State government is planning to bring in legislation to curb the love jihad menace. But, the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah is opposing it. He appears to be more concerned about minority appeasement than the security of women,” Mr. Savadi said. He was speaking to media representatives in Koppal on Tuesday. He was in the town to participate in the BJP Gram Swaraj programme in the backdrop of gram panchayat polls. “Our government is committed to protecting Hindu women from love jihad menace. We will enact a stringent law against love jihad, no matter how much resistance there is,” Mr. Savadi said. Asked about national party leaders participating in local municipal elections in Hyderabad, Mr. Savadi justified it saying that it was a part of the party’s commitment to repaying the cadre and local level activists who had worked hard for bringing the party to power at the Centre. To a query about the speculated change in Chief Ministership in the State, Mr. Savadi said that B.S. Yediyurappa would remain Chief Minister for the rest of the period of the current Assembly. Forest Minister and Ballari in-charge B.S. Anand Singh thanked the government for granting Rs. 1,600 crore to the development of new Vijayanagara district. He also hailed the right of Kampli and other taluks to be part of the new district.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kerala scribes seek probe into Kappan’s detention||The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) asked the Supreme Court to order an “independent enquiry” by a retired Supreme Court judge into the alleged illegal arrest and detention of its secretary Sidhique Kappan. The KUWJ said Mr. Kappan had been in detention in Uttar Pradesh for 56 days. He has been “implicated” in the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and other serious offences. He was detained on the way to Hathras in U.P. where a 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped and murdered by four men. In a counter-affidavit, the KUWJ said the U.P. police had made an absolutely false statement that Mr. Kappan is the office secretary of the Popular Front of India (PFI). The Union said it was shocked to hear that Mr. Kappan was beaten with lathi and slapped. It said he had to suffer mental torture and sleep deprivation. The Union said Mr. Kappan has specifically requested the lawyer to make a request to this court to permit him to undergo narco-analysis or brain mapping or lie detector or any other scientific test to show that he/the accused is innocent. The counter-affidavit was filed days after Uttar Pradesh filed an affidavit in the top court claiming that Mr. Kappan was going to Hathras under the garb of journalism with a very determined design to create caste divide and disturb the law and order situation. The State has alleged in its affidavit that Mr. Kappan is the office secretary of the PFI and was using a journalist cover by showing identity card of a Kerala-based newspaper which was closed in 2018. The top court is hearing KUWJ’s plea, which has questioned Mr. Kappan’s arrest and has sought his release on bail.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Bumper-to-bumper||
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Quota chaos||
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||TAC for night curfew from Dec. 26 to Jan. 1||The State’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that New Year’s public celebrations be banned and night curfew (8 p.m. to 5 a.m.) be imposed from December 26 to January 1. A report, prepared based on recommendations by TAC, has said that the State should enforce mask wearing strictly by deploying more marshals to fine violators. “The government should also consider introducing actions like simple imprisonment of a few hours for violators as in Madhya Pradesh,” it stated.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Quota chaos||
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No move for universal vaccination’||The government has never spoken about vaccinating everyone against COVID-19, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday, speaking at a press conference in the national capital. Mr. Bhushan added that it is important to discuss such scientific issues based on factual information only. “Vaccination would depend on the efficacy of the vaccine, and our purpose is to break the chain of virus transmission. If we’re able to vaccinate a critical mass of people and break virus transmission, then we may not have to vaccinate the entire population,” said Director General of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Balram Bhargava, who was present at the press meet. Reacting to recent allegations of an adverse reaction complaint by a 40-year-old volunteer for ‘Covishield’, the candidate vaccine being tested by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), the Ministry stated that adverse events are unlikely to impact the delivery timeline of the vaccine. It listed out the various mechanisms in place to ensure the safety of the volunteers participating in drug/vaccine testing and ensuring the efficacy of the end product. Officials listed the various mechanisms in place to ensure the safety of the volunteers participating in drug/vaccine testing and ensuring the efficacy of the end product. “Adverse events do occur with drugs or vaccines or any other health intervention. It is the role of the regulator after collating all data to ascertain or refute whether there is a link between the event and intervention,” said Dr. Bhargava. The Ministry said that at the start of a clinical trial subjects are expected to sign a prior informed consent form.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Canada’s comments are ill-informed’||The Canadian leadership’s comments on the farmers’ agitation are “ill-formed”, an MEA official said on Tuesday. The Indian response came hours after Canada’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said his country had contacted Indian authorities to express concern.Page 9
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Yadav’s exclusion hints at cracks||Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav was not included in the farmers’ delegation, allegedly because the government did not want political personalities to be included. Some farmer leaders said his exclusion was at the behest of Punjab unions.Page 9
02 December 2020||Srinagar,||48.6% turnout in J&K despite the cold||Keeping up the momentum from the first phase, 48.62% of the voters exercised their franchise in the second phase of the District Development Council election in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, with the Valley recording 33.4%. Polling was peaceful. The Jammu division recorded 65.54% polling.
02 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Submit offer to Infosys on lake revival, HC tells govt.||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to produce the offer made to the Infosys Foundation to rejuvenate and maintain Hebbal lake in Mysuru while observing that perhaps the government would have got better offers if it had issued public notice inviting corporate entities to come forward to assist in taking care of State’s lakes.
02 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Highest number of samples tested in Nov.||The State tested 31,83,877 samples in November, the highest ever since COVID-19 hit the State in March, detecting 61,372 positive cases.
02 December 2020||Bengaluru,||BIFFes to be held in February-end or March||The 13th edition of Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes) will be held either in the last week of February or the first week of March 2021.
02 December 2020||BELAGAVI,||16,000 reserve police to be recruited in two years||The State government will recruit 16,000 reserve police constables in two years, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Belagavi on Tuesday. “The Police Department is considering all vacancies in phases. In the next two years, we will recruit 16,000 reserve police constables,” he said. He was speaking at a passing out parade of police constables.
02 December 2020||Mumbai,||Jalyukta Shivar: panel to pick works for probe||Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced a committee to finalise the list of works to be probed after their completion under the previous Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government’s flagship Jalyukta Shivar scheme. Former Chief Minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis had launched the scheme — a water conservation campaign aimed at making the State drought free — which involved collective efforts of government, farmers, NGOs and corporates. The scheme was launched on December 5, 2014 and ended after extension on March 2020.As per government data, over six lakh works were completed under the scheme.
02 December 2020||Pune,||Serum Institute of India reiterates vaccine safety||Amid allegations by a “Covishield” volunteer of “adverse reaction” during trials, the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Tuesday reiterated that the vaccine was “safe” and “immunogenic”. “The incident with the Chennai volunteer, though highly unfortunate, was in no way induced by the vaccine and Serum Institute of India is sympathetic with the volunteer’s medical condition. However, we would like to clarify that all the requisite regulatory and ethical processes and guidelines were followed diligently and strictly,” the SII said in another statement issued on Tuesday.
02 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Objection to removal of Kannada name board||The Udupi unit of the Kannada Sahitya Parishat on Tuesday took objection for the Krishna Mutt/Temple in Udupi removing a Kannada name board at its entrance and replacing it with one written both in Tulu and Sanskrit. President of the unit Neelavara Surendra Adiga said in a statement that the action of the mutt authorities violated the government directive.
02 December 2020||Srinagar,||48.6% turnout in J&K despite the cold||Keeping up the momentum from the first phase, 48.62% of the voters exercised their franchise in the second phase of the District Development Council election in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, with the Valley recording 33.4%. Polling was peaceful. “J&K has recorded a 48.62% turnout. Long queues were seen right from the morning despite severe cold conditions in the Kashmir division and hilly areas of the Jammu division. The polling has been peaceful in all 43 constituencies,” State Election Commissioner K.K. Sharma said.The Jammu division recorded a 65.54% polling. Brisk polling With brisk polling despite the cold weather, men and women queued up outside polling booths in Bandipora in huge numbers, setting a record 69.66% turnout in the Valley. “These polls are our way to affirm our faith in democracy. We expect the government of the day to accept the verdict and listen to the political and development demands of the people of Kashmir and do the needful,” Nasreen Jan, a first-time voter, said in the Sumbal area of north Kashmir. Kupwara saw a turnout of 58.69% followed by Ganderbal (49.14), Budgam (43.51), Srinagar (33.78), Kulgam (29.9) and Baramulla (28.95). In south Kashmir, the volatile districts of Shopian saw a low turnout of 17.28%, Anantnag 16.09% and Pulwama 8.67%. Voter enthusiasm was also evident in the Jammu division, where Poonch district saw a record percentage of 75.07% turnout, followed by Jammu at 69.97%. The lowest turnout in Jammu division was in Kathua district at 60.1%, officials said. Kishtwar recorded 61.64%, Doda 64.8%, Ramban 66.23%, Udhampur 62.51%, Samba 66.38%, Reasi 69.27% and Rajouri 60.21%. “Of the 7,95,118 voters, 3,77,401 — 2,01,792 men and 1,75,609 women — voted to choose their representatives in their respective councils. Polling was held in 2,142 polling stations — 1,305 from Kashmir division and 837 from Jammu,” Mr. Kumar said. The byelections for vacant panch, sarpanch and urban local bodies were also held. Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti alleged that her party leader Rouf Bhat was “detained again on the day municipal election is being held in Srinagar”. “The Government of India, by subverting democracy, reminds me of the cycle of rigged elections in the past, one of the reasons J&K is in turmoil,” she said.
02 December 2020||Pune,||SII reiterates vaccine safety||Amid allegations by a “Covishield” volunteer of “adverse reaction” during trials, the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Tuesday reiterated that the vaccine was “safe” and “immunogenic”. “The incident with the Chennai volunteer, though highly unfortunate, was in no way induced by the vaccine and Serum Institute of India is sympathetic with the volunteer’s medical condition. However, we would like to clarify that all the requisite regulatory and ethical processes and guidelines were followed diligently and strictly,” the SII said in another statement issued on Tuesday.  ‘Non-related issue’ The vaccine-maker said that the authorities were informed and the Principal Investigator, Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) and the Ethics Committee had independently cleared and reckoned the case as “a non-related issue” in the vaccine trials. The SII said that following the incident, it had submitted all reports and data related to the incident to the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI). “It is only after we cleared all the required processes that we continued with the trials,” the SII said. It further said that it wanted to assure everyone that the vaccine would not be released for mass use unless it was proven immunogenic and safe. “Taking into consideration the complexities and existing misnomers about vaccination and immunisation, the legal notice was sent therefore to safeguard the reputation of the company which is being unfairly maligned,” it said. Last week, the SII denied the allegations of the 40-year-old vaccine volunteer who had alleged serious side effects, including a neurological breakdown and impairment of cognitive functions, and had sought monetary compensation of Rs. 5 crore in a legal notice to the SII, AstraZeneca and the Oxford Vaccine Group and a halt to the trial. ‘Malicious’ charge The SII, calling the allegations “malicious” and “misconceived”, had further said that it would seek damages in excess of Rs. 100 crore for the same and would defend such malicious claims. The SII’s chief executive officer, Adar Poonawalla, said last week that “zero hospitalisations” had been reported during the trials. “The trials have established Covishield’s efficacy as it has shown to reduce the virus in a person’s system by 60%. Furthermore, zero hospitalisations were reported during the trials. What we found in these trials globally is that even if a person does get infected, it will not be a severe attack as the sterilising immunity was 60%,” he said following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the SII facility last Saturday.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Protesters echo calls for peace||At Delhi-Haryana’s Singhu border, farmers protesting against the newly enacted farm laws called for peace, irrespective of the outcome of the talks with the government. “We have to remain calm and maintain peace, no matter what. This is how we’ll win our fight,” said one of the many speakers on stage, a sentiment that came to be repeated over and over again. To ensure that farmers do not cross over to the police side, a damaged barbed wire was erected and a human chain was formed. “We don’t want anyone to bring a bad name to our protest. Someone outside will create problems, but we’ll be defamed,” said 17-year-old Simranjeet Singh, a resident of Patiala, who was among those in the human chain. All the farmers The Hindu spoke to were of the opinion that peace should be maintained as it has been since Saturday. “We’ll get what we want, but through peaceful means. Our fight is with the government. The officials behind those barricades are also our brothers,” said Harjeet Singh, 31, a farmer from Jalandhar. Harvinder Singh, 32, said the government eventually would have to bend. “This is the first such protest in decades that is seeing lakhs of people camping together for days on end. We are being talked about all over the world,” he said. On the FIR registered against them, the protesters said they were prepared for more of them. “It only shows that the government is shaken and wants to scare us. But our community is not one that is easily scared,” said Ranjeet Singh, a resident of Bhatinda. “Some people are trying to defame us by calling us Khalistanis, to divert attention from the reason for our protest. We are, were and will always be Indians,” said Mr. Harjeet. Students also join Students from the University of Delhi’s (DU) Punjabi Department joined the protests in solidarity with the farmers. They carried posters, some of which featured women farmers. “Most women who are protesting here are not leading the agitation and are busy cooking, which is not how it should be,” said Sangeeta, who is pursuing a certificate course. Rajveer Kaur, who is pursuing a PhD from DU, said her parents were labourers in Bhatinda. “It affects us directly because if farmers are affected, so are the labourers,” she said.
02 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Low turnout in Hyderabad civic polls||A low voter turnout was recorded in the high-stakes Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections on Tuesday with 35.80% of voters exercising their franchise till 5 p.m., as the BJP slammed the ruling TRS for the low-polling percentage. The polling, which began at 7 a.m. and concluded at 6 p.m., went off peacefully without any major incident, a police official said. The final poll percentage would be released after compilation and as per the procedures, official sources said. The Telangana State Election Commission (SEC) ordered repoll in all 69 polling stations of ward number 26 after it was found that the symbol of the CPI(M) was printed in the ballot paper instead of CPI, an official release said. The repoll would be held on December 3 from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. in all the 69 polling stations. The CPI complained to the election authorities on the matter. In view of the repoll, publication, broadcasting and telecasting of exit polls on the GHMC elections is banned till 6 PM on December 3, the SEC said. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, TRS working president and state Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao, AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi and actor-turned- politician Chiranjeevi were among prominent personalities who voted. As many as 74.44 lakh voters were supposed to exercise their franchise. The number of contesting candidates is 1,122 and the main contestants are the TRS, Opposition BJP and the Congress. The State Election Commission also made special arrangements in view of the COVID-19. It enabled the patients to either vote at the polling stations physically or to use postal ballot. In case the patients have not used postal ballots, the poll panel allowed them to cast their vote during the last hour — from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. However, the virus-positive voters should wear mask, face shield and hand gloves, it said. Mr. Kishan Reddy alleged that the TRS government should “bow its head in shame” for the low percentage of voting. The TRS used the State Election Commission for its “selfish politics” and indulged in misuse of power, he alleged. Observing that there was time till February to conduct the polls, Reddy said the election could have been conducted by trying to promote people’s awareness, making effective arrangements for polls and giving adequate time to the government personnel.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Low turnout in Hyderabad civic polls||Hyderabadi voter has proven yet again that nothing could come between him and his laid back attitude-- not even the highly inflated significance of the GHMC elections which were conducted on Tuesday. Serving an abysmal polling percentage at the day’s closure, the voter has punctured the exaggerated emotions, shrill rhetoric and dramatic mood created around the ‘mother of all polls’! While the State Election Commission was yet to reveal the final polling figures when the reports last came in, the same up to 5 p.m. was mere 35.8 % for the total 149 divisions, far below the expectations. For a total of 74.13 lakh voters, only over 22 lakh exercised their franchise by 4 p.m. Election at one division, Old Malakpet, was cancelled and rescheduled for December 3, owing to a mix-up in the symbol of the Communist Party of India. The polling began at 7 a.m. at most centres without much ado, as there were no EVMs to give trouble this time. People began trickling in, and by 9 a.m., 3.1 per cent polling was complete. A few polling stations such as the one at AV College, Domalguda, showed promise, with the booths recording over 12 per cent polling before 10 a.m. “I came to vote before I join duty at the hospital, as this is the only time I can spare,” said Surender Rao, a paediatrician who stood in the queue line all dressed up in the surgical suit. The same enthusiasm, however, was not visible at other polling stations. At one booth in Old Bowenpally, the polling had remained below 20 per cent even after 1 p.m. Young voters, whose contribution was expected to tip the scales, were conspicuous by their absence at several polling stations. The overall polling percentage rose to 8.9 per cent by 11 a.m., 18.2 per cent by 1 p.m. and to 29.76 per cent by 4 p.m. By 5 p.m., the officials updated the figure to 35.8 per cent, with no further updates after the closure of polling at 6 p.m. Officials under the condition of anonymity informed that the final figures are being noted down from the diaries of the polling officers, as they arrived to hand in the ballot boxes, so as not to give any scope for errors.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Canadian leaders’ comments on protests are ill-informed’||Canadian leadership’s comments on the ongoing agitation by farmers are “ill-informed”, an official of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Tuesday. The Indian response came hours after Canada’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said his country had contacted Indian authorities “through multiple means” to express concern about the protesting farmers. “We have seen some ill-informed comments by Canadian leaders relating to farmers in India. Such comments are unwarranted, especially when pertaining to the internal affairs of a democratic country,” said official spokesperson Anurag Srivastava in response to a media query. Mr. Trudeau had earlier said that the news about the protest unfolding around Delhi “is concerning”. “We are all very worried about family and friends ... Canada will always be there to defend the rights of peaceful protesters,” he said, announcing that Canada has reached out to the Government of India regarding the protests, which have drawn support from his vocal coalition partner Jagmeet Singh of the New Democratic Party (NDP), which has a strong base among the Indo-Canadian community. In response to the Canadian Prime Minister’s comments, Mr. Srivastava said, “It is also best that diplomatic conversations are not misrepresented for political purposes.” Mr. Jagmeet Singh is the leader of NDP and a key coalition partner in the Canadian government. He has in the past spoken in support of civil and political rights in India. On Monday, he greeted his supporters on ‘Gurupurav’, the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, and said, “Guru Nanak Sahib Ji led a social revolution believing that we are all one and equal today, as millions of farmers march towards India’s capital to oppose privatisation — they walk with this spirit.” Several other Indo-Canadian political figures, such as Gurratan Singh and Canadian Member of Parliament Jack Harris, also expressed concern about the protests in India. Mr. Harris, also from NDP, has described the police action on the farmers as “alarming”. Mr. Trudeau’s government has several key figures from the Indian diaspora, including Minister of National Defence Harjit Sajjan.  It is best that diplomatic conversations are not misrepresented for political purposes Anurag Srivastava Ministry of External Affairs
02 December 2020||New Delhi,||Tunnels proof of Pak. hostility, says Rai||Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai on Tuesday said the tunnels and drones found recently along the India-Pakistan border to allow infiltration and smuggling of drugs was proof of the neighbouring country’s hostility towards India. Mr. Rai was speaking at the Raising Day parade of the Border Security Force (BSF). The event was delayed for around two hours after Home Minister Amit Shah, who was expected as the chief guest, cancelled his visit to attend to to “important work”. Mr. Rai filled in for Mr. Shah at the last moment, an official said. BSF Director-General Rakesh Asthana said the force was trying to find technical solutions to counter drones being used to smuggle weapons from Pakistan. On June 20, the BSF intercepted a drone with a payload of weapons and ammunition along the Kathua border in Jammu, he said. The BSF was raised in 1965 after the India-Pakistan war. The 2.65-lakh force is deployed along the Pakistan and Bangladesh borders.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Low voter turnout a cause of worry for parties||A sense of fear has gripped major political parties, especially the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the poor turnout of voters in the elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on Tuesday. The parties are apprehensive of the fall out of the low voter turnout on their fortunes. Days after high decibel election campaign that skipped issues of immediate public importance and revolved around communal issues, parties were hopeful of decent voter turnout and the BJP was confident of putting up an impressive performance to an extent that it could stake claim for the mayoral seat. But, the low turnout of educated crowd and people living in the middle class colonies in the core City and suburbs, a section on which it has been banking, has cast a shadow on its showing. Senior leaders of the BJP as well as its frontal organisations are themselves uncertain and apprehensive of how the result would be. “We are surprised why the youth and educated lot stayed indoors and remained totally indifferent to the polling. Has Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s repeated assertion that divisive forces are out to foment trouble on the polling day kept people away from the polls,” a top leader of the State BJP wondered. “The situation is worrisome so far, but were are hopeful that even the low turnout might benefit us,” said another key figure of the BJP in Telangana. The TRS leadership on its part too is keeping its finger crossed. “What does this low turnout mean for us?” a TRS senior wondered. The party is hopeful that the fairly good turnout in the divisions, which has considerable people living in the basthis will be to its advantage. “People, who have benefited from the government schemes will surely vote for us and the way these sections have lined up outside the polling stations is proof that we will win,” he remarked. The Congress, which was completely marginalised in this elections is pinning its hopes on Qutubullapur, Uppal Assembly segments of Malkajgiri parliamentary constituency. “Political parties are more interested in elections and not the voters,” a top functionary of the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee said. MIM tally A key leader of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) exuded confidence that the party is going to improve its tally. “We won 44 divisions last time and now we are confident of adding at least three more seats,” the leader said. The party is however wary that the election could be a pointer to the BJP improving its vote share due to the decimation of the Telugu Desam Party and the marginalisation of the Congress. The AIMIM leader maintained that the divisions in which its candidates were fielded had minority votes ranging from 44 % to 99 %. The low polling in Old City could be attributed to the fact that the electorate might have come to a conclusion that the MIM would retain its hold irrespective of whether they voted or not. The electrifying campaign and on the flip side the poor voter response to the elections to the State Capital’s civic body has made the 72-hour time for counting to commence made the wait of the parties more agonising.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||National Railway Plan 2030 on the anvil||A National Railway Plan 2030 indicating the ongoing and proposed projects to meet the traffic requirements of the Indian Railways for both passenger and freight operations will be unveiled later this month. This was stated by the first Railway Board Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav on Tuesday in an online interaction with the media. “It is almost ready and will be released by December 15. We already have a business document for up to 2024 explaining about the list of works to be completed by 2030. The proposed plan will have these details as well the traffic requirements including the new freight corridors by 2050,” he explained. The railways will also come out with a ‘Zero’ based Time Table system to reduce the travel times of the passenger, express and mail trains across the country from half-hour to five-six hours at least based on rationalisation of the existing train services, he said. “This does not mean less number of trains or removing halts. On the contrary, more trains will be run based on the demand in the waiting list at increased speeds once the electrification of the entire network is completed,” affirmed the CEO. A ‘scientific’ study is under way looking into the poorly patronised passenger trains versus heavily booked trains and the halts. “Our endeavour is to see that in case a halt is removed for any station, the passenger will be able to get an alternate train service to prevent ny inconvenience as there won’t be a section without halts,” maintained Mr. Yadav. Existing passenger short distance trains too are going to be converted into electric ‘MEMUS’. The proposal was still under discussion and no final decision on any aspect has been taken therefore no need to believe any other information in this regard. “Whether we implement this system once the normal trains operations begin post-COVID or before, we will give an advance notice,” he said. Considering the current COVID-19 pandemic and situation yet to ‘stabilise’ the Indian Railways will continue to run 908 special trains with limited halts. While 460 trains show 100% occupancy, 400 trains are having 50-100% occupancy and 48 trains have less than 50% occupancy. “Wherever there are waiting lists, we are introducing new trains and only confirmed reservations are being allowed to maintain social distancing,” he said. Mr. Yadav refuted reports of extra charges claiming “not a single rupee more” is being charged for the ongoing services and bed linen was never charged in the first place. Passengers should carry their own blankets as AC inside coaches is being regulated to 22 degree C for winter (25 degree C in summer) and with more air circulation cycles so that there is not much difference with outside temperature and for ensuring cleaner air.
02 December 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Ensure protection of witness in cases against lawmakers’||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to instruct all investigating officers in criminal cases against MPs, MLAs, and MLCs to take measures to ensure the protection of witnesses as per the witness protection scheme. The court also said that investigating officers should inform witnesses about the availability of the witness protection scheme and tell them that protection can be sought by making an application in the prescribed form to the member-secretary of the competent authority set up under the scheme. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition initiated suo motu to monitor the progress of 162 criminal cases pending before the special court set up exclusively to try criminal cases against MPs, MLAs, and MLCs. The Bench also said that investigating officers should also assess the vulnerability/threat perception of witnesses and file applications on their behalf and bring the matter to the notice of the special court. Even the special court should apply its mind on the requirement of protection and issue the necessary direction to the State government, it said. Observing that it was the duty of the government to ensure that a very competent person is appointed as public prosecutor in cases against MPs, MLAs and MLCs, the Bench directed the government to submit details of the persons appointed and the process followed in making the choice of public prosecutor.
02 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CPI(M) backs Pinarayi, scotches talk of rift||The State secretariat of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] on Tuesday threw its weight behind Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in an attempt to counter the propaganda that the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (VACB) raid on the government-run Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) offices last week was an undisguised flare-up of the simmering divisions in the party and the Left Democratic Front government. The CPI(M) sought to scotch the “disinformation” that the public condemnation of the raid by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac and senior leader Anathalavattom Anandan was an overt manifestation of the “growing bitterness” in the party against Mr. Vijayan’s authority. Ministers’ endorsement Moreover, three Ministers had publicly endorsed Mr. Vijayan’s position that the inspections were routine and conducted periodically at the Vigilance Directorate level. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran said in Alappuzha that the Vigilance department was not required to inform Ministers beforehand about surprise inspections. “The VACB conducted raids on 12 PWD offices. I came to know about the inspections through the media. I remained silent,” he said. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran echoed a similar sentiment. Industries Minister E. P. Jayarajan said Mr. Vijayan had set the record straight. “The CM’s word is final. It was not a raid but a regular inspection.” ‘Benefited opponents’ The CPI(M) secretariat appeared to have frowned upon the public utterances damning the VACB raid. It felt that the statements had benefited the government’s opponents who used them to spread the impression that the party and government were riven by internal feuds. The party’s statement on the issue did not mention any person by name. However, it echoed Mr. Vijayan’s sentiment that a section of the media had aligned with the Opposition to campaign against the government. The Congress interpreted the CPI(M)’s position as a blow to Dr. Isaac’s credibility. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the Chief Minister and the party had disowned him. Three Cabinet colleagues had publicly scoffed at Dr. Isaac’s claim that the Vigilance department, headed by Mr. Vijayan, should have consulted him. Dr. Isaac reacted rather stoically to the developments and said he would confine his opinion within the party and state his case internally after the elections.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Order to probe phone call illegal’||A former Andhra Pradesh High Court judge has moved the Supreme Court challenging a State High Court order to investigate an alleged phone conversation between him and a suspended trial court magistrate. Justice V. Eswaraiah (retired) sought a stay of the High Court order. He said the order was unwarranted and illegal. It was passed without issuing a notice to him and had caused undue harassment.  Amaravati scam The High Court, in its order, had requested former Supreme Court judge, Justice R.V. Raveendran, to inquire into the matter. The phone conversation, according to the plea, purportedly pertained to the corruption allegations in the Amaravati land scam. The former judge said the High Court’s order was made on the basis of an application for reopening and intervention filed by the suspended magistrate (S. Ramakrishna) in an unrelated PIL petition seeking implementation of the COVID guidelines in the court building and premises. The petition filed through lawyer Prashant Bhushan appealed that the High Court order of April 13 was into a private phone conversation.
02 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Karnataka’s new cases were at a peak in September||Tamil Nadu’s overall tally of COVID-19 cases stood at 7,83,319 as another 1,404 persons tested positive for the infection on Tuesday. Of the 37 districts, Kallakurichi reported nil fresh cases, while eight other districts recorded new cases in single digits. In Chennai, 380 persons tested positive. This took the city’s count to 2,15,739. Coimbatore, with 141 new cases, accounted for a total of 48,866 cases till date. Ten more persons succumbed to the infection in the State. This took the toll to 11,722. Kerala reported 5,375 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, testing 58,809 samples in 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative case burden to 6,08,357 cases. Karnataka tested 31,83,877 samples in November, the highest, detecting 61,372 positive cases. This included 25,52,840 RT-PCR tests. The highest number of positive cases - 2,75,196 - were found in September, the Health Department said. October saw the highest Rapid Antigen Tests at 9,24,569, while RT-PCR tests peaked in November at 25,52,840. On Tuesday Karnataka added 1,330 new cases and 14 deaths. Bengaluru Urban added 758 cases and nine deaths. Also, 94,885 tests were done in 24 hours, 74,256 being RT-PCR tests. Andhra Pradesh reported 685 cases and four deaths on Tuesday. Fresh testing included 51,854 samples with 1.32% testing positive. One death each was reported in Anantapur, Chittoor, Guntur and West Godavari. Krishna witnessed the highest single-day infections of 146. In Telangana only 502 cases were recorded on Monday from 46,597 tests. Three more patients died.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, and Hyderabad bureaus)
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Many violations in Chardham project’||Environmentalists have alleged that the contractors deputed by the government to make roads as part of the Chardham project are violating the Supreme Court orders on the appropriate road width to be followed in mountainous terrain. The Rs. 12,000-crore project aims at constructing wider roads — spanning 825 km — connecting key pilgrimage spots in Uttarakhand. However, the implementation has been controversial with environmentalist groups pointing out that hill cutting was rampant with mountain ecosystems being irreversibly harmed in the process. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH), coordinator of the project, in an affidavit to the Supreme Court on November 30, has denied any such violation. Details of vulnerable sites and areas for muck disposal were provided to the Supreme Court-constituted High Power Committee (HPC). The HPC — headed by Ravi Chopra, former Director, People’s Science Institute, and consisting of government scientists, personnel, independent activists and environmentalists — tasked with preparing a plan to implement the project with minimal ecological damage, has seen internal dissent with members split on the appropriate road width. A majority of members said the road width ought to be 12 metres whereas a minority said it should be 5.5 m throughout. The MoRTH’s latest affidavit says of the 825 km, 12 km “formation cutting” had already been carried out in 537 km in a sanctioned length of 662 km before the Supreme Court order that recommended a road width suggested by the chairman of the HPC and the minority of HPC members. “The MoRTH assertions are blatantly false and we have evidence of several stretches where hill cutting is under way. There were slope collapses and two crew were killed during routine muck dumping,” said Mallika Bhanot, a Himalayan activist who’s been crusading against the project. The Supreme Court is set to continue with hearings on the petition on Wednesday.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Parties with fewer than 10 MPs can’t address all-party meeting||Only parties with more than 10 MPs will be allowed to speak at the all-party meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 4 on the COVID-19 pandemic and distribution of vaccines. Smaller parties have to be silent participants, party leaders have been informed. The meeting was called after Mr. Modi’s visit on Saturday to three vaccine manufacturing facilities. At earlier video conferences with Chief Ministers, too, the Prime Minister’s Office had drafted schedules to ensure that different States got to speak on different dates, instead of opting for an open discussion on issues. The 10-MP cut-off will mean that many regional parties will not get an opportunity to air their opinions. They include the Nationalist Congress Party, the former BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal, the Rashtriya Janata Dal, the Lok Janshakti Party, the CPI(M) and the CPI. CPI parliamentary party leader Binoy Viswam has written to Mr. Modi to reconsider the decision. Mr. Viswam said that in case the PMO found it impossible to accommodate the smaller parties, he wanted to put across his views on the subject. He pressed for increasing the number of testing facilities and reducing the cost of RT-PCR tests across the country. Mr. Viswam also asked the Prime Minister to ensure that the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana was extended till May 2021. The NCP, which has five members in the Lok Sabha and four in the Rajya Sabha, falls short by one member to meet the PMO’s criterion. “If a person like [NCP chief] Sharad Pawar is not allowed to speak then I believe such a meeting will lack direction and clarity. And not only on vaccines, there is a need for a thorough discussion of all fallouts of the pandemic including the state of the economy,” senior party leader Praful Patel said. “In our democracy, if every vote matters, then every MP and every political party should matter. The political strength may vary from election to election that should not be reason to curtail our participation,” the TDP’s Lok Sabha Chief Whip, K. Rammohan Naidu, said. Conceding that time constraints might have prompted the cut-off, senior Akali leader Naresh Gujral said, “After a while, points raised by the participants start getting repetitive.”
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi govt. says its efforts have brought down COVID-19 cases||The Delhi government told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that its “consistent efforts” had led to a “declining trend” in the spread of COVID-19 infections since last week. The 170-page affidavit belies an equally voluminous affidavit filed by the Union Home Ministry last week which squarely blamed the Arvind Kejriwal government for the “massive increase” in the infections and resultant strain on medical infrastructure. The Centre had named Delhi as one of the 10 States which contributed to almost 77% of the active case load. In its affidavit, the Delhi government met the scathing accusations of the Home Ministry with a mellow rendering of statistics to prove that it was not sleeping on the job. Unlike the Ministry’s affidavit, the Delhi government lauded the cooperation it received from the Union Ministries these months. In fact, the affidavit is peppered with references to the ‘guidance’ and “hand-holding” the Delhi government had got from the Centre. One of the references includes how the Delhi government, with the “support and guidance” of the Home Ministry, the Health Ministry, expert agencies such as the NITI Aayog and the ICMR, has “successfully responded to the pandemic”. Rejecting the Centre’s claim that the Delhi government was ill-prepared for the spike in cases due to the festival season, the affidavit said the number of ICU beds available in Delhi is 5,010, with an expected increase of another 1,522 beds.
02 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Central leadership tells Assam Cong. to keep mum on alliance||The central leadership of the Congress has asked its Assam unit to avoid making public statements on a Bihar-like grand alliance. AICC to decide In a videoconference with Assam Pradesh Congress Committee leaders on Monday, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and other senior leaders also made it clear that the party’s high command would take the final call on any alliance ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls. Many within the Congress, especially in eastern Assam, have been unhappy with the State unit’s push for an alliance with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF). The AIUDF is viewed as a party that bats for Bengali-speaking Muslim migrants. Congress leaders wary of “sending the wrong signal” to voters belonging to the indigenous communities feel an alliance with AIUDF could be counterproductive and help the BJP retain power. “Rahul Gandhi, Jitendra Singh (general secretary in charge of Assam) and the others said we should refrain from making any reference to the proposed grand alliance as such decisions would be taken by the All India Congress Committee,” a senior State Congress leader said on condition of anonymity. Polarisation of votes “We were reminded that our silence on the alliance front can take the shine out of the BJP’s brand of polarisation of votes on religious lines,” said the leader, a former MLA. Both the Congress and AIUDF had said that the chances of their contesting the 2021 polls together were high. The Left Front comprising the Communist Party of India and the CPI (Maoist), is an ally of the Congress, as of now.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||DST denies moral policing in recruitment||The Department of Science and Technology (DST) has denied highlighting a clause in its recruitment rules for a particular post that disqualifies an applicant on grounds of bigamy. Such a clause was standard in recruitment rules and, as per government format, was mentioned before specifying eligibility criteria, an official told The Hindu in an email, refuting suggestions of “moral policing”.  The Hindu , on November 27, reported on a notification by the DST prescribing the recruitment method for appointing a ‘Mission Director’ for one of its programmes that prominently highlighted bigamy as a disqualification. The Hindu in its report noted that the clause was routine in the ‘conduct rules’ for government job-recruits. Rabindra K. Panigrahy, a DST official, said the Recruitment Rules (RR) notification was issued “...after being vetted by the Department of Personnel & Training, Union Public Service Commission and Ministry of Law & Justice as required under the guidelines.” The official also cited instances of similar notices issued by various ministries. For instance, 2014 notices for the posts of ‘Proof Reader’ and ‘Copy Holder’ in the Law Ministry also highlights the clause as does a notice by the Home Ministry detailing rules for several ‘Inspector’ grade posts in the Indo-Tibetian Border Police Force. “A perusal of these would reveal that the bigamy clause in all such RRs appears in the main body of the RR. The eligibility criteria for the post always appears in the Schedule which is annexed to the Rules,” the official noted.    The Hindu had quoted a serving bureaucrat anonymously who said such a prominent mention of the bigamy clause smacked of “moral policing”.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||The gavel falls on ‘indecorous attire’||The Supreme Court has seen and heard almost all in the virtual court system during the pandemic months. Lawyers have appeared without shirts or in T-shirts, while a racket of blenders, mothers scolding children and guttural cries of vendors, dogs and cats have disturbed the hearings of the top court. On Tuesday, a “shirtless” man’s appearance saw Justice L. Nageswara Rao lose his usual stoicism to say “this is not done”. A few seconds later, the visual disappeared, thanks to the control room’s deft manoeuvre, but the after-taste remained. Of respectability A similar occurrence, sometime in October, rankled the court when another “shirtless” appearance made its presence felt in the middle of a virtual court hearing. The judges agreed that such gaffes are “inappropriate”. People need to be respectably attired while engaging with the highest court of the country. Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde makes it a point to show his displeasure when lawyers appear without their bands on. On the other hand, lawyers usually complain that they are muted or find themselves disconnected during hearings. Some even say that at times the wrong lawyer’s mic is switched on. One person who was caught “shirtless” said he had switched off the camera. Full attendance Slips and human errors apart, the Supreme Court has not missed a day of work since the pandemic began. Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad recently said the Supreme Court had heard and disposed of over 30,000 cases during these months of public health crisis. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who heads the court’s e-committee, said the virtual court system was citizen-centric and an attempt from the judiciary to tell citizens that “we value your time”. CJI Bobde, who is heading a Special Bench monitoring the virtual court system, flagged the need for courts to access fibre-optic networks to ensure better connectivity even in the remotest parts.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Give farmers viable solutions: Cong.||As the government engaged the farmer leaders in talks, the Congress asked the government on Tuesday to suspend the three farm laws, assure minimum support price (MSP) in writing, take back criminal cases filed against farmers and waive the fines for burning stubble. Talks with farmers would be “meaningful” only if the government offered viable solutions, party general secretary Randeep Surjewala said. Former party chief Rahul Gandhi, in a separate tweet, asked the government to wake up and shed its “arrogance,” to provide protesting farmers their rights. Mr. Gandhi said everyone was indebted to the farmers for their hard work and this debt could be repaid only by giving them justice.  Articulating the mains demands of the Congress party, Mr. Surjewala said they stood with the farmers. He claimed that nearly 12,000 cases had been registered against farmers and they should be withdrawn unconditionally. “Either abolish all three black laws or give legal guarantee of MSP to the farmer. Do not mislead or trick the farmer. Do not unleash any conspiracy or put a show of dialogue,” he added.
02 December 2020||Bengaluru,||HC notice to Karnataka govt. on plea on Santosh||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL questioning the legality of appointing political secretariats to the Chief Minister and challenging the appointment of N.R. Santosh as political secretary to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. A Division Bench passed the order on the petition filed by Umapathi S., a city-based advocate. Pointing out that the appointment as political secretary to the Chief Minister was made in May this year, the petitioner said the government subsequently ordered extending the status of a Minister of State to Mr. Santosh, who is the grand nephew of Mr. Yediyurappa. “Appointment of Mr. Santosh is tainted with arbitrariness, favouritism, and non-transparency since neither the government nor the CM can create such a post,” it was contended in the petition, while pointing out that there exists no law that provides for appointment of ‘political secretaries’ to the Chief Minister. that carries status of a Minister. It has been contended in the petition that the exercise of the Chief Minister’s power to create the post of political secretary to accommodate his relatives and political followers of his party is unconstitutional and liable to be set aside.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||No breakthrough at farmers’ talks with govt.||The government team consisted of Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Food, Railways and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash. Earlier in the day, Mr. Tomar and Mr. Singh met with Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda to discuss the issue. “The talks were held in a cordial atmosphere, and we listened to the issues of farmers. We are keen to resolve all the issues as soon as possible,” Mr. Tomar told journalists after the meeting. According to farmer leaders, the Central Ministers took a less aggressive tone than during the previous meeting, when the rail blockade of Punjab was still in effect. Farmer leaders took the offensive by warning of dire consequences if the protest stretched on. Once the rabi sowing season got over, the number of farmers at the dharna site would increase manifold, said RKM leader Shivkumar Kakkaji Sharma. “Farmers’ policies cannot be framed while sitting in rooms in Delhi,” he told Central Ministers during the meeting.  Later in the evening, the Central Ministers also met with representatives from the BKU-Tikait group, who are protesting separately by blocking highways in western Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Uttarakhand.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||GST inflows top Rs. 1 lakh cr. for the second month||November’s GST collections, boosted by festive spending, were just Rs. 192 crore lower than October, which had recorded the highest revenue from indirect taxes since February 2020. GST revenues had collapsed to just Rs. 32,172 crore in April this year as economic activity was crippled following the lockdown. “The average pace of growth in GST collections in October-November 2020 stood at a moderately healthy 6%. The trends regarding the sustainability of demand will be clearer in the data on the GST collections for December 2020, which will be for the transactions that took place in the month of November 2020,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at ICRA Ltd. Among the major States, Andhra Pradesh (12%), Gujarat and Jharkhand (11%), followed by Tamil Nadu (10%), were the only ones to record double-digit growth in November’s GST revenues compared to a year ago. Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY termed the second straight month of Rs. 1 lakh crore-plus GST collections encouraging and said this should help in containing the shortfall of GST collections due to the pandemic. In November, Rs. 8,242 crore was collected as cess, which is used to compensate States for implementing the GST. This was higher than the Rs. 8,011 crore collected as cess in October.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||No universal COVID-19 vaccination plan: govt.||It listed out the various mechanisms in place to ensure the safety of the volunteers participating in drug/vaccine testing and ensuring the efficacy of the end product. Officials listed the various mechanisms in place to ensure the safety of the volunteers participating in drug/vaccine testing and ensuring the efficacy of the end product. “Adverse events do occur with drugs or vaccines or any other health intervention. It is the role of the regulator after collating all data to ascertain or refute whether there is a link between the event and intervention,” said Dr. Bhargava. The Ministry said that at the start of a clinical trial subjects were expected to sign a prior informed consent form. “This is global practice; it happens across all countries. The form tells the subject about possible adverse events that may happen in case one decides to participate in the trial. Also clinical trials are multi-centric and multi-site where each site has an institutional ethics committee independent of manufacturer or government control and in case of any adverse event, this committee gives its report to the Drug Controller General of India,” Mr. Bhushan said. “Also the Data Safety Monitoring Board monitors clinical trials from day-to-day basis and keeps an eye on adverse events. These reports are analysed by the Drug Controller and action taken accordingly,” he added. The Ministry added that India currently had one of the lowest COVID-19 cases per million world-wide. “The average daily positivity rate last week was 3.72% and among all the big nations, the cases per million in India are the lowest. The last seven days trends show that European nations are witnessing a surge in cases,” said Mr. Bhushan. The country reported a total 12,78,727 COVID-19 cases in November, a decrease from October’s 18,71,498. In the past 24 hours, India reported 31,118 fresh cases and 482 deaths.
02 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||NSCN (IM) slams ‘divisive’ Nagaland Governor||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland or NSCN (IM) has said its status as a State of the Indian Union was the outcome of a few “treacherous Nagas”. The group also slammed Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi for reflecting a ‘divisive’ agenda while commemorating the 58th Nagaland Statehood Day on Tuesday to “protect the 16-Point Agreement at all costs”. Nagaland, once part of Assam, attained statehood on December 1, 1963. This followed the 16-Point Agreement signed in July 1960 between the Naga People’s Convention (NPC) and the Centre, which a majority of the extremists did not recognise.  “The history of Naga political struggle and the ongoing Indo-Naga political talk is a living testimony that the present Nagaland State is the brainchild of a few treacherous Nagas that showed up in the name of NPC hijacking the Naga issue without the concern of the bona fide freedom fighters,” the NSCN (IM) said in a statement. The group also condemned Mr. Ravi’s stand on the peace process. In his pre-Statehood Day speech, the Governor made it clear that there would be no separate flag and constitution.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kerala scribes seek probe into Kappan’s detention||The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) asked the Supreme Court to order an “independent enquiry” by a retired Supreme Court judge into the alleged illegal arrest and detention of its secretary Sidhique Kappan. The KUWJ said Mr. Kappan had been in detention in Uttar Pradesh for 56 days. He has been “implicated” in the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and other serious offences. He was detained on the way to Hathras in U.P. where a 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gangraped and murdered by four men. In a counter-affidavit, the KUWJ said the U.P. police had made an absolutely false statement that Mr. Kappan is the office secretary of the Popular Front of India (PFI). The Union said it was shocked to hear that Mr. Kappan was beaten with lathi and slapped. It said he had to suffer mental torture and sleep deprivation.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Yadav’s exclusion from talks team hints at cracks||Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav was not included in the farmers’ delegation for talks with the Centre on Tuesday, allegedly because the government did not want any political personalities to be included. However, some farmer leaders said his exclusion was actually at the behest of some Punjab unions. Late on Monday night, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had issued an invitation for a meeting at Vigyan Bhavan at 3 p.m. on Tuesday, saying that those organisations which had been invited to the earlier talks on November 13 would be invited this time also. Only the Punjab unions had been invited last month. In fact, only Punjab leaders had been getting calls from senior bureaucrats and BJP politicians over the past few days as unofficial negotiations have been taking place by phone. However, on Tuesday, Punjab farmer unions decided to demand that the all-India leadership of the protest, under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, also be included in the talks. The Morcha’s coordination committee is a seven-member body, which includes three Punjab leaders and Mr. Yadav, as well as Gurnam Singh Chadhuni of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, Shivkumar Kakkaji Sharma of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, and Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha. “Amit Shah himself spoke to the Punjab leaders and said Yogendra Yadav could not be included as he heads a political party,” Mr. Yadav told The Hindu . According to Mr. Yadav, the Punjab leaders were ready to boycott the talks on the grounds of his exclusion, but he told them he was willing to step aside. However, among some other farmers groups, several leaders cited Mr. Yadav’s role in initially urging that the protesters shift from the border to the Burari grounds as a source of annoyance. They said there was also resentment about the fact that Mr. Yadav and several other national leaders have a high-profile media presence despite the fact that they have mobilised only a small fraction of protesters. So far, the Centre has insisted on negotiating only with Punjab unions, portraying the protests as motivated by political interests only from that State. Tuesday’s talks were the first round of the dialogue with representatives from other States as well.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||‘AAP has double standards’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of adopting double standards and said it had “exposed itself”. He said the party had executed the new farm laws through a gazette notification on November 23 amidst the crisis, even while it pretended to be standing with the farmers.
02 December 2020||Mumbai,||Actor Urmila Matondkar is now part of Shiv Sena||Actor Urmila Matondkar, who had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from north Mumbai constituency as a Congress candidate, joined the Shiv Sena on Tuesday in the presence of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his wife, Rashmi, at their residence. “I entered the film industry as an outsider and became successful with the support of my audience. I am not a media-made star. I have started my political innings with Shiv Sena and I will try my best to become a people’s leader,” she told reporters. Asked why she had quit the Congress, the actor said she had resigned 14 months ago. Ms. Matondkar said her name had been suggested by the Sena for the State legislative council along with eleven others. “I was never asked by the Sena to join the party. I have decided to do this on my own,” she said. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray offered her a seat in the Upper House. The actor said the Sena was a party that believed in Hindutva, but its Hindutva was not about hating another religion.
02 December 2020||New Delhi,||Quarantine notices may cause stigma, says SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said the practice of affixing public notices outside the residences of quarantining COVID-19 patients may cause stigma. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan said the “hard reality” in some cases is that such posters trigger people to treat patients in quarantine as “untouchables”. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta clarified that these posters are not meant to humiliate or harass patients. They are merely meant to warn outsiders from accidentally entering the quarantined space and coming into contact with the patients, which may lead to a further spread of infection during the pandemic. Mr. Mehta said any poster which tends to humiliate a patients should be removed. He said there is no compulsion on State governments to paste such notices. The court was hearing a petition filed by advocate Kush Kulra. The petition said such posters entail the violation of the fundamental right to privacy of the patient. These placards divulge, even “widely publicise” the names of the patients and other details to strangers, other residents in the colony or apartment complex as well as vendors, passers-by, etc. The court scheduled the case for detailed hearing on December 3.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Virtual testimony of trafficking victims||The Supreme Court on Tuesday laid down the first step for sparing children and victims of trafficking the trauma of travelling long distances, often to courts in the very places of their suffering, to testify as witnesses. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao agreed with the recommendations of its amicus curiae , Gaurav Agrawal, to provide secure and in-camera videoconferencing facilities to human trafficking victims. The Bench directed Assam, West Bengal and Rajasthan to kick-off a ‘pilot project’ and implement the recommendations in at least a district each.
02 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||JJP asks Centre to give written assurance on MSP||The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), an ally of the BJP in Haryana, on Tuesday asked the Central government to consider giving a written assurance on continuation of Minimum Support Price (MSP) for crops. JJP national president Ajay Chautala said when Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had been repeatedly stating that MSP will not be discontinued then there should be no problem about giving an assurance about it in writing. “The Centre has invited farmers for talks..We have urged the people in the government to find solution to problems of farmers... annadaata (farmers) are perturbed and sitting on roads, the government is also worried and hence, the sooner a solution comes out it’s better for everyone,” said Mr. Chautala, talking to journalists in Haryana’s Sirsa.
02 December 2020||MANGALURU,||KSP objects to removal of Kannada board||The Udupi unit of Kannada Sahitya Parishat on Tuesday took objection to the KrishnaMutt/Temple in Udupi removing a Kannada name board at its entrance and replacing it with the one written both in Tulu and Sanskrit. The president of the unit, Neelavara Surendra Adiga, said in a statement that the action violated the government directive that mandates organisations and commercial establishments to give prominence to Kannada in name boards. He said the Parishat will petition the district administration and launch an agitation if required. “Any name board should be displayed in Kannada prominently followed by other languages. The vigilance committee on Kannada takes such issues seriously,” he said. Govindaraj, manager of Paryaya Admar Mutt, said in a statement that the Kannada board made of plastic was removed as part of temple renovation process during the just concluded Lakshadeepotsava rituals. A Kannada name board made in wood will be fixed there shortly and the board is getting ready. The Kannada board will be at the top followed by the board written in Tulu and Sanskrit which has already been displayed at the entrance, he added.
02 December 2020||MYSURU,||Vishwanath to move top court against HC ruling||A.H. Vishwanath, former Minister and BJP MLC, on Tuesday said he would file an appeal in the Supreme Court against the High Court order disqualifying him from becoming a Minister. “I am waiting for the full text of the High Court ruling. I will discuss with my lawyers and question the order in the Supreme Court in the coming days,” hetold reporters. While ruling that Mr. Vishwanath was “ex-facie disqualified” from being appointed as Minister, the High Court had pointed out that no such disqualification was in operation against two other MLCs — R. Shankar and N. Nagaraj (MTB) — who had been duly elected to the Legislative Council from the Assembly in June 2020. Mr. Vishwanath, who was among the aspirants for a Cabinet berth in the B.S. Yediyurappa government, publicly bemoaned the dropping of his name from the list of candidates chosen by the BJP’s State core committee for nomination as candidates for elections to the Legislative Council from the Assembly. He added that when he confronted Mr. Yediyurappa about it, the Chief Minister blamed it on some people in Delhi but also promised to nominate him to the Council.
02 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Seeds for Rajasthan farmers||Amid the farmers’ agitation, the government in Rajasthan is making arrangements for supply of certified seeds and fertilisers to agricultural fields during the winter season and has started verifying the benefits of agricultural procurement and crop insurance. The Agriculture Commissioner said urea and diammonium phosphate would be supplied in sufficient quantity to farmers.
02 December 2020||Chandigarh,||‘Will return awards’||Several former sportspersons including Padma Shri and Arjuna awardees have extended their support to the agitating farmers and said they will return their awards in protest against the “force” used against the peasants en route to Delhi. Among them are Kartar Singh, Sajjan Singh Cheema and Rajbir Kaur.
02 December 2020||KOCHI,||‘Big sharks behind gold smuggling’||The Economic Offences Court here pointed out on Tuesday that the statements given by the key accused Swapna Suresh and P.S. Sarith revealed the involvement of ‘big sharks’ who operated the smuggling of foreign currencies and gold using the diplomatic channel. Deepu C, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, stated this in the order granting the custody of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, to the Customs (Preventive), Kochi, till December 7 as part of the probe in the case. Three statements Investigating officials had submitted three statements given by Swapna and Sarith while in custody from November 27 to 29. Besides the diplomatic gold smuggling incident, the Customs had registered a case against the two in the smuggling of $1.9 lakh by a former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram to Cairo last year. ‘Manipulated system’ “The said statements would reveal the involvement of big sharks who allegedly manipulated their solemn duties and thereby operated the smuggling of foreign currencies (their names and other details are withheld to ensure confidentiality),” the court said. “Their alleged involvement is shocking to the conscience and definitely the intrinsic probe is necessary to corroborate the allegation. As per the new revelations, these persons have developed strong nexus with the officials of the UAE consulate and thereby operated smuggling activities previously, without being caught,” according to the order. Call data The court said the call data records of Mr. Sivasankar were verified to ascertain his involvement after the sleuths recorded Swapna’s statement. Forensic evidence “Truly, the forensic evidence collected after retrieving the data from his mobile phone persuaded the investigating officer to hold that Mr. Sivasankar was involved in the smuggling operation by way of abetting the mastermind. After retrieving the deleted WhatsApp chats and other history, previous statements of accused were cross-checked. Thus, the investigating officer arrived at a definite conclusion that Swapna had actually given the statement purposefully to exonerate Mr. Sivasankar for the reason known to her,” it said. The court noted that the investigation was likely to be extended to unearth the complicity of all culprits. The mode of abetment and quid pro quo in the smuggling deal, etc., were required to be investigated for getting more clarity, it said.
02 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Khandu seeks assurance from China||Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu on Tuesday said China should ensure that the dam it intended to build on the upper reaches of the Brahmaputra river did not impact the downstream Indian States. He also said responsible countries were expected to heed the international water policy and that the Ministry of External Affairs would deal with the issue of dam construction in Tibet. “I am not the competent authority to speak on the matter, but our government wants an assurance from the Chinese government that the construction of the dam will not create flood-like situations in Arunachal Pradesh and Assam,” he told journalists.
02 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Fresh guidelines for plasma therapy||The Health Department has revised the guidelines regarding the administration of convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) to COVID-19 patients so that the treatment option is more evidence-based and offered only to those who might derive a benefit from it. The benefit of the CPT in improving the clinical outcomes and reducing disease severity is dependent on the concentration of SARS-CoV-2 neutralising antibodies in the plasma derived from previously COVID-infected and recovered persons. Convalescent plasma with low concentration of neutralising antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 thus will not be beneficial to a COVID patient. Two trials, one done in the Netherlands and the PLACID trial led by the Indian Council of Medical Research, which compared the CPT with standard care regimen for COVID-19, observed that the CPT has no mortality benefit and that most of the patients undergoing treatment already have high levels of neutralising antibodies against the virus. New advisory The department’s new advisory thus insists on screening for antibody levels in patients so that the CPT can be prioritised for risk groups with recent symptom onset, who may actually benefit from the CPT. Plasma donors will also be screened for detecting the levels of neutralising antibodies against COVID-19 in them, before accepting plasma from them.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Crowds at liquor shops||The liquor shops reopened to surging customers after a two-day gap for GHMC polls on Tuesday evening. The shops did brisk business from November 17 when the election notification was issued to November 29 when they were asked to be closed down. The sales during the period were worth Rs. 615 crore in GHMC limits covering Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal and Sangareddy districts. It compared to just Rs. 423 crore for the same period in the four districts last year. The sales would have been much higher if the IT employees who were given work-from-home option had not returned to their home towns, a shop owner said. According to Mr. D. Venkateswara Rao, president, Telangana Wine Shop Dealers Association, the Rs. 192 crore growth in sales ahead of polls was not significant considering distribution of liquor to voters by contestants in polls. The distribution was higher in districts because they did not have gated communities and apartment culture like in Hyderabad. The absence of gated communities and apartments made it easy for political parties to distribute liquor to voters. In Hyderabad, however, the distribution will have to be restricted to slums.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Appeal against CBI probe in Periya case rejected by SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a Kerala government appeal against the State High Court’s decision to transfer further investigation into the Periye double murder case to the CBI. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao earlier, in September, refused to stay the High Court order to have the CBI investigate the murders of two Youth Congress workers at Periye in Kasaragod district. The Bench at the time had even indicated that it would not intervene if the Central agency had already made “substantial progress” in the investigation. Kerala State counsel, advocate G. Prakash, reacted that the order of the top court was to have the CBI “further investigate from the point where the SIT left”. Kripesh and Sarath Lal were hacked to death by three motorcycle-borne men in February last. The police arrested some suspects, including a local CPI(M) leader, A. Peethambaran. A Single Bench of the Kerala High Court had pulled up the State police for lapses in the investigation, including not holding a forensic examination of the weapons. The High Court had then transferred the case to the CBI. The State government, represented by senior advocate Maninder Singh, had contended that this was not a “rarest of rare” case which needed the CBI’s attention. During the hearing, Mr. Singh had highlighted the work of the State’s 20-member strong SIT which had arrested the accused persons. He had asked why the CBI was brought in when the State police had competently and professionally done its job. Parents welcome order The parents of the two men, who had alleged the involvement of the ruling CPI(M) party’s leaders in the murder, welcomed the Supreme Court order. Sathyanarayanan, father of Sarath Lal, said the order was a fitting reply to the government’s efforts to sabotage the case. He said the government, instead of standing with the victims, was trying to protect the accused. The verdict was a setback for Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan who was protecting those who killed his son, Mr. Sathyanarayanan said. From the beginning, they had been demanding a CBI probe. There had been an effort to divert the case. There was political interference in the investigation, he said. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said the SC ruling was a slap in the face of Mr. Vijayan. He said the CPI(M) feared that a CBI inquiry would expose the party’s role in the murders.  (With inputs from Kasaragod)
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||IMA slams ‘mixopathy’, plans protests||Stating that the recent notification by the government to allow surgical operations by Ayurveda practitioners and the formation of four committees by the NITI Aayog will only lead to “mixopathy”, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has demanded an immediate withdrawal of both notifications. Such a policy will “ring the death knell of modern medicine”, the IMA said. The IMA called for withdrawal of non-essential and non-COVID services on December 11 from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. in protest. Emergency services, including casualty, labour rooms and emergency surgeries will function along with ICUs and CCUs, but no elective surgical case will be posted.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||A-G nod for proceeding against artist||Attorney General K.K. Venugopal gave his consent to a law student on Tuesday to initiate contempt of court proceedings against artist Rachita Taneja for her tweets and cartoons. Mr. Venugopal said the tweets and the cartoons that accompanied them were intended “to denigrate the Supreme Court and lower its authority in the eyes of the public.” The first tweet concerning the bail granted to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, according to Mr. Venugopal, gave an impression that the BJP was “somehow interested in protecting Arnab Goswami and has prevailed upon the Supreme Court to do so.” The implication was that the court was biased towards the BJP, Mr. Venugopal said. A second tweet, Mr. Venugopal said, carried the “gross insinuation” that the court had “ceased to be an impartial organ of the State.” The tweet was calculated to undermine the public confidence in the judiciary, he said.
02 December 2020||P Sridhar,||Villagers tensed as tiger remains elusive||It has been almost three days since the pugmarks of a tiger were last found in Mondikunta forest area in Aswapuram mandal. The tiger remained elusive till Tuesday evening even as the forest staff intensified efforts to track its movement and ensure its safety with the support of people living in the forest fringe habitations. The tiger is believed to have moved atop a hill surrounded by reserve forests near Turakalagudem village from Mondikunta forest area, sources said. The reported movement of the tiger atop the hill abutting the reserve forest terrain straddling the border of Tummalacheruvu and Venkatapuram gram panchayats left the villagers of the habitations lying on the forest fringes frightened. In an effort to enlist the active cooperation of fringe dwellers to monitor the movement of the elusive tiger, the forest sleuths have put up wall posters containing the phone numbers of the local forest field staff and the provisions of the Wild Life Protection Act, 1972, at several remote human habitations such as Kothuru and Ramachandrapuram along the reserve forest boundaries in Nellipaka reserve forest block. Through the posters, the forest officials made an appeal to the fringe dwellers to refrain from entering into the forest areas and stop grazing cattle along the forest terrain. They further urged the villagers to alert the field staff concerned if they notice any movement of the tiger and desist from causing harm to the big cat, an endangered species. We have conducted patrolling in the forest terrain running along the Kanakaraju hill near Turkalagudem on Tuesday to track the movement of the tiger, said a forest official of Nellipaka forest block. As many as ten camera traps had been installed at vantage positions in the forest block to keep a tab on the movement of the big cat, he said, adding that constant vigil was being maintained in the forest fringe areas as a precautionary measure. There is a possibility of the tiger moving either towards the Kinnerasani wildlife sanctuary limits, he noted.
02 December 2020||Guwahati,||On World AIDS Day, Mizoram launches free condoms distribution||Mizoram, the State with the highest HIV/AIDS prevalence rate in India, launched a drive on Tuesday involving bike and taxi associations for distribution of free condoms to beat the “other pandemic”. The Mizoram State AIDS Control Society launched the campaign named Love Brigade with the AIDS Healthcare Foundation.
02 December 2020||KOCHI,||‘Minority rights on a par with majority’||The rights enjoyed by the minorities are on a par with the majority community and special status given to the minorities were meant for enjoying the equal status with the majority community, Justice A. Muhamed Mustaque of the Kerala High Court has said. He was speaking after releasing a book on Minorities, Education and the Law' authored by lawyer S James Vincent here the other day.
02 December 2020||Ahmedabad,||Another Gujarat MP dies of post COVID-19 complications||Abhay Bhardwaj, a Rajya Sabha member from Gujarat, passed away on Tuesday during post COVID-19 treatment in Chennai. Mr. Bhardwaj was elected to the Rajya Sabha in July. He is the second Rajya Sabha member from the State to have died of post COVID-19 complications after Congress stalwart Ahmed Patel.
02 December 2020||Jaipur,||Salman Khan exempted from court appearance||A Sessions Court in Jodhpur on Tuesday gave an exemption to film actor Salman Khan from personal appearance during the hearing of an appeal filed by him against the five-year sentence given to him two years ago in the 1998 blackbuck poaching case. Mr. Khan’s counsel had sought exemption on the ground of COVID-19 risks involved in travelling to the court. .
02 December 2020||Srinagar,||Civilian shot at in Srinagar, critical||A civilian shot at by unknown gunmen in Srinagar on Tuesday evening is in a critical condition. “Aroud 7.30 p.m., the Srinagar police received information about a terror crime incident at Bilal Colony in Soura area of Srinagar, where terrorists had fired upon one civilian, Natif Hanief Khan,” said a police spokesman.
02 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||3 held for killing U.P. journalist, friend; police say accused used sanitiser to set room on fire||Days after Balrampur journalist Rakesh Singh and his friend were charred to death in his room, police on Tuesday said an alcohol-based sanitiser was used to set their room on fire. The police have arrested three persons accused of the double murder.
02 December 2020||New Delhi,||L.N. Mishra’s family seeks fresh probe into his killing||The family of former Union Minister Lalit Narayan Mishra has submitted a letter to the Central Bureau of Investigation for a fresh probe into his assassination on January 3, 1975, in Bihar’s Samastipur. His grandson Vaibhav Mishra has written to the CBI, citing reports that indicated a larger political conspiracy.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Road caves in for second time at Anna Nagar West Extension||For the second time in the past few days, a portion of 57th Street, TVS Colony, Anna Nagar West Extension, caved in on Tuesday. This is the connecting road for areas such as Kumaran Nagar and Devar Nagar in Padi and Anna Nagar Western Extension. Residents noted that a vehicle which was struck in the pit where the portion of the road collapsed was removed after a few hours of struggle. S. Balaji, a resident of Anna Nagar Western Extension, said a portion of the Mahatma Gandhi Road, a vital link to other areas in Anna Nagar West Extension and Padi had collapsed last month. Sometimes, drinking water also leaked from the pipeline on the road though it had been repaired twice. Improper construction The area is often used by heavy vehicles. Residents said negligence while laying the deep sewer network could also be a reason. They demanded a permanent solution to the frequent road cave-ins, which posed a risk to motorists. Officials of Chennai Metrowater said the frequent collapse of roads in the locality could be due to additional load of sewage that the pipelines carried during the rainy season. Moreover, the soil condition in the area could also lead to such road cave-ins, they added. “We have filled the pit and work to rectify the issue on the road will be started on Wednesday. This has also damaged service lines but did not affect sewer flow,” an official said.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro patronage sees slow, steady growth after services resume||On November 23, as many as 38,000 passengers used the Metro, one of the highest numbers recorded since operations resumed in September following lockdown relaxations. Two months ago, when services restarted, the trains wore a nearly deserted look initially and by the end of September, there were about 15,000 passengers a day, a mere 8% of the crowd they carried during pre-COVID-19 times. 37% increase in footfall By the end of October, more commuters, especially those travelling to Anna Salai, took the trains and the footfalls grew to 22,500 a day. Now, there has been a 37% increase compared to October, and the average number of commuters travelling per day has touched about 28,600. According to the officials of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL), in the last few weeks, owing to intermittent rain, more commuters began travelling by Metro Rail again. “Initially, many of our regular commuters went to their workplaces on two-wheelers to avoid travelling by public transport. But now, gradually, after seeing how the trains are cleaned and physical distancing is maintained, many have resumed travelling as usual. As it began raining, more felt encouraged to give up travelling by bikes and took the trains,” an official said. During weekdays, the Metro usually got 33,000-35,000 commuters while during weekends and holidays, the number dropped to 20,000-25,000, officials said. A gap between the current and pre-COVID-19 ridership figures primarily exists because IT professionals are still working from home. “Thousands of IT employees used to take the Metro to Alandur or Guindy or Ekkatuthangal. From there, they would reach their workplaces using company transport. These people will continue working from home for the next several months. Hence, until they return to their offices, we may not see trains running at full capacity,” another official said. The stretch from the Chennai airport till Washermenpet carries the maximum number of passengers now, with the airport, as usual, witnessing the highest footfall with an average of about 3,000 passengers a day. “In the weekends, the patronage is dismal. What little we see is only because of people travelling to the airport and the CMBT,” the official added. After the airport, the High Court has seen some marginal increase in footfalls and nearly 2,500 passengers travel through this station, officials said. Thirumangalam, Meenambakkam and Alandur get about 1,500 passengers a day.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Varsity urges colleges to return original certificates to faculty||Anna University has requested principals and chairmen of all affiliated self-financing colleges to return the original certificates of the faculty after verification. Colleges may retain only copies of the original certificates, the University’s Registrar said. In a letter to college authorities, the Registrar urged institutions to be transparent about the terms and conditions of the recruitment process, the appointment orders and the salary for the faculty. The University also advised the colleges to maintain a proper student-staff ratio and assign work schedules, besides ensuring facilities as required by the norms. The University’s move follows a letter from Higher Education Secretary Apoorva, in November, which referred to the death of T. Vasanthavanan, who was employed as an assistant professor of mechanical engineering at Sree Sastha Institute of Engineering and Technology. The letter cited a report submitted to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) regarding the death of the faculty member. It urged the All India Council for Technical Education and Anna University “to pass orders to affiliated private engineering colleges not to confiscate the certificates of their faculties when they recruit them and to return all the certificates in original after verification, with only the copies to be under the custody of the management”. ‘Strict action’ The letter states: “Since the management of Sree Sastha Institute of Engineering and Technology is clearly found to be guilty on the life of a faculty, nevertheless the case was closed legally by the police. They may duly be warned by the authorities and if necessary, some strict disciplinary/penal action may be initiated against them.” The Higher Education Department forwarded a copy of the letter to the NHRC in Delhi.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cyclone Burevi likely to cross south T.N. early on Friday: IMD||Cyclone Burevi is likely to emerge into the Gulf of Mannar and the adjoining Comorin area on Thursday morning, after crossing the Sri Lankan coast on Wednesday evening/night. It may largely impact the southern parts of the State and bring fairly widespread rain till Saturday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). It is likely to cross south Tamil Nadu, between Kanniyakumari and Pamban, early on Friday morning. As on Tuesday, the cyclone, forecast to reach the Sri Lankan coast, moved westwards, with a speed of 13 kmph. The IMD has provided a yellow alert, updating the authorities on the approaching weather disturbance. Officials of the Meteorological Department said extremely heavy rain (above 24 cm) was likely, in one or two places over south Tamil Nadu, including Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and Ramanathapuram, on Wednesday and Thursday. Other southern districts may experience isolated, heavy to very heavy rain around the same time. However, the intensity of rainfall may drop after December 4. One or two places in north Tamil Nadu may also receive heavy rain on Wednesday. Chennai may receive thunderstorms, with light to moderate rain, for two days. Burevi may take the same route as Cyclone Ockhi, which impacted Sri Lanka, the southern parts of Tamil Nadu and Kerala in 2017. Officials noted that the system was on a lower latitude and might not be intense as the previous cyclone. It will cross as a cyclonic storm over the Tamil Nadu coast and weaken. Squally winds, with speeds reaching 45-55 kmph and gusting to 65 kmph, are likely over the Comorin area, Gulf of Mannar and the south Tamil Nadu coast on Wednesday noon. This may gradually increase to 70-80 kmph, gusting to 90 kmph, from Thursday evening. IMD is also monitoring the development of another weather system. But it is too early to confirm its presence and predict its intensity. Senior meteorologist Y.E.A. Raj said: “The impending cyclone may help reduce the rain deficit in the southern districts and destruction may be less. The State needs to get 60%-70% excess rain in December to cover its overall deficit this season.” The system may be of special interest as it is likely to cut across the coast, four times, including in Sri Lanka and India, he added.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajini Makkal Mandram anxiously awaits word from superstar||For the office-bearers and members of the nearly three-year-old Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), mooted as a political launchpad for superstar Rajinikanth, this is a period of anxious wait to decide their future role. After meeting RMM functionaries on Monday, Mr. Rajinikanth had promised to convey “as early as possible” his decision on whether he would take the much-hyped political plunge. The decision did not come on Tuesday, as anticipated by his supporters. For them, it has not been an easy journey, considering the wavering signals given by the actor since the last day of 2017. On that day, when Mr. Rajinikanth unambiguously declared that his political entry was a certainty, his fans were ecstatic and swung into action to put in place the skeleton of a political party in the form of the RMM. Looking back, a senior member of the RMM told The Hindu that when Mr. Rajinikanth, while speaking at a function in 2018, postured that he could revive the ‘MGR rule’, his comments had “hit the spot”. “It resulted in a wave of support when the popularity of the ruling and Opposition Dravidian parties was low,” he said. But the momentum did not last long. Later that year, when Mr. Rajinikanth angrily remarked that Tamil Nadu will become a ‘grave yard’ if there are protests over every issue, and alleged that anti-social elements were involved in the anti-Sterlite protests, it dented his credibility. “He came to be seen as the BJP’s spokesperson, reflecting the Central and State governments’ stance,” the RMM member said. Many pointed out that the actor hit the pause button on the RMM’s activities after the failure of Kaala at the box-office was attributed to these comments. His decision to prevent his supporters from expressing their political opinion, and to sign up for one film after another, created doubts among RMM members on whether he was serious about entering politics. The BJP-AIADMK’s rout in the Parliamentary election, RMM members said, unsettled Mr. Rajinikanth. He, perhaps, realised the complexity of setting up a political party, and encountered several practical problems, including corruption, in the process, forcing a rethink. Earlier this year, soon after he opted out of becoming the Chief Ministerial face of his proposed party and called for a ‘resurgence’ among the people, came the COVID-19 outbreak. “He always felt that six months would provide enough time to face the election. It was always clear to us that he would start a party closer to the election. But COVID-19 played spoilsport. He was making every effort to start the party in October,” claimed a confidante of the actor. An RMM member insisted that Mr. Rajinikanth has always been clear that he would not enter politics if he does not see a clear path to victory. “He only means it in a positive sense. He is aware that if he is unable to reach out across Tamil Nadu, he will not be able to achieve what he wants. He has health issues, which prevent him from doing that. In that case, he feels it would not be right to drag his fans into this endeavour. It wouldn’t surprise me if he has already decided not to contest [the election],” he said. As the actor’s supporters were awaiting his final word, an RMM functionary held out hope, with the caveat: “When it comes to Mr. Rajinikanth, you can never predict what he would do.”
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stay indoors till Dec. 4: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday appealed to the people in the southern districts to avoid going out till December 4, in view of heavy rain and cyclone forecast in some of the districts. However, he said there was no need to be anxious, since all precautionary measures were being undertaken, on a war footing, by the government. With fishermen having been alerted to return to the shores, he said neighbouring State governments had been requested to allow fishermen from Tamil Nadu to land on their shores in view of the weather. “Since precautionary measures are being taken on a war footing, people need not be anxious about the cyclone. I appeal to the people to cooperate with the government by following the guidelines,” Mr. Palaniswami said in a statement. He instructed officials of various government agencies to keep the necessary infrastructure and equipment ready for post-disaster and relief operations. “Officials in charge of Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Sivaganga, Theni, Dindigul, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar must camp and take precautionary measures,” he said. Nine teams from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been positioned in Kanniyakumari (two), Tirunelveli (three), Thoothukudi (two) and Madurai (two) districts.  Relief camps “People residing in areas likely to be affected by the cyclone and those in unsafe habitations have to be moved to relief camps at once as a precautionary measure,” he said. The Chief Minister chaired a meeting of Ministers and senior officials earlier in the day, and reviewed measures being taken in view of the weather forecast. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan, Electricity Minister P. Thangamani, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan, Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and senior officials were present.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Female thavil player breaking the mould||Although women have made their mark in various fields, playing the thavil in Carnatic music remains a male bastion. There are many women who play the nagaswaram . But only a few are able to break the mould and pursue a career as a thavil player. M. Sarojini of Vriddhachalam is one among them. Devotees at the Viruthagireeswarar temple know her well as she is a musician of the temple. “My family had reservations when I showed interest in learning the instrument. They felt that the thavil was a tough instrument and not suitable for a woman. But I decided to go ahead,” said Ms. Sarojini. She learnt the instrument when she was studying in Class 5. Learning the instrument was easy for her as she belonged to a family of nagaswaram and thavil players. All in the family Her father Chinna Pillai, a nagaswaram player, and her brother Gurumurthy, a thavil player, are attached to the Viruthgireeswarar temple in Vriddhachalam. The family has its roots in Thanjavur, but migrated to Vriddhachalam 30 years ago. “As a temple musician, I play four times a day in the temple when the pujas are conducted. I accompany my father. I also perform outside at concerts, but mostly with my family members, who are musicians,” said Ms. Sarojini, who had to take a break from playing the thavil when her son was born. But she soon resumed playing and became a part of Nada Sangamam, a troupe that comprised an amalgamation of various instrument players. They play classical and film songs at different functions and weddings. “Our troupe has performed in various places, including in Chennai. I am keen on improving my career as a performing artiste,” added Ms. Sarojini.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M students get 123 offers in first round of placements||This year’s campus placement at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) began with 123 offers being made on the first day on Tuesday. The entire placement process has gone online due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. As many as 22 companies participated and had 43 job profiles. Last year, 102 offers were made by 20 companies in the first session. As many as 1,443 students have registered for the placements. Recruiters in the first session included Microsoft, Texas Instruments, Bajaj Auto, ISRO, Alphonso and Qualcomm. The first session began at 7 a.m. and ended at 2 p.m. In the second session that began at 4 p.m. and ended at 11 p.m, 24 companies with 48 profiles participated. The results of the offers made will be released on Wednesday. Companies that participated in the second session included TSMC, KLA, Tencor, GE and Wipro. The first round of the first phase of the placements will end on December 8. A total of 256 companies have registered with 472 profiles. C.S. Shankar Ram, adviser (training and placement) at the institute, said the placement team worked with the recruiting partners “to seamlessly enable the transition” from the offline mode to the online mode due to precautions for COVID-19. “It involved a lot of planning,” he said.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||12-year-old treated for rare psychiatric condition||A 12-year-old girl from Mauritius was treated for a rare psychiatric condition at Kauvery Hospital recently. The girl was suffering from conversion disorder, a condition in which the body’s emotional and psychological stressors are converted to physical symptoms that cannot be explained neurologically or medically. The girl was unable to open her eyelids for eight months. Doctors diagnosed it as an indication of functional neurologic symptom disorder or conversion disorder, belonging to the subtype of psychogenic blepharospasm. “The child was flown to centres in Mumbai and Chennai for diagnosis. Later, she was referred to our hospital and was diagnosed with the condition, and appropriate treatment was initiated,” said Yamini Kannappan, a consultant psychiatrist at the hospital. A detailed psychometric evaluation of the child led to the condition being diagnosed as a case of bilateral psychogenic blepharospasm, a condition in which the orbicularis muscles undergo spasmodic contraction, resulting in abnormal twitching of the eyes. It can last for a few seconds or go on for minutes. In some cases, the eyes may remain shut for hours. A team of specialists, led by Dr. Yamini, began therapy. The girl was given functional electrical stimulation and psychological support. Within two days, the girl could open her eyes. The hospital’s executive director, Aravindan Selvaraj, said, “This rare case was successful because of the right diagnosis and treatment.” The child could have suffered permanent impairment if she was not treated, he said.  She was flown to Mumbai and Chennai for diagnosis. Later, she was referred to our hospital and was diagnosed with the condition    Yamini Kannappan  Consultant psychiatrist, Kauvery Hospital
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After a stroke, man undergoes three complicated procedures||In June, when the COVID-19 pandemic was at its peak, a 35-year-old man was rushed to the hospital with a sudden inability to use his left arm and leg, and loss of vision in his left eye. Five months later, the man, who suffered a stroke, underwent three complicated procedures and is on the path to recovery. The patient, Ramkumar, who is currently undergoing neuro rehabilitation, is communicating well and is able to walk with minimal support now. He inaugurated the Apollo Post-Acute Care Integrated Stroke Rehabilitation Centre and Stroke Support Group here on Tuesday. P.R. Prabash, consultant neurologist, Apollo Speciality Hospital, Vanagaram, who diagnosed the patient with stroke, said he reached the hospital within two hours of the attack. The MRI screening revealed a large infarct in the right middle cerebral artery territory. It was rapidly progressing. The doctors did a bridging procedure — thrombolysis — in which a clot-bursting medication is injected through the veins, followed by a mechanical thrombectomy, in which a wire is passed through the artery to reach the location of the clot and mechanically remove it. He was then shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and was put on ventilator support. A repeat CT scan found a swelling on the right side of the brain that was about to compress and damage the left side of the organ. An emergency decompressive craniectomy was then performed. His condition gradually improved and he was soon discharged. Risk factors “Nearly 80% strokes can be prevented if we are aware of the risk factors. Hypertension, diabetes, smoking and alcohol are among the risk factors. We should exercise regularly and have a proper diet,” Dr. Prabash said during the launch of the centre. Lifestyle changes, sleep disturbances, high stress levels, changes in dietary habits and a sedentary lifestyle are among the causes for stroke in young persons. Air pollution is another key reason. “It is important to teach persons to identify the signs of a stroke and seek help at comprehensive stroke care centres to avoid wasting time and to prevent damage,” he said. Dr. Prabash said post-stroke rehabilitation was a “necessity” and not a “luxury”. “Most of the functions can be retained with good rehabilitation. In Tamil Nadu, we do not have in-patient post-stroke rehabilitation centres. We have come up with the centre and a stroke support group,” he added. Noting that time was brain in strokes, Swatee Halbe, interventional radiologist at the hospital, laid emphasis on the need to reach a hospital capable of treating strokes. Siddhartha Ghosh, senior neurosurgeon, said, “We somehow neglect strokes as compared to cardiac diseases. A part of it is due to less awareness about strokes. Strokes are the second largest cause of deaths in the country.” The thrombectomy window period has been extended to 24 hours for selected patients, Dr. Prabash added. Suneeta Reddy, managing director, Apollo Hospitals Group, also spoke.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,404 persons test positive; no fresh case in Kallakurichi||Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases reached 7,83,319 on Tuesday, with another 1,404 persons testing positive for the infection. Of the 37 districts, Kallakurichi reported no fresh case, while eight other districts recorded new cases in single digit. In Chennai, 380 persons tested positive for the infection, taking the city’s case count to 2,15,739. With 141 fresh cases, Coimbatore’s tally rose to 48,866. There were 86 cases in Chengalpattu, 65 in Tiruppur and 63 each in Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts. Salem had 56 cases, while Tiruvannamalai, after recording cases in single digit for two days, accounted for 47 fresh infections. Eight districts reported cases in single digit — Ariyalur (5), Kanniyakumari (8), Perambalur (3), Pudukottai (8), Ramanathapuram (4), Tenkasi (5), Theni (5) and Thoothukudi (9). The fresh cases included five persons who had returned to the State from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala by air or road. As many as 10,980 persons are currently undergoing treatment in the State. Chennai has the most number of active cases, at 3,702, followed by Coimbatore (935) and Chengalpattu (552). A total of 1,411 persons were discharged across the State on Tuesday, taking the total figure to 7,60,617. Ten persons — six in private hospitals and four in government hospitals — succumbed to the infection. This took the toll to 11,722. Four of them died in Chennai, two each in Chengalpattu and Salem, and one each in Madurai and Tiruppur. With this, Chennai accounts for a total of 3,854 deaths, followed by Chengalpattu (715) and Tiruvallur (654).  A total of 65,058 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. As many as 1,21,25,059 samples have been tested so far.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK agitation for Vanniyar reservation paralyses traffic||Traffic on GST Road in the southern suburbs of Chennai was paralysed for over two hours on Tuesday morning, after PMK cadre blocked the road near Perungalathur when the police prevented them from entering the city for a demonstration seeking 20% reservation for Vanniyars in government jobs and higher education. The Kollam-Chennai Express, coming from Thiruvananthapuram, was stoned and halted for over 10 minutes between Vandalur and Tambaram in Chennai. Traffic was also blocked for a while on the Chennai-Bengaluru Highway near Vellore and Sriperumbudur. The Government Railway Police booked the cadre for rioting and causing damage to public property. Later in the day, PMK youth-wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss, who addressed cadre on Anna Salai, met Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and senior Ministers at the Secretariat. While the State government described it as a “courtesy meeting”, Mr. Anbumani told journalists that he reiterated his party’s demand for 20% reservation. “We organised protests in Chennai today. Our cadre were stopped by the police, but we reiterated that the cadre should remain calm. When the protests were taking place, the Chief Minister invited us, and we explained our demands to him. We said this was not a caste issue. This is not a protest against a political party, an organisation or any other community. This is a social justice and development issue,” he said. According to him, while every fourth person in Tamil Nadu was a Vanniyar, they had fallen behind in terms of education and jobs. Socially backward group “They are in agriculture, they are laying roads and working as masons and living in huts. They are socially backward. There are no industries in regions where there is no development or jobs. They are forced to migrate for work,” he said. Mr. Anbumani said the Chief Minister promised that he would examine their demands. He appealed against creating a perception that the Vanniyar community was violent. “This is a 40-year-old issue. We have not received justice. We are against violence,” he said. Earlier in the day, the Chengalpattu police detained protesters and took them to a community hall, restoring traffic on GST Road after a couple of hours. A Southern Railway official said that cases had been registered based on a complaint lodged by Anbalagan, station manager, Tambaram, who stated that about 50 PMK members had rushed to the track and staged a train-picketing agitation and pelted stones, damaging two headlights of the locomotive of the Kollam-Chennai Express. On seeing the protesters, the loco pilot stopped the train, which suffered a detention of about seven minutes. Later, between 10.30 a.m. and 1.30 p.m., about 300 PMK cadre squatted on the railway tracks and placed barricades, iron railway signal boxes, sand bags and huge rails, across the track, obstructing trains. Due to this, the Karaikudi-Chennai Egmore and Madurai-Chennai Egmore express trains were regulated at Vandalur and Chengalpattu stations respectively. Fifty unknown PMK members have been booked. “Throwing stones is an offence under Section 154 of the Railways Act and is punishable with imprisonment for a term that may be extended to one year, or fine, or both,” a senior official said.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Court restrains varsities from declaring ‘all pass’ without exams||The Madras High Court on Tuesday issued an interim injunction forbearing all universities in the State from declaring all students as having passed, with respect to arrears too, without conducting examinations, either through the online or the offline mode, or a combination of both. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha passed the interim order on a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate B. Ramkumar Adityan of Thoothukudi, and adjourned the case to January 11 for further hearing. In his affidavit, the lawyer had accused some universities of declaring “all pass”, in accordance with a government order (G.O.) issued on August 26, cancelling arrear examinations of all arts, science, engineering and Master of Computer Application students, except for those pursuing the final year of their courses. He pointed out that the G.O. had been challenged by him as well as E. Balagurusamy, former Vice-Chancellor of the Anna University through separate writ petitions, and, hence, the universities should not be permitted to declare the students as having cleared the arrears, without writing the exams. During the hearing on Tuesday, University Grants Commission (UGC) counsel V. Sudha told the court that the students would not be given course completion certificates if they do not clear the arrears by appearing for examinations. She said the UGC never allowed any university to cancel the examinations. Justice Sathyanarayanan said the examinations could be conducted now, since the COVID-19 situation had improved. He asked the Special Government Pleader to obtain instructions in this regard from the Higher Education Department, by January 11.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former IAS officer Santhosh Babu joins MNM||Former IAS officer Santhosh Babu, who took voluntary retirement recently, joined the Makkal Needhi Maiam on Tuesday in the presence of party founder Kamal Haasan. Addressing the media, Mr. Haasan said Dr. Babu, who is a doctor by qualification and had served as a civil servant for 25 years, had eight years of service left. But he left due to his “uncompromising honesty”. “After he decided to get into politics, he joined the right party at the right time,” he said, adding that Dr. Babu would be the general secretary (party headquarters) and wwould handle IT, data, research, policy and election manifesto and all headquarters operations. Quality of life Dr. Babu said small things that improve the quality of life of an ordinary person do not get much attention. “There is a big rural-urban divide that can be bridged only when there is innovative leadership. Our potential is world-class. Why can’t our governance be world-class,” he asked. When asked to explain the MNM’s need to ‘Reimagine Thamizh Nadu’ when the State government had been recognised for doing good work, Dr. Babu said, “We have to compare ourselves with our potential, not with States like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Have we reached our potential? We have not.” He spoke about the controversy over his exit from service, which was related to four tenders worth Rs. 2,000 crore for laying optical fibre cables to provide broadband connectivity to 12,524 villages. “It has something to do with that. That was the trigger,” he said. “I got a call from the PMO and was asked when I can join. That was to become the CEO of MyGov and Joint Secretary, PMO. It was a privilege to be invited. But I had done huge work as Principal Secretary, IT … almost 17 innovations. One such project was the Rs. 2,000 crore Bharatnet tender, for which I went to New Delhi nine times, including once in a wheelchair,” he said. “When the tender issues came up and I couldn’t go to New Delhi … I thought there was no point and came out,” he added. Asked about the farmers’ agitation in New Delhi, Mr. Haasan said the government should listen to the farmers. “It is not good for the nation. I like the sound of violin but not when Rome is aflame,” he said.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||28 IMH patients engaged in housekeeping, security services||Training and engaging in-patients in various jobs for their rehabilitation and community integration is an ongoing effort at the Institute of Mental Health (IMH). Now, 28 patients have been trained and engaged in housekeeping and security services on the campus. Bakery, art and crafts, tailoring and gardening are among the various industrial therapy centres that IMH runs for patients on its campus. Last year, a few of the patients, who improved after treatment, secured jobs in government offices and food outlets. Now, Krystal, the agency to which housekeeping and security services in medical institutions under the Directorate of Medical Education are outsourced, has trained 28 patients of the IMH in housekeeping and security services. “Of them, three patients are engaged in security work on the IMH campus. They are posted at wards and make inquiries when visitors arrive. One patient is in the telephone section and answers phone calls. The remaining persons are in housekeeping. They help with cleaning at the hospital,” P. Poorna Chandrika, IMH Director, said. She added that the Disability Rights Alliance helped the hospital in completing paperwork with the Commissionerate for the Welfare of the Differently Abled.  These patients were being paid by the agency, and some of them visited banks to withdraw salary and purchased things that they required. IMH was also working with Ektha, a disability rights organisation, to help those with intellectual disabilities manage their finances, she said. “Being engaged in jobs helps improve the confidence and self-esteem of patients. They can be a part of the community and it makes them feel good,” she said. Dr. Chandrika added that they were also looking for accommodation for patients who had landed jobs earlier. “The half-way home at the outpatient department premises is nearing completion. It can accommodate 50 persons. They can stay here and be independent with monitoring. This will help them become self-sufficient,” she said.  The half-way home at the outpatient department premises is nearing completion. It can accommodate 50 persons P. Poorna ChandrikaIMH Director
02 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Former IAS officer Santhosh Babu joins Makkal Needhi Maiam||Former IAS officer Santhosh Babu, who recently took voluntary retirement, joined the Makkal Needhi Maiam in the presence of its founder-leader Kamal Haasan in Chennai on Tuesday. Mr. Haasan told journalists that Dr. Babu, a medical doctor by qualification who was a civil servant for 25 years, had eight years of service left, but he quit due to his “uncompromising honesty”. “After he decided to get into politics, he joined the right party at the right time,” Mr. Haasan said, adding that Dr. Babu will be general secretary (party headquarters) and will take care of IT, data, research, policy and election manifesto and all headquarters operations. Dr. Babu said small things that improved the quality of life of a normal person did not get attention. “There is a big rural and urban divide that can be changed only when there is innovative leadership. Our potential is world-class. Why can’t our governance be world-class,” Dr. Babu asked. When asked to explain the MNM’s need to ‘Reimagine Thamizh Nadu’ when the State government has been adjudged as already doing great work, Dr. Babu asked “Have we reached our potential? We have not reached it.” He also spoke about the controversy over his exit that was related to four tenders worth Rs. 2,000 crore to lay optic fibre cables to provide broadband connectivity to 12,524 villages. “It has something to do with that. That was the trigger,” he said. Asked about agitations by farmers of Punjab and Haryana in New Delhi, Mr. Haasan said the government should listen to farmers. On alliance for elections, the MNM leader said “We know very well what is going to be our future. We will talk about alliance when it is time to talk about it. We cannot write off our future and be slaves to alliance partners.”
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five candidates rejected at medical counselling||Five aspirants were not allotted seats at the ongoing counselling for medical and dental seats under the State quota until Tuesday. One candidate who participated was not allotted a seat on Monday and four candidates were denied allotment on Tuesday, the third day of the first session of counselling. Selection Secretary G. Selvarajan said on Monday, the candidate was not able to produce supporting documents for his nativity claim. The candidate did not satisfy the requirements of the scrutiny committee and was hence denied a seat. On Tuesday, four candidates had similar issues. “We ask for the details of the student as well as the parents. If they do not satisfy the requirements, we do not allow them to participate further,” he said. On Tuesday, 406 seats in government medical colleges and 23 in self-financing medical colleges were filled. The session began with 2,059 seats in government medical colleges and ended with 1,653 vacancies. In self-financing medical colleges, there were 1,037 vacancies at the end of the day.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nearly 3% of commuters opt for QR code tickets||In the last few months, a small section of Metro commuters have been using QR code tickets. Now, nearly 3% of passengers are using QR code tickets. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd., an average of 540 commuters a day bought QR Code tickets in September. This went up to 630 in October and now, about 720 buy them regularly. “So far, we have one Automatic Fare Collection (ticketing) gate in entry/exits for using the QR code tickets. We are making arrangements to have this facility at every entry/exit point in all 32 stations in the coming months. Hopefully, this will be completed in the next six months,” an official said. The system was introduced because contactless ticketing became essential after the COVID-19 outbreak. “Currently, commuters have to walk from one point to another because the QR code tickets cannot be used at all entry/exit points. This is one of the reasons why only a few use them,” another official said.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. launches initiative to recycle beverage cartons||Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash launched the ‘Take Me Back’ initiative to recycle beverage cartons into useful items. According to a press release, the initiative is expected to create consumer awareness about recycling of used beverage cartons. Collaborative effort Dunzo will be the logistics partner by providing free doorstep pick-up of used cartons. Used cartons will be sorted by women at the non-governmental organisation Arpanam Trust, which will help them with their livelihood. The collected cartons will be recycled into useful items and donated to less-privileged communities, in consultation with the Greater Chennai Corporation. Special bins have been placed at all drop-off points across the city. As part of this city-wide campaign, consumers will now have over 20 deposit points for their used beverage cartons at various retail stores across the city. All collection centre details will be available at http://www.takemebackcampaign.com, according to the press release.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||59% will not rush to take COVID-19 vaccine: survey||In a survey, 59% have said that they would not rush to take a COVID-19 vaccine, even if it was available in the near future. LocalCircles, a community social media platform, conducted a survey between October 15 and 20 and found that 61% expressed hesitancy in getting the vaccine. This was before any of the vaccines were announced, according to a press release. The platform conducted another survey to understand if the hesitancy levels had reduced after new developments in vaccine-related research. It received more than 25,000 responses from persons across 262 districts of the country. While 69% of the respondents were men, 31% were women. Frontline workers It asked the respondents if the COVID-19 vaccine was to be available from February 2021 through private and government channels, what would their approach be. Eight per cent of the 8,936 respondents said they were health or frontline workers and would get it on priority through the government. While 13% said they would get it as quickly as it became available through any healthcare channels, 11% said they would get it as quickly as it became available through private healthcare channels. Another 59% respondents said they would not rush to take the vaccine, even if it is available in the near future. Nearly 72% believed that there was a high risk of it being sold on the black market, the survey found.  Nearly 72% believed that there was a high risk of it being sold in the black market, the survey found
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC issues a series of directions to speed up cases against legislators||The Madras High Court on Tuesday took up a suo motu writ petition to ensure speedy disposal of cases pending against Members of the Parliament and Legislative Assembly both before it and the special courts constituted for the purpose. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the special courts to give top priority to disposal of the cases against the legislators and report progress to the Registrar General of the High Court. The first Division Bench also directed the special courts to comply with all directions issued by the Supreme Court on the issue from time to time. Monitor progress It further decided to monitor the progress and directed the Registry to list the suo motu petition again on January 5, 2021. The Bench pointed out that as many as 107 cases related to MPs and MLAs were pending in the High Court as on September 16. Nine petitions Pursuant to that nine petitions had got disposed of. They directed the Registry to list the other cases on priority. Since 56 cases related to the charge of criminal defamation were also pending in the High Court against many legislators, the Bench directed the Registry to list at least 10 of those cases on every working day before the judge holding the relevant portfolio.  The Bench directs the Registry to list at least 10 of those cases on every working day before the judge holding the relevant portfolio
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for vehicle theft||The Kodungaiyur Police have arrested two persons and recovered 12 stolen two-wheelers from them. Police said A. Kirthivasan, a resident of Bharatidasan Street, Erukkanchery, had lodged a complaint stating that his two-wheeler was robbed by an unidentified person at knife-point last month. The police inspected the CCTV cameras in the vicinity and arrested Manikandan, 21, of Erukkanchery. Based on information provided by him, the police arrested his accomplice Linga Perumal.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private firm favoured for issuing FCs: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday alleged that the Transport Department had allowed a private company to make a huge profit in the issuance of fitness certificates (FC) to transport vehicles. In a statement in Chennai, he said Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar had issued a circular among Regional Transport Officers, saying that speed monitors, GPS machines and reflectors should be purchased from a particular company in Erode and Chennai, before issuing fitness certificates. Call for probe “Officials have been directed to verify the certificate in the website of the private company. It is a shame that road transport offices have been converted into branches of the private company. What is the relationship between the Transport Minister and the private company? It should be probed by the DVAC,” the DMK chief said. Circular withdrawn Mr. Stalin said that even though the circular had been withdrawn in the wake of a court direction, the practice of buying machines and receiving a nod from the private company for issuing FCs continued. Urging Mr. Vijayabhaskar to give up the practice, Mr. Stalin said if the DMK was elected to power, action would be taken against those involved in the irregularities.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former IAS officer Santhosh Babu joins MNM||Former IAS officer Santhosh Babu, who recently took voluntary retirement, joined the Makkal Needhi Maiam in the presence of its founder-leader Kamal Haasan in Chennai on Tuesday. Mr. Haasan told journalists that Dr. Babu, a medical doctor by qualification who was a civil servant for 25 years, had eight years of service left, but he quit due to his “uncompromising honesty”. “After he decided to get into politics, he joined the right party at the right time,” Mr. Haasan said, adding that Dr. Babu will be general secretary (party headquarters) and will take care of IT, data, research, policy and election manifesto and all headquarters operations. Dr. Babu said small things that improved the quality of life of a normal person did not get attention. “There is a big rural and urban divide that can be changed only when there is innovative leadership. Our potential is world-class. Why can’t our governance be world-class,” he asked. When asked to explain the MNM’s need to ‘Reimagine Thamizh Nadu’ when the State government has been adjudged as already doing great work, Dr. Babu asked “Have we reached our potential? We have not reached it.” He also spoke about the controversy over his exit that was related to four tenders worth Rs. 2,000 crore to lay optic fibre cables to provide broadband connectivity to 12,524 villages. “It has something to do with that. That was the trigger,” he said. Asked about agitations by farmers of Punjab and Haryana in New Delhi, Mr. Haasan said the government should listen to farmers. On alliance for elections, the MNM leader said “We know very well what is going to be our future. We will talk about alliance when it is time to talk about it. We cannot write off our future and be slaves to alliance partners.”
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jayakanthan’s novel published in Russian, Mandarin by Sahitya Akademi||Sila Nerangalil Sila Manithargal , a novel by Tamil writer D. Jayakanthan, has been published in Russian and Mandarin (Chinese) by the Sahitya Akademi. It is one among the 10 Indian literary works translated into these two languages. This follows Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) summit in June, 2019, that 10 great creations of Indian literature would be translated into Russian, Chinese and SCO languages. “The very purpose of the SCO is to bring together best of minds from diverse fields and Sahitya Akademi selected 10 titles from 10 Indian languages,” said K. Sreenivasarao, secretary of the Akademi. Writer Maalan, one of the general council members of the Akademi, said the original idea was to translate Jayakanthan’s work from Tamil into Russian and Mandarin languages. “But we were not able to find suitable translators and depended on the English translation,” he explained. The other works translated into these languages are: Surujmukhir Swapna by Syed Abdul Malik (Assamese), Arogyaniketan by Tarashankar Bandopadhyay (Bengali), Vevishaal by Jhaverchand Meghani (Gujarati), Kavveaur Kala Pani by Nirmal Verma (Hindi), Parva by S.L. Bhyrappa (Kannada), Manoj Dasanka Katha O Kahini by Manoj Das (Odia) Marhi da Diva by Gurdian Singh (Punjabi), Illu by Rachakonda Viswanatha Sastri (Telugu) and Ek Chadar Milli Si by Rajinder Singh Bedi (Urdu). Sahitya Akademi also released the reprints of English translations of these titles.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||17-year-old held for sex with minor||The M.K.B. Nagar All Women police station arrested a 17-year-old teenager for sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl. The juvenile was arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, and was produced before a judicial magistrate. He was later sent to a juvenile home. A senior official said the girl, residing at her relative’s house in Vyasarpadi, was admitted to hospital a few weeks ago and was found to be pregnant. After a complaint was filed by the guardian, it was found that the teen had sex with her a few months ago after promising to marry her. On coming to know that the girl was pregnant, the boy absconded. The police traced and arrested him.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held||The Kodungaiyur police have arrested two persons and recovered 12 stolen two-wheelers from them. The two allegedly confessed to stealing more two-wheelers. They were produced before a judicial magistrate and remanded in prison.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses case against penalties||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed a public interest litigation petition which challenged a government gazette notification issued on September 4 for the collection of fine, ranging from Rs. 200 to Rs. 5,000, for not wearing masks, failing to adhere to physical distancing norms or violating SOPs in salons, spas, gymnasiums and so on. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy dismissed the PIL petition filed by R. Muthukrishnan of Chennai. Mr. Muthukrishnan had claimed that the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act of 1939 did not declare non-compliance to COVID-19 norms as a compoundable offence.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers urged to take crop insurance||With the southern districts expected to get heavy rainfall in the next few days, the Agriculture Department on Tuesday appealed to farmers of the districts to take insurance cover for their crops, well ahead of the deadline. Pointing out that the last date for taking crop insurance cover for paddy and horticultural crops such as banana, tapioca, onion and chillies in the districts of Madurai, Dindigul, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari, was December 15, the Department, in an advisory issued to Collectors and farmers, said farmers could pay their portion of the premium, either at common service centres or primary agricultural cooperative credit societies or nationalised banks.    Farmers have been requested to store their produce in godowns of nearby regulated markets, in the event of continuous rain.
02 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister to inaugurate summit||The fourth edition of the United Economic Forum (UEF) world summit along with trade expo is scheduled to be held from December 4 and Chief Minister Edappadi.K. Palaniswami will be inaugurating this virtual meet. Organised by the UEF Chamber of Commerce, the three-day virtual event will bring together over 80 eminent speakers from 30 countries across the world and over 6,000 delegates are expected to participate. W.S. Habib, Chairman, World Summit 2020, said that the event would have thematic sessions on topics including entrepreneurship, COVID-19 and the travel industry, re-imagining the restaurant business for the new normal and Tamil Nadu land of opportunities among others. Platform for companies  UEF president Ahmed A R Buhari said that the seminar will provide a platform for entrepreneurs, companies, educationists, policy makers, and business organisations to connect to the global audience.
02 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||City sees no post-Deepavali rise in COVID-19 cases||In the run up to Deepavali, the Coimbatore Corporation was worried that the city may witness a post-festive season spike in COVID-19 cases as people were out on street, shopping in large numbers. In fact, for two or three days immediately after Deepavali, the Corporation had stepped up its sample collection and intensified door-to-door check for people with fever symptoms. But the data for the fortnight after Deepavali shows that the city saw a decrease in active COVID-19 cases in the last 10 days. From 840 active cases on November 21, the city saw 776 active cases as on November 30, says an officer, adding that this was not the time to be complacent, though, as the Corporation will continue its high vigil for another 14 days. Like the initial quarantine period of 28 days, the Corporation wants to maintain the vigil for 28 days to check any spike in positive cases. In the last 10 days, the city also saw a decline in number of streets with active COVID-19 cases from 716 to 678. Though there has been a reduction in the daily positive case count, the Corporation has not reduced the samples it lifts every day for testing; it continues to be around 2,800 a day. With the addition of another 1,000 samples getting collected every day by private organisations, the total samples collected every day in the city is nearly 4,000, the officer says. The Corporation is continuing with mobile fever and sample collection booths in bus stands and fever clinics across the city. The officer also says the Corporation is continuing with its strategy for containing a house or a portion of street or street depending on the number of cases there. And, it will continue to do so until the positive case count drops. Meanwhile, Collector K. Rajamani told journalists on Tuesday that the positive cases that the city saw every day in the last few days were from Podanur, Ramanathapuram, Peelamedu, Ganapathy, Sowripalayam and a couple of other places. He had asked the Corporation to step up its COVID-19 containment strategy in those localities and increase sample collection, if necessary. As on December 1, there were 14 containment zones in the district and 13 of those were within the Corporation limit, he added.
02 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Security tightened in view of wall collapse anniversary||The Coimbatore District (Rural) Police deployed around 550 police personnel outside the colony at Nadur near Mettupalayam where a wall collapse killed 17 persons on December 2 last year. Coimbatore District (Rural) Superintendent of Police Ara. Arularasu said the police deployment was to ensure protection for the residents of the colony and their properties. The police would restrict the entry of outsiders to the colony as there were intelligence inputs that persons who intended to create communal tension might infiltrate. “The police will not permit any organisations to stage protests at the place in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Residents of the colony can pay homage for the departed inside the colony if they wish. Organisations which want to stage protests or remembrance events should get prior permission from the police,” said the SP. Meanwhile, some organisations have registered their protest over the installation of surveillance cameras on the newly constructed wall in place of the one collapsed last year. On Tuesday, P. Arockiaraj took charge as the first Deputy Superintendent of Police of the newly formed Mettupalayam police subdivision. He will oversee the police deployment.
02 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vigil stepped up in view of PLGA anniversary||The Special Task Force (STF) and the Naxal Special Division (NSD) of the Tamil Nadu police have stepped up vigil as the Central Military Commission of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) has urged its cadre to celebrate the 20th anniversary of its military component People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) throughout the year starting this month. Senior police officers said that STF and NSD would intensify combined combing operations, patrols, and village visits. Sources said that the Western Ghats Special Zonal Committee of CPI Maoist has been tasked to oversee activities for the anniversary in their areas of interests in Tamil Nadu , which is primarily in the western region. Though the Bhavani Dalam (a unit) was in charge of the Maoist operations in its areas, including Attappadi-Agali tribal belts in Palakkad of Kerala and bordering areas of Coimbatore and the Nilgiris, the Dalam was weakened after a series of counter attacks, they said. This included the killing of four Maoists - Manivasagam, Karthi, Rema and Aravind - in the exchange of fire between Thunderbolt anti-Naxal squad of Kerala and a group of Maoists at Manjikkandi near Agali in Palakkad district on October 28 and 29, 2019. STF personnel apprehended Deepak, alias Chandru alias Sinik, a key weapon trainer, in a combing operation at Moolagangal near Anaikatti in Coimbatore district on November 9, 2019. Later, 'Q' Branch of Tamil Nadu police apprehended Srimathi alias Shobita alias Shoba from Anaikatti on March 11 this year. K. Periaiah, Inspector General of Police (West Zone), said that special instructions were already given to the force in eight police districts. “There are 48 border check posts of the police where surveillance will be tightened. Of these, 29 check posts are in the Nilgiris and Coimbatore districts. Home Guards will also be part of the activities,” he said.
02 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tea shops, eateries warned of action||The Coimbatore Corporation would not hesitate to shut down tea shops, eateries and restaurants if employees were found without mask and violating COVID-19 safety guidelines, said a release. Shut down Though the COVID-19 case count had reduced, it was not the time for people to let down their guard. Employees or workers of tea shops, eateries and restaurants, where people gathered in large numbers, should compulsorily wear mask, wash their hands frequently and maintain physical distance. If the Corporation found violation at such establishments, it would not only levy fine, but also shut down those for a few weeks, the release added.
02 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Accused in murder case surrender||Two persons involved in the murder of a 24-year-old man from Theni at SIHS Colony on November 26 night surrendered before a court here on Tuesday. The police said Singaravelan (22) from Masakalipalayam and Abi Vishnu (22) from the nearby Thatchan Thottam surrendered before the second judicial magistrate court on Tuesday. The police said they were among the six persons who waylaid Vignesh of Theni and his friend Sujith (30) of Valparai in a deserted area near SIHS Colony when the duo was heading to Ondipudur on November 26. The six men forced Vignesh and Sujith to hand over their mobile phones. While Sujith gave his mobile to them, Vignesh refused to give his phone. The men stabbed Vignesh on his neck and left the spot. Vignesh was dead when Sujith managed to return to the place with his friends. The court remanded Singaravelan and Abi Vishnu in judicial custody. A police officer said an application would be submitted before the court seeking their custody for a detailed interrogation.  Three arrested A special team of the Periyanaickenpalayam police on Tuesday arrested three persons who stole at least six two-wheelers, nine sovereigns of jewellery, cash and other valuables belonging to different persons. Basakara Senthilkumar (55) of Vellamadai, his son B. Manikandan (22) and their associate I. Muhammad (25) from old Sirumugai road, Mettupalayam, were arrested. They were produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody.
02 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special train to Nagercoil||Salem Division of Southern Railway announced on Tuesday that services of daily reserved special trains between Coimbatore and Nagercoil would commence from December 8. Train No. 02668 Coimbatore – Nagercoil superfast special train would leave Coimbatore Junction at 7.30 p.m. on December 8 and reach Nagercoil Junction the next day at 5.05 a.m., a release said. Similarly, Train No. 02667 Nagercoil – Coimbatore superfast special train would leave Nagercoil Junction at 9.45 p.m. on December 9 and reach Coimbatore at 7.15 a.m. the next day. Advance reservations would begin on Wednesday at 8 a.m., the release said.    Officials from Childline rescued a seven-year-old girl who was allegedly forced into alms seeking on Tuesday. Sources said the Tiruppur Central police found a woman physically attacking a girl on ABT Road and allegedly forcing her to go seek alms. As the woman claimed to be the girl’s mother, the police brought her to the police station and informed Childline. The Childline officials made arrangements for the girl to stay at a rehabilitation home near Anupparpalayam on Tuesday night and the police let the woman go, according to the sources. The woman and the girl will appear before the Child Welfare Committee on Wednesday. Childline, a 24x7 nationwide helpline for children in distress, can be reached at 1098.
02 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||There will be no power supply in the following areas under Peedampalli sub-station from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on December 2 : Kalangal, Peedampalli, Pattanam, Pappampatty, Akkanaickenpalayam, Pattanampudur, Pappampatti Pirivu, Kannampalayam, part of Nadupalayam, Chinna Kuili, Naikenpalayam, and Pallapalayam.
02 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||250 PMK cadre held in Cuddalore||At least 250 cadres of the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) were taken into preventive custody in Cuddalore district on Tuesday. The party cadre were proceeding to Chennai to take part in a protest called by the party to demand 20% reservation for Vanniyars. Police sources said that security had been tightened at all check-posts and the party cadre were detained as a precautionary measure. Road roko In Villupuram district, about 55 PMK cadres were detained when they resorted to a road roko at Kooteripattu, Melpettai and Mailam to protest against the police preventing party cadres from proceeding to Chennai. However, no arrests were made in this regard in Kallakurichi district. Police sources said that heavy police force was deployed at the toll gates at Ulundurpet and Madur in the district as a preventive measure.
02 December 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not water crop till cyclone is over’||Collector M. Vijayalakshmi has appealed to the farmers to suspend farm activities, especially, watering the crops for the next three days. In a press release, the Collector said that with the weather forecast predicting heavy rain to very heavy rain till December 4, the farmers should ensure that their harvested produce were kept safe. Agriculture officials had been instructed to check low-lying areas which may get inundated due to flooding. Farmers could move their produce to regulated markets or any other government-approved warehouses. Farmers in Kodaikanal, Sirumalai and interior parts of Palani and Vedasandur have been told to ensure that coconut trees and other hill crops remain dry. “The idea is that the roots, if remained dry, would be stronger and not get uprooted in the rains,” a horticulture officer at Sirumalai said. The Collector also asked the officials to ensure that the crops were insured by the farmers before December 15 so that in the event of any damage, the insurance cover would offset the loss.
02 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Rally, signature campaign mark World AIDS Day||Administering of pledge, conduct of awareness rally and signature campaign marked the observance of World AIDS Day here on Tuesday. The day is observed globally on December 1 to create awareness among the students and the public to unite in the fight against HIV and also to express solidarity for the people living with HIV. The current year’s theme is “Global solidarity, shared responsibility” and a programme was organised by the district wing of the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society on the Collectorate premises during which Collector C. Kathiravan administered pledge to government staff. Mr. Kathiravan also distributed free bus passes to 10 persons who were affected by HIV and also educational assistance to students affected by HIV who scored high marks in their board examinations. Later, he flagged off a vehicle for the blood bank functioning at the District Headquarters and Hospital in the presence of District Revenue Officer S. Kavitha, Secretary of District Legal Services Authority S. Lakshmi and other officials. A signature campaign to create awareness on HIV was also organised. In Salem, Collector S.A. Raman administered pledge to government staff and also took part in the signature campaign. He said that from April 2019 to March 2020, 2,12,917 persons were screened for HIV virus and 637 were found with infections. Also, 1,05,250 pregnant women were screened in which 22 were found with infections. All were undergoing treatment at the Anti Retroviral Therapy (ART) centres, he added. Mr. Raman said that 11 Integrated counselling and testing centres were functioning in the district in which 57,334 persons were provided counselling. An awareness rally was also held in which women participated in large numbers.
02 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK govt. acting against Periyar’s principles, says Kanimozhi||DMK women’s wing leader M.K. Kanimozhi on Tuesday alleged that the AIADMK government was acting against the principles of rationalist leader Periyar E.V. Ramasamy. Addressing the media during the ‘ Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural ’ (Stalin’s voice for a new dawn) campaign for the second consecutive day in Erode district, she said people wanted the current regime to end and a new government headed by DMK president M.K. Stalin to be formed. To a query regarding actor Rajinikanth’s statement that he will announce his decision on a political plunge soon, the MP said she had no comment to make at this juncture. On PMK cadre staging a road blockade near Chennai, she said, “It is not my opinion, but it reminds me of a person saying it is an election drama.” When asked about former Union Minister M.K. Alagiri saying he would play a role in the upcoming Assembly election, Ms. Kanimozhi said it was his personal decision, and she could not comment on it. “It is a democratic country and anyone can start a political party or enter politics,” she added.
02 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Tipplers against shifting of Tasmac outlet||Stating that relocating Tasmac outlet (No: 3258) at Rattai Sutripalayam at Avalpoondurai in Modakurichi Taluk will affect them, over 50 men submitted a petition to the district administration against shifting the shop. On Monday, villagers submitted a petition to the administration that the outlet on Kurangan Odai is disrupting water flow and is also causing inconvenience to school children and workers in the area. On Tuesday, workers from a few villages submitted a petition stating that over 500 men regularly consume liquor at the outlet after their work hours. They said most of them are loadmen, labourers in farm lands and coconut tree climbers for their livelihood. Since they were involved in physical activity throughout the day, consuming liquor at the end of the day will keep them away from tiredness and prepare them for next day’s work. They said that only based on their request, officials inspected the spot and opened the outlet. The nearest outlet is 10 km away for us and we cannot travel there spending on fuel. They said that the outlet is located amid coconut trees and is not near a temple or bus stop. The petitioners claimed that a false petition was submitted demanding relocating the outlet. The petition said that before the outlet is shifted, another outlet should be established in the village.
02 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at Sivagiri sub-station, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on December 3 at Sivagiri, Vettuvapalayam, Kagam, Konthalam, Minnapalayam, Pazhamangalam, Veerasangili, Kallapuramkottai, Vilangattuvalasu, Ellakadai, Kulavilakku, Karakkaattuvalasu, Kovilpalayam, Aayaparappu, Moolapalayam, Parapalayam, Vilakethi, Kuttapalayam, Amman Kovil, Thoppapalayam, Perumparappu, Vadugapatti, 24 Velampalayam, Pannaikinaru, Karattupudur, Kollangkovil, Kattupalayam, Rakamapudur, Ichipalayam, Muthayanvalasu, Karukkampalayam, Unjalur, Othakadai and Vadakku Pudupalayam.
02 December 2020||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre of Excellence for cut flowers in Thally an excellent example of Indo-Israel co-operation’||The Centre of Excellence for cut flowers in Thally is an excellent example of Indo-Israel co-operation and collaboration, said Jonathan Zadka, Consul General of Israel to South India, here on Tuesday. In a first visit to one of the Centres of Excellence set up as part of the Indo-Israel co-operation, Mr. Jonathan Zadka said he was struck by the “Israelness” of the activities undertaken in terms of the practices of drip irrigation and fertigation. The Centre of Excellence for cut flowers in Thally was set up in 2017 as part of the Indo-Israel Agricultural Project(IIAP) in 2017. The Centre is the first such joint Indo-Israel programme for cut flowers among some 30 such Centres for Excellence in the country, as part of the Indo-Israel joint agricultural programme. Visiting the Centre and witnessing its activities, Mr. Zadka said it lent an opportunity for joint development, co-operation and collaboration, and that he looked forward to continued co-operation. “It was also an example of co-operation between India and Israel.” The Consul General also appreciated the efforts of the district administration led by Collector V.Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy in enabling the Centre of Excellence. The Deputy Consul General to South India Ariel Seidman was also present.
02 December 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Man gets 6 years jail for sexual assault||A 20-year-old man convicted in the case of sexual assault on a three-year-old child was sentenced to six years by a Mahila court here. The accused Thimmaraj of Gundukurukki village in Shoolagiri had sexually abused the child of the same village in 2019. Based on a complaint by the victim’s parents, Thimmaraj was arrested. The Mahila court also imposed a fine of Rs. 2,500.
02 December 2020||L. SrikrishnaSivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Farmers allege delay in issuing Kisan Credit Cards||About one lakh farmers in Sivaganga district have been running from pillar to post to seek Kisan Credit Card (KCC), complained Tamil Nadu Anaithu Vivasayigal Sangam State secretary Adimoolam here on Tuesday. The district has about two lakh farmers. For the past 14 months, they have been making representations about this issue at the farmers’ grievance redressal meetings, but to no avail, he told The Hindu . He said that the Union government had directed all the public sector banks and Primary Agriculture Cooperative Banks to issue loans to the kisan credit card holders with a ceiling of Rs. 1.60 lakh (without collateral security) and may take necessary collateral security and give loans up to Rs. 3 lakh. A good feature of the KCC was that the interest charged on the loans was 7% and for prompt repayment, the Union government offered 3% rebate or subsidy. Hence, the farmers benefited from the card. He said the bankers were not giving the cards to farmers under one pretext or the other. Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy urged the banks to issue the cards without delay to all the eligible applicants. When contacted, a senior manager in a public sector bank said that after a few applicants had submitted fake documents, the field officers needed more time for verification. An agriculture official said they had been instructed by the Collector, who assumed office recently, to receive applications from the farmers till December 5.
02 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||No industrial discharge found in Sellur tank: TNPCB report||A study conducted by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) for identifying the reason behind the formation of foam on Sellur tank on November 28 indicates that there was no industrial discharge found at the tank. Environmentalists and residents were in for a shock when they found foam floating on Sellur tank on November 28. Fire and Rescue Services personnel sprayed water to subside the foam. Speaking to The Hindu , S. Pandiarajan, District Environmental Engineer, TNPCB, said that an inspection was made on the same day at Sellur tank, along with Madurai North Tahsildar. Samples were lifted both from the inlet and outlet channels of Sellur tank and were sent to Advanced Environmental Laboratory, TNPCB, for an analysis. It was observed that while the pH value at the inlet channel was 7.02, the pH value at outlet channel was 7.01. "Both these values are at a neutral level," said Mr. Pandiarajan. The report submitted by the TNPCB said, "the foaming in the surplus water of Sellur Kanmoi (tank) may be due to human activities, such as use of soaps and detergents and decay of plant organs - water hyacinth and other vegetations present in the tank." There is indiscriminate discharge of untreated sewage from nearby residences into the tank, said Mr. Pandiarajan. "The foam could have been formed due to the turbulence created following the increased flow of water in the tank after the heavy downpour witnessed in the city the previous night," he added. The report further added that no bleaching or dying units were located near the tank. Some houses located on the North West and North East direction on the bank of the tank are directly discharging the sewage into the tank, added the report. Collector T. Anbalagan reiterated that there was no industrial discharge found at the tank.
02 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Leakage of revenue in Cotton Corporation of India’||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi into certain “leakage of revenue” of Cotton Corporation of India that was established to ensure stability in the cotton prices and thereby benefit the farmers and textile industry. In a letter written to the Prime Minister, Mr. Venkatesan said that Cotton Corporation had sold 50 lakh bales (or 23.20 lakh candies) of cotton to four select companies at a lower rate. CCI had a record unsold stock of around 120 lakh bales and it decided to off-load large quantities to certain buyers during July and August 2020 at a discounted rate. As against its prices of Rs. 38,000 a candy, CCI had sold 23.20 lakh candies of cotton with a discount of Rs. 1,500 a candy. “This means the four buyers have made a profit of Rs. 696 crore,” he said. Moreover, the buyers were given special terms like deferred payment. “Immediately after the sale of the cotton to the four buyers, the CCI started to increase prices of the cotton,” he said. The price of the cotton that was around Rs. 37,500 in October first week has increased to Rs. 42,000 in November fourth week. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP charged that the steep increase in price of cotton by CCI was to “facilitate these buyers to profit”. Stating that the information was shocking, he said it required a probe. He appealed to the Prime Minister to institute a probe on these transactions and bring the facts to the public domain. He also wanted to ensure that CCI sold cotton only to the actual users and they would be allowed to select the quality of cotton to be bought. Besides, there should be transparency in deciding minimum support price to the satisfaction of stakeholders, said Mr. Venkatesan.
02 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||527 recruit constables pass out||A total of 54 engineering graduates, 27 postgraduates and 190 graduates, were among 527 recruit police constables who took out a passing-out parade here on Tuesday. Additional Director of General Police (Social Justice and Human Rights), Shailesh Kumar Yadav, inspected the parade at Tamil Nadu Special Police VI Battalion ground here. Welcoming the recruit police constables into the Tamil Nadu police force, Mr. Yadav urged them to be aware of the powers of the police. “Do not think that the police have unlimited powers. You have to work within your powers and scrupulously follow the procedures laid down while discharging your duty,” he said. The police constables should learn various aspects of policing from arresting to searching, upholding law and order and providing bandobust for functions and festivals and providing security to leaders and intelligence collection. “Not only following procedures, but also effectively doing the duty was paramount. As the hands of the Government, they should be strong, diligent and smart in their work,” Mr. Yadav said. While 275 RPCs were from Madurai the rest were from Sivaganga district. The ADGP distributed shields to the outstanding RPCs. Principal of Police Recruitment School, A. Ilango, and other officers from the battalion were present.
02 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s response to doctors’ demand for pay parity sought||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to respond to a series of queries, including the one regarding the status of the Commission appointed to look into the demand of Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) for a pay scale on a par with the Central and other State government doctors. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi directed the State to also file a response on how time-bound promotions for doctors were being implemented in the State and the feasibility of providing vehicles to doctors, particularly those serving in rural areas. The case was adjourned till December 15. The judges observed that Tamil Nadu was a pioneer in health care in the country and its doctors were among the best. The court said it wanted to know the salaries drawn by State government doctors in comparison with those of their counterparts in other States and the facilities provided to them. During the course of the hearing, the court appreciated the efforts put in by frontline warriors, doctors, paramedical staff, police, sanitary workers and others during COVID-19 lockdown.
02 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Every dept. should have a wing to highlight courts’ suggestions: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday observed that there was a necessity to have a separate wing in every government department in order to note the suggestions/directions given by courts and bring them to the notice of policy-makers. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed, “There cannot be any mandamus to Parliament or Legislature to enact a law or to make amendment to a statute, is the settled position of law”. It was based on the principles enunciated in the Constitution that there should be separation of powers between the three wings of the State. However, the response shown by the executive and the legislature to the suggestions given by the judiciary regarding important issues was not positive. It seemed that the suggestions were either not positively considered or not properly brought to the notice of policy-makers. The judges pointed to two instances in this regard: even after 21 years of a Supreme Court judgement no amendment was brought to the Advocates Act, 1961, to have apprenticeship; and the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, was passed by Parliament 15 years after Supreme Court had given a direction to that effect. These instances proved that Parliament and the State Legislature were not taking the suggestions/directions of the courts seriously. Now, there was one more such instance, the judges said and pointed to the Supreme Court suggestion on a comprehensive legislation on ‘Torts and State liability’. Further, the judges observed that the tenure of the 21st Law Commission had come to an end and the 22nd Commission was constituted by notification dated February 21. But, the Chairperson and members had not been appointed yet, and this would affect the progress of law-making process, they said. The court suo motu impleaded various Central and State government departments as respondents in the public interest litigation petition filed by K. Pushpavanam, a law student from Madurai, and sought responses to certain queries, including the ones regarding the appointment of Chairperson and members to the Law Commission and the legislation on ‘Torts and State liability’. The case was adjourned till December 10.
02 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Create more awareness of HIV/AIDS’||Although the conservations around HIV/AIDS has reduced, it is important to create more awareness of the infection to make the country free from HIV/AIDs by 2030, said Collector T. Anbalagan here on Tuesday. He was speaking during an event held at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) here to mark the World AIDS day on Tuesday. The Collector said that the understanding about HIV infection was poor among the public during the earlier years. Since, HIV infection affects the immunity of the patients, it is highly important for the patients to be extremely precautious during the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. GRH Dean J. Sangumani said that individual discipline is important to contain both HIV/AIDS as well as COVID-19. Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar said that there is stigma and discrimination associated with COVID-19, similar to the stigma associated with HIV/AIDS patients. S. Zufire Hassan Mohamed Khan, Deputy Director of Medical Sciences (Tuberculosis), said that all tuberculosis patients were being tested for HIV. Similarly, all HIV/AIDS patients were also tested for tuberculosis, he added. M.Natarajan, Head of the Department of Medicine at GRH, spoke. The Collector administered the World AIDS Day oath and other participants took the oath.
02 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Farmers urged to take precautionary measures||With heavy rains predicted to lash the southern districts in the next couple of days, the Agricultural department officials have issued an advisory for farmers urging them to take several precautionary measures. A press release said that heavy rains are expected to lash southern districts on December 2, 3 and 4. So, farmers who have raised paddy under samba season must insure their crop. For farmers in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Virudhunagar, Kanniyakumari, Madurai and Dindigul districts, who have raised paddy, banana, onion, chillies, tomato and ginger, December 15 is the last date to apply for crop insurance. To protect the coconut trees from heavy winds, the farmers were asked to ensure that matured coconuts are removed from the trees. The farmers must also stop irrigating the coconuts trees at least four days before the predicted date of rainfall, said the release. Farmers of paddy, pulses, millets, cotton, sugarcane and groundnut must ensure that there are arrangements present to drain the stagnant water from the farmlands. The farmers were also urged to store their produce at the regulated markets to avoid any damage because of the rainfall.
02 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||M.K. Alagiri eyes a role in Assembly elections||Former Union Minister and expelled DMK leader M.K. Alagiri on Tuesday said he would play a role in the 2021 Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. However, he dismissed the likelihood of him joining the BJP, saying he could not respond to rumours. After paying a condolence visit to the house of S.R. Gopi, a DMK functionary in the city whose brother S.R. Marudu died recently, he told reporters that he would very soon hold talks with his supporters and take a decision. Asked about the possibility of floating his own party, Mr. Alagiri, the estranged elder brother of DMK president M.K. Stalin, said, “Whatever it is, I will discuss with my supporters and let you know.” When questioned if it was true that the DMK had planned to give a plum post to his son Durai Dayanidhi, he replied in the negative. After a pause, he said he would not remain silent like he was in the last Lok Sabha elections, but be active in the pre-poll works for the Assembly election. Meanwhile, a close confidant of Mr. Alagiri told The Hindu that he (Mr. Alagiri) only wished to rejoin the DMK since the Lok Sabha elections got over, although he had been getting invitations from other parties. With elections fast approaching, political parties and leaders had been in touch with him, he said. “Being the son of late DMK patriarch M. Karunanidhi and a leader who had been instrumental in securing victory of the DMK in southern districts in past elections, Mr. Alagiri still has command over the rank and file of the party,” he said. The post of south zone organising secretary was previously given to him by the DMK in recognition of his work, he added. Another source close to Mr. Alagiri claimed that (in the event of not being readmitted into the DMK) he would float a party – Kalaignar DMK – and contest in the Assembly elections. There was no question of him (Mr. Alagiri) joining the BJP or others, including actor Rajnikanth for now, the source added.
02 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL petition seeks removal of unauthorised statues||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the State government in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to remove all unauthorised statues that were installed in public places and road margins in the State. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi directed the State to file a response in a public interest litigation petition filed by V. Vaira Sekar from Thanjavur who said that such statues caused great inconvenience and hardship to the public. No permission The petitioner said that the political parties and leaders were installing statues of political and popular figures with or without permission in almost all the villages, towns and cities in the State. This was not out of respect for the person, but only gimmicks, Mr. Vaira Sekar said in his public interest litigation plea.
02 December 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Cyclone: 76 places vulnerable across Kanniyakumari district||Following the forecast of heavy rain triggered by cyclonic activity in the Gulf of Mannar due to low pressure between December 2 and 4, the Kanniyakumari district administration has identified 76 places as vulnerable and has made arrangements. Addressing reporters here on Tuesday, Collector M. Aravind said eight regional-level teams, each headed by a Deputy Collector, had been formed and focus would be on the 76 places. In case of evacuation, the people would be moved to 75 relief camps where drinking water, medical assistance, food and toilet facilities would be ensured. Adequate number of earthmovers, electric cutters, generators, pumps, electric poles and transformers had been kept ready even as the regional-level teams were on the lookout for dilapidated buildings and dead trees that could be easily brought down by heavy rains. Three National Disaster Rescue Force teams had reached the district and they had been stationed at Scott Christian College in Nagercoil and St. Mary’s Higher Secondary School in Colachel. Based on weather inputs being given to them round-the-clock and instructions from the regional-level heads, the NDRF teams would rush to the spot where their services were required. “Though storage level in Pechiparai, Perunchani, Chittar I and II dams has not reached the danger mark, the reservoirs will be monitored constantly until the weather becomes normal,” the Collector said. Owners of mechanised boats who had ventured into the sea for multi-day deep sea fishing had been alerted to ask their crew to return to the nearest fishing harbours in the wake of rough weather. “Apart from contacting the mechanised boats in deep seas through the satellite phones, another 161 boats from the district have also been asked to return to the shore immediately,” Mr. Aravind said. People should not visit waterbodies and beaches till December 7 and may call round-the-clock 1077 or 04652 231077 in case of any distress, Mr. Aravind said. Monitoring Officer for the district S. Jothi Nirmala has asked the officials to maintain high vigil until normality returns.  Ready to help Eight regional-level teams, headed by a Deputy Collector, have been formed Earthmovers, electric cutters, generators, pumps, electric poles and transformers have been kept ready  Three National Disaster Rescue Force teams have been stationed in Nagercoil and Colachel
02 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs one death; 53 new cases take tally past 37,000-mark||Puducherry recorded one more COVID-19 death on Tuesday while 53 new cases took the cumulative cases in the Union Territory past the 37,000-mark. With the death of a 45-year-old man who died of COVID-19 at Jipmer, the cumulative toll in the capital alone touched 500, followed by Karaikal (59), Yanam (44) and Mahe (eight). The new cases were detected from 3,316 tests. Puducherry accounted for 23 cases, Mahe 10, Karaikal nine and Yanam two. The test positivity rate is 1.59%, case fatality rate 1.65% and recovery rate 97.16%. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told a press conference that the Union Territory had 439 active cases, after one case was transferred to Tamil Nadu and 72 patients discharged in the last 24 hours. Of this, 145 were in hospital and 294 in home isolation. In Puducherry, Jipmer is treating 67 patients and IGMCRI 47 cases. The overall tally stands at 611 deaths, 439 active cases, a total of 37,020 cases and 35,970 recovered patients. The number of tests carried out by the Health Department to date aggregated to 4,05,325, of which 3,64,043 returned negative. The Health Minister said it was planned to test all the patients in home isolation irrespective of whether they exhibited symptoms or not. A decision on whether to admit them in an institution would be taken on the basis of the test results, he said. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said PHCs have been intimated on the ICMR guideline on institutional admission of all COVID patients and doing away with the practice of home isolation. The Revenue Department is to resume the system of pasting stickers on the houses of patients/kin identified as positive, Ms. Bedi also said. The ICMR would also shortly identify areas for conducting a mask-compliance survey. The Centac chairman has been told to coordinate with the Health Department for the process of preparing the MBBS seat matrix and maintain transparency. Ms. Bedi has directed officials to ensure that there was no delay in responding to information required by Centac in preparing the list of eligible candidates.
02 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rahul Gandhi interacts with Congress leaders||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday advised the Puducherry Congress Committee to work out a booth-level electoral strategy so that it successfully defends its “bastion” in the South in next year’s Assembly election. Mr. Gandhi held a video-conferencing from New Delhi with Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy and senior leaders of PCC at the party headquarters as part of its preparations for the polls. “Mr. Gandhi listened to all participants. He was basically trying to get feedback and informed us that he would convey the views of leaders to the Congress president. He wanted the PCC to concentrate on booth-level election management so that the party can retain the government and defend its bastion in the South,” PCC chief A. V. Subramanian told The Hindu . According to a party functionary, the Chief Minister, who spoke first, gave an account of the party’s and that of its alliance partner’s performance in the last Assembly election and subsequent bypoll. The leaders also singled out the Thattanchavady bypoll where the Congress-DMK combine wrested the seat from the Principal Opposition All India N. R. Congress. He also mentioned the “huge” victory of its candidate in the Lok Sabha poll. The Chief Minister and Ministers explained to Mr. Gandhi about the “hurdles” created by the Centre and the Lt. Governor in fulfilling the party’s 2016 poll promises and how it planned to counter the anti-incumbency factor in the upcoming election, he said. State Committee The AICC, according to a PCC functionary, had started the preparatory works a few weeks ago, with the head of party’s data analytics Praveen Chakravarty getting feedback from the public as well the Congress workers. PCC, on its part, had started the process to expand the State Executive Committee (SEC) from its present strength of 30. Each of the 30 constituencies would be split into two to make the SEC a 60-member body. The process was completed for Karaikal South, Orleanpet, Kadirgamam and Thirubhuvanai, the functionary said adding a new body would be constituted by month-end. “The effort is to give more social representation and divide the works in the constituency,” Mr. Subramanian said. Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) V. Vaithilingam, Minister for Public Works A. Namassivayam, Minister for Social Welfare M. Kandasamy, Minister for Health Malladi Krishna Rao, Minister for Revenue M. O. H. F. Shahjahan and Minister for Power R. Kamalakannan attended the meeting. Congress working committee member Ambika Soni, AICC in-charge for Union Territory Dinesh Gundu Rao also attended the video-conferencing from Delhi.
02 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Agriculture Department starts restoring uprooted trees||The Agriculture Department has started restoring three economically and environmentally important trees that got uprooted in Nivar cyclone inside the Botanical Garden. “Nine big trees got uprooted in the garden. We have decided to restore one completely uprooted and two partially uprooted trees considering their importance,” Balagandhi, Director, Agriculture Department, told The Hindu . The Department had given importance to restoring 194-year-old ‘Magizhampoo’ tree ( Bullet wood), which was chronicled by French botanist G. S Perrottet, instrumental in establishing the garden. “It is an evergreen tree with medicinal values. We have pruned the branches and using two cranes and a JCB will plant the tree in a scientific manner. Around 15 skilled persons are involved in the exercise,” Mr. Gandhi said. The other trees which would be restored are a 130-year-old Mahogany and a 10-year-old ornamental Copper Pod. The entire process would be completed with the assistance of Forest Department, he added.
02 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP party high command will decide on alliance with AINRC’||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday said the party high command will decide whether All India N. R. Congress will be part of the alliance for the next Assembly election in the Union Territory. “As far as our party is concerned, we are having alliance with the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam for the poll. The alliance with AINRC will be decided by the party high command. We have started our election works with the slogan — governance by same party both in the Union Territory and the Centre,” BJP president and nominated legislator V. Saminathan said addressing a press conference. The BJP leader's statement assumed importance considering Opposition leader and AINRC chief N. Rangasamy's recent assertion of his party’s interest in continuing the alliance with AIADMK and BJP for the Assembly election. Mr. Saminathan claimed there was strong anti-incumbency factor against the Congress government and the party would do everything possible to reap the electoral benefit from people's anger against the ruling party. National president J. P Nadda would be here by the end of this month, he also said. 72-hour agitation The party would launch a 72-hour continuous agitation, starting Friday to highlight the failure of Congress government in Union Territory. The protest demonstration would be held on Anna Salai, he added.  We are having alliance with the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam for the poll
02 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Planetarium to reopen||The Dr. Abdul Kalam Science Centre and Planetarium, Lawspet, will reopen with strict guidelines for visitors on Wednesday. A press note from the Department of Science, Technology and Environment, said visitors would be thoroughly checked with temperature scanning device followed by hand sanitisation at the entrance to the premises. The visitors will not be permitted entry without mask. The timings of the simulated shows will be as usual, the press note said.
02 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Cylone threat: appeal to residents to stay away from water bodies||In view of a cyclonic storm brewing over southeast Bay of Bengal and prediction of heavy rain in the district from December 2 to 4, the district administration has appealed to residents to remain vigilant. In a press release issued on Tuesday, Collector P. Uma Maheswari said elders and children should desist from taking bath in tanks, ponds and other water bodies and completely avoid taking selfies in front of them. Instruction had been given to local body authorities to install caution boards in front of water bodies. Public could contact the disaster management control room functioning round-the-clock at the Collectorate during rain on 1077 and 04322-222207 and convey information. Those rearing livestock should not tie the animals in electric poles or trees and keep adequate stock of fodder. A 10-member team had been constituted by the Animal Husbandry Department in every union during the rainy season and cyclone. The release asked the general public not to believe rumours regarding rain and floods and keep themselves abreast of the information given from time to time by the government and remain safe.  Warning to fishermen The district administration has asked fishermen not to venture into the sea for fishing until further announcement in view of another cyclonic storm brewing over southeast Bay of Bengal. In a press release issued on Tuesday, Collector P. Uma Maheswari asked the fishermen of the district to station their boats in a secure place and keep the fishing nets and other paraphernalia safely
02 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth escapes, rearrested||A 19-year-old youth, R. Venkatesan, who escaped from the Thirumayam police station after a case was booked against him for sand smuggling on Tuesday was apprehended by a police team hours later. The panchayat president of Ayingudi, Rajamanickam, said to be a relative of Venkatesan, who allegedly helped the youth to escape in a car from the police station was also arrested. Thirumayam police have registered a case in this connection against the two.
02 December 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Man kills father||A 32-year-old man allegedly killed his 65-year-old father in an inebriated mood on Tuesday. Police said R. Saktikumar of VVR Nagar in Sayalkudi, an alcoholic, had been living with his father Ramar after he was separated from his wife three years ago. When he came home after consuming alcohol in the noon, a wordy altercation erupted between Saktikumar and Ramar, following which the former attacked his father. Ramar died on the spot and Saktikumar fled the scene. Further investigation is on.
02 December 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Boats moved to safety||Directing the fishermen to anchor their boats to safer zones and visiting a few of the relief centres to ensure that arrangements were in place, Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver appealed to the people along the coastal hamlets to remain indoors for the next three days and cooperate with the officials in view of the very heavy rain forecast by the Meteorological Department. Following the forecast, the officers at the Pamban station have hoisted the third cyclone warning signalling fishermen not to venture into the sea until further intimation. Accompanied by Special Monitoring Officer for Ramanathapuram district Dharmendra Pratap Yadav, the Collector, Superintendent of Police E. Karthik, Additional Collector M. Pradeepkumar, Sub-Collector N.O. Sukaputra, Deputy Director of Fisheries T. Parithi Illamvazhuthi and Rameswaram Municipal Commissioner Ramar visited the fish landing centre at Pamban, a few of the relief centres at Chinnapalam, Thangachimadam, Peikarumbu and Karaiyur during the day. As a precautionary measure, the mechanised boats which were anchored on the northern side of the Pamban shore were moved to the southern side. For this purpose, the Pamban rail bridge was kept open for about two hours at noon. Briefing reporters, Mr. Ponraj said that as per the forecast, the district administration had been fully geared to face the challenges that may arise post cyclonic period. There were 197 relief centres set up in schools and marriage halls with water and toilet facilities. “We have identified 39 low-lying areas. People in those places have been told to move to the relief centres. The 180 coastal hamlets in the district are under the close watch of teams of officials from various departments,” he added. Fisheries officials said the rough sea and heavy rain over the last three days had already kept the fishermen off the sea.
02 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Establishments asked to adhere COVID-19 norms||As a precautionary measure against COVID-19, commercial establishments and marriage halls should not employ persons coming from containment zones and also persons who are above 65 years, said Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran here. Chairing a meeting with traders, owners of marriage halls at Hasthampatti Zone here, the Commissioner said that eight special monitoring teams were formed to oversee the measures taken to prevent spread of the virus in all the 60 wards in the city. He said that shopkeepers and traders should strictly adhere to the COVID-19 guidelines as instructed by the government and ensure that customers are allowed inside the shops only after thermal scanning is done and they wash their hands and hand sanitiser is applied. Workers should also follow these instructions regularly and should wear masks and hand gloves. Also, they should maintain personal distancing while consuming food. “If workers have a cough or fever, they should undergo medical examination without fail”, he added. Mr. Ravichandran said that door handles, tables, chairs, floors, toilets and escalators and other items that are touched by the customers should be cleaned and disinfected regularly. Awareness pamphlets were also distributed to the participants. City Health Officer K. Parthiban, assistant executive engineers, revenue and health officials, sanitary inspectors and traders and owners of marriage halls participated.
02 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Testing facility for electronic interlocking equipment set up at Salem Railway Division||The Salem Railway Division has installed a factory acceptance test facility at the divisional railway manager’s office. The facility to test the equipment for electronic interlocking signal system was inaugurated by R. Baskaran, Principal Chief Signal and Telecommunication Engineer, Southern Railway, on Monday. According to a release, officials earlier had to travel to factories to test the equipment which could be now done at the new facility saving time and labour. A similar facility was also commissioned at the office of Assistant Divisional Signal and Telecommunications Engineer, Erode, a release said. Mr. Baskaran also inaugurated the axle counter diagnostic centre at the office of the senior section engineer, Signal at Salem and Erode. The facility would help in diagnosing the failures of axle counters and it would reduce failures, improve the reliability of signal equipment which in turn will improve the safety and punctuality of trains. According to officials, the speed of networking facilities in two sections from Jolarpettai to Podanur and from Erode to Karur was upgraded from 65mbps to 300 mbps. Mr. Baskaran also held discussions with officials of Signal & Telecommunications Department.
02 December 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||34 low-lying areas, five dams being monitored||After identifying 34 low-lying areas that could get flooded quickly in the event of heavy downpour, Tenkasi district administration has deployed 446 teams to monitor bunds of irrigation tanks round-the-clock to prevent breach, Collector G.S. Sameeran has said. Since the areas close to the Western Ghats experienced heavy rainfall during the 1992-flood triggered by cyclonic activity, the district administration has made extensive preparations in the district situated on the lap of the hilly region based on the past experience. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday after he participated in a review meeting chaired by Monitoring Officer for the district Anu George, Mr. Sameeran said 364 primary teams comprising officials from all government departments and the locals had been deployed across the district in the wake of cyclone alert. The teams to be deployed in the 34 low-lying areas would monitor the rain and possible marooning of their areas round-the-clock so as to swiftly relocate people to the nearest relief centres in case of flooding. People living in ‘danger zones’ had already been asked to move to safer places or relief centres. After inspecting the bunds of irrigation tanks, strengthening had been done wherever it was required besides keeping adequate number of sandbags to plug breaches, if any. Moreover, all five reservoirs - Gadana, Ramanadhi, Karuppanadhi, Gundar and Adavinainar dams – would be monitored round-the-clock., the Collecttor said. Earlier Ms. Anu and Dr. Sameeran visited vulnerable areas in Tenkasi, Courtallam, Shencottai and Kadayanallur.
02 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Chola-era Jyeshta Devi sculpture found||A stone sculpture of Jyeshta Devi belonging to the Chola period has been found in a state of neglect along the outer wall of Oppilla Ambikai-Anandeeswarar Temple at Adanjur in Thanjavur district by Mani.Maran, historian and Tamil Pandit, Saraswathi Mahal Library. The abandoned partially buried relief stands about four feet in height and three feet in width. Jyestha Devi is flanked by her son Maanthan and daughter Maanthi. Above her are a crow and broom. According to Mr. Maran, Jyeshta Devi was worshipped in Tamil Nadu in ancient days along with other female deities. However, in course of time, people started shunning the deity and she came to be considered inauspicious for humans. In some places, Jyeshta idols were buried with their face down. There are references to Jyeshta in Thirukkural , Nandikalambakam , Kamba Ramayanam , Azhvar Prabhandam and Sangam literature. Several inscriptions also mention the deity. “Worship of Jyeshta was in vogue in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka between 7th and 10th Century BC. Subsequently, the deity lost her glory,” Mr. Maran said The historian underlined the importance of preserving the sculpture, which represents ancient Tamil history and tradition.
02 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||CPI, CPI(M) hold protest in Thanjavur||CPI and CPI (M) cadre on Tuesday staged protests at various places in Thanjavur district urging the Centre to withdraw the new farm laws and expressing solidarity with farmers protesting in Delhi. CPI (M) members resorted to picketing in front of the Thanjavur Head Post Office. The agitation was led by the party’s district executive committee member P. Senthil Kumar. Party district secretary G. Neelamegam, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam State secretary Sami Natarajan and others took part. Slogans were raised during the agitation seeking withdrawal of the farm laws which the protesters said went against the farming community. Police sources said 82 party members were arrested for resorting to the agitation. Elsewhere in Thanjavur district, CPI members staged demonstrations at Ammapettai, Orathanadu, Thirukattupalli and other places. A group of party cadre staged a demonstration on a paddy field at Ammapettai. They were led by party’s Ammapettai union secretary R. Senthilkumar. They urged the Central government to immediately accept the demands of the protesting farmers in New Delhi.
02 December 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Four injured as van hits parapet of ghat road||Four persons suffered multiple injuries as the van they were travelling in dashed against the parapet of the ghat road when they were returning from Highwavys near Chinnamanur on Tuesday evening. Police said Arulmani (37) of Kamarajapuram, Madurai, had organised a day tour for three families to Megamalai and some other places. Apart from the driver, 14 persons, including four children, were travelling in the van. Preliminary inquiries revealed that in a bid to reach the plains before 5 p.m., van driver Thirunavukarasu drove the vehicle fast. When he was approaching the fourth hairpin bend, he lost control over the vehicle, which hit the parapet. The occupants of the van told a police officer that if the parapet was not there, they would have fallen into a 300-foot-deep gorge. The injured included Mr. Thirunavukarasu, Kaliammal (75) and Darshini (11). Chinnamanur Inspector of Police Shanmuga Lakshmi and a police team rushed to the spot and moved the injured persons to hospital.
02 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu farmers see Modi as a ‘friend’: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party State president L. Murugan on Tuesday claimed that farmers in Tamil Nadu see Prime Minister Narendra Modi as their “friend and protector” and would not fall for the propaganda by the Opposition, including the DMK, that the farm legislations were against their interests. Mr. Murugan, on his way to Tiruchendur to finalise arrangements for the concluding event of his party’s ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ slated for December 7, told journalists at Thoothukudi airport that this would empower farmers to fix prices for their produce. The legislations were drafted in line with the recommendations of M.S. Swaminathan Committee. “Even while the price of tomato crashes to Rs. 1 or Rs. 2 per kg in the domestic market, the farmers can sell it for Rs. 30 or Rs. 50 as per an earlier agreement between the buyer and the farmer,” he said. Multinational companies that would enter the business as per the Act would create excellent cold storage facilities where farmers can store their produce until they get the right price, he said adding the laws would enable farmers to export their produce directly. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan would participate in the valedictory of the Vetrivel Yatra, he said.
02 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||63 relief centres for Thoothukudi||Besides creating 63 relief centres to receive relocated population due to possible heavy downpour in the wake of Cyclone Burevi, the Thoothukudi district administration has kept ready 30,000 sand bags to plug breaches in irrigation tanks. As cyclone Burevi is expected to reach southern Tamil Nadu coast on December 3 morning after landfall in Trincomalee in Sri Lanka, Thoothukudi district is likely to experience heavy rain on Wednesday and Thursday. Hence, the fishing activities have come to a grinding halt with the boats berthed in the fishing harbours. At a review meeting conducted at the Collectorate on Tuesday with Monitoring Officer Kumar Jayanth in chair, Collector K. Senthil Raj said relief and rescue teams, comprising of government, police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel had been stationed at 36 vulnerable areas even as 63 relief centres across the district with all basic facilities created. People living close to the Tamirabharani watercourse had been asked to be on the alert as the river could swell due to rains and increased discharge from dams. Heavy equipment, power cutters, generators and pumps had been kept ready in adequate numbers. Even as all 637 irrigation tanks in the district were being monitored constantly, 30,000 sand bags had been kept ready to plug the breaches, if any. In Thoothukudi alone, 200 pumps had been kept ready to pump out stagnant rainwater, Dr. Senthil Raj said. Mr. Kumar Jayanth said almost all mechanised fishing boats had returned to the shore safely. “Of the 72 boats which had ventured into the sea, 64 boats returned on Tuesday and 8 will reach the harbour on Tuesday night,” he said. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar said the National Disaster Rescue Force team with 40 personnel had arrived at Thoothukudi. Policemen also ready Moreover, 130 policemen trained in relief and rescue operations would also be divided into six teams and deployed at vulnerable areas. To back up the relief work, 1,200 policemen had also been kept ready, he said. Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan, Additional Collector (Revenue) Vishnu Chandran, Sub-Collector Simranjeet Singh and senior officials of various departments participated.  All mechanised fishing boats have returned to the shore safely  Kumar Jayanth Monitoring Officer
02 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Man gets double life term for murder of wife, daughter||The Mahila Court here has sentenced a man to double life imprisonment for murdering his wife and the daughter as he suspected his wife of having an illicit affair. According to prosecution, S. Shankar, 42, of Nagercoil in Kanniyakumari district moved to Thoothukudi, where he started his textile business after settling down his family in a house at Madathur on the outskirts of the port town. As he suspected his wife Gokila, 26, of having extra-marital affair, the suspicion caused frequent quarrels between the couple. Shankar had also harassed her. During one such quarrel on May 29, 2014, Shankar locked his house from inside around 7.30 a.m. and smashed Gokila’s head with a grinder stone in which she died on the spot. Shankar also threw his 3-year-old daughter Bhuvana alias Akshaya against the wall of his house. Even as the neighbours were watching the gruesome murder through the window, Shankar escaped after threatening them that he would set afire to the cooking gas cylinder if they tried to nab him. After Shankar fled the scene, Bhuvana was rushed to the hospital where she died the same day. The Thoothukudi SIPCOT police arrested Shankar. Mahila Court Judge V. Pandiaraj, who dismissed the defense counsel’s argument that Shankar was mentally ill, awarded double life imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs. 2,000 on him on Tuesday. The sentence would go concurrently.
02 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) stages protest in support of agitating farmers||As many as 49 Communist Party of India (Marxist) cadre, including six women, were arrested in Thoothukudi on Tuesday after they staged a road blockade in support of farmers protesting in New Delhi against the new farm laws. As the cadre, led by the party’s Thoothukudi city secretary T. Raja, tried to lay siege to the Head Post Office, the police stopped them. This led to the protestors staging a road blockade on the busy Thoothukudi – Tiruchendur highway. When the police tried to remove the protestors forcibly even as they were blocking vehicular traffic, one of the banners was torn off. Agitated over this, the CPI (M) cadre refused to cooperate with the police and continued their agitation with more vigour that led to heated argument between the police and the agitators. Even as the agitation was going on intensely, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi, Ganesh arrived at the spot and held talks with the protestors and pacified them.
02 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Post-Deepavali, no significant spike in fresh cases in Tiruchi: Collector||Post-Deepavali, there has been no significant spike in fresh cases of COVID-19 in Tiruchi district. Though the cases were on a declining trend in the district for the last three to four weeks, it was feared that the number of fresh cases may go up post-Deepavali due to festivities, mutual visits of people and large-scale rush of shoppers on commercial streets of the city for festival purchase However, statistics of the Health Department shows that no area in the district has registered abnormal rise in fresh case of COVID-19 since November 14. Fresh cases are on the steady decline in spite of testing for a high number of samples. The COVID-19 testing laboratory at K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College receives samples from about 80 points of sample collections daily including Primary Health Centres, Urban Primary Health Centres, fever outreach camps, surveillance camps and mobile camps. On an average, the lab receives 1,800 samples a day. However, the daily count of fresh cases hovers around 20 to 30. No cluster of fresh cases have been noticed. A total of 52,816 samples were tested in November. Of them, 916 patients tested positive. “We have not come across any noticeable spike in any part of the district after Deepavali. Although the fight against COVID-19 is far from over, it is a positive development”” said Collector S. Sivarasu. As on Monday, 160 patients are under treatment including those of home isolation. Out of 13,421 total cases, 13,089 patients have been discharged from hospitals in the district. “It has been noted that the viral infection has come down to a great extent. The arrival of newly infected people from other districts has also come down. However, it is too early to come to a conclusion on the spread of COVID-19,” said A. Aravind Kumar, District Epidemiologist. “There were days when dedicated beds for COVID-19 in private hospitals were overflowing. Now, more than 75% of the beds are vacant. It is a good sign in controlling the virus”” says M.A. Aleem, a city-based neurologist. There can be no complacency. The next three tofour weeks are crucial. Hence, health, civic and rural development officials have been asked to ramp up surveillance, Mr. Sivarasu said.
02 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Old passenger rail coaches converted into carriers for transporting automobiles||Old broad gauge passenger coaches that have completed codal life are being converted into New Modified Goods (NMG) carriers for transportation of cars and other automobiles at Golden Rock Railway Workshop in Tiruchi. The workshop has taken up the task following approval from the Railway Board, New Delhi, which allotted the old coaches for modification into NMG automobile carriers. Of the 40 coaches allotted in the current financial year, it has so far modified 10 and they were dispatched from its premises on Monday. Workshop authorities say the seats and berths of the old coaches have been removed and corrosion repairs carried out as part of conversion works. Perforated flooring has been done along with other modifications to make them suitable for transporting automobiles such as cars and tractors. The workshop has planned to convert the remaining coaches before the end of the current fiscal. “A host of modifications were carried out in the coaches by a technical team of the workshop to convert them into NMG carriers exclusively to transport cars, tractors and other automobiles in bulk.” said Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram. Passenger coaches that have completed the prescribed life span have been sent to the workshop for conversion and the average cost of conversion of each coach is around Rs. 8.3 lakh. Post-conversion, the coaches will be sent to different destinations by Southern Railway for transportation of different types of automobiles. The workshop began to receive old coaches in large numbers in the last three years. Since 2017, it has converted 150 coaches into NMG carriers, Mr. ShyamadharRam added.
02 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||HIV-affected toppers awarded||Counsellors and lab technicians of the District AIDS Control Prevention and Control Unit, who rendered meritorious service towards prevention and control of HIV, were felicitated by Collector S. Sivarasu here on the occasion of World AIDS Day on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Sivarasu observed that this year’s theme of World AIDS Day was ‘Global solidarity-shared responsibility’ and it was imperative for officials of all government departments to work unitedly and share the responsibility to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS. Mr. Sivarasu disclosed that there were 35 integrated counselling and testing centres functioning in government hospitals and primary health centres in the district. Apart from conducting free tests for HIV, the centres were also engaged in raising awareness ofn AIDS prevention. Besides, 55 PHCs in the district were equipped to conduct HIV tests. Anti-retroviral therapy (ART) was being offered through two ART centres at Tiruchi and Manapparai Government Hospitals. The district conducted 9,511 viral load tests on positive persons undergoing ART and this was highest in the country. Mr. Sivarasu also urged officials and volunteers to raise awareness among people of COVID-19 too and on the importance of wearing face masks and personal distancing. In Karur, Collector S. Malarvizhi distributed cash prizes to public examination toppers among HIV-affected students in the district. In Perambalur, Collector P. Sri Venkada Priya also handed out cash prizes to toppers among HIV-affected students in Plus Two and SSLC examinations.
02 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||University to conduct CAS interview for promotion of faculty||Bharathidasan University will conduct interviews of faculty for promotion under the Career Advancement Scheme on Thursday for the third time in as many years. The process involving participation of nearly 60 subject experts in 10 subject-wise selection committees will facilitate promotion of 23 Assistant Professors as Associate Professors, including six faculty from constituent colleges, and eight Associate Professors as Professors. “Though the process was planned during the initial months of the calendar year, it could not be carried out due to enforcement of COVID-19 lockdown. The UGC requires universities to conduct CAS interviews twice a year. Bharathidasan University has taken the initiative to fulfil the requirement once a year unfailingly,” Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar said. The mandate of the selection committees is to ascertain the eligibility of the faculty to move up the career ladder based on the Academic Performance Indicator based Performance-Based Appraisal System specified by University Grants Commission. The publications of journals and books, projects undertaken, and research guidance are among the aspects factored in for awarding points to the faculty. Though seniority in service will not be affected by delay in conduct of CAS interview, timely completion of the activity will be of immense significance for Assistant Professors awaiting promotion as Associate Professors to become eligible to take up headship of departments or assuming roles of high responsibility in the university system, a senior professor said. The CAS interview pertains only to the regular faculty who account for only one-third of the sanctioned posts. The university has been managing the teaching activity with guest lecturers, but the overall research output that will be a key factor for the university to secure impressive national-level ranking can be improved only by filling sanctioned posts with regular faculty, representatives of faculty organisations emphasised. Meanwhile, the Bharathidasan University Professors Association has welcomed the timely conduct of CAS interview. The scheduled conduct of CAS will result in better funding from UGC and other funding agencies, and increase in enrolment of the students belonging to deprived sections in the region, a press release issued by BUPA president R. Sakthivel said. Young and resourceful professors who have benefited from the CAS process in recent years have proved their capabilities through research and publications, the release said.
02 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||130 fresh cases in central region||The central districts recorded 130 fresh cases of COVID 19 and no death on Tuesday. According to the medical bulletin issued by the State Health Department, three districts recorded fresh cases in single digits. Thanjavur district recorded the maximum number of cases with 39 patients testing positive for the virus, followed by Tiruvarur with 26. There were 24 patients testing positive in Tiruchi district. Karur and Nagapattinam recorded 13 and 12 cases respectively. Perambalur, Ariyalur and Pudukottai recorded 3,5 and cases respectively. No one was recorded died of COVID-19 complications in any of 8 districts in the central region. A total of 124 patients were discharged from various hospital sin the region on Tuesday.
02 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||345 recruit women constables finish training||A total of 345 recruit women police constables successfully passed out on Tuesday after undergoing six months training at the Permanent Police Recruit School at Navalpat on the city’s outskirts on Tuesday. A ceremonial passing out parade of the constables was held at the Police Recruit School in which Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan was the chief guest. During the course of their institutional training, the constables were taught various subjects such as law, police organisation, role of police, Indian Penal Code and Criminal Procedure Code. Karate, yoga, drill and firing formed part of the outdoor training. The recruits would now undergo practical training for a month in Tiruchi. Police Recruit School Principal P. Muthukaruppan, Vice Principal P. Manoharan were present, said e sources.
02 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Amma Unavagam to supply food||Tirunelveli Corporation has kept ready seven relief centres to receive people to be evacuated in case of heavy downpour and possible flooding of the Tamirabharani. The Corporation has kept ready 12 electric cutters to remove uprooted trees, 16 pumps to pump out stagnant rainwater from low-lying areas, 30-member rescue team in each of the four zones. The seven relief centres are at STC School, Sindhupoondurai; Thaikka School, Kailasapuram; Corporation Primary School, Ganesapuram; Corporation Primary School, Meenakshipuram; Corporation Primary School, Kokkirakulam; Corporation Middle School, Salai Street, Vannarpet; and Corporation Anna Primary School, C.N. Village. “We’ve planned to distribute food to the people at relief centres through Amma Unavagam and power points have been made available to recharge their mobile phones,” said Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan. The civic body has distributed plastic fibre pouches to the people living in vulnerable areas to keep their ration cards, Aadhaar cards, voter identity cards, bank passbooks, insurance policies and other important documents safe and dry. The Corporation has also established a flood control room to receive complaints. The round-the-clock facility can be reached through toll-free 1800 425 4656, Mr. Kannan said.  In urban areas Seven relief centres kept ready in Tirunelveli Corporation  Pouches given to people living in vulnerable areas to keep their documents dry
02 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||NDRF teams ready for assistance||A team of National Disaster Rescue Force with 60 personnel from Arakkonam, led by Deputy Commander Vaithyalingam, arrived here on Tuesday. As heavy rainfall has been forecast in the four southern districts till December 4 in the wake of cyclonic activity in the Bay of Bengal, preparations are being made on a war-footing to neutralise the adverse impact of the downpour and possible flooding. After having a brief discussion with Collector V. Vishnu to understand the preparations put in place by the district administration, Mr. Vaithyalingam divided his team into four groups to be positioned at vulnerable points along the Tamirabharani watercourse and also at one of the 13 coastal hamlets in the district. Though the weathermen has predicted that the southern districts of Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari would start receiving rainfall from December 1 and even sounded ‘red alert’ for this region due to low pressure near Sri Lanka expected to become a cyclone, no part of these four districts witnessed even a drizzle on Tuesday. The sky was clear and bright throughout the day without any breeze from the north-east direction that usually brings rains during monsoon.
02 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Teams deployed in six dams||Having identified 87 vulnerable areas in the district, mostly along the watercourse of the Tamirabharani, the district administration has deployed separate teams for carrying out relief and rescue operations, Collector V. Vishnu has said. During an informal chat with reporters here on Tuesday, he said a Deputy Collector-led team would be positioned in each taluk. Sand bags in adequate number had been kept ready in all irrigation tanks under the control of the Public Works Department and also the local bodies. Separate teams had been deployed in Papanasam, Servalar, Manimuthar, Vadakku Pachchaiyar, Kodumudiyar and Nambiyar dams. Special teams having officials from the Departments of Revenue, Forest, Fire and Rescue Services, Municipal Administration and the Police had also been deployed in the Manjolai area housing good number of families working in the tea estates. The fishermen had been asked not to venture into the sea for fishing till December 4 even as 7 multipurpose relief centres had been kept ready in the coastal hamlets. “I appeal to the public not to go to the Tamirabharani for taking bath till December 4. Since all precautionary measures have been ensured, there is no need for panic,” Mr. Vishnu said.
02 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Tuesday stood at 125.30 feet (permissible level is 143 ft.), with an inflow of 698.96 cusecs and a discharge of 1,404.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 96.10 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 143 cusecs and a discharge of 45 cusecs.
02 December 2020||Tiruppur/Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) members stage protests in support of farmers||The Tiruppur City Police on Tuesday removed around 40 cadre of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) who participated in the protest organised in support of the farmer agitations in and around Delhi. The protesters staged a demonstration outside the Head Post Office on Uthukuli Road at around 11 a.m., police sources said. While raising slogans in favour of the farmers and against the three farm laws introduced by the Central government, the protesters entered the premises of the Head Post Office despite the attempts made by the police personnel to stop them. They proceeded to stage a dharna inside the premises, following which the police removed them from the spot. They were detained at a private hall in Valipalayam, according to the sources. The CPI (M) announced continuous protests across Tiruppur district from Tuesday till Friday in solidarity with the farmers protesting on the borders of Delhi against the farm laws. Meanwhile, Tiruppur North District Congress Committee president P. Gopi announced that the Congress would organise a ‘Plough Rally’ outside the BSNL office in Kangeyam on Wednesday. In Coimbatore, the CPI (M) cadre gheraoed the BSNL office demanding that the Central Government repeal the three farm laws. The Singanallur and Coimbatore east units of CPI (M) organised the protest. The cadre led by State committee member C. Padmanabhan staged a protest in front of the Collectorate. CPI (M) sources alleged that the police tried to remove the protesters. This led to them gheraoing the BSNL office near the Collectorate raising slogans against the farm laws. As they had entered the BSNL office without permission, 37 protesters were arrested and later released.
02 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Traffic surveillance cameras begin functioning in the Nilgiris||Traffic and surveillance cameras fitted to clampdown on motorists violating traffic rules have begun functioning in the Nilgiris district from Tuesday. The district police have fitted Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) and surveillance cameras at Charring Cross in Udhagamandalam town recently. The overview cameras will be able to track all vehicles passing through the town and proceeding towards Gudalur, Kotagiri and Coonoor. In a release, the district police said the cameras would be connected via fibre optic cable to the district police control room, from where the cameras could be remotely monitored. The district police also said the cameras would be linked shortly to the National Informatics Center server, where the images from the cameras could be cross-verified with the vehicle registration details of the owner. An e-challan would then be issued with the owner of the vehicle getting a message on his registered mobile number about the violation and the fine that had been imposed. The motorist could pay the fine online through the specified web portal. Border checkposts After the inauguration of the cameras on Tuesday, the Nilgiris district superintendent of police V. Sasi Mohan said there were over 2,500 CCTV cameras across the Nilgiris, with each of the 16 border check posts having at least four cameras installed for surveillance purposes.
02 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Sigur turns a hotspot for migratory vultures||Soaring high among the clouds, a kettle of white-rumped vultures and red-headed vultures, residents of the Sigur plateau, circle over the carcass of a dead animal. On closer inspection, research scholar, S. Manikandan, studying the vultures spots a bird noticeably different from the other vultures. “I immediately started taking pictures and later confirmed it to be a Eurasian griffon ( Gyps fulvus ),” said Mr. Manikandan. The sighting of the Eurasian griffon, a winter migrant to the Sigur plateau, marks the third different migratory species of vulture recorded in the region this year. S. Bharathidasan, secretary of Arulagam, a conservation NGO working on protecting vultures, said that apart from the Eurasian griffon, conservationists have also spotted the Himalayan griffon vulture ( Gyps himalayensis ), as well as the cinereous vulture ( Aegypius monachus ), in the Sigur plateau. “We were on a routine trip to the Sigur to document the vultures in the region when we spotted the Eurasian griffon, which is being recorded for the second time in the region since 2017,” said Mr. Manikandan, a research scholar studying vultures at the Government Arts College in Udhagamandalam. Previously, a Eurasian griffon was recorded near Masinagudi by D. Gajamohanraj in 2017. Vultures such as the Eurasian griffon and the Himalayan griffon, particularly juveniles, are known to travel thousands of km during the winter before heading back to their home range during the summer, said B. Ramakrishnan, assistant professor at the department of zoology and wildlife biology at the Government Arts College in Udhagamandalam. “This behavioural trait is seen particularly among juveniles, who travel to different parts of Southern India during the winter, possibly to take advantage of the ideal climate and availability of food in the region,” said Mr. Ramakrishnan. Interestingly, despite the presence of other vulture species in the region, including the red-headed vulture ( Sarcogyps calvus) and the white-rumped vulture ( Gyps bengalensis ), the winter migrants seemingly have little to no conflict with the local resident vulture populations, said Mr. Bharathidasan and B.Ramakrishnan. Captive vultures Conservation methods could take advantage of this behaviour to reintroduce captive vultures back into the wild, opined Mr. Bharathidasan. “Around four years ago, a cinereous vulture was rescued in Kanyakumari and is currently being kept in captivity. Efforts could be taken to reintroduce the individual back into the wild, as there are plans to set up a vulture rescue, rehabilitation and breeding centre in Mudumalai, and could be an ideal learning and training process for future conservation and rehabilitation efforts, ” said Mr. Bharathidasan. “The presence of so many vulture species in a single limited landscape is an indicator that the Sigur is a hotspot for vultures and needs continued protection,” said Mr. Ramakrishnan.
02 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Collector emphasises need to continue precautions in the Nilgiris||The Nilgiris Collector once again emphasised the need for the public to maintain their vigil and prevent a spike in COVID-19 infections in the district. At a COVID-19 awareness campaign on Tuesday, Collector J. Innocent Divya said many countries were witnessing a “second-wave” of infections, and the local residents need to ensure that they took adequate precautions to prevent such an outbreak in the Nilgiris. Ms. Divya emphasised the need for washing hands, wearing masks and maintaining personal distancing. She said there was a chance for infections to once again increase due to increased tourist footfall in the district. At the event, people, who recovered from COVID-19, spoke out about their experiences while undergoing treatment and urged the public to wear masks and follow orders laid down by the government. Healthcare workers, who have been working in COVID-19 wards for over eight months and who have not contracted the SARS-CoV-2 virus, also spoke about how simple measures could cut the risk of infection. Monitoring officer for the Nilgiris, Supriya Sahu, handed over fruit baskets to the recovered COVID-19 patients at the function.
02 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Woman dies of injuries caused by wild boar||A woman died of injuries she suffered in a wild boar attack at Thendral Nagar in Kil Kotagiri on Monday. Forest department officials said that S. Saroja alias Kaliyammal (65) ventured out of her home on Monday on hearing the screams of her neighbour. Her neighbour was walking home when he had an encounter with a wild boar, which charged at him. Saroja went outside and crossed paths with the animal, which gored her before escaping into a nearby forest. She died on the way to hospital. Her neighbour escaped with minor injuries. The officials handed over an interim compensation of Rs. 50,000 to Ms. Saroja’s next of kin. A few weeks ago, a shopkeeper was injured when a wild boar ran into his store and charged at him. Waste disposal The residents said improper waste disposal in the area was contributing to the problem, as wild boars were attracted to residential areas to feed on discarded food waste. The forest officials said they would hold sensitisation campaigns to discourage people from dumping waste in open spaces.
02 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar farmers asked to insure their crop||Virudhunagar district administration has appealed to farmers to register their paddy, plantain, onion, chilly and coriander crop under Crop Insurance scheme immediately as heavy to very heavy rain is likely to lash the district on December 2, 3 and 4. In a statement, Collector R. Kannan said farmers should pay the premium for crop insurance immediately to protect themselves from the crop loss due to natural calamity. As a crop protection measure, he asked the coconut farmers to cut down all the matured fronds, dry fronds, coconuts, and tender coconuts, leaving only the young leaves so that the coconut trees were not uprooted by the heavy wind. The farmers should immediately stop irrigating their coconut farms and keep the soil dry so that the roots were able to hold on to the soil. The farmers must also prune the branches of other trees to ensure that there was adequate space for the strong wind to pass through without damaging the trees. The portion of the branches that are cut should be applied with a mixture of 300 grams of copper oxychloride in one litre of water so that the trees did not get fungal infection. Horticulture crop such as plantains, papaya, mango, jackfruit trees should be secured with casuarina poles to withstand strong wind. For paddy, pulses, minor millets, cotton and groundnut, drainage facility should be provided to prevent water stagnation on fields. The farmers were advised to make use of godowns of Agriculture Regulated Markets to safely stock their farm produce during the rainy days. The regulated markets have been asked to keep adequate stocks of tarpaulin sheets. Farmers can approach the respective Assistant Directors (Agriculture) for any doubts.  Cut down matured and dry fronds from coconut trees so that they will not be uprooted by heavy wind R. Kannan   Virudhunagar Collector
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Paddy harvesting starts in areas irrigated by Kalingarayan Canal||With harvesting of paddy commencing in areas irrigated by Kalingarayan Canal, farmers said that traders are yet to arrive for procuring their produce and wanted a direct procurement centre established at the earliest. Paddy is cultivated on about 5,200 acres in Vairapalayam, B.P. Agraharam, Anainasuvampalayam, Nanjai Thalavaipalayam, Vairapalayam and Suriyampalayam areas in the Corporation limits that receive water from the canal. Water was released for 120 days from August to November in the canal to enable farmers cultivate paddy. Harvesting of paddy is expected to be completed in a month. But farmers say that harvesting machines are yet to arrive from Kerala and Andhra Pradesh while traders also yet to arrive for procuring. M. Madheswaran, president, Uzhavan Magan Vivasayigal Sangam , said that rent for harvesting machines last year was Rs. 2,000 per hour that had gone upto Rs. 2,800 per hour this year. He said that only a few machines had arrived from other States and harvesting is expected to pick up only in the coming weeks. “Though paddy is ready for harvesting 15 days ago, absence of machines and traders force farmers to commence harvesting”, he added. Farmers said that the current price of paddy is Rs. 14 a kg in the market and said that traders are yet to arrive for purchasing. “We cannot delay the harvest further and wanted the district administration to start procuring from us”, Subramani, a farmer, at Vairapalayam said. Last year, Grade A variety paddy was purchased for a minimum support price of Rs. 1,905 a quintal, while the common variety paddy was purchased for Rs. 1,865 a quintal. “Production cost had gone up and hence the minimum support price should also be hiked”, he added.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Burst pipe upsets sewer network in city||A burst pipe on a pumping main of the underground drainage system at Thillai Nagar has thrown the sewer network out of gear in some areas of the city. A number of residents of Mela Chinthamani, Thillai Nagar, Thennur, Othakadai and neighbouring areas, which were part of the erstwhile Tiruchi municipality, complained that the household UGD connections failed to discharge into the sewer line over the past few days. Following this, Tiruchi Corporation deployed a team of its engineers and field staff to find out the cause of the malfunction. They found out a major burst on a pumping main of the old UGD system near 11th Cross on Shastri Road in Thillai Nagar. A main pipe measuring 750 mm in diameter and 6 metres in length was found to have burst underground. The civic body has deployed a 50-member team, including engineers, plumbers, electricians, fitters and welders, to set right the problem. Besides earth movers, sullage lorries were deployed to assist the operation. When they dug up the earth, a huge amount of sewerage burst out from the damaged pipe and began to overflow on Shastri Road, leaving a foul smell for about 500 meters around the clogged point. Since the sewage came out with considerable force, sullage collectors were pressed into service. A culvert situated near the site made the task of repairing the line difficult, officials said. The area was cordoned off so as to prevent the onlookers assembling at the spot. The work that began in the afternoon of Monday continued beyond midnight. Fabrication work was also carried out so as to make suit the pipe with the old network. After marathon work for several hours, the authorities replaced the worn out pipe on Tuesday morning. “The pumping main was laid about 40 years ago. Increasing pressure along its course and the weak pipe apparently due to its age might have caused the burst. The problem has been set right,” a senior official of the Corporation told The Hindu . It has been noticed that the backlog of sewage has started flowing in the UGD network. It will become normal within a day, Engineers have been asked to keep a close watch on the functioning of the system, the official added.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 141 cases||Salem district on Tuesday reported 56 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 29,910. While 95 persons were discharged, 477 persons continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll in the district to 441. Erode district reported 38 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 12,462. While 29 persons were discharged, 401 continue to be under treatment. Namakkal reported 29 cases, raising the district’s tally to 10,445. Twenty-two persons were discharged on Tuesday, while 229 persons continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 24 new cases, while 20 patients were discharged on Tuesday. The district has, so far, seen 7,653 cases. At present, 169 people are under treatment. Dharmapuri recorded 22 new cases, and 14 persons were discharged on Tuesday. So far, 6,088 people have tested positive for the infection in the district, and 130 are still under treatment. Coimbatore district on Tuesday reported 141 new cases of COVID-19. The district had 935 patients under treatment at hospitals and COVID Care Centres. According to the Health Department, 145 persons were discharged on Tuesday. So far, 47,318 out of the 48,866 persons from the district who contracted COVID-19 have recovered. Tiruppur district reported 65 cases, taking the district’s tally to 15,457 cases, of which 548 were active cases. A 68-year-old man died of the disease, taking the toll to 209. As many as 83 patients were discharged.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to constitute panel to collect caste-wise data||“Quantifiable caste-wise data in the present scenario is necessary for fulfilling such demands. Hence, only by collecting State-wide data would complete information become available,” Mr. Palaniswami said. Recalling former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s efforts towards ensuring “social justice”, Mr. Palaniswami said his government would follow in her footsteps. Reacting to the announcement, PMK founder S. Ramadoss said constituting the Commission would not yield immediate results. He reiterated that the government should immediately announce 20% reservation for Vanniyars. “We wanted a mango from Salem. But the CM’s statement is tantamount to planting a mango sapling only now and expecting us to be happy with it,” PMK spokesperson K. Balu said.  We wanted a mango from Salem. But the CM’s statement is tantamount to planting a mango sapling and expecting us to be happy K. Balu PMK spokesperson
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Boy dies in accident||An 11-year-old boy from Thekkampatti near Mettupalayam was killed after he accidentally came under the main tyre of a tractor on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as I. Vijayakumar from Kooduthurai near Thekkampatti. The police said the accident happened when the boy tried to climb on a moving tractor which was driven by a known person.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||NAMAKKAL   Muthayammal Engineering College, Rasipuram: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Online inauguration of faculty development programme, Sanjay Agarwal, Professor, Department of Computer Engineering and Applications, National Institute of Technical Teachers’ Training and Research, Bhopal, chief guest, 10 a.m.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||cinema arts events||Coimbatore Cinema Baba Complex, Ph: 2472275 Archana AURO 3D TDX KAVAL THURAI UNGAL NANBAN - 11 a.m., 2.30, 6.30 p.m. Darsana A/c NUNGAMBAKKAM - 11 a.m., 2.30p.m., 6.30 p.m.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||02-12-2020-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's Cultural Festival 2020, Chennai Open-Air Live Programme up to 19.12.2020 in association with South Zone Cultural Centre ( Ministry of Culture, Government of India ) at Bhavan's Rajaji Vidyashram Campus, No.6, Kilpauk Garden Road, Kilpauk, Chennai-600 010. Today at 6.00 pm : Sri Kumaresh ( of Sri Ganesh & Sri Kumaresh ) - violin with Patri Sri Satish Kumar ( Mrudangam ), Trichy Sri Krishnaswamy ( Ghatam ) and Sri B. Sundara Kumar ( Kanjira ). Tomorrow : 3rd Dec. Vidwan Sri N. Vijay Siva ( vocal ). Programme supported by : Sriram Group, Ramco Cements & Ramco Industries, AVA Cholayil Health Care ( Medimix ), Larsen & Toubro, Seshasayee Paper & Boards, MGM Health Care, SMK Fomra Institute of Technology, Kauvery Hospitals., Nalli Silks, Sri Krishna Sweets, Sri K.V. Rangaswamy ( L & T ), Dhanvantari Nano Ayushadi, Newry Properties & Indian Oil Corporation. Admission subject to following. S.O.P, ( Temperature check, Hand Sanitizing, Wearing Mask and Distance Seating ). . Drive-in facility available. NO TICKETSAlso Watch Live: http://krishnansons.com/bhavans -art-festival-2020
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Jansons Institute of Technology: Talks on “Women in Entrepreneurship”, “Future Career Growth & Organisation Structure”, “Struggle to Success”, and “Competitive Exams for Mechanical Engineers”, 10 a.m.  The Coimbatore Productivity Council and NHRD, Coimbatore Chapter: Talk on “Code on Industrial Relations”, 6 p.m.  SNMV Institute of Management: Vidyarambham induction ceremony 2020, Mahaveer Hall, 10 a.m.
02 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||State planning to start police academy to train non-IPS officers||The State government plans to start a police academy on the lines of the National Defence Academy to provide professional training to officers, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Belagavi on Tuesday. He said the proposed training centre would come up in Belagavi. “Belagavi is situated strategically and has several institutions of importance such as the Army Camp, Air Force Training Centre, CRPF COBRA Commando Training School, ITBP and a KSRP battalion. “I have already started talks with senior Army officers and Home Ministry officers to set up a police training academy of international standards in Belagavi,” he said. “Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has never said no to any proposal from the Police Department. I am sure he will approve of this one too,” he added. Speaking after laying the foundation stone for the new Police Commissioner’s office on Police Lines in the Military Camp area in Belagavi, the Home Minister said that the proposed academy would train non-IPS officers. “Times are changing and we are faced with new challenges in fighting crime and managing law and order. We need to remain updated about new trends and technologies. That is why our officers need constant training. Hence, the plan for a new academy,’’ he said. The State police was benefiting from some exchange programmes with Central police forces and Defence forces. “They have all been stopped due to the COVID-19 situation. These programmes will be resumed soon,” he said. He looked at plans drawn up for the new commissionerate and suggested a few changes. He asked the contractor, hired by the Police Housing Corporation, to keep in mind that he was building a police commissioner’s office and not a hostel. The Minister said that the long-pending demand for an office for the police commissioner was being realised now. Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan and other officers were present.
02 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Re-categorise Marathas into OBCs 2A, says MLA||Congress MLA Anjali Nimbalkar has said that Maratha community voters would boycott the elections if the government failed to re-categorise the community into Other Backward Classes 2A. She told journalists in Dharwad on Sunday that this boycott would start from the Belagavi Lok Sabha bypolls and Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly bypolls itself. Dr. Nimbalkar is an MLA from Khanapur which is part of Belagavi district but has been included in Canara Parliamentary seat. She belongs to the Maratha Kshatriya community. The former Chief Minister of Maharashtra Ashok Chauhan is her first cousin. “The demand of the Marathas is long pending and if it is not accepted immediately, the community would take drastic steps, including boycotting the elections,” she said. She was in Dharwad to participate in a conference of the Maratha Kshatriya community. She also set a deadline of seven days for the re-categorisation. She welcomed the State government decision to form the Maratha Development Corporation. She noted that the government had set aside Rs. 500 crore for the Veerashaiva Lingayat Development Corporation while the Maratha corporation was given Rs. 50 crore. “However, we don’t need any funds. We only seek inclusion of the community under category 2A,” she said. The State-level meeting of the association has decided to take out silent protest marches across the State, if the State government failed to initiate the re-categorisation process. At the meeting, Dr. Nimbalkar said that Marathas in Karnataka had imbibed the language and culture of the land. “Even though Marathas have special affiliation towards Mumbai, they have blended with the locals here, and they speak Kannada. They are ambassadors of Kannada culture,” she added. MLC Srinivas Mane demanded that the government issue orders constituting the Maratha corporation, setting aside funds and appointing a chairman.
02 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||16,000 reserve police to be recruited in two years||The State government will recruit 16,000 reserve police constables in two years, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Belagavi on Tuesday. “The Police Department is considering all vacancies in phases. We have estimated the vacancies in all wings of the department. We will fill them in phases. In the next two years, we will recruit 16,000 reserve police constables,” he said. He was speaking at a passing out parade of police constables trained at the Karnataka State Reserve Police Training School. He promised to send the best performing trainees to foreign countries for advanced training. “This process will start very soon,” he said. Later, he handed over trophies to meritorious trainees who had won awards and prizes in outdoor and indoor activities. He also spoke to a few trainees and wished them luck. Additional Director-General of Police Alok Kumar, Inspector-General of Police Raghavendra Suhas, Commandant Hamza Hussein and others were present.
02 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Signal-free corridor to connect Chord Road, Outer Ring Road||A new signal-free corridor is being planned to link West of Chord Road and Outer Ring Road at Mahalakshmi Layout. The project is expected to include three flyovers and an underpass over a 2.9-km stretch at an estimated cost of Rs. 120 crore. The civic body is finalising the Detailed Project Report (DPR) and is expected to call tenders for the first phase of the project in the coming week. The project is being pushed by local MLA and Food and Civil Supplies Minister K. Gopalaiah, who recently defected from the JDS to the BJP. He recently said the project will be fast-tracked on a priority basis. Bengaluru has developed in concentric circles, with several parallel roads circling it, which are connected with radial roads like spokes in a wheel. West of Chord Road and Outer Ring Road are two such key arterial roads. They are connected at two points – Shanimahatma temple junction and Goraguntepalya junction – 10 km apart. “Those living between these points, including people in key residential areas like Rajajinagar and Malleswaram, have to travel all the way to these two points to connect to ORR. To correct this, we are now making a signal-free corridor at the midpoint of these two ends near Mahalakshmi Layout,” explained B.S. Prahlad, Chief Engineer, Road Infrastructure, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The 2.9-km long Pipeline Road near Mahalakshmi Layout, which connects Kurubarahalli with Chord Road, will be converted into a signal-free corridor. However, building grade separators on this road will not be an easy task. The road has a main pipeline for water supply and a high tension electric wire as well as a stretch of parks above the water pipeline. “We will not disturb the water pipeline, but wherever we are building flyovers, the high tension wire needs to be elevated further,” said Nandeesh, Executive Engineer, Road Infrastructure, BBMP.
02 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Submit offer made to Infosys on lake revival, HC tells govt.||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to produce the offer made to the Infosys Foundation to rejuvenate and maintain Hebbal lake in Mysuru while observing that perhaps the government would have got better offers if it had issued public notice inviting corporate entities to come forward to assist in taking care of State’s lakes. Even if the law permits allowing corporate entities to maintain lakes, the process of allowing their participation must be fair and transparent, the court said, while directing the government to produce the process followed before entering into Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the directions during the hearing of a batch of PIL petitions related to lakes and stormwater drains. The court, in March, had restrained the government from signing more MoUs while observing that prima facie , by way of the MoUs, the government wants to shift its obligation to corporate entities. The government had told the HC that it had signed an MoU with Infosys Foundation for Hebbal lake in Mysuru in 2016; and five more MoUs were signed between 2017 and 2020 with Bharat Electronics Ltd., Biocon Foundation, Titan Company Ltd., Say Trees Environmental Trust and CMR University for rejuvenating and maintaining Doddabommasandra, Hebbagodi, Veerasandra, Nallurahalli and Chagalatti lakes in the city, respectively. Asking whether any public notices were issued inviting proposal for lake maintenance from corporate entities, the Bench asked whether the works entrusted in the MoU are permissible as per the report, submitted by a committee headed by Justice N.K. Patil, a then judge of the High Court, which was approved by the High Court in 2012. Observing that it is the duty of the State government to stop those works not permitted as per the 2012 order of the High Court based in Justice Patil Committee Report, the Bench directed the government to submit the details of extent of works carried out and whether the corporate entities have complied with the terms of the MoU. The Bench also asked the State government and the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike to make their stand clear on whether corporate entities are in possession of the lakes besides clarifying whether any officers has been nominated to ensure that they adhere to terms.
02 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Plea questions fixation of fees via agreements||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition questioning the legality of the government’s action of fixing fees for medical, dental, and engineering courses in private professional colleges through consensual agreements with associations of private colleges. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the order on the petition, filed by city-based advocate Ajoy Kumar Patil. The petitioner had questioned the validity of certain provisions of the Karnataka Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Determination of Fee) Act, saying they were in violation of constitutional provisions and an apex court judgment. He contended that the private professional colleges in Karnataka were “mostly managed by politicians and religious/caste groups who have formed a cartel” and that the admission policy and fee fixation had been framed and formulated in such a manner as to “encourage profiteering and exploitation by such colleges”. The petitioner alleged that the government was “aiding and abetting profiteering by private professional colleges in the name of regulating the procedure for admission and fixation of fees”. The petitioner also contended that the separate category of management quota admissions under the heading of “other seats” by earmarking of 5% for it at exorbitant fees was illegal and arbitrary, besides being contrary to the verdict of the apex court. Pointing out that the fees for professional colleges could be fixed by the Fee Fixation Committee, as directed by the apex court, the petitioner contended that the fees fixed through consensual agreement every year were illegal. The procedure of entering into consensual agreements with associations of private colleges is also contrary to the Karnataka Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Determination of Fee) Act, he stated. The Bench also ordered issue of notice to the Karnataka Professional Colleges Foundation, the Karnataka Religious and Linguistic Minority Professional Colleges Association, and the Association of Minority Professional Colleges in Karnataka.
02 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP keen to deepen hold in Old Mysore||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party is seeing the forthcoming elections to gram panchayats as an opportunity to create political space for its cadre by ensuring the victory of a large number of its party workers at the grassroots. Party strategists feel that it is in an advantageous position, being in power in the State. Earlier, the BJP was using the gram panchayat polls to make inroads into rural areas to widen its base in a bid to shrug off its “urban party” image. However, it has now been able to establish its hold in rural areas in several districts, barring Old Mysore region where it has started getting foothold only now. This time, the party wants to focus on such areas which have hitherto remained elusive, said a leader. In the panchayat polls, the BJP is also trying to take advantage of the migration of several MLAs from other parties. The party, which claims that it won more than 50% of panchayat seats in the previous polls, is focussing on extending its hold in the areas of these new entrants.  The importance being given by the BJP to panchayat polls is clearly visible with its national organising general secretary B.L. Santosh himself chairing the meeting to review poll preparations. The party has launched a campaign titled gram swarajya under which it is holding two conventions by its leaders in every district. It has already formed six teams of leaders to hold these conventions. Also, it has adopted a pancha sutra (five-point) formula as per which it will set up a war-room and call centre in all the districts, besides appointing page pramukhs (volunteers to woo voters in each page of voters’ list). The party is holding family/community gatherings at every booth level. It is also constituting a five-member committee titled pancha ratna under which persons from SC/ST communities, besides woman and youth, would be appointed at the booth level to monitor preparations.
02 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. hopes to regain lost ground||The ensuing gram panchayat polls, which will provide a perfect pitch for political parties to build their grassroots cadre, is particularly important for the Opposition Congress, which has received a series of electoral drubbings since 2018. With panchayats implementing nearly 70% of the rural development schemes, especially MNREGA, drinking water supply, and rural roads, elected GP members use these village-level administrative bodies as a formidable tool to build support base for the party. Equally significant These elections are equally significant for parties/leaders to establish bonds with the local electorate, which would lead to build a political constituency in the Assembly elections. KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed said the Congress would use the GP polls to regain its lost political space in some of the constituencies. Keeping in view the next elections to the zilla panchayat, taluk panchayat, and elections to Legislative Council from local bodies’ constituency, the party will make all out efforts to build cadres and support at the village level, he said. The Congress, which held a day-long conclave in Bengaluru on Monday to work out a strategy for the polls, has decided to give responsibilities of identifying candidates to the District and Block Congress Committees. Both committees have been directed to work in tandem with MLAs and senior leaders of the party while fielding candidates and campaigning. Besides formation of the GP and booth level committees, it has decided to form nine teams composed of senior leaders to tour districts, and campaign. All levels of office-bearers have been told to make efforts to quell their differences to ensure victory of party-backed candidates. In the 2015 elections to GPs, the Congress registered an emphatic victory with number one position in 21 districts. It won 62,000 seats of GPs out of 92,000 in 2015, Mr. Ahmed said. The party is expected to print booklets and pamphlets to be given to DCCs and BCCs to inform voters about the failures of the B.S. Yediyurappa-led government in tackling COVID-19, farmers’ problems during the pandemic, and floods.
02 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Janata Dal (S) banking on its rural roots||After a series of poll debacle over the last one-and-a-half years in its traditional bastions, the Janata Dal (Secular) is looking for better performance by its workers in the ensuing gram panchayat elections. The party, which draws its strength mainly from the rural areas in Old Mysuru region, is looking to support party workers to contest in panchayats across the State. “The BJP’s win in the byelections is not a barometer to understand the strength as it is the ruling party. We are confident of performing well since the party stronghold is in rural areas,” JD(S) State president H.K. Kumaraswamy.  He said that voters’ preference change from Assembly to gram panchayat elections, and the latter are mostly fought on individual popularity. “In many instances, it is difficult to gauge the performance of the parties as individual association with parties are fluid. Each party may claim victory for itself,” he added. He said directions had been given to district units to convene meeting of workers to identify qualified youth who can contest. Mr. Kumaraswamy said discussions are underway as to how the State could be covered by party leaders. “Teams will be formed for specific areas. Party supremo H.D. Deve Gowda, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, a host of legislators and party leaders will address meetings at the taluk level,” he added.
02 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BIFFes to be held in February-end or March||The 13th edition of Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes) will be held either in the last week of February or the first week of March 2021. There was much uncertainty about the annual flagship event of Bengaluru in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic. On Tuesday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa gave his approval to hold the film festival. Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy Chairman Sunil Puranik said that out of hundreds of film festivals held across the world, only 45 have received accreditation to be international film festivals.
02 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yogeshwar will get ministerial berth: CM||Amid uncertainty over the matter of Cabinet expansion, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday declared that former Minister C.P. Yogeshwar would be inducted into it. “We are going to 100% appoint him as Minister,” he said. Mr. Yogeshwar, who was among those who made efforts to woo MLAs from the then JD(S)-Congress coalition, had tried in vain to get a ministerial berth earlier. However, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi camped in New Delhi to lobby for Mr. Yogeshwar with the central leaders.
02 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Advocates set another deadline for inspector’s suspension||With the deadline given for suspension of the police inspector, who is said to have handcuffed an advocate, ending on Tuesday afternoon, the Dharwad Bar Association has set another deadline and warned that it would lay a siege to the Police Commissioner’s office here on Monday next. A resolution was passed during a joint meeting of the office-bearers of the bar associations of Dharwad, Hubballi, Kalghatgi and Kundgol in Dharwad on Tuesday. Advocates in Hubballi-Dharwad are up in arms against the police after an advocate Vinod Patil was reportedly handcuffed and assaulted while being taken to APMC Navanagar Police Station. Police Inspector Prabhu Surin, has since been transferred but the advocates had set a Tuesday-2 p.m. deadline for his suspension.
02 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Award for GMIT||GM Institute of Technology (GMIT), Davangere, has received the “Most Promising and Leading Engineering and Technology College of the year 2020 Award” instituted by Beginup Research Intelligence Pvt. Ltd. During the Educational Excellence Awards and Conference held in Bengaluru recently, GMIT principal Y. Vijayakumar and others received the award from chief guests Chairman of Vedhik IAS Academy James Mattan and novelist Mousumi Sachdeva, a release said.    Ravindra Govind Bentur of Hubballi has been nominated as the non-official member of Karnataka Maharshi Valmiki ST Development Corporation by the Under Secretary of the Department of Social Welfare Department, a release said.
02 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||242 of 261 GPs to go to the polls in two phases in Kalaburagi district||Elections to 242 of the 261 gram panchayats in Kalaburagi district, consisting of 1,427 wards and 4,173 seats, will be held in two phases, Deputy Commissioner and District Election Officer V.V. Jyothnsa has said. According to a release here on Monday, the State Election Commission has decided to hold gram panchayat elections in two phases. Polling in the first phase will be held on December 22 and in the second, on December 27. Counting of votes will be taken up on December 27. The election model code of conduct came into force in the gram panchayat areas on Monday. For the first phase elections, nomination papers can be filed from December 7 to December 11. Nomination papers for the second phase can be filed from December 11 to December 16. As many as 1,841 polling booths have been set up across the district. And, 13,26,400 voters, including 6,76,421 men, 6,49,872 women and 107 others, would cast their votes in the two phases of the elections. Of the 4,173 seats in the gram panchayats, 521 are reserved for Scheduled Castes, 658 for Scheduled Caste (Women), 21 for Scheduled Tribes, 248 for Scheduled Tribes (Women), 167 for Backward Classes A, 335 for Backward Classes A (Women), 88 for Backward Classes B, 37 for Backward Classes B (Women), 1,232 for General Category and 866 for General Category (Women). Of the 242 gram panchayats in 11 taluks of the district that will face elections, 126 gram panchayats in six taluks — Kalaburagi, Aland, Afzalpur, Kamalapur, Kalagi and Shahabad — will go to the polls in the first phase on December 22. Polling for 116 gram panchayats in five taluks — Yaddrami, Jewargi, Chittapur, Chincholi and Sedam — will be held in the second phase on December 27. As many as 19 gram panchayats will not see elections this time. They are six in Aland taluk, three each in Chittapur and Kalagi taluks, two each in Jewargi, Chincholi and Kamalapur taluks and one gram panchayat in Yaddrami taluk.
02 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Government offers street vendors loans||Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) that once was evicting street vendors encroaching upon footpaths and road sides through its ‘Operation Tiger’, offered them a red carpet welcome with loans through financial institutions under a ‘loan utsav’ at the town hall here on Tuesday. The district-level ‘loan utsav’ had been organised by the MCC in association with other urban local bodies to facilitate micro finance loans to street vendors under the Pradhan Mantri Street Vendors Atmanirbhar Nidhi Yojana or PM SVANidhi Scheme. Incidentally the ‘utsav’ was organised after the Mayor Diwakar went on record this June that the civic body will resume the Operation Tiger that had been launched over five years ago also when the BJP was leading the city corporation council. The Mayor also suggested at a consultative meeting last month that distributing loans to street vendors under the scheme should not become a nuisance while ensuring safe footpaths for pedestrians and smooth traffic movement in the city. The urban local bodies organised the ‘utsav’ to meet the target of distributing loans to 7,500 street vendors in Dakshina Kannada. Speaking at the inauguration of the ‘utsav’ the Moodbidri MLA Umanath A. Kotiyan said that ‘those who are born with golden spoons in their mouths will not be able to understand what exactly the hunger and plight of the poor is. Only those who are born poor will be able to understand the plight of the poor’. He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi knows the plight of the poor as he was once selling tea on a railway platform in Gujarat. Hence, he launched PM SVANidhi Scheme. Member of Parliament from Dakshina Kannada Nalin Kumar Kateel who inaugurated the utsav said that the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19 had pushed many traders, including street vendors, into trouble. “The scheme has been introduced to enable street vendors to recover financially. The vendors should make use of it,” he said. Referring to other schemes of the Union government, Mr. Kateel said that the Jan Dhan Yojana made 35 crore people have bank accounts to which the government directly transferred the financial benefits of various schemes. He said that 4,176 persons in Dakshina Kananda have applied for loans under PM SVANidhi Scheme. Of them, 1,600 who have been sanctioned loans have resumed their business activities. The South Canara District Central Cooperative Bank has helped in advancing loans to 300 fisherwomen under the PM SVANidhi Scheme, Mr. Kateel said. MLAs D. Vedavyasa Kamath, Y. Bharat Shetty, Rajesh Naik U, Harish Poonja, S. Angara and Sanjeeva Matandoor, the president of SCDCC bank M. N. Rajendra Kumar were present. The Commissioner of MCC Akshy Sridhar spoke.
02 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||SPDI condemns provocative writings; VHP seeks NIA probe||Condemning the recent provocative graffiti written on the walls in two places in the city, the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) said on Tuesday that police should take it seriously and arrest those behind it. Addressing presspersons, the president of Dakshina Kannada unit of the party Athaullah Jokatte said that it was an attempt to disturb peace in the society and a conspiracy by the communal forces. As the police had failed to trace the persons behind the provocative message seen in Bejai on Friday, the second writing appeared in another place near the court complex on Sunday, he said. Mr. Jokatte said that when RSS leader Kalladkka Prabhakar Bhat made a statement comparing Ullal with Pakistan recently, the police did not take any action against him. They did not take this seriously and acted to the tune of Sangh Pariwar, he alleged, adding that since police are taking such incidents very lightly, attempts to disturb peace in the society are continuing. Meanwhile, the divisional secretary of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) Sharan Pumpwell said in a release on Tuesday that the government should hand over the investigation into the provocative writings found on the walls to the National Investigative Agency (NIA). He said that it appears that some fundamental organisations are behind it.
02 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Public notification to reserve land for sea food park issued||After the government’s move to set up a mega sea food park at Bannur near Puttur met with stiff opposition by people, the government has now issued a public notification inviting objections if any towards reserving land for the park at Niddodi near Moodbidri. The office of the Revenue Inspector, Moodbidri, issued the notification on November 26. It says that 50 acres of 88.73 acres of land under survey number 88/1 in Niddodi village have been proposed to be reserved for the ‘mega sea food park’. If anybody had their rights over the same land or had objections, they should be submitted to the Moodbidri Tahsildar with relevant documents within 15 days of the publication of the notification. Objections filed after the due date will not be considered. If there are no objections, the proposal will be taken forward. Bannur Gram Panchayat in Puttur had on November 11 issued the public notification to divert 40 acres of land reserved for a government medical college for the proposed sea food park. But many people in the village had objected to the same and had demanded that the land not be diverted for the park and the government medical college should be set up there. Dharna staged The Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) had staged a dharna in Puttur over the move to divert the land. The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyathi Parishad (ABVP) and former Puttur MLA T. Shankuntala Shetty had opposed the move too. Sources said that Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation (KFDC) is not in favour of setting up the park in Bannur considering its distance from the coast and feasibility factors. The government is likely to drop the move to set up the park at Bannur.
02 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Objection to removal of Kannada name board||The Udupi unit of the Kannada Sahitya Parishat on Tuesday took objection for the Krishna Mutt/Temple in Udupi removing a Kannada name board at its entrance and replacing it with one written both in Tulu and Sanskrit. President of the unit Neelavara Surendra Adiga said in a statement that the action of the muttt authorities violated the government directive that mandates organisations, commercial establishments to give prominence to Kannada in name boards. Removing the Kannada name board is an ill-conceived move, he said and added that the parishat will petition the district administration and launch an agitation, if required. The authorities in fixing the name board having Tulu have pitted sister languages against each other, which could create fissures between the two languages, Mr. Adiga said. “Kannada has disappeared from the name board in front of the temple. The vigilance committee on Kannada takes such issues seriously,” he said. Responding to Mr. Adiga, manager of the Adamaru Mutt, which is now managing the mutt/temple as per Paryaya, Govindaraj said in a statement that the Kannada board made of plastic was removed on an instruction from the seer of the Paryaya Adamaru Mutt as part of temple renovation process during the just concluded Lakshadeepotsava rituals. A Kannada name board made in wood will be fixed there shortly, as it is getting ready. The Kannada name board will be at the top followed by the board written in Tulu and Sanskrit which has already been displayed at the entrance. The mutt will strive to uphold Tulu as well, he added.
02 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power supply to be hit in some parts of city||Power supply in some areas across the city will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on December 3. The areas that will face disrupted power supply included A.B. Shetty Circle, Pandeshwar, Paneshwara New Road, Mahalingeshwar temple area, Rosario Church Road, Sasihitlu and Mukka. Supply of power has been affected on account of ongoing maintenance works.
02 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Chennai, Maveli Express to be special trains||The Railways will re-introduce two trains - Mangaluru-Chennai-Mangaluru Express and Mangaluru-Thiruvananthapuram-Mangaluru Maveli Express as special trains next week. A release from Palakkad Division of Southern Railway here said Train No. 02685 Chennai Central-Mangaluru Central Daily Superfast Special (Mangaluru Express) would leave Chennai 5 p.m. to reach Mangaluru at 9 a.m. the next day with effect from December 8. Train No.02686 Mangaluru Central– Chennai Central Daily Superfast Special (Chennai Express) would leave leave Mangaluru at 4.35 p.m. to reach Chennai at 8 a.m. the next day with effect from December 9. Train No.06603 Mangaluru Central – Thiruvananthapuram Central Daily Special (Maveli Express) would leave Mangaluru at 5.30 pm to reach Thiruvananthapuram at 6.35 a.m. the next day with effect from December 10. Train No. 06604 Thiruvananthapuram Central -Mangaluru Central Daily Special (Maveli Express) would leave Thiruvananthapuram at 7.25 p.m. to reach Mangaluru at 7.50 a.m. the next day with effect from December 11. The services would operate till further advice. Passengers with advanced reservation tickets alone would be allowed to enter the station and the train. They have to follow COVID-19 protocol. Advance reservation for these trains would open from December 2, the release stated.
02 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Four arrested, ganja seized||The Puttur Town Police on Monday apprehended four persons on charges of transporting cannabis and seized 6.36 kg ganja worth Rs. 1.25 lakh among other valuables. An official communiqué from the Dakshina Kannada district police said the police intercepted two cars at Naityadi and arrested Mohammed Arshad, 26, Riyaz, 27, Abdul Khader Jabir, 23, and Abdul Nazir, 37.
02 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Stir to demand Christian Development Corporation||Ivan D’Souza, former MLC, on Tuesday urged the government to immediately constitute Christian Development Corporation, failing which a State-wide agitation would be launched. While he would lead a hunger strike in Mangaluru on December 4, community leaders would hold a demonstration in Bengaluru on December 7, Mr. D’Souza told reporters here. He said former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy had announced constitution of the corporation in the 2019-20 Budget and had set apart Rs. 75 crore. Memorandum and Article of Associations too were framed by the government. However, the government on June 16 this year rejected the proposal on the direction of the Chief Minister, he said.
02 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Authorities seek ban on temple fair in Bandipur||The Forest Department has sought a ban on public participation in the Beladakuppe Mahadeshwara temple jatra to be held in the second week of December in view of the COVID-19 and to minimise disturbance to wildlife. An annual affair which is growing in terms of public participation every year, it has raised concern among wildlife activists and Forest Department personnel as the temple is located in the core area of Bandipur Tiger Reserve and disturbs wildlife. The Forest Department has already conveyed to the Revenue Department to ensure that there is no public participation, according to S.R. Natesh, Director, Bandipur Tiger Reserve. Other senior officials said the authorities can take a cue from Mysuru Dasara which was curtailed and reduced to a symbolic event this year while there are restrictions on the number of people who can participate in the Panchalinga Darshana at Talakad later this month. Hence they urged the district administration to ban public gathering and permit only the priests to enter the temple precincts to perform the rituals. Beladakuppe Jatra was a non-event till a few years ago but has gained in popularity and tends to attracts thousands of people. Wildlife activists who have campaigned for shifting the temple outside the core tiger reserve said fairs on such a large scale entails stage programmes, use of loudspeakers which disturbs the animals and mass feeding of devotees and the leftover food tends to draw animals which gorge on them. This not only poses a threat to wildlife but will aggravate human-animal conflict as wild animals could become habituated to people’s presence and even start straying into human landscape. Villages surrounding the Hediyala range are already beset with a high degree of human-animal conflict and such fairs will aggravate the crisis, aver the activists. If wild animals lose human fear they become susceptible to being poached. Since the last few years, restrictions are in place and people are only allowed to visit the temple while the fair is held outside the forest limit. But the number of people drawn to the temple during the jatra is itself on the rise and this has a bearing on wildlife habitat. More than 5,000 people visited the temple on a single day considered auspicious, last month, according to Ravikumar, Assistant Conservator of Forest, Hediyala range. He said relocation was a must and is not impossible as the fair can be held outside the forest limits where another temple can be constructed and the idol consecrated again. But this is easier said than done and past efforts involving influential religious pontiffs has not yielded any result. It was resisted by the temple committee members among whom are local elected representatives. The temple festival has emerged as a major contentious issue between the wildlife conservationists on one hand and local community on the other and comes to the fore every year with the authorities trying to balance religious sentiments of the public with wildlife conservation imperatives.
02 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||GTD denies Siddaramaiah’s charges of misuse of money during LS polls||G.T. Deve Gowda, former Minister and JD(S) MLA, on Tuesday denied former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s charges that he had taken any money for campaigning in Mysuru during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Mr. Gowda said his leaders had asked him to support the Congress candidate in view of the seat-sharing arrangement between Congress and JD(S). But, he said he had not handled poll finances during the elections and added that it was Congress MLA Yathindra and JD(S) leader Raju, who handling booth-level expenditures during the elections. “I did not handle finances during the elections. Neither did I give my money nor was I given any money (for election expenditure),” Mr. Gowda said and asked Mr Siddaramaiah to clarify. Mr. Gowda also said that Mr. Siddaramaiah, who knows him from 25 years, also knows that he had not taken money for transfers, execution of work or in any other related matters. Neither has Mr. Siddaramaiah taken any money, Mr Gowda added. The results of the elections for Mysuru, Mandya and Tumakura had caused suspicions, but said the JD(S) and Congress candidates had lost the elections because people did not vote for them and not on account of any role played by money or leaders. The understanding between Congress and JD(S) did not work on the ground because the tie-up between the two parties came about suddenly. It was the ‘Modi wave’ that swept aside even winnable candidates from other parties during the elections, he said. Regarding his political future, Mr. Gowda said he was with the JD(S) at present, but would take a decision on his future depending on the situation. But, the political situation in all the parties is ‘contaminated’, he said. “I have won as a JD(S) candidate and am presently in J (S). It should not be surprising even if I continue in the same party also in future,” he remarked.
02 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Punya Teerth Yatra tour announced||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Ltd (IRCTC) has launched the first tourism-special service – post lockdown, for people of Karnataka covering pilgrimage centres. The service will originate from Tirunelveli and boarding for people of the State will be at Whitefield, Bengaluru on February 6, 2021. The Punya Teerth Yatra under Bharat Darshan package will cover Puri, Konark, Kolkata, Gaya, Varanasi and Prayagraj and the cost of the tour includes all transportation, food and accommodation. The journey is by sleeper class and accommodation at places of tourist interest will be at dormitories or dharmashalas. There will also be a tour escort on board the train. For details, people of Mysuru can contact the IRCTC office at the city railway station or call 8595931295 or 8595931294. The cost is Rs. 9,465 per person and the duration is 9 nights and 10 days.
02 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Vindicated by HC ruling on Vishwanath‘||Describing the High Court’s order disqualifying A.H. Vishwanath, BJP MLC, from becoming a Minister as ‘Satyameva Jayate’, S.R. Mahesh, former Minister and JD(S) MLA, claimed he stands vindicated. Not only is Mr. Vishwanath’s claim over a Ministerial berth unlawful as the High Court has ruled, Mr. Mahesh questioned his nomination to the Legislative Council too. “His nomination to the Legislative Council too would have been struck down had somebody gone to the court on those grounds,” he told reporters in Mysuru on Tuesday. He said his statements against Mr. Vishwanath were being dismissed as ‘political’, but the ruling has given credence to his stance. Further, Mr. Mahesh not only claimed that the petition questioning Mr. Vishwanath’s legality for appointment as Minister had been filed in the court by a person close to one of the Ministerial aspirants, he also said the BJP was never in favour of giving him a berth. “It was for this reason that he was not chosen as its candidate to contest the elections from the Assembly to the Legislative Council and was instead nominated,” he said.
02 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Training centre opened||A free training centre for candidates appearing for competitive examinations was inaugurated in Rachoti Veeranna Vidya Samsthe in Yadgir on Monday. Shanta Mallikarjun Swamiji of Shantashivayogi Mutt inaugurated the centre set up by the Late Veerabhadrappa Devarkal Foundation.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘RSS plotting to divide Kuruba community’||Under the pretext of providing Schedule Tribe (ST) tag for the Kuruba community, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) is plotting to divide the Kuruba community, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah alleged on Tuesday. Speaking at a press conference here, the former Chief Minister alleged that in the name of providing quota for the Kuruba community, RSS leaders such as B.L. Santosh and Dattatreya Hosabale have been using RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa to split the community. “The RSS or the BJP have never backed any community’s struggle for reservation. There was no sincere attempt on the part of the BJP or RSS leaders to provide ST tag to the community,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. He added that there was an effort to mislead and create confusion in the community now using Mr. Eshwarappa. Earlier demand unmet Mr. Siddaramaiah, who also belongs to the community, said the State government had recommended to the Centre to provide ST tag for the Rajagonda community residing in Bidar, Kalaburagi, and Yadgir districts. However, the Central government had not provided ST tag to the community in the last six years, he pointed out. The government’s recommendation to include Koli and Golla communities in the ST category had not been considered by the Centre, he added. Noting that the RSS and the BJP had not been supportive of reservation, he said instead of including the Kuruba community in the ST category, the Centre should increase the ST quota from 3% to 20%. The State government should also accept the caste census report first before provoking the Kurubas to fight seeking quota under the ST list, Mr. Siddaramaiah said. Delegation meets Meanwhile, a delegation of Muslim community leaders met Mr. Siddaramaiah and submitted a memorandum opposing the proposed anti-cow slaughter Bill expected to be tabled in the coming legislature session.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru, Kodagu gearing up for GP elections||The gram panchayats in Mysuru and Kodagu are gearing up for the two-phase elections which were announced on Monday. The GPs in Madikeri and Somwarpet taluks will go to polls in the first phase and those coming under Virajpet taluk in the second phase. In Mysuru district, 148 GPs in Hunsur, K.R. Nagar, Periyapatna, H.D. Kote and Sargur will go to polls in the first phase. A total of 102 GPs in Mysuru, Nanjangud and T. Narsipur will have elections in the second phase. The election notification for the first phase will be issued on December 7 with the last date for filing nominations being December 11. The nominations will be scrutinised on December 12 and the last date for withdrawal is December 14. The elections will be held on December 22, said Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy. Any re-election will be held on December 24. The counting of votes will take place on December 30. In the second phase, the elections will take place on December 27. The notification will be issued on December 11 and December 16 will be the last date to file nominations. The last date for withdrawal will be December 19. Any re-election will take place on December 29. Out of 104 GPs in Kodagu, elections will take place for 101 GPs as the tenure of GPs of Ponnampet, Gonikoppa and Channaiahyanakote will end in 2020-21. The model code of conduct will be confined to the GP limits where the elections are scheduled from November 30 to December 31 and it won’t be applicable to the limits of town panchayats, city municipal councils and city corporations, the Deputy Commissioner said on Monday. Ballot papers will be used for the elections which will be apolitical in nature with no party symbols used by the candidates.Details on GP-wise reservation have been published in www.kodagu.nic.in
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||NEET: Complaint filed against three students||The Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) has lodged a police complaint against three candidates for allegedly submitting fake marksheets during the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). They had been allotted seats in BGS Global Institute of Medical Sciences. In a press release, KEA said the candidates had come to deposit their original documents. But officials found that the documents did not tally with the marksheets available on the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) website. Doubt about photo The release also said that the photo printed on the marks card was not the same as that of the candidates who turned up to submit the original documents. On further investigation, the documents were found to be fake.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Highest number of samples tested in November||The State has tested 31,83,877 samples in November, the highest ever since the COVID-19 pandemic hit the State in March, detecting 61,372 positive cases. This includes 25,52,840 RT-PCR tests. Although November saw the highest number of tests, the highest number of positive cases – 2,75,196 – was detected in September when 20,18,194 samples were tested, according to data provided by the State Health and family Welfare Department. While August saw 2,29,709 cases and October saw 2,14,085 cases, 1,18,688 cases were detected in July when the pandemic started peaking in the State. October saw the highest Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) at 9,24,569 while the highest number of RT-PCR tests were done during November at 25,52,840. New cases On Tuesday, the State reported 1,330 new cases of COVID-19 taking the total number of cases to 8,86,227. With 14 deaths, the toll rose to 11,792. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 886 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,50,707. Of the remaining 23,709 active patients, 336 were being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.40%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.05%. Bengaluru Urban reported 758 cases, taking its tally to 3,70,492. With nine deaths, the toll in the district rose to 4,146. Active cases in Bengaluru touched 17,866. As many as 94,885 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 74,256 RT-PCR tests.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Medical colleges see 60% attendance||While a majority of the students were relieved to be back on campus and make up for lost time, a few students that The Hindu spoke to felt that they were being compelled to attend classes because of the necessity of gaining practical experience ahead of the examinations. “I feel worried and unsafe about taking public transport to college. I have no option as I was unable to comprehend the concepts through online classes,” said a third year MBBS student. Other arrangements Colleges have put in place a slew of precautionary measures and all students had to undergo health screening as well as attend practical classes in batches and maintain social distancing. At hostels, bed occupancy has been rearranged to accommodate fewer students. Rooms that were once meant for four people, will now be occupied by two. Similarly, only one student will be assigned to facilities that accommodated two people prior to COVID-19.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Four held for exploiting woman, taking away baby||A government doctor and three others have been accused of exploiting an unmarried woman by forcibly taking away her newborn baby at Koppa in Chikkamagaluru district. The accused allegedly sold the baby to a couple for Rs. 50,000. The incident came to light on Monday, when the Administrative Medical Officer of MSDM Public Hospital of Koppa filed a complaint with Koppa police. The police have registered the case against G.S.B alakrishna, the doctor, A. Reshma and Shobha, nurses, and Premalatha, a resident of Sringeri, who allegedly took the baby. The unmarried woman, a native of Thirthahalli in Shivamogga district, gave birth to the baby at a hospital on March 14 this year. Exploiting her situation, the doctor and the staff allegedly forced her to leave the baby with them. The staff did not enter the delivery into the hospital records. Later, they handed over the baby to Premalatha, forging the documents including the birth certificate to show that she was the mother of the baby. Premalatha allegedly paid Rs. 50,000 to the staff members, besides Rs. 5,000 to the mother. The woman who had been separated from her baby went into depression. During her stay in a non-governmental organisation in Shivamogga, she reportedly narrated the incident to the staff, who informed the officers of Women and Child Development Department. Based on the information received from the Child Welfare Committee and Child Protection Officer, Ganavi B.S., Administrative Medical Officer of Koppa Hospital, filed the complaint. The case has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC for exploitation, forgery, and criminal intimidation, besides the provisions under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A question mark on love||
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Traffic police collect over Rs. 3 cr. in fines||The traffic police are continuing to crack the whip on motorists failing to follow the rules. In the last one week, 79,359 cases were booked, and Rs. 3.3 crore collected by way of fines. The maximum number of cases was for not wearing a helmet.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Road reopened||
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Correction||With reference to the article, “Vishwanath disqualified for being appointed Minister, says High Court” (Dec. 1, Page 1), a part of the last sentence should have read “ ...the disqualification will operate till 2023...” and not as published. The error is regretted.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Deadline for white-topping||During an inspection on Tuesday, BBMP Administrator Gaurav Gupta directed officials to complete white-topping work on Thanisandra Main Road by January-end in view of the Aero India show.
02 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||279 cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 279 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. It also recorded one COVID-19-related death. Among the fresh cases, 271 patients contracted the disease through local contact, while the source of infection of another three persons remains unknown. Three persons who came from other States and two from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 542 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 5,391.
02 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||No mischievous intent in KSFE raids: Sudhakaran||The controversy over the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) inspection on Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) offices refused to die down with Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran on Tuesday appearing to belittle the stance of Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on the matter. Speaking at an election meeting at Punnapra here, Mr. Sudhakaran said there was nothing unusual about the raids on the KSFE offices. “The Chief Minister has responded and made the stance clear on the issue. The inspection on the KSFE is a normal thing,” the Minister said. He said the VACB was not acting with mischievous intent. “The VACB conducted raids on 12 offices of the Public Works Department. I came to know about the inspections through the media. I remained silent. It is not mandatory that the Minister concerned should know about the raids. These kinds of things do not affect Ministers. Let the VACB and the police do their job,” Mr. Sudhakaran said. Later, the Minister told mediapersons that restraining the Vigilance would be like giving a stick to the Centre to hit the State government. On the Enforcement Directorate carrying out an inquiry at the head office of the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS), Mr. Sudhakaran termed it pointless.
02 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Tension over ‘disrespect’ to body of tribesman||The death of a 60-year-old tribesman led to tense moments in a Paniya tribal hamlet at Arimula, near Kenichira, in Wayanad district, on Tuesday. Gopalan of the Palnada tribal settlement at Arimula died at a private medical college hospital at Meppadi on Sunday morning after being stung by a swarm of bees. Gopalan was stung by bees at Mangod Vayal, near Arimula, on Saturday morning. He was rushed to the taluk hospital at Sulthan Bathery, and later to the medical college hospital. When the body was shifted back to the taluk hospital for a post-mortem examination, it could not be performed since the forensic surgeon was on leave. Subsequently, the body was sent to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode, on Monday evening. ‘Blatant disregard’ By the time the body was shifted to an ambulance, it had started to decay as it “was not kept in freezer at the hospital,” Babu of the hamlet, who accompanied the body in the ambulance, alleged. On the way to the MCH, they were forced to slide down the window glasses of the vehicle as the body started to smell, he added. The post-mortem examination was conducted on Tuesday morning at the MCH. The police and Scheduled Tribes Development Department officials reached the settlement on Tuesday morning with an ambulance to take the kin to the MCH to collect the body after the post-mortem examination. But the tribespeople said the vehicle was too small and demanded a bigger ambulance with freezer facility. When the relatives refused to go along with the officials, the latter brought the body to the hamlet in the evening on Tuesday. Meanwhile, an irate mob detained some department officials who reached the hamlet, alleging that they had shown disrespect to the body. Finally, the body was cremated at a crematorium of tribal people at Thoothiyeri, near Kenichira. However, District Medical Officer R. Renuka told The Hindu that the hospital authorities had never shown disrespect to the body and the allegations were baseless.
02 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Vigilance raid on KSFE: KPCC president sees rift between CM, Finance Minister||Kerala Pradesh Congress president Mullappally Ramachandran has said that the State is witnessing a fight between Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Finance Minister Thomas Isaac over the surprise raid by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) on the offices of the Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE). Speaking to mediapersons here on Tuesday, Mr. Ramachandran said that the raid was conducted in a financial establishment of the government where the Finance Minister was directly involved in its activities. However, the Chief Minister had stated that irregularities were unearthed during the raid, Mr. Ramachandran said. “If it is true, then why was Mr. Isaac speaking against the raid?” he asked. The two leaders had lost their joint responsibility in the State government owing to the internal conflict in the Communist Party of India (Marxist), he alleged.
02 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Man gets life term for sexual abuse of boy||The Taliparamba Fast Track Court on Tuesday sentenced Suresh, a resident of Kudiyanmala, 42, to life imprisonment for sexually abusing a 14-year-old boy. The special judge, Mujeeb Rehman, convicted Suresh of indulging in unnatural sex and abusing the boy in 2015. He would have to serve another six months if he failed to pay the fine of Rs. 50,000. He was also sentenced to 10 years rigorous imprisonment and ordered to pay Rs. 11,000 as fine for burning the hands of the boy using a cigarette. His imprisonment would be extended by another three months if he failed to pay the fine. The court ordered that the compensation be paid to the boy’s family if the accused paid it.
02 December 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Former office aide to MLA granted bail||The Hosdurg First Class Magistrate Court on Tuesday granted bail to Pradeep Kumar, former office secretary to MLA K.B Ganesh Kumar, who is accused of threatening Vipin Lal, an approver in the actor assault case. The court granted bail to Mr. Kumar, who was arrested by the Bekal Police on May 24, with strict conditions. The police registered a case and arrested Mr. Kumar on a complaint filed by Mr. Lal, in which he stated that he was threatened and intimidated by a person to change his statement in the case.
02 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Dedicated city corridors for pedestrians on the cards||The ongoing initiative to earmark more public spaces in the city and in West Kochi as open spaces is set to intensify, with Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) considering corridors like P.T. Usha Road in the heart of the city to be turned into dedicated spaces for pedestrians and into an arena for night shopping. The road which links Hospital Road and Mullassery Canal Road can be converted into a no-vehicle zone during night time, as a preliminary step to realise this. The project can be executed by February end, according to sources in the agency. “Already, CSML’s works to renovate Vasco Da Gama Square in Fort Kochi and convert it into an open space where entry and parking of vehicles will be barred, is in its final leg. The square would be fully opened to visitors later this month. Steps will be taken to prevent entry of vehicles into the prime open space which faces the beach. There is plenty of alternative space available in the tourist locale to park vehicles — before and after the square and the adjacent children’s park.” “Stakeholders will be consulted to ready a few thattukada -type kiosks which sell ethnic food to visitors, since the tourist hub need such eateries where hygienically-prepared street food is available at a reasonable rate, like in developed countries. The portable kiosks would have to be cleared from the locale every night. Much of the work is over and lights are being installed,” they said. Walkway renovation The renovation of northern half of the Marine Drive walkway too is expected to get over by month-end, following which the other half would be readied by March 2021. Both CSML and Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) are on the lookout to carve out more niche open spaces, in keeping with public sentiment, especially from families which have been staying away from public spaces since the pandemic-induced lockdown. “We welcome the proposal to carve out such streets and open spaces where there will be curbs on entry of vehicles,” said G. Karthikeyan, president, Kerala Merchants Chamber of Commerce. “Such pedestrian zones like the one (for a walking-mall-like walkway on one side) that was envisaged by KMRL on MG Road but failed to take off, would have considerably helped revive business activity on the stretch. Multi-tier parking lots in vacant spaces beside shops would have benefited shoppers and shop owners alike.” He lauded CSML’s ongoing initiatives to develop the Ernakulam Market and to renovate streets in the vicinity to make them pedestrian friendly.
02 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||No govt. sanction required for prosecuting accused, says CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) informed the Kerala High Court on Tuesday that no government sanction was required for prosecuting Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) State president R. Chandrasekharan and former managing director of the Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation K.A. Ratheesh in a corruption case registered in connection with procurement of inferior quality raw cashew nuts from abroad. When a petition challenging the government order declining sanction came up for hearing, CBI counsel submitted that as the accused were not occupying any posts in the corporation on the date of filing the First Information Report (FIR), no sanction was required for their prosecution as mandated under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The Supreme Court had consistently held that government sanction needs be obtained only when the accused public servants continue to occupy the same posts. Besides, there was no need for obtaining sanction from the government even under the new amendment to the Prevention of Corruption Act in 2018 as the alleged corruption took place well before the amendment came into force.
02 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Blackmailing case key accused arrested||The Central police on Tuesday arrested the key accused in a case in which an industrialist was robbed of money and valuables through blackmailing. The arrested was identified as Ajmal Ibrahim, 32, of Kuttyadi in Kozhikode. The other two accused in the case had already been arrested. The police said that the accused had established contact with the Kochi-based industrialist, originally from Kozhikode, masquerading as brokers and then took him from his flat in Kochi to Mysore by car in the garb of meeting a woman as part of a potential marriage proposal. He was led to a house in a deserted area in Mysore where the woman and those claiming to be her parents were present. He was then sent inside a room in the guise of having a chat with the potential bride but was instead locked up from outside. Shortly, a few people claiming to be members of the Karnataka police barged in .They allegedly threatened him and took his nude pictures with the woman. The accused then allegedly resorted to blackmailing the victim using those pictures and robbed him of Rs. 1 lakh and his costly watch. He was also made to sign on a few blank stamp papers. He was then taken to Nadapuram where he was robbed of another Rs. 2 lakh. The victim lodged a police petition after the accused demanded more money by threatening to implicate him in sexual harassment and drug cases. The incident had taken place in February last year and the key accused had been absconding since then. He was produced before the court and remanded. A team led by Central inspector S. Vijayasankar, sub inspectors Arul S.T and Fuljan, and assistant sub inspector Gopi made the arrest.
02 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Court to monitor Customs probe||The Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences) Court here will monitor the probe by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Kochi, in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. The court asked the investigating officer to file a report on the progress of the investigation every three months, till the submission of the final report. Deepu C., judge of the Economic Offences Court, gave this order on Tuesday while dismissing the contempt of court proceedings demanded by the key accused Swapna Suresh against Customs officers and the media for leaking a portion of her statement given under Section 108 of the Customs Act. Action against officer However, the court directed Chief Commissioner of Customs (Preventive), Kochi, to take strict disciplinary action against the erring officer who leaked the petitioner’s statement or/any portion without unreasonable delay. It also asked the official to file a detailed report in a sealed cover. The court pointed out that it is not expected to tolerate such unethical practice of officer/officers that may ultimately harm fair investigation. “Needless to say, the possibility of a fair trial is remote in the absence of fair investigation. In this backdrop, it appears that monitoring the process of investigation to rule out the chance of the aforesaid malpractice is inevitable in the interest of justice,” the judge observed. The judge said that all his observations in the order were mainly meant to make the investigation agency more alert and active in the manner that will ultimately help the trial court to discharge its sublime function of fair adjudication. The act of leaking and publishing cannot be termed as contempt as defined under Section 2(c) of the Contempt of Courts Act, he said.
02 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Recoveries exceed fresh cases in Kozhikode||Recoveries exceeded fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district on Tuesday when 481 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and 913 others were cured of the infection. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, there were 458 cases of local transmission and the source was unknown in 13 cases. Right now, there are 6,340 active cases. As many as 4,090 people are under home isolation. The test positivity rate is 9.04% and the samples sent for lab testing were 4,445.  In Wayanad A total of 138 people, including three health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Tuesday, taking the total number of active cases to 1,330. Of the new cases, 148 patients were infected through local contacts and two persons came from other States. As many as 138 people recovered on the day.
02 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Work begins at CSL for anti-submarine vessels||The Cochin Shipyard on Tuesday began cutting steel for the Anti-Submarine Warfare Shallow Water Crafts (ASWSWCs) it is building for the Indian Navy. Vice Admiral G. Ashok Kumar, Vice Chief of the Naval Staff, announced through video-conferencing the commencement of steel cutting for the first of the eight ships to be built by the shipyard. Shipyard chairman and managing director Madhu S. Nair was present. The shipyard signed a contract for the construction of the eight vessels on April 30 last year after a competitive bidding process. The contract is worth Rs. 6,311 crore and the slated date of completion is 90 months from the date of signing of the contract. The Anti-Submarine Warfare Shallow Water Crafts are designed for a top speed of 25 knots and complement of 57 personnel and capable of full scale sub surface surveillance of coastal waters and co-ordinated anti-submarine warfare operations with aircraft. In addition, the vessels will have the capability to interdict/destroy sub surface targets in coastal waters. They can also be deployed for day and night search and rescue in coastal areas.
02 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC admits plea against freezing DA revision||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Centre government and the FACT management on a writ petition challenging the management action in freezing the revision of dearness allowance of FACT employees. The petition was filed by the FACT Workers’ Organisation. According to it, the company had frozen the revision of DA due from July 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021, under the guise of the COVID-19 situation. The petitioner contended that the management was bound to revise DA quarterly as per the All Indian Consumer Price Index under the trilateral agreement. Therefore, the action of the management was illegal. The enhanced DA already paid to the workers would be recovered from the November salary. The action was a clear infringement of the fundamental right of the employees. The authorities were bound to act in a fair and reasonable manner in strict compliance with the statutory mandates under the Industrial Disputes Act, the petition said.
02 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||504 new cases in district||A total of 504 people in the district contracted COVID-19 on Tuesday while 659 patients recovered. The source of infection of 162 of the new patients remained untraced. Eight health workers were among the newly infected. Thrikkakara recorded 24 and Thripunithura and Palluruthy recorded 20 infections each on Tuesday. As many as 16 migrant workers also tested positive. As on Tuesday, 27,557 people were under disease surveillance. Fresh admissions to hospitals/FLTCs were 102. The district had a total of 7,959 patients. A fresh lot of 7,011 samples were sent from the district for testing on the day.
02 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bail granted to lab employee||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday granted bail to Muhammed Unais, the fourth accused in a case registered by the Valanchery police in Malappuram in connection with collecting lakhs of rupees from Gulf passengers by issuing fake COVID-19 certificates. The prosecution case was that the petitioner, an employee of a laboratory in Valanchery, had collected samples for conducting the COVID-19 test from various persons but they were sent to two other labs for the test.
02 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ambulance driver moves HC for bail||A bail petition was filed in the High Court on Tuesday by an ambulance driver from Kayamkulam who allegedly raped a COVID-19 patient inside the vehicle. The prosecution case was that the 19-year-old COVID patient was sexually assaulted by the driver, Noufal, while taking her to a COVID care centre in Pathanamthitta. His bail plea had been earlier dismissed by the Pathanamthitta Sessions court.
02 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Three of family found dead||Three members of a family were found dead at their rented house at North Paravur on Tuesday night. The deceased were identified as P.N. Rajesh, 55, wife Nisha, 49, and their son Anand Raj, 16. They were natives of Kuzhippilly but were reportedly staying at North Paravur for rent for over a year. The husband and wife were found in a sitting posture on the floor and the son on the bed. Though suicide is suspected, the police were yet to confirm it. Suicide prevention helpline: 0484 - 2540530
02 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Accused in multiple cases held||The Central police arrested a person accused in multiple vehicle theft cases besides on charge of knocking down a cop engaged in vehicle checking, and insulting a woman. The arrested was identified as Alex Devassy, 25, of Njarakkal. His co-accused Yedukrishnan aka Unnikrishnan had already been arrested in another theft case by the Munambam police. The arrested was accused of outraging the modesty of a woman at Goshree Road near the High Court Junction last month. A case had already been registered in this connection when the accused knocked down a cop engaged in vehicle checking at Madhava Pharmacy last week when they were stopped on noticing that the number plate of their two-wheeler was missing. The motorcycle was later found abandoned. The accused was nabbed with the help of CCTV footage. After abandoning the motorcycle, the accused had allegedly stolen another two-wheeler from the Power House Road. He was picked up along with the stolen vehicle. On interrogation, the accused allegedly confessed to have stolen the motorcycle when he had insulted the woman from Vadakkekara, and the one used for knocking down the cop from Aluva.
02 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Petition against MLA withdrawn||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday dismissed as withdrawn a writ petition seeking a CBI probe into allegations that North Paravur MLA V.D. Satheesan had received contributions from the U.K. in the name of constructing houses for those who had lost houses in the 2018 floods in his constituency. When the petition filed by Jaison Panikulangara of Kochi came up for hearing, Justice V.G. Arun asked the petitioner to move the plea before the bench dealing with public interest litigation. So, the petitioner’s counsel sought to withdraw the petition.
02 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||A lifeline for indigenous mango varieties||While most Malayalis are familiar with Alphonso, a premium GI-tagged mango variety from Maharashtra, they may not have tasted Kalkanda vellari, Kolambi , or Muthalamookkan . Though Kerala boasts of a wide range of indigenous mango varieties, many of them are on the verge of extinction. Now, the Farming Systems Research Station, Sadanandapuram, under Kerala Agricultural University, has launched a three-year programme to preserve the endangered breeds. “Kerala has the highest number of native varieties known as nattu mavu . Mango trees are felled for making funeral pyre and very often rare breeds get axed. There are numerous nameless varieties in rural Kerala and we will be first focussing on the four southern districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, and Kottayam,” says B.Bindu, assistant professor, who heads the project. The project, funded by the Department of Environment and Climate Change, will map all indigenous trees in backyards, farms, orchards, and public places as the first step in preserving their diversity. Later, as per the scientific procedure, their flowering and fruiting will be documented in order to catalogue them. “Mango trees are one species largely affected by climate change. So, we will need to find good varieties that are also resistant to climate change and then all such scattered breeds will be brought together at the research station. After conducting etymological studies, they will be made available to farmers and the public,” she says. In the next phase, based on a standard procedure that uses different variables such as thickness of skin, flesh content, and sweetness, the trees will be catalogued. After selecting the right trees, they will be grafted to cultivate the prototype and mother plant for conservation. “You can’t always grow the same variety using the seed.”  Public can help Farmers and individuals who want to conserve any particular indigenous variety can contact the station at 8137840196.
02 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||349 new cases in Kollam||The district reported 349 new cases of COVID-19, four deaths and 543 recoveries on Tuesday. Among the patients are 343 contact cases, four health workers and one person with no known source. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 70-year-old Mangode resident, 65-year-old Kottarakara resident, 75-year-old Thattamala resident and 68-year-old Kalayanadu resident are due to COVID-19. An 34-year-old Ummannur resident is the case with no known source. The health workers who contracted the virus are from Ayalamon, Oachira, Karungappally and Kollam. The district currently has 15,848 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,64,663. A total of 1,820 people completed home quarantine on Tuesday. The number of active cases at present is 4,063.
02 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Tough battle on the cards in Kottayam||With a charged-up LDF looking to dent the political hegemony of the ruling UDF, the battle for the Kottayam municipality is expected to be a tough contest this time. The fight for the local body, as for the entire Central Travancore, has become all the more exciting ever since the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani has given up its decades-long association with the Congress to join the Left coalition. All eyes are now on how effective this new association, which till a few months ago was regarded as most unlikely if not impossible, will turn out to be. While the departure of the Mani group has helped the coalition to accommodate more seat aspirants this time, the sharing of seats has not come without disputes. The Congress, which contests in as many as 48 seats, has to deal with rebels in four seats while the Indian Union Muslim League and the KC(M) P.J. Joseph group contest in three and one seat respectively. Notwithstanding reports on the discontent brewing in the rank and file over the sharing of seats along group lines, the UDF hopes to win at least 32 seats this time. “The exit of the Mani group has indeed presented a new headache, but the UDF, as a traditional favourite, still holds the edge,” observed a senior Congress leader. Task cut out The LDF, meanwhile, has the task cut out if it has to stage an upset win. Bolstered by the entry of the KC(M) Mani group, the coalition has launched an intense campaign across wards and hopes to maintain the initial momentum till the end. “Electioneering is going on in full swing right from the booth level while social media networks too have been activated,” said V.N. Vasavan, CPI(M) district secretary. Of the 52 seats, the CPI(M) contests in as many as 33 seats while the CPI has fielded candidates in eight seats. The new entrant, KC(M), has been given adequate representation by allotting seven seats while the remaining four seats are shared between the remaining allies. The National Democratic Alliance, which has fielded candidates in 48 seats, hopes to improve its overall tally to two digits and has based its poll plank mainly on the administrative gains of the Narendra Modi government and the ‘corrupt administration’ of the LDF government in the State and the UDF municipal council. During the previous election in 2015, the coalition won six wards and of this the BJP won five. Independents Meanwhile, the considerable influence wielded by some Independent candidates in certain wards has added to the concerns of the major coalitions. As many as three Independents had won in the previous election to the municipal council here while the council elected in 2010 had nine Independents in it.
02 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||High alert declared in Kottayam||In view of a warning issued by the Indian Meteorological Department over a cyclone formed in the Bay of Bengal, a high alert has been declared in Kottayam. An emergency meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), convened by District Collector M. Anjana on Tuesday, issued a set of directions to the various departments. District Police Chief G Jaidev, Additional District Magistrate Anil Oommen and district heads of various departments were present in the meeting. Taking into consideration the possibility of a very heavy rainfall in the hilly areas of Idukki and Pathanamthitta districts, the DDMA has directed the departments concerned to keep a special watch in Meenachil and Kanjirapally taluks. Relocate people The Collector also directed the officers to take immediate steps to relocate people living in places prone to landslides to safer places after issuing warnings through public announcements. Relief camps will be set up for those in areas previously affected by floods and landslides while those in poramboke lands, slopes and isolated areas will also be relocated to these camps in advance. Adherence to the COVID-19 protocol will be ensured while operating the camps. Control rooms will be functioning round- the-clock in the Collectorate, taluk offices and local self-government institutions. The local body authorities in association with the Fire and Rescue Services have been directed to cut down vulnerable trees. The KSEB has been asked to set up a 24-hour control room. The Revenue Department has been designated as the agency responsible for the general coordination of the disaster relief operations. The incident response system in the district and the taluk level vigilance system too were reviewed. In Pathanamthitta Meanwhile in Pathanamthitta, Collector P.B. Noohu has suspended the operation of quarries from December 2 to 4 in view of the heavy rain. Besides quarrying, activities including digging of huge pits and soil mining in the foothills too have been banned during the period. In case of a heavy rainfall, the shutters of the Maniyar barrage may have to be raised by 100 cm after 6 a.m. on December 2 to adjust the water level to 34.62 meters. People living on the banks of the Kakattar and Pampayar, Maniyar and in the locations including Perunad, Vadaserikkara, Ranni, Kozhencherry and Aranmula have been asked to exercise caution as the water level in the Kakattar could rise up to 100 cm.
02 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam sees spike with 585 new cases||As many as 585 people in Kottayam tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday Of the fresh cases, all but three contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 75 children and 84 people aged above 60 years. With 79 cases, Kottayam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Thalayolaparambu with 44 cases. Erumely and Kanjirappally reported 22 and 21 cases respectively. With 399 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,680 active cases while 12,373 people are under observation
02 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Special ballot papers to be issued from Saturday||The district election office has made arrangements to issue application forms for the special postal ballot papers for those undergoing quarantine and COVID-19 patients from Saturday. The printed application forms and covers, which reached the district, have been shifted to the material cell at the collectorate. This included the application for a special postal ballot paper and affidavit stating that the voter is a COVID-19 patient or those undergoing quarantine at homes or COVID-19 centres. Nearly 2,16,750 application forms each and affidavit sheets for COVID-19 patients and those undergoing quarantine have been allotted for issue in the district. Besides, another 1,91,200 affidavit forms for voters and 43,500 witness forms and covers are also part of the materials. The COVID-19 patients can take part in the postal vote from December 5 till 3 p.m. on December 13. The new rule was enforced based on the Panchayat Raj Act and the Kerala Municipality Act. COVID-19 patients, who are unable to vote through a special postal ballot, can exercise their franchise after the official polling ends at 5 p.m. on December 14. They would have to wear the mandatory PPE kit. There are 2,987 polling booths in the district. Facilities have been made at the booths for social distancing in view of the spread of COVID-19. Training for staff Meanwhile, the training for polling officers commenced in the district. Adhering to the COVID-19 protocol, the training was held at the Kozhikode taluk office, Vadakara municipal hall, and Koyilandy municipal hall. The polling officers were tutored on handling the voting machines and using the poll manager app. The training was imparted for polling officers and presiding officers. They were coached on the precautionary steps to be taken for voters who have tested positive including the using and safe disposal of PPE kits. Training was completed for sectoral officers for the distribution of polling materials at various centres. Candidates and political parties have been allowed to employ dummy ballot paper and ballot units for awareness campaigns. However, the dummy ballot paper should not be identical to the original in size and colour. The State Election Commission has decided to use white ballot paper for grama panchayats, municipalities and corporations; sky blue colour for district panchayats and pink for block panchayats. Candidates can print their names and symbols on the dummy ballot paper but not their rival contestants and symbols.
02 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||COVID-19 cases declining||The active COVID-19 case load has been declining in Kozhikode district compared with the situation in October, though there is no let-up in the daily test positivity rate (TPR), the number of people testing positive for the virus per 100 samples, which is between 10% and 14%. The number of deaths has also not come down significantly. The total number of active cases in the district had crossed above 12,000 once in October. By November first week, the daily figure came down to around 9,000. As on December 1, there are 6,340 active cases here. The number of people getting infected every day, which once went above 1,500 in October, was down to below 1,000 in November. It is crossing 800 only sporadically now. There is, however, no significant let-up in the daily TPR though the total TPR so far is below 9%. The district administration had decided to impose prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in October first week till the month-end after the TPR rose from 4% in September first week to 5.8% in the second week, 7.8% in the third week, and 10.8% in the fourth week. Thereafter, it was well above 14%. The surge in fresh cases was attributed to the Onam celebrations and relaxation of restrictions by a section of people. The prohibitory orders were extended to another 15 days in an order on October 31 though the district administration claimed that the TPR had been brought down to 10%.The TPR had been hovering between around 9% and 14% in November. It is learnt that the daily quota of lab tests for Kozhikode district is 6,500. There has been only a slight decline in the number of deaths as well. While 62 people succumbed to the infection in October, 56 people died in November.
02 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Police lathicharge protesting students||The police resorted to a mild lathicharge against activists of the Kerala Students Union (KSU) and the Muslim Students Federation (MSF), who were staging a sit-in on the Calicut University campus at Tenhipalam in Malappuram district on Tuesday, in protest against the ongoing recruitment of faculty members for various departments. The student activists claimed that the university authorities were sabotaging the reservation criteria in the interview. They also alleged that backlog posts were not filled too. The interview process was to begin around 10 a.m. As the activists had locked the administrative block and sat in front of the building, the candidates could not get inside. With Vice-Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj not inviting them for talks, the activists decided to continue their protest. The police reached there and resorted to mild lathicharge. Following this, a few candidates could go inside with the help of the police. There were minor skirmishes between the activists and the police in between. The protesters alleged that some of their colleagues were dragged by the police to make way for the candidates. KSU State president K.M. Abhijith and MSF State president P.K. Navas were present. By around 3 p.m., all the activists were taken into custody. Meanwhile, of the 20 persons who were supposed to attend the interview on Tuesday, five could not make it. Twenty-one people are expected to attend the process on Wednesday.
02 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||LDF seeks to reprise role in Ramanattukara||In less than a fortnight, Ramanattukara will go to the polls a second time after it became a municipality. The local body, which takes pride in the State level recognition of being the best in fund utilisation, was ruled by the Left Democratic Front in the first innings. The civic body had made a mark in the State, despite the initial glitches of transformation from a grama panchayat to a municipality. The LDF had snatched the power from UDF, which was ruling the Ramanattukara grama panchayat previously, in a close fight, with a lead of just two seats. In the five years since, the LDF-led ruling body claims to have completed 90% of the promises made during the last poll. Among the developmental projects highlighted by the LDF are a drinking water project, which is in the final stages of completion and expected to ensure supply of drinking water in all houses in the town. The town revitalisation project revived by the municipal council after the dismantling of the Calicut Development Authority, which was its previous implementing agency, and the accolades received by the Primary Health Centre in the municipality are also pointed out as the LDF’s achievements. The implementation of the Vayomithram project that ensures free medical aid to elderly citizens and the project for a new municipal office building are the other projects highlighted projects. Vazhayil Balakrishnan, Municipal Chairman, said that a playground and crematorium, which were part of the earlier election manifesto, could not be realised and that those projects could be executed in a second term. However, the opposition says that many of the council’s developmental projects were left halfway. “The drinking water project should have been completed at least a year ago. What works could have been finished in a month is being prolonged indefinitely due to the lack of interest of the Chairman,” said K.P. Abdussamad, IUML councillor and development standing committee chairman of the municipality. He also alleged that the council had a huge debt incurred due to carelessness and lack of intervention at the right time. Both the fronts have fielded a rather new set of candidates this time, with only a few sitting councillors vying for the seats. Both fronts boast of having a young brigade to take their legacy forward.
02 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Takes charge as OASIS secretary general||Aneen N. Kutty, Professor, Orthopaedics, Government Medical College, Kozhikode, has assumed charge as the secretary general of the Orthopaedic Association of South Indian States (OASIS). He was chosen for the post during OASISCON, the annual conference of the association, which was held through a virtual conference from Hyderabad for two days. Dr. Kutty is a former honorary secretary of the Kerala Orthopaedic Association, and former president of the Kozhikode chapter of the Indian Medical Association. Raghava Dutt Mulukutla, director and chief of spine surgery, Udai Omni & Apollo Health City, Hyderabad, Telangana, took over as president of the organisation.
02 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Panel orders payment of dues to retired officer||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has directed the Taluk Supply Officer of Vadakara to provide the salary arrears and other benefits to his predecessor within three weeks. The action has been taken based on the complaint of T.S. Bimal Prasad, who retired from service in May 2020. Despite the claims that all his benefits had been handed over, the present Taluk Supply Officer could not furnish any proof and hence the order. The officer has also been asked to submit an action taken report.
02 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Call to back prohibitionists||The Kerala Madhya Virudha Janakeeya Munnani has urged voters to elect those candidates who support liquor ban and those who keep up life values. The forum criticised the State government for its liquor policy at a recent meeting presided over by chairman Joshua Mar Ignathios here. Taking away the power of local bodies for granting licence to bars and liquor shops locally, the government had surrendered to the liquor lobby. General convener Eyyacheri Kunhikrishnan and others were present.
02 December 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||UDF strong enough to stand alone: Chandy||Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said here on Tuesday that the United Democratic Front (UDF) was strong enough not to plump for electoral ties with anyone outside the front. “We are confident of our strength. We are standing united. And we will make huge gains in this elections without anybody’s support from outside,” he said. Mr. Chandy, however, said that the election would be an evaluation of both the government and the Opposition. If the LDF makes gains in the civic body polls, then it will indicate the failure of the Opposition in Kerala. He said that the CPI(M) should make its stand clear and tell the people about the controversies shrouding the Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE). He blamed the LDF for its stand towards local civic bodies. “The LDF has followed a policy of taking away the powers of the civic bodies. The Left governments have not given any more power to the civic bodies than what was given by the A.K. Antony-led UDF government. Rather, the LDF government has cut the powers of the local civic administration,” he said.
02 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Ramya Haridas enters electioneering in wheelchair||Ramya Haridas, MP of Alathur, who was resting after a bone fracture she suffered in a fall, entered the electioneering in her constituency wearing a heavy bandage on the left leg. Confined to a wheelchair, Ms. Haridas canvassed votes for the United Democratic Front (UDF) candidates. Her campaign began from Chittur, near here, on Tuesday. She inaugurated the second phase of the electioneering in Chittur-Thathamangalam municipality. Ms. Haridas also inaugurated a Congress convention at Polpulli. Prakash Polpulli presided over the function. She attended meetings at Nallepilli, Eruthempathy, and Kozhinjampara.
02 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Ananganmala ecotourism centre to reopen today||The Ananganmala Ecotourism Centre, near Ottapalam, will reopen after eight months on Wednesday. Renovation work was done by spending Rs. 30 lakh at the centre during the lockdown. Officials said December used to bring the largest number of visitors to the centre. The old ticket counter was replaced with a new one, and a new eco shop and a canteen were opened. The bridge connecting Ananganmala and Koonanmala was also renovated. Better parking area was also provided.
02 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||283 in Pathanamthitta||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Pathanamthitta shot up to 283 on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 251 people contracted the virus through local contact and of this, the contact source of 64 people were yet to be ascertained. Among the local bodies, Thiruvalla reported 22 cases, followed by Ranni-Perunad with 20 cases. Meanwhile, one more COVID-19 patient died due to co-morbidity, taking the total number of deaths in connection with the pandemic to 125.
02 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||COVID-19 testing for Sabarimala employees||The health authorities on Tuesday kickstarted a COVID-19 testing drive for those serving at the Sabarimala Sannidhanam for over 14 days. According to officials, about 200 people will be subjected to antigen tests daily at the health centre in Pampa. The examination will begin at 3 p.m. every day.
02 December 2020||S.R. PraveenTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Adoor Bhasi’s brief brush with local body polls||One of the most memorable images of actor Adoor Bhasi is of a tireless campaigner in a panchayat election singing the song 'Kuruvipetti...', laden with election promises. In that song from the 1966 film Sthanarthi Saramma , written by Vayalar Ramavarma, he promises everything from mountains of rice to an airport near the canal, and even a promise to dismiss the Tax Department. But, it is a little known fact that a few years before that film, in the early 1960s, Adoor Bhasi was himself a candidate in a local body election, contesting in the Vazhuthacaud ward of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. It was K. Balakrishnan, better known as Kaumudi Balakrishnan, one of the founders of the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), who was one of Bhasi's mentors who suggested him to become a candidate. Bhasi was then in his early days as an actor, having become a known face in the theatre circuit in Thiruvananthapuram. He was up against a candidate from the Praja Socialist Party (PSP), led by Pattom Thanu Pillai. Bhasi's brother and journalist Padman had written about some of the comic incidents during the campaigning for that election in his book Adoor Bhasi - Chiriyum Chinthayum . Outsider tag The most striking one has to do with Bhasi's name, which had the place name Adoor attached to it. It would have been an advantage if he were contesting in Adoor, but in Thiruvananthapuram, it was easy to get an outsider tag while contesting. Bhasi had begun his ground-level campaigning from the house of an old patriarch, which had more than 50 votes in the extended family. The moment he mentioned his name to the patriarch, he shot back, "If you are from Adoor, why didn't you contest from there?" In another part, Bhasi talks about walking briskly away on spotting his own campaign committee office while taking a walk through Vazhuthacaud, because he did not have enough money to give the workers in there. Veteran journalist T.J.S. George, in his memoir Ghoshayathra , talks about the campaigning during which Pattom Thanu Pillai, forgetting for a moment that he was supposed to speak against Bhasi, started praising his talent and the brilliant writings by his grandfather C.V. Raman Pillai and father E.V. Krishna Pillai. Despite all the hope invested on him by the Opposition front, Adoor Bhasi lost the election to the civic body by 30 votes.
02 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Steps to handle cyclone emergencies||The district has launched preparations on a war footing for tackling emergencies that may arise due to the developments on the weather front, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. With the deep depression over Bay of Bengal strengthening into Cyclone ‘Burevi’ on Tuesday, special attention is being given to 48 villages in the district. The Collector has issued directions to the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) and the Irrigation Department to release water from dams, given the possibility that the district could receive very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall over the next few days. The assistance of the armed forces and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) for handling emergencies had been ensured, Ms. Khosa, who chaired an urgent meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) here, said. The Revenue and Local Self-Government departments had initiated measures to ensure the prompt evacuation of people from vulnerable locations. A detailed list of locations and establishments had been finalised for opening relief camps. Buildings identified as locations for polling stations for local body polls were avoided from this list. The Kerala State Electricity Board, KWA and the Civil Supplies Department had been directed to provide power and water supply and food to the relief camps when required, the Collector said. The Hydrology Department had been tasked with the monitoring of water levels in the Neyyar, Killi and Karamana rivers. At present, the water levels were monitored at 8 a.m., 12 p.m., and 4 p.m. Over the next three days, the monitoring would be carried out at 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. in the three rivers. The Irrigation Department had initiated steps to avert waterlogging. The Minor Irrigation Department had been asked to clean up canals to ensure uninterrupted flow. Fishers were prohibited from setting out to sea till further notice in view of the ‘rough seas’ alert issued by Indian Meteorological Department.
02 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nod for VACB probe against Chennithala||Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan has given his nod for a Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) inquiry against Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) legislator K.M. Shaji in separate cases. The VACB had sought his permission to initiate a probe against the Leader of the Opposition following Kerala Bar Hotel Association (KBHA) working president Biju Ramesh’s revelation that he had paid a bribe to Mr. Chennithala when he was the State Congress chief. The government had also received legal advice that the Governor’s permission was not required to initiate a Vigilance probe against Mr. Chennithala as he was not a Minister then. The VACB had conducted a ‘confidential inquiry’ into the allegation that the KBHA had bribed Mr. Chennithala and two Ministers in the previous Oommen Chandy government to roll back a proposed bar licence fee hike. The Home Department had sought the nod for a VACB inquiry against Mr. Shaji following complaints that the IUML legislator had amassed wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income. However, the Speaker was not approached for permission for a VACB probe against Congress legislator V.S. Sivakumar and former Excise Minister K. Babu, who were also accused in the bar bribery case. Requests for permission for a VACB probe against senior Congress legislators V.D. Satheesan and Anwar Sadath are also before the Speaker. Official sources said the VACB had been asked to submit more details in connection with the proposed probe against the two legislators. The complaint against Mr. Satheesan is that he had accepted foreign financial aid without prior approval for the flood rehabilitation project Punarjani in the Paravoor Assembly constituency. “Politically motivated” Meanwhile, Mr. Chennithala said the decision of the Speaker was “politically motivated” and it was not a surprise as the Speaker acted as per the wishes of the Chief Minister. “It was investigated twice. It is a revenge for exposing the Left government’s misdeeds. We will face it legally and politically,” he added.
02 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Transpeople get short shrift from parties||With polling set to begin in a week, the presence of only one transgender person among 74,899 candidates in the fray for the local body elections in the State is causing consternation in the transgender community. Though two transgender candidates had announced their candidature, as Independents, the nomination of one got rejected owing to technical reasons, leaving K. Sneha the sole transgender candidate in the fray from Ward 36 of the Kannur Corporation. ‘Not trans-friendly’ Transgender poet Vijayarajamallika is very disappointed that despite a transgender policy, Transgender Justice Boards, Transgender Cell, and increasing transgender awareness, the State is sill not trans-friendly. Political parties are still not ready to accept transgender persons into their organisations, support their candidature, or work to make them win. “They are contesting as Independents. The parties are still not evolved enough to bring transgender people into the administration.” Vijayarajamallika apprehends that some invisible agencies who do not want their presence in administration are at work. This is because of lack of proper awareness. The hope is that in the next election, more parties will field transgender candidates. How much ever the State supports transgender persons, without their presence in administration, the government’s responses will not be effective or empathetic, says Vijayarajamallika. Syama S. Prabha, project officer in the Transgender Cell, concurs that society neglects, at many levels, the community. “Someone who is not receptive to the community is unlikely to be open to the idea of seeing a transgender person in the administrative domain. This is why many transgenders are reluctant to fight elections.” Funds for polls Without political backing, it is not easy for transgender persons to contest polls as Independents. One of the reasons is financial, as electioneering requires funds, but not many of them can afford it. Again, without societal support, whom will they ask for votes other than the transgender community, Syama asks. The low number of transgenders – 282 - on the final voter list is also being seen with some concern. This reflects the number of people who have chosen transgender in their election ID. Many others have a binary identity – male or female. This may be a problem as even though the transgender population in the State is estimated to be sizeable, records do not show the same. And without numbers, the voice of the community may not be heard, nor will their chances of representation in the corridors of power go up.
02 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Case graph rising in many districts||COVID-19 transmission has generally come down in the State and the epidemic curve has remained on a plateau for nearly a month. However, the test positivity rate (TPR) and doubling time trends, two key indicators of the rate of infection or the spread of the virus, are beginning to change in certain districts, indicating that the case graphs here are likely to go up soon. Public health experts have all along been cautioning that it would take several peaks and troughs before the epidemic wanes and that the local body elections and the Sabarimala pilgrimage would be the two main triggers which could result in another peak in the State The State-wide doubling time of cases has been going up steadily for the past two or more months and it has gone up from 69 days last week to 77 days now, indicating that it is taking longer time for the virus to spread to new persons. However, the doubling time came down, though marginally, this week in Wayanad, Malappuram, Idukki, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta when compared with last week. The doubling time is the highest in Kasaragod at 172 days while it is the lowest at 42 days in Idukki. Similarly, when the TPR has remained around 9-11% in the State for a while now, it is the highest in Malappuram at 15.8%. Last week, this was 17.1%. When compared with the previous week, the TPR has gone up in Idukki (8.4% to 9.3%), Kannur (8.3% to 8.4%), Kottayam (9.2% to 10.8%), Kozhikode (10.6% to 11.8%), Wayanad (8.3% to 10.7%) and Palakkad (9.5% to 10.4%). Kerala reported 5,375 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 58,809 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative case burden to 6,08,357 cases. The test positivity rate was 9.14%. The State again reported more recoveries – 6,151 cases – than new cases. Another 26 deaths were added to the official COVID tally of the State on Tuesday. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Thrissur and Kozhikodde reported four deaths each, Ernakaulam, Malappuram, Kannur and Kottayam two each while Wayanad and Alappuzha reported one death each. Of the 5,375 new cases reported on Tuesday, 5,261 are locally acquired infections, with the authorities unable to find the epidemiological links in 617 cases. Among districts, Malappuram reported 630 cases, Kottayam 585, Kozhikode 516, Ernakulam 504, Thiruvananthapuram 404, Kollam 349, Palakkad 323, Pathanamthitta 283, Alappuzha 279, Kannur 222, Idukki 161, Wayanad 150 and Kasaragod 83 cases.
02 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Distribution of special postal ballots for COVID-19 voters from today||All arrangements have been made for the distribution of special postal ballot papers to voters who are active COVID-19 patients or in quarantine from Wednesday, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran said on Tuesday. A pressnote issued here today said teams led by special polling officers (SPO) will deliver the ballots to the special voters in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki which go to polls in the first phase on December 8. The voters will be informed beforehand of the scheduled visit of the teams. A voter has the option to either cast his vote and return the ballots at once to the SPO to hand it over to the returning officer by special messenger or mail before the counting of votes. Election duty The distribution of postal ballots to officers on election duty also will begin on Wednesday, the Commissioner said. The officers have to apply to the returning officer concerned on form 15 for the ballots. The application form is available at the offices of the returning officers or it can be downloaded from the Commission's website, the pressnote added. Certified lists The certified lists of voters prepared on Sunday and Monday for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki on Sunday contained 29,972 special voters. This included 9,837 active COVID-19 patients and 20,135 electors currently in quarantine.
02 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP promises services at people’s doorsteps||Promising that the Corporation will come to the people’s doorstep, rather than them waiting for services at the Corporation, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday presented to the public its candidates for the local body elections in the Corporation at a function. Its manifesto was also released at the function. Inaugurating the event, Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said the BJP would bring the kind of development to Thiruvananthapuram that could change the face of Kerala. “In the previous local body elections, the people had issued a warning to the Left Democratic Front. But they have failed to heed to it. In comparison, the Palakkad municipality that is ruled by the BJP has made great strides. For the city to get benefits of the developmental agenda of the Narendra Modi government, the BJP has to come to power. Under the LDF’s rule, only family members of top leaders stand to benefit,” he said. BJP State president K. Surendran said an unholy nexus of both fronts and some religious extremist outfits was trying to prevent the BJP from coming to power. “The UDF’s campaign is visible in hardly 15 wards. This going-slow on the part of the UDF seems to be part of a plan to stop the BJP. The party is now forming alliances even with organisations like Jamaat-e-Islami. The ruling LDF has turned God’s Own Country into smugglers’ own country,” said Mr. Surendran. The BJP’s manifesto promised a Swachh Thiruvananthapuram project involving smart drainages and waste-to-energy projects. As part of the Haritha Nagaram plan, the capital will be turned into a carbon neutral city. An industrial corridor connecting the Vizhinjam seaport and the Thiruvananthapuram international airport would be implemented. The manifesto also promised help for start-ups. A project would be implemented for the Kazhakuttam IT corridor. The ‘Make in Thiruvananthapuram’ branding would be marketed to promote indigenous products. Flyovers would be built. A pilgrimage circuit connecting major religious centres would be implemented. A project would be implemented to ensure a hunger-free city. Industrial parks would be opened to provide 1 lakh jobs.
02 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||UDF vows for garbage-free capital city||The United Democratic Front (UDF) on Tuesday launched its manifesto for the city Corporation promising among other things a garbage-free city and a second medical college in the city. It has also declared a service fee hike holiday over its five-year tenure, if it manages to come to power. Service delivery at the doorsteps is another promise. The UDF made clear it stand that the development of the airport has to go ahead, considering the recent High Court verdict. The work on the Vizhinjam port will be completed and concerns of the local residents will also be addressed. The Light Metro project, which had come to a standstill, will also be implemented. The second phase of the Capital City Development Project will be implemented. Steps will be taken to make the COVID-19 vaccine accessible to everyone. The front promised to increase the drainage coverage from the present 38% to 100%. Under the Silver Health project, an insurance package will be implemented for all city residents. Dialysis units will be installed in all primary health centres. A zero file system will be implemented to ensure that there is no delay in processing files. The Corporation will open restaurants in all 100 wards to provide food at accessible rates to people and free of cost to students and the differently abled. Under the ‘Ananthapuri internet city’, free Internet will be provided to students. Elevated walkways will be constructed at major places. A spirituality-oriented tourism week will be organised as part of the Attukal Pongala. More electric and gas crematoriums will be opened in various zones. The capital city will be turned into a slum-free city. Bicycle ways in select roads will be implemented and safe walkways will be built. A ward-twinning project, by linking wards with other high performing wards at the national level, will be implemented. An innovation hub will be opened to promote start-ups while an online labour portal will also be launched. Small-scale industrial parks will be promoted. A playground has been promised for each ward. Use for electric vehicles will be promoted more.
02 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital’s caseload at 404||Thiruvananthapuram’s COVID-19 confirmed cases went up by 404 on Tuesday, even as the number of active cases fell to 4,113 with 467 infected persons recovering from the illness. The death toll also rose to 554 with four more recent deaths being attributed to the disease. The deceased include a 50-year-old woman who hailed from Ookkodu, a 75-year-old woman who hailed from Konchira, a 67-year-old woman who hailed from Pullampara and a 70-year-old woman who hailed from Kalathara. Barring a few imported cases, almost all of the fresh cases have been attributed to local transmission. Four health-care workers also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district administration placed 2,174 people in quarantine on the day, taking the number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 30,578 in houses and 116 in various institutions.
02 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Crew change goes on stream in KSRTC||The crew change in long-distance buses of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) was made effective on Tuesday in a multi-axle Scania bus that left Thiruvananthapuram for Bengaluru at 3 p.m. A new driver and conductor took over the bus from Ernakulam. The Scania buses that left the capital at 4.15 p.m. and 5.15 p.m. to Bengalaru and the one at 6 p.m. to Mangalaru also changed crew en route at the Palakkad, Sulthan Bathery, and Thrissur depots respectively. The decision to implement crew change was taken in the wake of an accident involving a KSRTC super-deluxe bus on Monday in Ernakulam in which the driver of the bus was killed. In addition to these three services, crew change was also effected for the Pathanamthitta-Bengaluru (5.30 p.m.) and Kottayam-Bengaluru (5.30 p.m.) services. In other services too Crew change will be implemented in the other long-distance services of the KSRTC in the coming days and the driver will have to be at the wheel only for eight hours at a stretch, KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar said. In 2018, the KSRTC had decided to roll out eight-hour daily single duty for the operating crew in stages when A. Hemachandran was the CMD. But, it failed to take off.
02 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Adhere to COVID-19 protocol: Collector||District Collector Navjot Khosa has instructed candidates for the upcoming local body polls to stringently adhere to the COVID-19 protocol during electioneering. The caution comes amid complaints of rampant violation of the norms while campaigning, especially while visiting homes. The Collector has directed the police to ensure strict compliance with the protocol. The model code of conduct (MCC) cell that met on Tuesday witnessed complaints on gatherings that throng houses, violating the Election Commissioner’s instruction to limit the number of visitors to houses to five including the candidate. The number of vehicles permitted for road shows and vehicle rallies has been limited to three. Processions and large congregations have been prohibited. Candidates are required to obtain prior approval of the police for public meetings.  Receptions The district authorities have barred presentation of bouquets, floral and note garlands during receptions. Candidates who test positive for SARS-CoV-2 or go in quarantine must withdraw from campaigning immediately. Warning candidates against violating green protocol norms, Dr. Khosa exhorted them to prefer campaign materials made using paper and clothes instead of plastic boards and banners that are detrimental to the environment. As many as 4,743 boards that were illegally erected in violation of the polls norms were removed during a special drive conducted across the district.
02 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Railways extend festival special trains||Railways have announced extension of four festival special trains to cater to the demands of commuters. Train 02511 Gorakhpur Junction–Thiruvananthapuram Central biweekly special has been extended till December 27. The eight additional services from Gorakhpur Junction to operate on Fridays and Sundays will be on December 4, 6, 11, 13, 18, 20, 25 and 27, according to the Railways. Train 02512 Thiruvananthapuram Central–Gorakhpur Junction biweekly special has been extended till December 30. The additional services from Thiruvananthapuram Central to operate on Tuesdays and Wednesdays will be on December 8, 9, 15, 16, 22, 23, 29 and 30. Train 06526 K.S.R. Bengaluru–Kanyakumari daily special has been extended till December 31. The special train will have 31 additional services from K.S.R Bengaluru during December 1 to 31. Train 06525 Kanyakumari-K.S.R Bengaluru daily special has been extended till January 2. The special train will continue to operate daily from Kanyakumari between December 3, 2020 and January 2, 2021 and will have additional 31 services.
02 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSUM ties up with CREDAI||The CREDAI has entered into a partnership with the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) to leverage innovative technologies from start-ups. For registration, visit www.bit.ly/ksumrpcredai .
02 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF to stage virtual rally on Dec. 5||The UDF State committee is organising a virtual rally from 12 noon to 1 p.m. on December 5 as part of the campaign for the local body elections.
02 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mega adalat by women’s commission||A mega adalat organised for the district by the State Women’s Commission will be held at Jawahar Balbhavan, Vellayambalam, at 10.30 a.m. on Wednesday. Sixty complaints received from the district will be considered at the adalat, to be held observing all COVID-19 protocols. Masks are compulsory. Only the complainants and defendants will be allowed inside the adalat hall.
02 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala sues Biju Ramesh for defamation||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has sued Kerala Bar Hotel Association former working president Biju Ramesh for libel. Mr. Chennithala asked Mr. Ramesh to withdraw the allegation that the KBHA had bribed him to revoke a proposed hike in bar licence fee during the previous Oommen Chandy government. He also demanded a public apology.
02 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||630 new cases, 683 recoveries in Thrissur||There are 630 new COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district on Tuesday and 683 people recovered from the disease. There are 6,298 active cases in the district and 81 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment at hospitals in various other districts.  Total cases So far 59,712 cases have been reported in the district and 52,979 people recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 610 people, including 12 health works, contracted the disease through local contact on Tuesday. Of them, 87 patients are above the age of 60 and 32 children are below the age of 10. In all, 4,065 patients are in home observation. In all, 177 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 on Tuesday. In all, 5,736 samples were collected for tests on Tuesday.  493 recoveries As many as 323 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Tuesday. There were 493 recoveries in the district. When 190 of them contracted the virus through direct contact, the source of infection could not be ascertained in 127 cases. Among the new cases were three health workers and three persons who returned from across the borders.
02 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Pink bloom a threat to waterbodies, says KFRI||Pink bloom, which emerged as a recent tourist attraction at Avalappandi Canal of Cheruvannur panchayat (near Perambra in Kozhikode), has become a major threat to the fresh waterbodies in Kerala, a research team of Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI), has observed. The cause of the instant tourist interest is a flowering invasive alien species, Red Cabomba ( Cabombafurcata ), a submerged perennial aquatic plant that grows in stagnant to slow-flowing freshwater. Native to Central and south America, Cabomba is a common aquarium plant with beautiful flowers and excellently dissected leaves. International aquarium industry has been introducing them to areas outside of its native range. “Cabomba has caused the decrease in the diversity of native aquatic plants and has also caused economic losses by affecting the yield of freshwater fish. Cabomba prefers nutrient-rich freshwaterbodies. They are capable of fast spreading by propagation of stem fragments and form dense stands in waterbodies that will outnumber native plants. This aquatic plant has a high natural dispersal potential owing to its ability to readily fragment and spread both actively and passively,” said T.V. Sajeev, Senior Principal Scientist, KFRI, who led a research team to study the issue. V. Anitha, Senior Principal Scientist; T.K. Hrideek, Senior Scientist; and researchers Karthika M.N., Thushar Naduvallur, and Sooraj M. were the other team members. The invasion of Cabomba will choke ecologically and economically important waterbodies and drainage canals. It requires a large quantity of oxygen for its growth, which results in decline of biodiversity and affects the water quality.  Preventing spread The key to controlling the species is to mechanically remove the plants from the waterbody and drying them in terrestrial spaces. There should also be strict measures to prevent the spread of the species. People should stop collecting and transporting the plant and district authorities should initiate immediate measures to the remove the plant from the current invaded areas so as to prevent further spread.
02 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Statewide protest tomorrow||The Yuvakalasahithi will organise Statewide cultural protest on December 3 against Prasar Bharati’s decision to close down Akashvani local centres. Protest meetings will be organised near the Akashvani centres in Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Thrissur, Kozhikode, and Kannur districts and at other district headquarters by maintaining COVID-19 protocols. “Writers and socio-cultural activists should unite to protest against the Union government move to spoil the cultural plurality of the country,” Yuvakalasahithi has requested.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Welcome with chenda||
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Bracing for cyclone||
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Green campaign||
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Advent-flavoured symbols||
02 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strict rules to be in place to reduce road accidents in Anantapur||The district police and transport departments have been given a target to bring about 5% reduction in the number of accidents and also fatalities in the accidents by the District Road Safety Committee. The district had witnessed 847 accidents this year till October 31, including 387 on the National Highways, leading to 468 deaths and 981 injuries. Out of the total, 486 accidents involved two-wheelers. Those involving Light Motor vehicles were 68 and 81 involving three-wheelers. Theme-based drive At a detailed review meeting on Monday chaired by Joint Collector Nishant Kumar and Deputy Transport Commissioner N. Sivaram Prasad, the maintenance of 170 km of National Highway No.44 came up for a serious discussion and a team has been asked to survey and assess the trimming of trees and maintenance of road surface within two days. The police and transport department will embark on a ‘theme-based’ special drive from next week in all major municipal towns. Two-wheeler riders driving without helmet, or while talking over the phone would be levied Rs. 1,000 penalty and Rs. 10,000 for a second-time offence. If students are found without a driving licence, their parents would be booked and three years of imprisonment handed down, and District Education Officer and Regional Inspecting Officer of Intermediate education have been asked to write to the parents of all students. An urgent action to convert the Church Junction opposite the large National Flag and Municipal Corporation Administrative building into a One-Way road, by not allowing vehicles from Sai Nagar towards the Saptagiri Circle, has been suggested to improve traffic flow. A study would be conducted and remedial action taken within the next 10 days. Within the city, 13 junctions have been identified for study and improvement. A report has been sought from the Municipal Corporation, Transport Department and the Police on Srikantham Circle, Santhi Hospital 4 Road Junction, Clock Tower, Nadimvanka Y Junction, Sangameswaram Circle, Ballari Raod T Junction near Bus-Station, Collector Office Y Junction, Newly formed Bypass Road Junction from Kadiri Road to NH 44, Saptagiri Circle and Kalyandurg Bypass.
02 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 years on, trauma care centres in Anantapur hang fire||Two trauma care centres sanctioned for Anantapur district way back in 2007, for which funds were also released from the Central Government, have not been established so far, District Road Safety Committee meeting revealed on Monday. For 13 years, the establishment of the trauma care centre has been neglected though Rs. 80 lakh was released for civil works, Rs. 5 crore for equipment, Rs. 3.5 crore for maintenance. The Union Government had sanctioned Rs. 9.65 crore in the 2008-09 financial year for the two centres at Government General Hospital in Anantapur and Penukonda Government Hospital to help victims of accidents on National Highways reach within the golden rule. The two centres were set up keeping in mind the distance from the highways. The Karnataka Bagepalli Border was 40 km from Penukonda, Amarapuram, and Madakasira too was just 45 to 50 km from Penukonda so that in the event of an accident, the ambulance could reach the trauma care centre within 30 minutes. The centre is currently managed by M. Atmaram and orthopaedic surgeon. The Puttaparthi Sathya Sai Super Speciality Hospital is set up for the eastern region and a third trauma care centre was proposed at Molakalacheruvu PHC so that those in the Kadiri region could reach this 24X7 hospital.
02 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tahsildars told to identify properties of Trishul Cement’s shareholders||Deputy Director of Mines and Geology S.V. Ramana Rao has written a reminder letter to five tahsildars to expeditiously furnish the details of the properties of eight shareholders of the Trishul Cement Industries (India) Limited as the department needs to recover Rs. 100.24 crore as royalty and taxes, and the value of 13.91 lakh tonnes of limestone quarried allegedly without permit in Yadiki mandal. CBI probe sought YSRCP leader K. Murali Prasad Reddy, who had impleaded himself in the case in the High Court with regard to alleged illegal mining of limestone beyond the permitted quantity, told the media that the money should be immediately recovered from former MP J.C. Diwakar Reddy’s son Pavan Reddy and seven others who were partners in the company. He also demanded a CBI probe into the issue. The Mines and Geology Department had issued a notice on June 1, giving 15 days to pay up Rs. 100.24 crore. With the amount not being paid, it decided to get the money through the Revenue Recovery Act, and had asked the tahsildars of Tadipatri, Yadiki, Yellanur, Putluru, and Peddapappur mandals to identify the properties of the eight directors. They reported by November 18 that there were no landed properties of shareholders and the department detailed the survey numbers of some properties and wrote to them on November 26 to verify if any of those belonged to the shareholders. Circulating the copies of the letter to the tahsildars, Mr. Murali Prasad Reddy said the State government must take immediate action against the shareholders to recover the amount. “I will stage a dharna seeking confiscation of their properties if they fail to cough up the amount, which is public money,” he said.
02 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor sales see a steep rise after price reduction||The sale of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and beer in the district witnessed a steep rise from September after the State government reduced the prices. Post lockdown, the price hike in May had led to a dwindling of sales and also led to an increase in the cross-border smuggling of IMFL bottles and Tetra-packs to a large extent. But the sales soon picked up pace after the price was slashed. Till November end, Rs. 599.78 crore worth liquor was sold after the shops reopened in May. This was a stupendous rise against the sales in May which fetched only Rs. 85.12 crore, which came down to Rs. 83.32 crore in June, and in July following an increase in prices, the sales fell to Rs. 68.20 crore and to Rs. 64.97 crore in August. Price reduction announced by the State Government showed a sudden jump in sales to Rs. 94.42 crore in September, Rs. 95.75 crore in October and Rs. 96.66 crore in November. The quantum of liquor cases and beer cases too doubled in November post price reduction, compared to that of August.
02 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 5,000 monthly aid sought for sex workers||Non-Governmental Organisations working in areas of sex trafficking, commercial sexual exploitation and women forced into prostitution, based in Andhra Pradesh, have urged the State government to provide Rs. 5,000 monthly assistance to sex workers. Vimukthi and Indian Leadership Forum Against Trafficking (ILFAT), a national platform formed by survivors of human trafficking, said that the Government of Andhra Pradesh has already announced free ration distribution to sex workers who are participating in the activities under Andhra Pradesh State AIDS Control Society. The Supreme Court of India has instructed the State Governments to distribute free ration to sex workers along with the benefits provided to all other categories of beneficiaries during the lockdown under COVID relief support services. The NGOs said that the Maharashtra government has already been distributing dry ration to all sex workers along with Rs. 5,000 monthly cash transfer for three months right from October to December 2020 through the Department of Women Development and Child Welfare. Simultaneously, the Maharashtra government is distributing Rs. 2,500 to schoolgoing children of sex workers for which Rs. 52 crore has been released from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. The NGOs also requested the State government to support the education of children of sex workers that helps them to avoid this profession and live a life of dignity, enjoying their child rights similar to the support provided by the Maharashtra government with Rs. 2,500 to the children of sex workers in their State.
02 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lok Adalat on December 12||The Lok Adalat would be held on December 12 on the District Court premises, said Justice K. Ratna Kumar, secretary of the District Legal Services Authority. The Lok Adalat is being held after a gap of nine months due to the lockdown. The last time that the Lok Adalat was held in February 8, 2020. There are at least 1,500-2,000 cases which could be disposed of in the Lok Adalat. In the last Lok Adalat held in February, 976 cases were disposed of and compensation of Rs. 11.68 lakh was paid, Justice Ratna Kumar said. Justice Ratna Kumar called upon people to make use of the Lok Adalat and find a solution to issues relating to criminal cases, civic cases, accident cases, N.I. Act cases, bank cases and pre-litigation cases.
02 December 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Disha teams to lend a helping hand||With an aim to control eve-teasing, open drinking and to help women in distress, Disha police has started to deploy special women police patrolling teams in the city. Seven teams, comprising women constables, have been conducting patrolling every day between the Kailasagiri to Bheemili stretch. These teams were given seven scooters and a four-wheeler for the purpose. “The main purpose of the teams is to keep a watch on eve-teasing and open drinking. Once they find any case, they immediately alert the police station concerned. Eve-teasers caught will be counselled and their parents will be informed about it. Cases will be booked against persons openly drinking and causing public nuisance,” said G. Nirmala, Inspector of Disha Police Station. According to Ms. Nirmala, another main activity of these teams is to create awareness over crime against women, advantages of having Disha application in mobile and handling love-related issues. Many girls were explained about the benefits of Disha app and many have installed it, she said. The teams have been working under the guidance of Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha and ACP Women PS Prem Kajal. Recently, the women patrolling team had foiled a suicide bid, she said. “A college-going girl was sitting idle near Rushikonda Beach stretch alone. She was found depressed after parents scolded her and had tendency to end her life allegedly due to love affair. Our teams noticed her, counselled her about handling such situations and safely handed her over to her parents,” Ms. Nirmala added. Women Head Constable of Disha Police Station, P. Rama Lakshmi, who ispart of the patrolling team, said that that two constables each conduct patrolling for every two-three km in the given stretch from 2.30 p.m. to 9 p.m. every day. “Due to visible policing, no eve-teasing cases were found till now. We create awareness about services of Disha police and Disha SOS app explaining the recent untoward incidents including the attack of Intermediate girl at Gajuwaka and ask them to contact us in case of any emergency,” she said. Ms. Rama Lakshmi also said that even if they find minors, they counsel them and inform the girl’s parents. In 2019, Shakthi teams were launched by the AP Police who conducted patrolling at public places. Later the teams were taken back by the department after a few issues surfaced.
02 December 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||After flood, Kadapa reels amid slush, mounds of garbage||Kadapa town reels under the impact of Cyclone Nivar even five days after the flash floods caused by it have receded. Many low-lying areas are still under water, while accumulation of slush is quite visible in many colonies. Residents are struggling to get rid of the slush and garbage that was washed into their houses during the flash flood. Even as the garbage has been pushed out of their doorsteps, it is yet to be cleared from the colonies. The nauseating odour amid slush is triggering the fears of viral fevers. The residents appeal to the authorities to initiative preventive measures. It was the swollen Buggavanka stream that wreaked havoc in the town. Heavy discharge of water in a very short span of time caused inundation. Even as MP Y.S. Avinash Reddy announced that water was released at the rate of 7,000 cusecs, the officials clarified that it was 19,000 cusecs. The incomplete revetment wall and the gaping holes in it are to blame for the inundation of the nearby areas. Not only the opposition parties, but even the residents describe it as more a ‘human error’ than vagaries of nature. Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha, during the Chief Minister’s aerial survey, announced that the revetment wall would be repaired soon. Authorities blamed BJP activists led by Bandi Prabhakar got down to clearing the mess. In Ravindra Nagar, the slush was removed . “The storage capacity of Buggavanka is mere 0.5 tmcft. The irrigation officials failed to supervise the small project,” he fumed. The residents decried the ‘indifferent attitude’ of the authorities . The CPI, at a roundtable organised by N. Venkata Siva, squarely blamed the officials for the ‘apathy’.
02 December 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tungabhadra Pushkaram concludes||The 12-day Tungabhadra Pushkaralu concluded on Tuesday night with “Pancha Nadi Harathi” given to the river at Sankal Bagh Ghat after District Collector G. Veerapandian and Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli offered silk robes to “Tungabhadra Talli” at the ghat. The district administration and the police department heaved a sigh of relief as the event passed off without any untoward incident. The District Collector participated in the poornahuthi at the specially built homa gundam at Sankal Bagh. By a rough estimate, about 1.5 lakh people visited the 23 ghats along the river during the 12 days at various places from Melagnur to Sangameswaram in the district. Hundreds of officials from 14 departments chipped in to ensure nothing went wrong while following all COVID-19 protocols. Twelve different types of homams were performed on the 12 days of pushkaralu and people were allowed to take bath under shower. At some ghats where there was sufficient water, some people took a dip. Cultural programmes were conducted on all 12 days, and on the concluding letters of appreciation were given to some personnel.
02 December 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South coastal A.P. clocks 98.67% recovery rate||Incidence of coronavirus declined further in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as fresh cases continued to whittle down while more persons recovered in Prakasam and SPSR Nellore districts in the last 24 hours. In a welcome sign, the caseload declined to little over 1,000 in the two districts where fresh deaths also abated during the period. As a result, the death toll remained unchanged at 1,072 including 495 in Nellore district, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Saturday night. Only 69 new cases were registered in the region in the last 24 hours taking the count to 1,24,512. With 79 patients returning home on recovery, active cases declined to 1,077 during the period. The overall recovery rate improved further to 98.67% as 1,22,858 patients have won the battle against the disease so far. In SPSR Nellore district, the tally went up to 63,029 following registration of 39 new cases whereas active cases remained unchanged as an equal number of patients recovered from the illness during the period. In Prakasam district, only 30 new cases were recorded during the period, taking the count to 61,483. With 40 patients recovering from the disease, the number of active cases declined to a very low 363 for the first time. Only about 15% of the beds were occupied in the designated COVID-19 hospitals. As many as 210 positive cases, mostly asymptomatic ones, were treated from their homes, while 31 of the over 150 patients in hospitals were provided with ventilator support.
02 December 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||No reduction in Polavaram storage capacity: PPA officials||Polavaram Project Authority (PPA) officials visited the project site and reviewed the progress of works on Tuesday. PPA Superintending Engineer A.K. Pradhan, Divisional Engineer Mohan, Superintending Engineer (power sector) Amit Singh and others were part of the team’s two-day visit. Polavaram SE M. Nagireddy, Divisional Engineers Balakrishna and Rameswara Naidu, Executive Engineer Adi Reddy, and Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited (MEIL) general manager Angara Satish Babu and other officials explained the progress of the works to the team. Speaking on the occasion, the PPA members said that the national project was being constructed as per the Detailed Project Report (DPR) and its storage capacity would not be decreased. “The project will be completed as per schedule,” the PPA members said.
02 December 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Significant drop in HIV cases, says health official||Srikakulam District Medical and Health Department Project Officer (training) J. Krishnamohan has urged the people who suspect they have HIV or AIDS should go for medical tests without any hesitation. He was speaking at an awareness programme on the dreaded disease in connection with World AIDS Day held at Sun Degree College here on Tuesday. Mr. Krishnamohan said that early detection would help them get better treatment. New cases have come down significantly in the district with the sustained efforts by the Medical and Health Department, he added. Srikakulam Rotary Club president M.R.K. Das urged people not to isolate HIV and AIDS patients since many innocent people would also be victims of infection although they did not have any illicit affairs. Rotary Club past president Mantri Venkata Swamy, club secretary P.S.V.S.N. Varma, and others were present.
02 December 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties express solidarity with agitating ryots in Delhi||Left parties, including CPI, CPI(M) and CPI(ML) New Democracy, staged a protest in Srikakulam to express solidarity with the farmers who have been agitating in New Delhi to oppose newly introduced agriculture reforms. Sanapala Narasimhulu of CPI said the Union government was using its power to suppress the voice of farmers. He alleged that the new farm laws were aimed at benefiting the corporate sector in the guise of helping farmers. CPI(M) Srikakulam secretary Bhaviri Krishnamurthy and CPI(ML) New Democracy secretary Tandra Prakash said that the agriculture reforms would have an adverse impact on the farmers of Andhra Pradesh too. They said that the corporate companies would create artificial scarcity and increase the prices of essential commodities. They urged people from all walks of life to understand the intricacies of the reforms and oppose them tooth and nail.
02 December 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reaching out to patients needing plasma||One of the critical aspects for COVID-19 treatment, especially for those who are moderately infected with the coronavirus, is finding a plasma donor. To solve the problem, a few city-based youth have formed an organisation called Vizag Volunteers. Karnatakapu Satish and Geddada Jagadish were instrumental in setting up this organisation. Satish is a software professional and Jagadish is with the Indian Air Force. They teamed up with Sugandhi of AS Raja Blood Bank to give the family members of the patients some solution. So far they have received about 500 distress calls since August and have found donors for about 100. Speaking to The Hindu , Satish said, “We started the organisation, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared a nation-wide lockdown, in March. Initially, we were into the supply of food, essentials and masks and sanitisers to the needy. We floated a WhatsApp group and within 24 hours we got close to 200 volunteers.” From supplying food to the needy at the shelter homes, they took up mass distribution of food at three places along the 72-km NH stretch that passes through the city, for the migrants who were on an exodus at that time. ‘Uphill task’ “Most of the food was cooked at the homes of the volunteers and we organised a distribution network with our volunteers,” said Mr. Satish. “But in August, we found that plasma was the need of the hour, as people were desperate to find a donor and it was being sold in the black market,” he added. Teaming up with a team from AS Raja Blood Bank, Vizag Volunteers began the work under the guidance of Dr. Sugandhi. The challenge was to find a donor and for plasma, a donor should have recovered from COVID and should have passed the 28 days recovery period after testing negative. Most importantly, the plasma should be of high value, which means the donor should not have any comorbidities and pass some other criteria. This was an uphill task, said Dr. Sugandhi. Call centre To begin with, Satish has his team, which swelled to over 400 by now, started a call centre. The idea was to call those who were infected and who have recovered, to convince them to become a donor. But the major challenges were to get a list of patients, convince them and check their health parameters. “While 80% of our calls turned out to be cold and 80 out 100 were rejected on some ground. But we did not lose heart. We struck a silver lining in our struggle when Cyberabad Police in Telangana recognised our work and linked us up with their website and when Lotla Sudarshan, a youth, had come forward to donate plasma for four times, despite having suffered and recovered from COVID,” said Mr. Satish. “People like Sudarshan have motivated us to do more, despite each test and collection costing over Rs. 12,000. Moreover, people should realise, unlike blood donation, plasma is recovered in the body within a few hours and people should not hesitate to donate,” said Dr. Sugandhi.
02 December 2020||TADEPALLIGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NIT AP holds induction programme for freshers||The management of National Institute of Technology (NIT), Andhra Pradesh, organised an induction programme for first year B.Tech students, who secured admission in the institution for the 2020-21 academic year, on the institute campus on Tuesday. Board of Governors (BoG) chairperson Mridula Ramesh was the chief guest for the virtual programme. NIT AP Director, Prof. C.S.P. Rao, presided over the programme. Out of 603 students who took admissions, 570 attended the induction programme and the remaining students are expected to join soon, the Director said. Speaking on the occasion, Ms. Mridula Ramesh exhorted the students to pursue academic excellence, creative learning and a joyful life during their stay on the NIT campus. She stressed on the need to pursue passion and improve skill sets that are important for the holistic development of students. Prof. Rao congratulated the students for securing admission in the prestigious institution. He asked the students to focus on developing innovative technologies and enhancing their analytical and soft skills. Dr. P. Dinesh Sankar Reddy, Registrar in-charge, presented the milestones of the institute and campus development activities. Dr. T. Kurmayya, Dean (Academics), briefed about various programmes offered by the institute and the department activities. Dr. G.B. Veeresh Kumar, Associate Dean (Student Affairs) explained about the added students activities, outreach, and extra curricular activities. Dr. V. Sudarshana Deepa, Dr. R. Arun Kumar, faculty and staff participated.
02 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srivari Kalyanam held at Mantralayam||Fervour marked the Kalyanotsavam of Lord Venkateswara at Mantralayam, organised jointly by Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams and Raghavendra Swamy mutt. The event was organised on Tuesday, marking the concluding day of the Tungabhadra Pushkaralu. Vastram presented Earlier in teh day , in connection with the 349th aradhanotsavams of Sri Raghavendra Swamy, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy presented ‘sesha vastrams’ to the mutt and also called on chief pontiff Sri Subudendra theertha swamy.
02 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||After two knee surgeries, septuagenarian walks again!||It is sheer display of grit and determination that came to the fore in the senior citizen. Septuagenarian A. Ratnamma had almost lost hopes of walking after she fell down a fortnight back. The irretrievable damage to the knee was too much for the woman, as she was already walking with the support of implants after having undergone bilateral knee replacement surgery four years back. As the replaced knee also suffered damage beyond repair, the normal procedure is either amputation or arthrodesis, i.e., a ‘quick fix’ solution that could lead to shortening of the limb. “It was a case of periprosthetic fracture after she suffered trauma. We removed the entire knee joint along with the femur bone and arranged revision implants in the place of thigh bone as well as the replaced knee joint. It is a complicated surgery and not many of its kind have been done in the entire south India,” explains Rajesh Mallavaram, Director and joint replacement surgeon who performed the operation at Sri Chakra Hospital, Tirupati. The highlight of this Limb Preservation Surgery (LPS) was the use of a rotating hinge, an exact replica of the knee joint, since the previous implant had to be totally removed. Ms. Ratnamma started walking a day after undergoing surgery and could climb the stairs from the third day.
02 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held in Bharat Yadav murder case||The Tirupati East division police on Tuesday arrested a man on charge of murdering Bharat Yadav, a senior Intermediate student and a relative of TDP Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency president Narasimha Yadav. The accusedm, identified as K. Sankar (21), a resident of Lakshmipuram in the city, was picked up from the same locality by the police. On November 29 night, Sankar allegedly roughed up Bharat. When the victim brought his family members to the house of Sankar, the latter stabbed Bharat with a knife. Bharat died on the way to hospital. The police also recovered the knife purportedly used in the crime.
02 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati farmers gearing up for show of strength on Dec. 17||Farmers’ protest in the villages of the Amaravati region entered the 350th day on Tuesday. Displaying rare perseverance, the local residents have stuck to their guns come rain or shine, demanding that the government drop its three-capital formula and allow Amaravati to continue as the sole capital of the State. The farmers are bracing up for a show of strength on December 17, when their agitation will complete one year, through various protest programmes under the aegis of Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi’s Joint Action Committee (JAC). The JAC plans to call for an all-party meeting in a couple of days to chalk out an action plan to mark the important milestone in the farmers’ agitation. There seems to be no doubt in the minds of the protesters about the final outcome of their prolonged agitation. “It's only a matter of time. We are bound to win this battle,” said R. Sailaja, State convener of the mahila JAC of the samithi. The JAC members, spearheading the farmers' agitation, are critical about the manner in which the Jagan Mohan Reddy government has “left the farmers who gave away their lands for development of the new capital, in the lurch.” “The TDP government did not buy lands from farmers. It was an agreement, making the farmers partners in the Amaravati development project. The government is bound by whatever is written in the A.P. Reorganisation Act. Any negation will have to come through Parliament,” said G. Tirupathi Rao, general secretary of JAC. ‘Not feasible’ He said the Chief Minister's three-capital formula was anything but feasible. “The government is saying that Kurnool will be made the judicial capital. When the principal court has already been established here, depending on the population ratio and case load, a Bench could be set up," he pointed out and accused the State government of deceiving people by making false promises. The local residents of this region do not just want that Amaravati be retained as the sole capital, but also urge the government to develop it on the lines of the master plan that was developed by its predecessor. “Leaving the place barren like how it is now, will not serve any purpose. The farmers were promised that their fertile lands donated to the government will be put to use and developed as a modern city,” Ms. Sailaja pointed out. Kavita Nagaraju, a home-maker from Mandadam village, is agitated about the ‘indifference of the government’ towards the farmers. “The Modi government at Centre invited farmers from Punjab and Haryana agitating on Delhi border on the third day for talks. The Jagan government doesn't think it necessary to talk to the farmers even once,” she said. “It is not just us who want Amaravati as the capital. We have the support of all political parties and people of the State. There is total unanimity, we are all on the same page,” said Ms. Sailaja.
02 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||We have the credibility of delivering on promises made, says Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that his government will disburse Rs. 1,227 crore towards crop insurance for the 2019 kharif season on December 15. Similarly, the cooperative dairy sector development project, for which an MoU has been signed with Amul, will be launched on December 2, and cattle will be distributed under the YSR Cheyutha scheme on December 10. Land survey These apart, the State-wide comprehensive resurvey of lands will begin on December 21 and D-Form house site deeds will be given away to the poor on December 25, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy told the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday. “We have given dates for many such schemes in the last 18 months and have never failed in delivering them. That is the government’s credibility and it reflects my personal image as well. The TDP is not unaware of the commitments given by me. It is bent on disturbing the agenda, like it did yesterday,” the Chief Minister observed. Intervening in the discussion on the AP Fish Feed (Quality Control) Bill-2020, which was marred by protests by the TDP MLAs over the government’s alleged failure in properly implementing the TIDCO housing scheme and settling crop insurance claims, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said a lot of effort by the Central and State governments, and the insurance companies would go into the settlement of insurance claims. “Therefore, it cannot be not completed overnight, which makes it imperative for the opposition party to be patient,” he said. Premium borne Of the Rs. 1,227 crore that would be credited on December 15 into the farmers’ bank accounts, Rs. 1,030 crore was the premium that the YSRCP government paid amidst the severe financial crunch being faced by it. “In spite of this, N. Chandrababu Naidu, Leaedr of the Opposition, is nudging his MLAs to rake up an unnecessary controversy. Unfortunately, a Dalit MLA is being put in the front and pushed on to the Speaker’s podium. If you behave like this, your strength will be reduced to just two or three in the elections next,” the Chief Minister stated. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asserted that the insurance premium paid on behalf of the farmers by the TDP government during its terms pales into comparison with the remittances made by its successor in a short span of 18 months.
02 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP govt. hijacking TDP projects, says Naidu||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday accused the State government of hijacking the projects and programmes launched by the previous TDP government and renaming them after Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy without any scruples. Mr. Naidu said that he had no objection for the strange practice since it would be only Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy who goes down in history as a ‘sticker CM’. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was not making any effort to spend the public money on any project or implement any new idea but was showing eagerness to own up the TDP projects as his own, he said on the second day of the winter session of the State Assembly. Telugu Desam MLAs and MLCs, led by Mr. Naidu, took out a rally up to the Assembly asking the State government to hand over the completed TIDCO houses to the poor families immediately. The TDP leaders, holding placards, raised slogans that the houses constructed by the TDP (previous) government be handed over to the poor. They said that the houses were already completed under the TDP regime but the present government was not handing them over to the intended beneficiaries due to political reasons. The Opposition would continue its struggle till the TIDCO houses were given to the deserving poor families, they said. ‘Promise unfulfilled’ The TDP leaders also questioned the government as to what happened to the promise made by Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy to construct five lakh houses per year. As per this, nearly 7.5 lakh houses were to be constructed in the past 18 months but the ruling party leaders were silent on it. Stating that lakhs of houses were completed under the previous regime, the TDP MLAs asserted that the YCRCP government had no right to spoil and ruin those houses by keeping them empty. The ruling party leaders should realise that they would be making a great disservice to the people if they cause damage to the TIDCO houses.
02 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Municipal Laws Bill passed with voice vote||The Assembly passed a Bill paving the way for the establishment of AP Fisheries University in the State on Tuesday. Minister for Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries S. Appalraju, who introduced the Bill, said the university was aimed at developing human resources required for development of aqua and fisheries sectors. The Assembly also passed the AP Animal Feed (Regulation of Manufacture, Quality Control, sale and Distribution) Bill-2020. The Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Bill-2020 was passed by voice vote. Explaining the features of the Bill, Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister Botcha Satyanarayana said it proposed to amend the property tax structure by effecting a nominal hike. “The burden on people living in 375 sft area will just be Rs. 50 per annum,” he said. Th AP Value Added Tax (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020, was introduced in the Assembly by Minister for Excise K. Narayana Swamy. He also introduced the AP Value Added Tax (Third Amendment) Bill, 2020, and the AP Tax on Professions, Trade, Callings and Employments (Amendment) Bill, 2020. On behalf of the Agriculture Minister, Mr. Satyanarayana moved the AP State Agricultural Council Bill, 2020. Minister for Revenue Dharmana Krishna Das tabled the AP Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) (Amendment) Bill, 2020, and the AP Agricultural Land (Conversion for Non- Agricultural Purposes) (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Minister for Finance B. Rajendranath introduced the AP Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (Amendment) Bill, 2020.
02 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||House adopts amendment to the AP Gaming Act||The Legislative Assembly on Tuesday adopted the Andhra Pradesh Gaming Amendment Bill-2020. Explaining the need for amending the Andhra Pradesh Gaming Act-1974, Home Minister M. Sucharitha said that development of technology and mass communication network and the Internet had opened many opportunities for online activities. Technology had transformed the nature and scope of gambling, which was no longer restricted to traditional gambling house. “It can be played on the cyberspace that is accessible 24/7 and 365 days,” she said. Another problem was that online gambling could induce criminal behaviour in society and increase the number of organised crimes such as money laundering and fraud. Many websites that claim to providing gambling services were not authentic and there were no regulatory measures to check the legitimacy of such sites, she said. “It is easy for those sites to defraud the customers. Also, a lot of security and privacy issues are involved. Accordingly, the government has decided to amend the Act,” she added. TDP MLA A. Satya Prasad said that betting was going on unabated in Nizampatnam. Minister’s example Intervening the discussion, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy asserted that the government would not spare anyone involved in betting. The police were given clear instructions that none should be spared. A distant cousin of Minister Jayaram was caught by the police for his involvement in online betting. A case was registered against him though he claimed that he was a relative of the Minister, the Chief Minister said.
02 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 685 cases, four deaths in 24 hours||The State reported 685 new coronavirus cases and four more deaths in 24 hours, ending Tuesday morning. With this, the cumulative infection tally went up to 8,68,749 and the number of deaths inched closer to 7,000. More than 1,094 patients recovered in the past day and the recovery rate increased further to 98.34%, with a total of 8,54,326 recoveries. The number of active cases was put at 7,427. With total toll of 6,996, the death rate stood at 0.81%. Only 51,854 samples were tested in the past day and 1.32% of them tested positive. The overall positivity rate was 8.59% for the 1.01 crores samples that have been tested till date. Tests per million The tests-per-million figure crossed 1.89 lakh and the number of confirmed cases per million crossed 16,200. Anantapur, Chittoor, Guntur and West Godavari reported one death each while the remaining districts saw no COVID deaths in the past day. A first in Krishna Krishna district, for the first time in many months, reported no death in a day. But, it witnessed highest single-day infection tally of 146 among the districts in the past day. Krishna was followed by Chittoor (95), Guntur (87), West Godavari (77), Visakhapatnam (71), Nellore (39), Prakasam (30), Kadapa (30), Anantapur (18) Kurnool (10), Vizianagaram (9) and Srikakulam (3). District tallies The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,22,361), West Godavari (92,519),Chittoor (83,769), Guntur (72,969), Anantapur(66,709), Prakasam (61,483), Nellore (61,463), Kurnool (60,245), Visakhapatnam (58,234), Kadapa (54,382), Krishna (45,558), Srikakulam(45,464) and Vizianagaram (40,698).
02 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man tries to sell infant daughter for Rs. 5,000||In a shocking incident, a labourer, P. Satish, made an attempt to sell his daughter, Sakshi, in One Town area in the city on Tuesday. Satish, who was said to be in an inebriated condition, reportedly tried to sell the girl for Rs. 5,000. On being alerted, police rushed to the spot and rescued the one-and-a-half-year-old girl, and took her father into custody. Satish, a native of Nanded, came to the State in search of some work along with his family. He visited Nellore and a few places in Krishna district for work, according to One Town Circle Inspector P. Venkateshwarlu. The couple along with their two daughters came to Pandit Nehru Bus Station (PNBS) in the city. Satish took the younger daughter and came out on the pretext of bringing food for them. He came to Samarangam Chowk area, consumed liquor and put the girl for sale. When Satish was reportedly shouting in the market that ‘this girl is sale for Rs. 5,000’, the locals alerted the police. “When questioned, the girl’s father said that his family is in PNBS. However, the girl’s mother said the couple had no thought to sell the baby and her husband was doing nuisance in an inebriated condition,” Mr. Venkateshwarlu said. Police counselled the couple and handed over the girl after taking their details, he said.
02 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrants leave to vote in GHMC polls||Residents of various districts in the State, who settled down in Hyderabad, travelled to Telangana to exercise their franchise in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls that were conducted on Tuesday. Many people hailing from the State have settled down in Hyderabad for many years now, having acquired property there. However, they regularly visit their hometowns in A.P. for festivals and family functions. A large number of such people who had come to their hometowns returned to Hyderabad to cast their vote in the civic polls. While some preferred to travel in their own vehicles, many returned to Hyderabad on APSRTC and TSRTC buses. Heavy traffic was witnessed on the Vijayawada-Hyderabad national highway as many people returned to the Telangana capital to exercise their franchise. A few voters, however, stayed back at their native places due to fear of the pandemic.
02 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu alleges injustice to TIDCO beneficiaries||TDP MLAs led by their national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday staged a walkout from the Assembly in protest against the government’s “denial to handover TIDCO houses to the poor.” Later, addressing the media outside the Assembly, Mr. Naidu accused Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Reddy of making false promises. “The poor are being tricked through fake advertisements. Injustice is being meted out to them. The government should give the houses free of cost to the eligible in all the three categories of 300 sft, 365 sft and 430 sft,” Mr. Naidu said. “How can the Chief Minister compare his scheme with that of the TDP government’s scheme that included all the three categories? The YSRCP manifesto promises free houses to all. But now, the government is trying to limit it to only those opting for 300 sft housing units. The Chief Minister has made it a routine to break each and every promise and cheat the poor ,” he alleged. ‘Burden on people’ Mr. Naidu demanded that the government refer the Property Tax Bill to the Select Committee instead of rushing through to impose an unbearable burden on people. “To mobilise Central funds and more loans, the government is bringing in this arbitrary law. This will lead to a new method of taxation based on market rates,” Mr. Naidu said.
02 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||LIC staff show solidarity with protesting farmers||Employees of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) staged a demonstration at Lakshmipuram in Guntur on Tuesday, expressing solidarity with farmers protesting in the national capital. Addressing the gathering, Insurance Corporation Employees' Union (ICEU) divisional vice-president S. Prasad and joint secretary V.V.K. Suresh said the new farm Bills passed in Parliament in a hurried manner were detrimental to farmers who constitute the economy’s backbone. The Bills would leave farmers at the mercy of the corporate sector and deprive them of MSP, the speakers said. ‘Repeal Acts’ They demanded that the Central government repeal the Acts and make Minimum Support Prices (MSP) a legally enforceable right as recommended by the Swaminathan Commission. Thousands of farmers are sitting on a strike at the Delhi-Punjab border for the last few days demanding repeal of the farm laws which they allege will deprive them of minimum support price. ICEU leaders N. Bangaru Babu, Y. Ratna Raju, K. Nageswara Rao, M. Rajeswara Rao, and Ch. Madhu Bala were among those present.
02 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus is on quality of fish feed: Minister||Fisheries Minister S. Appala Raju has said that artificial enhancement of crude protein value of fish feed is a menace that needs to be curbed as it results in poor feed conversion. This is because urea, or some indigestible proteins are blended with the fish feed to improve its value. Keeping this in view, the government framed the AP Fish Feed (Quality Control) Bill to crack down on those resorting to the practice that was harmful to the fisheries sector, the Minister said after the Bill was passed in the Assembly on Tuesday. Mr. Appala Raju said the fact that the Gross Value Added (GVA) to the GSDP by aquaculture (roughly 2 lakh hectares) far exceeded that of agriculture spoke volumes of its importance.
02 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP MLA suspended||TDP MLA Nimmala Rama Naidu was suspended for a day from the Assembly on Tuesday morning as he stood before the Speaker’s podium and kept raising slogans demanding a discussion on the TIDCO housing scheme, for which an adjournment motion was moved by the Opposition party, and also disputing the government’s claims on crop insurance. A scuffle ensued as MLAs Payyavula Keshav and Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu pushed away the marshals who were lifting away Mr. Rama Naidu, who offered to go out on his own and ultimately did. Speaker Thammineni Seetharam refused to accept the adjournment motion, saying there was no point in conceding the plea as the matter (TIDCO housing) was incorporated in the day’s agenda as desired by the TDP. Mr. Seetharam insisted that the TDP should cooperate in conducting the legislative business as there were many Bills to be passed, and disrupting the proceedings was unacceptable. But the TDP MLAs trooped into the well of the House while their leader N. Chandrababu Naidu stood up at his seat appealing in vain for an opportunity to speak. The Speaker took objection to the disturbance the TDP MLAs created when Fisheries Minister S. Appala Raju was making a statement on the Fish Feed (Quality Control) Bill. Finance and Legislative Affairs Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy moved the motion for suspending Mr. Rama Naidu after he did not pay heed to the Speaker’s advice. As the pandemonium continued, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy stood up and suggested to the Speaker to suspend the protesting MLAs after giving them some time. The Speaker then adjourned the House for a tea break.
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pay salaries to contract nurses: BJP||Leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party led by former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju demanded that the pending salaries of the contract nurses be paid and their services be regularised. Participating in a dharna organised by the contract nurses, Mr. Raju said that about 500 nurses in the age group of 20 to 23 years were recruited by the State government for Visakhapatnam district, when the COVID-19 pandemic was raging, and pushed into the service of the patients. They were recruited in August for a consolidated pay of Rs. 24,000 and were terminated without notice on November 27, under the pretext that COVID graph has fallen.Ramadevi, a contract nurse who was recruited, said that government has not paid the promised salary of Rs. 24,000 for the last three months. Expressing solidarity with the nurses, Mr. Vishnu Kumar Raju said that ‘how can the government behave like that’. “When they needed the service of the young nurses, who joined with the idea that they would be regularised, the authorities concerned used them. And now since the rate of infection has come down, you want to dump them like hot potatoes. Moreover, the government does not even care to pay them their contract wages and almost made them do free service that too in a dangerous situation,” he said. The agitating nurses demanded that their wages be paid and they be regularised and placed in some government hospitals or PHCs or CHCs. “The government is anyway planning to recruit nurses for PHCs and CHCs, they can as well continue with our service, especially when we proved out mettle during the pandemic,” said Sujatha Palasi, who hails from Paderu. Mr. Vishnu Kumar Raju warned that if the government failed to take a decision in a week’s time, BJP will launch a state-wide agitation in support of the nurses, as they are facing the same fate in all districts.
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP stresses on education and skill development||Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam Rural, B. Krishna Rao, inspected the progress of the Sankalpam programme, which is being conducted as part of community policing initiative at Youth Training Centre (YTC). Chintapalle, here on Tuesday. Speaking to the youth taking part in the programme, Mr. Krishna Rao explained about importance of education and skill development. Stressing that hard work is the only way to succeed in life, the SP asked the youth to utilise the opportunity. Narsipatnam OSD Satish Kumar said that the main motto of the police to conduct such programmes was for the welfare of tribal youth. Explaining about Sankalpam programme, Chintapalle ASP Vidhya Sagar Naidu said that students can approach police any time for help. Sankalpam aimed at ensuring good career opportunities to the youth and mould them into better persons, he said. Additional SP CRPF, Arumugam, CI Venkat Rao, CI Chintapally Sreenu and SI Annavaram Prashant were present. Meanwhile, the rural police chief also visited Rallagedda Armed Outpost (AOP). He was accompanied by Narsipatnam OSD Satish Kumar, ASP Chintapalli Vidhya Sagar Naidu and others. He reviewed the security situation in Chintapalli sub-division in view of the CPI (Maoist) PLGA week scheduled from December 2. Mr. Vidhya Sagar Naidu explained about steps being being taken for the security of critical security installations
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six held in Gopalapatnam kidnap case||The Gopalapatnam police arrested six persons in connection with the kidnapping case, here on Tuesday. The arrested were identified as Adapa Tarun (23), B. Adrusta Deepak (40) and Ahamadulla Khan Durrani (28), all from Kakinada, S Bharat (19), B Anil Kumar (35) and B Rajesh Kumar, from Visakhapatnam city. Four more accused Daniel, Siva, Bittu and Pedda are yet to be nabbed. Addressing a press conference here in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday, Assistant Commissioner of Police (West), V, Sripad Rao said that complainant M, Kiran Kumar, a resident of Amalapuram works as a car driver. His friend A. Raja allegedly had financial issues with one Adapa Tarun of Kakinada. On November 13, Kiran along with Raja and another friend Jagadeesh came to Visakhapatnam and were staying in a lodge at Gopalapatnam. Tarun and Deepak met them and took signatures of Raja and Kiran on blank stamp papers and blank promissory notes for clearing their debt. On November 26, Tarun and others accused came to the lodge and kidnapped Kiran, Raja and Jagadeesh and had taken them to two guest houses at Visalakshi Nagar and Sagar Nagar. The complainant also stated that the accused have also allegedly beaten him on his head with beer bottle with an intention to kill him and also assaulted the others. Later Kiran and Jagadeesh escaped from them and got admitted in hospital for treatment. The Gopalapatnam police registered a case based on a complaint. Under the guidance of Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha, six teams were formed. The police rushed to Visalakshi Nagar and Sagar Nagar guest houses and found that all the accused had escaped on the previous day. At the scene of offence, the police seized sticks and pipes etc., which were reportedly used in the offence. Acting on a tip-off, accused Bharat and Anil were arrested within eight hours and were sent in judicial remand. Within 24 hours the other accused Tarun, Deepak, Ahamadulla Khan Durrani alias Ajju and Rajesh were arrested and sent to remand. Another victim Raja was also traced at Kakinada safely. Cases were booked against the accused under relevant sections. ACP (Disha PS) Prem Kajal and Gopalapatnam police station Inspector M, Apparao were present.
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allot land for construction of ESI hospital: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded early action on allotment of land for construction of a 500-bed ESI Hospital at Sheela Nagar here. The State government has decided to secure land on a war-footing for the hospital project. Welcoming the State government’s decision, BJP district president M. Raveendra thanked Labour Minister G. Jayaram for agreeing to allot the additional land required for the hospital project. Mr. Raveendra recalled that on April 11, 2016, the then Union Labour Minister Bandaru Dattatreya had laid the foundation for construction of a 300-bed hospital at Sheela Nagar in the city. Subsequently, the Union government had decided that a 500-bed ESI Hospital should be built to meet the future needs of the large number of workers in Visakhapatnam region. The TDP government had not only failed to allot the additional land required for the purpose but also tried to shift the hospital project to Vijayawada, he alleged. He also said that the YSR Congress Party government was also dodging the issue, ever since it came to power. The consistent efforts of BJP leaders — MLC P.V.N. Madhav and former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju — had made the State government agree to demand for allotment of additional land.
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Security beefed up in Visakha Agency as PLGA Week begins today||The district police are on high alert as the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) Week of the banned CPI (Maoist) is set to begin from Wednesday. The Maoists observe the PLGA Week between from December 2 to 8 to condemn the killing of three Central Committee members – Seelam Naresh, Nalla Adi Reddy and Yerramreddy Santosh Reddy – by the security forces in the Koyyuru forest in Karimnagar district in erstwhile unified Andhra Pradesh on December 2, 1999. “Additional forces have been deployed to curb any attempt to violence activities during the week,” said Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao. This year, the Maoists suffered a major blow with the arrest of Gemmeli Kamesh alias Hari, which further weaken the hold of the Maoists in the Galikonda region. This was followed by a series of surrenders, predominantly from the same region and a few from the Korukonda region. According to a senior police officer, the presence of the Maoists is now mainly in the Pedabayalu and Korukonda region, and additional forces comprising the CRPF, Greyhounds and A.P. Special Police have been deployed. All vital assets and high-value targets have been given additional security cover. Check-posts have been set up and frequency of vehicles checks have been increased. Bomb disposal squads have been put on standby and road opening parties have been deployed in all sensitive areas. The security forces will also be using drones for aerial surveillance and have asked the APSRTC to suspend night halt services and remain cautious. Combing intensified “Combing operations and area domination exercises have been intensified in all sensitive areas,” said Mr. Krishna Rao. With the fall in cadre strength, it is learnt that the Maoists have been intensifying the recruitment drive. During this week in the past, they usually conduct meetings to recruit fresh blood. But as per a senior police officer, the recruitment activities may be hit this year as a number of key militia members, who normally organise such meetings, were either arrested or have surrendered.
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Save DCI’ poster released||CITU Visakha Greater Visakha City Committee has deplored the move of the Centre to privatise the Visakhapatnam-headquartered Dredging Corporation of India (DCI). A ‘Save DCI’ poster was released at the CITU Office here on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, CITU city committee general secretary M. Jaggu Naidu said that the Modi government had planned to privatise the public sector DCI in 2017. He said that a rally would be taken out from the Alluri Seetharama Raju statue at Seethammadhara to the DCI Office on the occasion of ‘Save DCI Day’ on December 4.
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Residents up in arms over poor roads in Sujatha Nagar||Irked over bad condition of roads and lack of response from the officials, residents of a colony in Sujatha Nagar had erected a banner with a collection of pictures of their bad roads, appealing to the authorities concerned to address the issue. The picture was uploaded by a few residents in social media tagging the civic body officials. They complained that many other roads in Sujatha Nagar are also in a bad condition. Responding to the post in social media, the GVMC officials asked them for details of their location. The locals say that earlier the roads were neat. But after the Underground Drainage (UGD) works, many roads are not relaid properly. Children and elderly persons are facing a lot of problems, they complained. The locals also allege that during rains, if heavy vehicles ply on their roads, the road just caves in forming potholes at many places. The locals have filled some potholes to avoid mishaps. The residents also complain that despite appealing to officials many times, the roads were not repaired. “It is very tough even to walk on the roads. When it rains, walking or driving on the roads is very risky, especially during the night-time. Several people have sustained injuries by falling down. The UGD works were not done properly in many of the lanes,” said B.T. Murthy, president of NAD Colony Resident Welfare Association (RWA), Sujatha Nagar. “I have been a resident of Sujatha Nagar since 1994. We once boasted of our good roads, but now they are in a bad state. Three months ago, We have organised a meet with GVMC, UGD and other officials concerned. The officials assured to finish all the road works by December 1, but nothing has been done,” said Secretary of Uplift Association RWA, Sujatha Nagar, D.N. Murthy.
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gear up for Central team’s visit, GVMC chief tells officials||GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana conducted a review meet on Swachh Survekshan 2021 at VMRDA Children’s Arena here on Tuesday. She asked the officials to gear up for direct observation conducted by the team from the Centre as part of the survey. She said that the team might arrive and inspect the city in December or January. Speaking during the meet, Ms. Srijana also asked the Zonal Commissioners to submit a report on works going in their zones as per the Swachh Survekshan guidelines. She also asked the sanitary inspectors to create awareness over Swachhata app and about the seven questions asked in the feedback. She also asked the officials to focus on areas where citizens generally dump wastes and asked them to put efforts to make it a clean area. She also asked them to impose fines on people involved in open urination, using plastic and dumping wastes in drains. Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao explained about the components of Swachh Survekshan 2021 in a Power Point presentation.
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 71 new cases||COVID-19 recovery rate is inching towards 98% in Visakhapatnam district, after 152 persons recovered from the virus, in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries has increased to 57,529 as on Tuesday, standing at 97.9%. The number of active cases has further dipped to 707 in the district. A total of 71 fresh COVID-19 infections were reported, taking the case load to 58,746. No deaths were reported and toll stands at 510, said the COVID-19 bulletin. District administration heaved a sigh of relief after a very drastic fall in cases during November. Throughout the month, the cases reported were 2,350, where as in October, they were 5,785. This was the least number of COVID-19 month-tally since July. The recoveries have seen a drastic increase, bringing down the number of active cases. On October 31, the number of recoveries were 53,824 and it rose to 57,377 by November 30. Active cases dropped from 2,031 (October 31) to 788 (November 30). In November, 32 persons died due to the virus, while in October, September the figures were 77 and 143 respectively.
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thunderstorm likely in south coastal A.P., Rayalaseema||The deep depression over southwest Bay of Bengal moved west northwestwards and intensified into a cyclonic storm Burevi and lay centred about 400 km east-southeast of Trincomalee (Sri Lanka) and 800 km east southeast of Kanniyakumari (India) on Tuesday evening. It is likely to cross Sri Lanka coast close to Trincomalee during evening/night of December 2 as a cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 75-85 km/hr, gusting to 95 km/hr, according to the IMD. Thunderstorm and lightning with isolated heavy rain is likely to occur in south coastal A.P. on December 2, 3 and 4. Thunderstorm is likely at isolated places in Rayalaseema on December 2 and heavy rain on December 3.
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah to reach Vizag today on seven-day visit||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu is arriving here on Wednesday for a seven-day visit to the city. The Vice-President will reach here from Vijayawada at 11.30 a.m. and will participate in ICWA governing council virtual meeting in the evening. On Thursday, he will address virtual meeting to release the book ‘40 years with Kalam.’ He will release commemorative postage stamp on former Prime Minister I.K. Gujral at 10 a.m. on Friday. The Vice President will visit the Central Marine Research Institute and the Central Institute of Fisheries Technology and interact with scientists and staff at 10.50 a.m. on Saturday. He will participate in Indian Armed Forces Flag Day on Monday. He leaves for Delhi on Wednesday at 4 p.m.
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU to hold web series on climatology from today||The Department of Meteorology and Oceanography, Andhra University, will be hosting a web series focussing on the frontiers of meteorology and oceanography, beginning from Wednesday. The web series will be held from December 2 to January 31. Giving details about the web series, Chairman Board of Studies, Department of Meteorology and Oceanography S.S.V.S. Ramakrishna said that every week there will be at least three lecture sessions. The lectures will deal with areas concerning the frontiers of meteorology and oceanography and covering topics such as tropical cyclones, monsoon sequence, ocean modelling and climate dynamics. According HoD of the department C.V. Naidu, eminent speakers from across the globe such as Brian Hoskins from University of Reading and Peter Webster from Georgia Institute of Technology will deliver lecture. Web series will be inaugurated by M.N. Rajeevan, secretary Ministry of Earth Sciences and Vice-Chancellor of AU P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy.
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMRDA official takes stock of projects||Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) Commissioner P Koteswara Rao conducted a review meet and took stock of progress of various development projects, here on Tuesday. He enquired about Sea Harrier project, Planetarium project, National History & Museum Park, Shopping complex, NAD flyover and a few others. He said that the shopping complex construction should be completed by January and instructed the officials to go for auctions. He said that the 100-foot master plan road work is being completed and they would go for tenders for divider works and lighting.
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on violence against women||The Women’s Cell and Internal Quality Assessment Cell (IQAC) of Mrs. A.V.N. College have organised Smt. Indrani Jaggarow Memorial National webinar on ‘Violence Against Women – Legal and Socio-cultural Perspective” here on Tuesday. G.R. Radhika, Superintendent (Cyber crimes) CID, was the special invitee, and U. Vindhya, former professor of Psychology and Deputy Director, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Hyderabad campus, and T. Suguna, Senior Advocate and president, Women’s Indian Association, Visakhapatnam, were the resource persons.
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre acting against farmers’ interest, says PCC chief||PCC president S. Sailajanath on Tuesday said that both the State and the Central governments were acting against the interests of farmers. Speaking to media persons herem he said that the Union government did not have any sympathy towards farmers who were agitating braving chilly weather conditions. He said if the new Farm Bills are implemented farmers will become workers in their own land. He said they will be beneficial only for corporate houses. Chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy extended support to the bills only for his personal interests, he said. He said at least now Mr. Jagan should apologise for supporting the bills and adopt a resolution in the Assembly to oppose the bills. He said Congress cadre has been directed to hold agitations against the bills in the district. The PCC chief said they would intensify their agitation along with other parties. City Congress president Sanku Venkateswara Rao, Mahila Congress State president Pedada Ramana Kumari and others were present.
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call for collective action against AIDS||The speakers, at a programme organised on the occasion of World AIDS Day, called for collective action in the battle against AIDS. KKV Bulli Krishna, secretary, DLSA, P.S. Suryanarayana, DM & HO, N. Seetha Mahalakshmi, Project Director, WDCDA, M. Pavan Kumar, Additoinal DM & HO, P. Chandrasekhar, president, Lions Club, G. Maheswara Rao, District Youth Coordinator, NYK, and staff of District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit participated.
02 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RINL sanctions Rs. 91 lakh for improving infrastructure in schools||Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited, the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, has extended financial support to the tune of Rs. 91 lakh under Corporate Environment Responsibility (CER) for improving infrastructure at some the schools such as DAV School, Ukkunagaram, Visakha Vimala Vidyalaya, Ukkunagaram, and Visakha Vimala Vidyalaya, BC Road.
02 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector calls for people’s active role in protection of water bodies||Vizianagaram District Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal has urged people to participate in the ‘Óperation Blue’ programme to protect and preserve water bodies in the district. Speaking to The Hindu, the Collector said that community participation helped in revival of 134 tanks in the rural areas and 24 tanks in Vizianagaram limits in the last two years. “We are planning to revive remaining 63 tanks and develop parks in Vizianagaram and surrounding limits. “Protection of tanks is being assigned to locals. Development of parks adjacent to tanks is helping people have pure oxygen,” said Dr. Hari Jawaharlal. According to him, groundwater recharge in and around tanks would help farmers irrigate more land and develop horticulture crops also. Perfect coordination among the departments such as District Water Management Agency, Groundwater Department, Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation and non-governmental organisations has been achieved to improve the storage capacity of old tanks. Storage capacity “Availability of water during the summer season is also possible when storage capacity is improved. Cattle get sufficient water in summer season too,” said Dr. Hari Jawaharlal. “Everyone should feel the responsibility for the protection of tanks since the water bodies are the lone sources for many villages. Fortunately, we could get the support from public representatives also. They are also now actively involved in Mana Vooru Mana Cheruvu programme,” he added.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Moral support||
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSSDC to offer training in natural farming||Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) MD and CEO Arja Srikanth has said that the corporation will impart training and courses in natural farming as practised and promoted by agriculturist Subhash Palekar. Speaking at a programme at Machilipatnam, along with SAVE Foundation headed by Vijayaram, he said the corporation had prepared an action plan to train unemployed youth in natural farming and provide them business opportunities and jobs. The training will focus on cultivation of paddy , preparation of biscuits, flours and other products , without use of chemicals .
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No zone for strays||
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Good catch||
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Driving home the message||
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Poor voter turnout in Old City, mild tension in several areas||Polling in Old City wards was slow in the first few hours of Tuesday morning with near-empty booths and voters entering in twos or threes, but as the day progressed, more electors started to trickle in. Till 9 a.m., only 0.06% of votes were polled in Kanchanbagh and Lalithabagh wards. The case was similar in Riyasatnagar with 0.07% of total votes being polled. Official figures indicated that the numbers across wards in Old City began to pick up by 11 a.m. By 1 p.m., the polling percentage saw a further increase. A voter of Pathergatti (ward number 32), Haseeb Samad, along with his wife, went to cast his vote around 7.30 a.m. He was able to complete the process in less than five minutes on account of the low turnout. “We went to Princess Esin School. There were not more than three or four people. We didn’t even have to wait, because there was no queue. It took us just a couple of minutes,” he said. Similarly, when businessman and Noor Khan Bazaar resident Mohammed Abdul Rafey went to cast his vote at Government Girls School, Chaderghat, only a handful had done so. “I went to the polling station at 8.30 a.m. I was the 15th person to vote. Turnout was very low,” said the Dabeerpura (ward number 30) voter. Since both had voted on ballot papers in the pre-EVM era, they said that they were familiar with the system and did not face any confusion. Mild tension was palpable is different areas with either polling agents levelling allegations of ‘bogus’ voting, or party workers exchanging expletives. In Azampura, Majlis Bachao Tahreek leader Amjed Ullah Khan alleged that unauthorised persons were entering polling booths. He claimed that police were not taking effective measures to check the menace. Charminar legislator Mumtaz Khan and the worker of an Opposition party were seen engaged in a heated exchange. Mild unrest was also noted in areas in the Ghansibazar ward where All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen and Bharatiya Janata Party candidates were seen moving around. Former corporator Mohammed Ghouse, the husband and polling agent of AIMIM candidate Parveen Sultana, and BJP candidate Renuka Soni were seen speaking to mediapersons refuting allegations levelled at each other. While there were rumours of several people being detained, DCP (East Zone) M. Ramesh clarified that no person had been detained, adding that detention is based only on evidence. Electors who exercised their right to vote on Tuesday said they grappled with minor confusion as it was their first time voting through ballot papers. “I was confused about where to stamp the ballot paper. There were no instructions. It may sound like a juveline question, but it is important,” said Haseeb Jafferi, a voter. Others like M.A. Sayeed, a techie and first-time ballot paper voter from Shaikpet ward, said folding the ballot paper was confusing, given the large number of candidates in certain wards.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A variety of reasons for the low poll turnout||COVID-19 scare, post pandemic exodus from the city, coupled with work from home option given to majority of the IT employees, could have adversely affected the polling figures in the GHMC elections. Further, shifting of polling stations and voters from one division to the other has created considerable confusion, which might have prompted a few more to abstain. Several senior citizens did not turn up for the fear of contracting the virus. “I would have voted had it not been for the pandemic scare. We even got voter slips, but I chose safety over exercise of franchise,” said Lakshmi Narayana, a retired employee from L.B.Nagar. Non-distribution of voter slips has contributed in an unexpected way. Polling stations of quite a few voters have been inexplicably shifted to other divisions, and due to lack of voter slips, they could not figure it out. A few others chose to remain home rather than travel to the changed polling station. “My vote has been shifted to near Kothapet though I stay at Chaitanyapuri. Still, I walked up to the polling station to vote. But my wife’s vote was shifted to altogether another division in L.B. Nagar, four kilometres away. She stayed home,” said R.S.Murthy, another voter. Suram Vaman, another disabled voter from East Kakatiya Nagar of ECIL, could not find his polling booth as he did not have voter slip. CPI(M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram too was not exempted from this fate. He had to forgo his voting right merely because he had no voter slip, the party sources said. “He went to cast his vote at Bagh Amberpet, but did not have voter slip. Though he showed the identity proof, the polling personnel refused his vote. Later, we searched online and found his name in the list, but it was too late,” informed D.G.Narasimha Rao, a senior leader from the party. Loss of employment in city could be one more prominent reason for the low voter turnout. Post the COVID-19 pandemic, several business establishments have either shut down, or removed large number of employees from the jobs. Several daily wage labourers voluntarily shifted out of the city, which may have brought down the number of voters, some observers say. IT employees, on the other hand, moved to their native places following the option to work from home, which may explain the very low turnout in circles such as Serilingampally and Chandanagar. None of these reasons, however, explains the unusually low voter turnout in several areas in Old City, which, Mr.Narasimha Rao attributes to fear and despair among voters over political rhetoric of the major parties. Donthi Narasimha Reddy, a social activist, says the polls have been thrust on the people, who are yet to recover from the floods and pandemic. “It is a comment on the unsuitable timing of the elections when people are least prepared.”
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Techies need alternative voting’||On a day when several enlightened sections have criticised the apathy of IT professionals in exercising their right to franchise in the GHMC elections, Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA), a body of techies, has stressed the need for alternative ways. Over 80% of employees working in the IT and ITES sectors had stayed away from polling due to many reasons. Speaking after casting his vote along with his wife in Gachibowli, founder of TITA Sundeep Kumar Makthala said there was an urgent need to address the concerns of the techies in order to help them take part in the democratic process. He stated that about 5.82 lakh employees were working for the IT and ITES sectors in Hyderabad and a majority of them were now working from their homes in their hometowns due to Covid-19 conditions. “They unable to cast their vote resulting in a sharp decline in the voting percentage of techies, eventually affecting the overall polling percentage,” he said. Another reason for low voting among techies was that about 25% of them were from Hyderabad while the rest were from other States and they hardly show any interest in voting in the civic body polls. He suggested that techies should be given the option of casting vote online or through a postal ballot to and it would ensure higher polling percentage in future elections at least.
02 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Tolichowki the only bright spot on a rather sluggish day||A high of 61.3% at polling station 41 of Tolichowki (ward number 68) was a bright spot in GHMC elections when the city recorded perhaps one of the lowest polling percentages in recent times. A polling agent said that the high percentage was due to distribution of Rs. 10,000 flood relief money in the area which is inside the Golconda fort near Patancheru Darwaza. However, in Tolichowki polling station 45, the turnout hovered around 40% as voters played truant. “The number of people walking in to vote is low. We haven’t got information about missing voters. But we have to factor in COVID-19 deaths. Also, some of the voters still have not returned to their flood-ravaged homes,” said Qadeer, an activist tracking footfall at the polling station of Grammar Colony which was inundated during the October rain. Others blamed a string of four holidays, including one for Kartika Pournami, for low voter turnout. Earlier in the day, voting for the GHMC elections began on a smooth note in Golconda, Attapur, Rajendra Nagar, Tolichowki and Langar Houz wards at 7 a.m. In the beginning, there were minor arguments between police officials and voters over carrying cellphones inside polling booths. “We will not be able to prevent young people from clicking photographs if we allow cellphones inside. That is prohibited. You cannot take cellphones inside,” a police official told a voter at MPPS Government School, Erra Bodda in Rajendra Nagar ward. “All the information is here. I will switch it off if you want,” said the voter. Finally, the voters were allowed to keep the phone on a table under the watch of police officials as they went inside and voted. Similar arguments were witnessed at many polling stations in different wards of the city. Later in the day, however, voters were not stopped from carrying their cellphones into the polling stations. In the Golconda ward, as the distribution of voter slips was not completed, representatives of the candidates had to step in to help voters. While social distancing norms in light of COVID-19 pandemic were expected to be followed, all the polling stations were clearly not prepared. While some had the markings to maintain the distance in queues, at other polling stations there were no such markings.
02 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||GHMC polls pass off peacefully||Barring stray incidents, the polling to 149 divisions of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) went off peacefully on Tuesday. There were only incidents of minor altercations or heated arguments between the supporters of the ruling TRS, BJP, and Congress at Kukatpally, RC Puram, Nampally, Humayun Nagar, RK Puram, Banjara Hills, Nacharam, Uppal and and other areas. Speaking to The Hindu , Additional DGP (Law and Order) Jitender said that GHMC elections went off peacefully and there were no major incidents. “Apart from some minor tiffs between some local leaders of some political parties, everything went off without disturbance,” he said. He said that adequate force and police pickets were placed to control any such situation. At many places, the clashes were on the allegations of raising slogans, wearing masks of their party’s colour near the polling stations to influence the voters and distribution of money. However, a large number of police personnel deployed at the polling stations dispersed the crowd further preventing any untoward incidents. Near a shopping mall in KPHB Colony, Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar’s convoy was intercepted by the activities of BJP alleging that he was moving in the area to appease the voters to exercise their franchise for TRS party. They also alleged Mr. Kumar was distributing money to the public in the area. Cyberabad Commissioner of Police VC Sajjanar said that local police rushed to the spot and dispersed the mob. “He was going to their medical college in Miyapur on personal work. This movement in the area has nothing to do with the elections,” he told The Hindu, adding that individuals who intercepted the Minister’s vehicle will be booked under the relevant sections of Indian Penal Code. He said that a case was booked against some ruling TRS leaders in Miyapur after they were found distributing cash to the voters. “Our people have seized Rs. 30,000 from their possession,” Mr.Sajjanar said. At Jagathgirigutta, BJP supporters alleged that local inspector P Saidulu used force on their election agents and chased them from the place, despite following orders. “Even as we were following the order, the inspector kicked the table on which the voters list was placed for their verification,” they alleged. At Chandrayangutta, AIMIM party supporters reportedly abused a woman BJP leader from the area for moving near the polling station, while polling at other parts of Old City, including hypersensitive and critical areas the polling went off tranquilly. More than 50,000 security personnel from various departments, including police, forest and excise were drawn for security arrangements for smooth and safe conduct of elections.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Moosapet, Kukatpally see dull response||Low turnout of voters in the Moosapet and Kukatpally circles of GHMC, where a majority of the 11 wards are considered to have the electorate with higher awareness, proved to be a big dampener for poll managers of major political parties. In the 2016 GHMC elections, polling percentage in the 11 wards of the two circles was about 48.5% and the major parties had been expecting a better turnout this time what with a high-pitched electioneering. However, except for a few polling stations here and there, not even a handful of persons were seen at the polling stations as very few voters went to polling stations and cast their vote without having to wait in the queue. As the final count of polling percentage was yet to be announced at the filing of this report, preliminary reports put the turnout of voters in the two circles below 40%. Asked about the low voter turnout, a presiding officer of a polling station in the Allwyn Colony (ward 124) said the fear of COVID-19 and general lack of interest could be the reasons. Non-receipt of flood relief assistance of Rs. 10,000 per household and confusion created by the distribution of votes between different polling stations and wards has also added to the disinterest among voters. Ward confusion “Last time, the entire votes of Sriramnagar Colony abutting HMT Hills locality were included in the polling stations pertaining to ward 124 but this time some votes were included in Hydernagar ward 123,” Sadik, a voter of the locality, complained. Denial of flood relief assistance also kept some regular voters away from polling. Explaining why he did not cast his vote this time, construction worker Durga Prasad said he and a couple of his family members did not vote this time round as they were not given the flood relief amount of Rs. 10,000. “The local leaders of the ruling party have swindled the relief amount,” he remarked. An examination of polling pattern till 5 p.m. clearly indicated that it did not even approach the half-way mark in about 20 of the 23 polling stations from where the polling details were collected by this reporter.
02 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Stayed at home due to ‘work from home’||The Information Technology (IT) sector employees take the brunt of criticism whenever the polling percentage is low and in the GHMC elections too they are on top of the criticism radar as irresponsible citizens who preferred to stay home. The turnout was abysmally low this time too and the Facebook was not flooded with the pictures of youngsters with the ink mark on their fingers unlike earlier elections. The reason is not just the irresponsibility and lack of commitment to democracy but their absence from the city itself may be another reason. Majority of the IT employees are now working from home and a major chunk of them have shifted to their native places across the country. It is obvious that despite being enrolled as voters here they couldn’t come even if they wanted to. “Since lockdown in March some of my friends have shifted to their native places like Vishakapatnam and Bhopal along with families. You can’t expect them to come for voting,” agreed Spoorthy, a software employee in a top MNC. “Even I did not vote as there was little motivation. Irrespective of who wins I know it is the State government that will have sway over the GHMC,” she said. Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA) global president Sundeep Kumar Makthala argued that over 80% of IT employees are working from home due to COVID-19 restriction and among the 5.82 lakh employees in the infiormation and communication technology sector in the city nearly 80% are from other cities. “Most of them shifted to their home towns and those are here were disinclined as they were not pure locals connected with Hyderabad,” he felt. This was not limited to just IT sector but the entire service sector as well that is yet to get back on the track from COVID-19 lockdown. Absence of voters in the city from hotel and hospitality industry too apparently added to the problem. Parshuram Reddy of PR Associates agrees that disinclination was evident as they were not connected with the city. The same people were super-enthusiastic to vote in the Parliament elections.
02 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Link welfare schemes to voting||The low voter turnout in the GHMC elections has raised a clamour for making voting mandatory and penalising the absentees in some form or the other or at least instil the fear that democratic right given by the Constitution should be honoured for a healthy democracy. Political parties, academics, government servants and civil rights activists have come out openly saying some punitive measures are must to drive away the lethargy among the voters. Linking voting with welfare schemes or securing academic certificates and even to apply for employment in the government and private sector is being suggested. “Such measures may not stand legal scrutiny but the government can start with making it mandatory for its employees. Start making some sections accountable,” Vice Chancellor of Central University of Odisha I. Ramabrahmam says. “While reviewing the electoral columns officials should include a column seeking information as to why they have not voted and if not for what reasons.” The professor of Political Science argues that linking voting to welfare schemes is not possible but accountability can be brought in making the exercise of electoral list review more participatory. But if the government wants to make it mandatory the process should start from the urban local bodies. Ravinuthala Shashidhar, spokesperson of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), prefers some strict measures. Voting should be linked to welfare schemes. The effort should not be to deny them the benefits but suspending them for a couple of months. Subsidies given for doemstic gas can be stopped. Sanction of scholarships to students can also be linked to it unless they have a genuine reason. “Rights without responsibility cannot be sought,” says Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar while suggesting strong measures. “A person who has not been responsible enough to step out of the comforts of his home to vote at least once in 5 years has no right to seek welfare schemes nor will he retain the right to question for development,” he felt, arguing that low turnout defeats the very concept of democracy. The role of intellectuals and media is paramount apart from political parties. “Media should focus more on voting that the elections and political parties,” Mr. Ramabrahmam says. Mr. Sajjanar too agrees to the view point while arguing intellectuals should take the issue seriously and suggest measures to make the elections more participatory.
02 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Political heavyweights, film stars cast vote||As polling for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation picks up pace, several VIPs along with their families cast their votes. Municipal Administration Minister and TRS working president K. T. Rama Rao was among the first to cast his vote. He exercised his franchise at the polling station in Banjara Hills. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, accompanied by his wife, cast his vote at the polling station in Kacheguda. The Minister exhorted voters to exercise their franchise as it was a constitutional right. AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi cast his vote at the polling station at St. Faiz High School at Shastripuram. Elsewhere, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, along with family members, cast his vote at Upparpalli polling station under Rajendranagar while DGP M. Mahender Reddy exercised his franchise at the polling station in Kundanbagh. Bureaucrats spotted Senior bureaucrat and Municipal Administration secretary Arvind Kumar cast his vote at the Jubilee Hills Cooperative Housing Society polling station. Veteran film stars like Akkineni Nagarjuna, along with wife Amala, and Chiranjeevi, who was accompanied by wife K. Surekha, participated in the voting process. Other prominent film faces were not seen as they were said to be away shooting at different locations outside the State.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Less interference help police deflect criticism||Enhanced presence, less of physical interference and more of legal action. That was the strategy adopted by police in GHMC elections to ensure they were not accused of siding with any political party. Though BJP State president Bandi Sanjay charged the DGP M. Mahender Reddy with acting like ruling TRS party agent, a day before the polling, allegations of police acting biased were far less vis-a-vis recent Dubbak by-election. In fact, it was Dubbak by-election during which serious allegations were levelled against role of police officials. Addressing a victory rally after being declared winner of Dubbak by-election, M. Raghunandan Rao rather sarcastically thanked three Police Commissioners for ‘helping him win the seat’ with their alleged harassment. While Mr. Rao, during the campaign, charged that Siddipet police harassed him by implicating him in false cases, police refuted all allegations stating that they were discharging their duties. Yet, alleged frequent interception and checking of Rao’s vehicle and those of his supporters, linking him with seizure of money outside the constituency like Hyderabad raised many an eyebrow. Political analysts too felt that ‘police did their duty rather excessively’ and this undue seriousness was perceived as harassment by voters. Ultimately, all this benefited only Mr. Rao. In this backdrop, GHMC elections, a bigger election than Dubbak by-poll, posed a serious challenge to police to ensure they did not invite such criticism again. “There were less instances of cash seizures on large scale, harassment of candidates too were scant and allegations of physical interference with campaign of contestants was almost absent,” a police officer unwilling to be named said. A classic example is the issue relating to entry of Karnataka BJP MP Tejasvi Surya into Osmania University campus. The OU gate at AMS arch was kept closed since imposition of lock-down on March 22. Even after lockdown was lifted, OU authorities kept the gate closed officially. Apparently unaware of this, the BJP MP, accompanied by local leaders, entered the campus through the gate after minor altercation with the policemen who tried to stop him. “Using force to stop them would have triggered allegations of harassing them,” said a police officer.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SEC, DGP became puppets of KCR government: BJP||State Election Commission (SEC) and the police have become ‘puppets’ of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Party and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao during the entire GHMC poll campaign and are solely responsible for the low voting percentage, charged Bharatiya Janata Party Telangana unit president and Member of Parliament from Karimnagar Bandi Sanjay Kumar. “The bogey of law and order issues was raised by Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao himself once he had realised that the BJP is gaining ground and he has succeeded in ensuring a historic low in voting. Yet, despite all these anti-democratic actions, we are going to win this election and the Mayor post,” he said, at a media interaction on Tuesday. Under KCR’s ‘direction’ the ‘Director General of Police (DGP) and the SEC’ have ‘murdered democracy’ and ‘action should be taken against them’ with Asaduddin Owaisi too was a part of this conspiracy. According to them — “it is democracy if they win and would be anarchy if we win to scare voters away,” Mr. Sanjay remarked. “It was done as per a plan from deciding the polling date when there are continuous holidays, usage of ballot boxes rather than electronic voting machines, preventing government teachers from poll duty, putting inexperienced poll personnel in charge and to add to it we have an SEC not knowing the difference between CPI and CPI-M symbols,” charged the BJP leader. Money to voters TRS leaders, including ministers, were involved in distribution of money and liquor to influence the voters while the Majlis led booth capturing in the Old City, he alleged and accused the police of making “no effort to stop such illegal activities” and instead, the “police had filed cases against our partymen”. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said the TRS government should be “ashamed” of the low poll percentage and is “squarely responsible” for it. “Polls held during the pandemic and in such a short time is one of the reasons as the ruling party was scared of being defeated after the Dubbak bypoll victory,” he claimed.  Educated voters However, the party was “sad” about the majority of educated voters not exercising their franchise and it was a matter of reflection for all democratic forces. “The government machinery had played an active role in trying to help the ruling party candidates to win, but we are confident the people are with us,” he said. Earlier in the day, national OBC president of the BJP K. Laxman, former MP Vivek Venkatswamy and vice president D.K. Aruna took up a day-long fast inside the party office in protest against the violence perpetrated by TRS-MIM activists across the twin cities, including trying to ‘attack’ party president Mr. Sanjay Kumar on Monday night.  ‘Mute spectators’ SEC and police have been “mute spectators” to the illegal activities of the TRS-Majlis supporters in trying to “browbeat the Opposition especially BJP activists”. “Never before have we seen this kind of illegal activities from the voters lists preparation, delimitation of divisions, campaign and usage of ballot boxes, among others, with rampant misuse of official machinery,” they charged.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Live streaming of poll process from 1,796 polling stations||The webcasting and live streaming of the election proceedings in the selected polling stations across the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits progressed smoothly without any major technical glitches. As announced, the Telangana State Election Commission, in association with Telangana State Technology Services, set up webcasting from 2,254 polling stations giving net connectivity to laptops of student volunteers who were enrolled into the work. A majority the polling stations where the facility has been introduced were located in the areas categorized as sensitive and hyper sensitive besides in locations where there was more than one polling station. Proceedings in 165 polling stations over and above the selected ones, especially those with connectivity problems, were recorded throughout the day. Senior officials said live streaming of the proceedings could be conducted in only 1,796 polling stations where the signal strength was high. “In polling stations at 623 locations, the signal was weak and hence, live streaming was not possible,” a senior official told The Hindu . Election proceedings in these polling stations were however recorded through webcameras and the entire process was loaded into pen drives which would be submitted to the election authority. In addition, a monitoring cell was opened in the TSEC office to continuously monitor the proceedings live and teams of officials were busy watching the developments throughout the day till the polling was completed at 6 p.m. “Poll process has been monitored by not just officials sitting in the control centre, but separate user IDs and passwords have been given to officials deployed on duties so that they can log on and watch the proceedings as and when needed,” the official said.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GST collections in November drop marginally after showing positive growth in October||The State registered marginal drop in the GST revenue collection during November. The State reported GST revenue collection at Rs. 3,175 crore for the month against Rs. 3,349 crore collected during the same period last year, marking a five % decline. The development comes in the light of GST revenue collection at the national-level registering a marginal 1.4 % growth from Rs. 1,03,491 crore of November last year to Rs. 1,04,963 crore during the same month of the current fiscal. The GST revenue collection during September was Rs. 2,796 crore against Rs. 2,854 crore of the year ago period, marking two % drop. But it has shown improvement in October when the State’s GST collection was reported at Rs. 3,383 crore for October this year. This marked a five % increase over the Rs. 3,230 crore reported during the same month in the previous previous fiscal. The growth was significant in the light of the fact that the State registered decline in the revenue collection continuously since the onset of novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic from the beginning of the current financial year. The State could not sustain the growth momentum in spite of business returning to near normalcy since the announcement of relaxations in COVID-19 restrictions. The neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, however, continued to sustain the growth registering 12 % increase in the GST revenue collection from Rs. 2,230 crore last November to Rs. 2,507 crore during the same month this year. The neighbouring State has also performed well during October when it registered GST revenue collection of Rs. 2,480 crore against Rs. 1,975 crore of the year ago period showing 26 % increase.
02 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Absence of numbers on ballot boxes raises doubts: Congress||The Congress party has questioned the absence of numbers on the ballot boxes and a serial number of the seal while closing of each box after polling and felt this leads to doubts over the government’s intention. “What is the guarantee that the same ballot box is being opened at the counting centre,” former minister and TPCC senior leader Marri Shashidhar Reddy asked. The Form Number 21 given to all the polling agents doesn’t contain any information of the ballot box number of the number on the seal, he said and asked State Election Commissioner Partha Sarathi to explain this lacunae. “The numbers given in Form 21 are verified during the counting to ensure that the same box used for polling is brought for counting as well. Without these numbers anyone can manipulate it. This is a big mistake and despite bringing the issue to his notice the SEC has not responded positively furthering our suspicion,” he said. Mr. Reddy said they had suspicion over the intentions of the ruling TRS ever since it insisted on the ballot paper voting for the GHMC elections and the absence of numbers on ballot boxes and the seal only prove that the ruling party is up to some manipulation, he alleged.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Polling stations turn no-cellphone zones||Citizens who eagerly turned up to exercise their franchise in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections on Tuesday were in for rude shock as police personnel posted at barricades leading to polling stations informed them that phones and other belongings were not allowed into the polling stations. Even hand sanitisers were prohibited. When people asked where they were supposed to deposit their phones, they were told there was no such provision. Police told them it was their own responsibility to take care of the phones. “There was no prior information that phones will not be allowed into polling stations. We were allowed to carry it during the Telangana Assembly elections in 2018,” said an elector from the corporation limits. A few people who had gone to vote alone did not have any other way but to go home, keep their phones and return to the polling station. Some kept their phones in their two-wheeler storage space. A few others who were accompanied by family members or others took turns to secure their phone, and cast vote. “I went to polling station with my wife. When we were informed that phones are not allowed, my wife stood outside with my phone while I went in to vote. My wife then left her phone with me and went inside to cast her vote,” said A. Laxminarayana, who was at a polling booth in Jeedimetla. At Suchitra, Quthbullapur, a few electors had to leave their bags/ backpacks with party workers outside the barricaded area. However, there were some who claimed that they carried their phones when they went in to cast vote.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Re-poll for Old Malakpet ward tomorrow||Telangana State Election Commission (SEC) has cancelled the polling for the Old Malakpet ward (No.26) in GHMC and scheduled the re-poll for December 3 following finding of a wrong election symbol printed against the name of CPI candidate contesting there. According to the SEC officials, the proposer of the CPI candidate Firdous Fatima made a complaint to the Assistant Election authority and Deputy Commissioner of GHMC Circle-6 that symbol of the party candidate was not found in the ballot paper. On verification, the Election Authority and GHMC Commissioner and the General Observer for Circle-6 confirmed the discrepancy. Instead of the CPI party symbol of “Ears of Corn & Sickle” the symbol that was printed on ballot paper was that of CPI (M) – “Hammer, Sickle & Star”. Based on the reports of the Election Authority and the General Observer the SEC has taken the decision to cancel the polling within three hours of its commencement. A total of six candidates are in the fray for the Old Malakpet ward. The SEC instructed the election authority to replace the Returning Officer of the ward and hold re-polling in all 69 polling stations from 7 am to 6 pm on December 3. During re-poll, indelible ink would be applied on the left hand middle finger of the voters, the SEC officials said. In view of the re-polling, the SEC extended the ban on telecast/broadcast of exit polls. Missing votes On the reports of a large number of missing votes, the SEC has clarified that of the 914 votes in polling station No.38 of the Ziaguda ward (No.62), 268 votes were in PS 38 and the remaining votes were transferred to PS Nos. 29, 30 and 31 located in the Vidyasri School
02 December 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Liquor shops open to surging crowds||The liquor shops reopened to surging customers after a two-day gap for GHMC polls on Tuesday evening. The shops did brisk business from November 17 when the election notification was issued to November 29 when they were asked to be closed down. The sales during the period were worth Rs. 615 crore in GHMC limits covering Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal and Sangareddy districts. It compared to just Rs. 423 crore for the same period in the four districts last year. The sales would have been much higher if the IT employees who were given work-from-home option had not returned to their home towns, a shop owner said. According to Mr. D. Venkateswara Rao, president, Telangana Wine Shop Dealers Association, the Rs. 192 crore growth in sales ahead of polls was not significant considering distribution of liquor to voters by contestants in polls. The distribution was higher in districts because they did not have gated communities.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID: 46,597 tests reveal 502 cases||Only 502 COVID-19 cases were recorded in Telangana on Monday though 46,597 tests were conducted, indicating that the cases are declining in the State. Till the first week of November, at least over 1,500 cases were detected in a day when 44,000 or above number of samples were tested. Downward trajectory of cases has been observed from November 20. The new 502 cases include 101 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 46 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 33 in Bhadradri-Kothagudem, 32 in Rangareddy districts. No case was recorded in Narayanpet. Three more COVID-19 patients have died. From March 2 to November 30, a total of 55,00,058 samples were put to test and 2,70,318 cases were detected. Out of the total cases, 9,627 were active cases, 2,59,230 have recovered, and 1,461 patients have died.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Turnout heavy in Quthbullapur||Voter turnout at polling stations in Quthbullapur circle for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) Elections-2020 varied till Tuesday afternoon. The turnout was heavy where people from three or more localities in a Ward were allotted the same polling station. Otherwise, people were in single numbers. Electors started to pour in right from early morning. At a polling station in Sri Krishna Nagar main road, Suchitra, there was a steady and heavy number of voters. Political party workers were busy helping them find serial number and other details. Similar situation was observed in Subash Nagar, IDA Jeedimetla.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||International Science Festival from Dec. 22-25||The Sixth India International Science Festival (IISF) aiming to promote scientific temper among students and public for development of new frontiers of growth will be held during December 22 to 25 virtually by the CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) here. Theme for this year’s festival is ‘Science for Aatmanirbhar Bharat and Global Welfare through Science, Technology and Innovation’. IISF launched in 2015 is a celebration to promote science and technology and demonstrate how science could lead India towards a developed nation within a short span of time. University of Hyderabad vice-chancellor P. Appa Rao, as chief guest at the curtain raiser on Tuesday, stressed out the need to promote basic science and observed that schools are the first places for seeds to be sown on developing an interest in science among young students. CSIR-IICT Director S Chandrasekhar also spoke.
02 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rs. 1.20 crore worth foreign currency seized at RGIA||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel on Tuesday detained two international passengers at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad, and seized the foreign currency equivalent to Rs. 1.20 crore.
02 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Collective efforts to end HIV/AIDS stressed||Banners highlighting the need for collective efforts to end the HIV/AIDS epidemic sprang up at the bus stand, railway station and other public places in the town on the occasion of World AIDS Day on Tuesday. The District AIDS Prevention and Control Society has put up banners on the theme of ‘Global Solidarity and Shared Responsibility’ at several public places in the town to raise awareness about voluntary HIV testing, prevention and control of HIV/AIDS. This year’s event saw low-key observance, devoid of rallies and interactive sessions, due to the coronavirus pandemic.
02 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||People pay last respects to Nomula Narsimhaiah||The mortal remains of Nagarjunasagar legislator Nomula Narsimhaiah were brought to Haliya from Hyderabad on Tuesday afternoon, for his supporters, colleagues and the people of the constituency, to pay their last respects. A pall of gloom descended over Haliya, when news of its leader’s death broke in the morning. Shops and businesses were voluntarily shut, and people waited for the arrival of the ambulance carrying his remains. Former Congress Legislature Party leader and political opponent K. Jana Reddy remembered his friendship with Mr. Narsimhaiah, dating back to 1987. Pradesh Congress Committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy also recalled his association, and said a people’s leader was lost in his death. For Legislative Council Chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy and Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy, the loss of Mr. Narsimhaiah, a conscious leader, left a void in Nalgonda. CPI (Marxist) released a letter condoling the death of its former comrade. A large number of people made a beeline to pay their last respects. Family sources said the mortal remains of Mr. Narsimhaiah will be transported to Palem in Nakrekal for the last rites. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, according to officials, is likely to attend.
02 December 2020||RAMACHANDRAPURAM,TELANGANA||Polling in Sangareddy divisions over 65%||Polling for the three divisions of Ramachandrapuram, Bharathi Nagar and Patancheru in Sangareddy district as part of GHMC elections ended on a peaceful note on Tuesday. In the morning, there a scuffle between TRS and BJP workers at Chaitanya Nagar in Patancheru where Vishnuvardhan Reddy, son of of MLA Gudem Mahipal Reddy, and BJP workers clashed. BJP workers alleged that Vishnuvardhan Reddy attacked them and that police are took the side of TRS. Tension prevailed for some time at Bharati Nagar where BJP candidate Godavari Anji Reddy staged protests, alleging that TRS workers were distributing polling slips bearing car symbol. Police dispersed the people belonging to both parties. BJP workers alleged that some of their activists had been arrested by the police. The average polling percentage stood at 65.12 in all the three divisions with Ramchandrapuram leading with 67.71%, followed by Patancheru (65.76%) and Bharthi Nagar (61.89%). These numbers are relatively high compared to other divisions in GHMC. MLA G Mahipal Reddy used his voting right in Patancheru while MLC V. Bhoopal Reddy exercised his franchise at Ramachandrapuram.
02 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Campaign to promote grassroot innovation||Palle Srujana, an NGO working with grassroot innovators, plans to conduct its 35 Chinna Shodha Yatra — grassroot innovation awareness campaign — from Bayyaram to Gangaram in Mahaboobabad district for three days from December 18 to 20. The programme aims to promote grassroot innovations and share the knowledge of other villages captured by National Innovations Foundation (NIF) and Palle Srujana. Those interested can register with www.pallesrujana.org, according to NGO’s founder-president P. Ganesham.
02 December 2020||STAFF REPORTER,TELANGANA||Confusion with first time ballot paper voters||Electors who exercised their right to vote on Tuesday said that they grappled with minor confusion as it was their first time voting through ballot papers. “I was confused as to where to stamp the ballot paper. Should it be on the symbol or elsewhere? There were no instructions. May look like a juveline question, but it is important,” says Haseeb Jafferi. Shared concern Others like M A Sayeed, a techie and first time ballot paper voter from Shaikpet ward, said that folding the ballot paper was a little confusing, given the large number of candidates in certain wards. This was a concern seen among party polling agents. “We had eight candidates and there was some issue with folding of the ballot paper. The party name was on two columns and it had to be folded in a certain way so that there was smudging. The polling agents too tried to explain to us and were concerned. Before stamping the ballot paper, it was folded and given to us, but some had problems,” he said. Others like Ashish Chowdhury said that a part of his ballot paper was stained on account of the indelible ink.
02 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Two dozen farmers from Nuh and Rewari sent to preventive custody||Around two dozen farmers from neighbouring Nuh and Rewari were taken into preventive custody by Gurugram police on Tuesday while they were on their way to the Gurugram-Kapashera border to join the ongoing protest against the three controversial farm laws. Mewat Vikas Sabha president Salamudeen Meo said scores of farmers from Nuh and Rewari gathered near IMT Sohna and Gandhi Park in the morning to go to Singhu border to support the farmers’ agitation, but they later decided to hold a dharna at Delhi-Haryana border near Kapashera. “However, the Gurugram Police detained around two dozen of us and took us to Sohna Sadar police station. Our vehicles were also left behind,” said Mr. Meo. One of the detainees, Talim Hussain, a lawyer, claimed that he informed a Punjab and Haryana High Court judge during a hearing in a case through videoconference while being in the detention that he was arguing the matter from the police station, sitting on the floor and was in illegal detention. Judge seeks affidavit “The judge took a serious view of the matter and sought an affidavit from the Gurugram Police Commissioner in this regard,” claimed Mr. Hussain. He accused the police of high-handedness and misbehaviour. Swaraj India Haryana president Rajiv Godara said detention of the farmers was not just “condemnable” but also “undemocratic”. He said around 400 farmers assembled in Nuh to leave for Delhi but were stopped twice. They continued to march ahead but 50 prominent protesters were taken into preventive custody at Sohna. Swaraj India’s national president Yogendra Yadav said Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal, on one hand, claimed that the farmers from the State were not part of the protest, but took them into detention on the other hand. Gurugram Police spokesperson Subhash Boken confirmed that two dozen farmers were taken into preventive custody. He denied allegations of high-handedness and misbehaviour by the police.
02 December 2020||New Delhi,||28.3% of complaints pending in govt.’s anti-pollution app||Around 28.3% of complaints filed by people on Delhi government’s ‘Green Delhi’ application are pending and 22% of the total complaints are pending beyond the specified time limit, according to government data. “The Public Works Department (PWD) has the highest number of such complaints pending — around 50% — and the department has been directed to fix it within next three to four days,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . Of the total 12,509 complaints filed on the app, 3,549 are pending and 2,774 are overdue as on December 1. On October 29, the Delhi government launched the app, which citizens can use to file complaints about air pollution causing activities, using photos and videos. While launching the app, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said citizens can report air pollution-related violations and local sources of pollution such as garbage burning, dust due to construction activities, industrial activities, through the mobile application. He had also said a complaint lodged on the app will be received by the departments concerned and will be resolved in a “time-bound manner”, as per the specified timelines for different types of complaints. The application brought different bodies under the state, central, and municipal corporations under one umbrella. When contacted, the Delhi government spokesperson did not offer a comment. The data showed that of the 3,006 complaints received by the Delhi government’s PWD, 50.5% are pending and 44.6% of the complaints are overdue. Similarly, 14.4% complaints are overdue in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and 39.2% are overdue in Delhi Development Authority. These three departments have the highest number of complaints, which are overdue. All departments have been told to resolve the pending complaints at the earliest, officials said. The resolution of the complaints is being done by ‘24x7 Green War Room’, as per the government and about 70 ‘Green Marshals’ have also been deployed for effective resolution of complaints.
02 December 2020||New Delhi,||AAP alleges its student wing leaders detained for protesting ‘peacefully’||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday said their student wing leaders were detained for protesting “peacefully” at Rajiv Chowk in support of farmers. Volunteers of AAP’s student unit CYSS and youth wing protested by forming a human chain at Connaught Place in support of the farmers before getting detained, the party said. AAP MLA and Punjab in-charge Jarnail Singh, who was also detained, said: “Lakhs of farmers from across the country are sitting with their families on the borders for the last several days, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi has no time to listen to their demands. Meanwhile, the Home Minister, who stays in Delhi, has gone 1,200 km away to hold a poll campaign for Hyderabad but has no time to meet the farmers, who are sitting just a few kms away from his residence.” He said the “Modi-Shah government” has proved to the nation that the BJP is not interested in dealing with the issues of the farmers. ‘A dictatorial govt.’ “Today, a dictatorial government is running this country under the leadership of the BJP, which is suppressing and crushing the voices of farmers, soldiers, youth, students, poor, Dalits and opposition parties,” he added. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the Centre should take immediate actions on the “legitimate concerns” of the farmers. “They are the backbone of our country and deserve to be heard. People have left their homes and travelled to Delhi only to get their voices heard and are entitled to a fair chance to express their concerns. The farmers are the backbone of our nation,” Mr. Jain said.
02 December 2020||New Delhi,||Bhim Army chief joins protesting farmers||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekar Azad on Tuesday joined the protesting farmers at the Delhi-Ghazipur border along with hundreds of his supporters and demanded that the new farms laws be withdrawn. The Dalit leader from Uttar Pradesh, who launched his political party in March this year, said: “The farmers have been fighting for their rights in this cold. These laws should be withdrawn. We extend our full support to our farmers. We are with them in this fight.” Thousands of farmers stayed put at various Delhi border points for the sixth consecutive day on Tuesday protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNUTA seeks extension for research scholars||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) on Tuesday appealed to the university administration to grant an overall extension to terminal-year research scholars due to the difficulties they have faced owing to the ongoing pandemic. The university administration said the terminal students need to submit their dissertations and theses by December 31. The teachers called for an extension till such time that conditions for an amicable submission are created, which includes access to libraries and laboratories both within and outside the university for all such scholars.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Petition alleges garbage piling up in Karol Bagh||Following a plea alleging adverse health impacts due to non-removal of garbage from a residential area in Karol Bagh, the National Green Tribunal has directed the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and Delhi Pollution Control Committee to look into the plea and furnish an action taken report. A Bench headed by NGT said: “The allegation needs to be looked into by the North body and the DPCC and action taken as per law. The nodal agency for coordination and compliance will be the DPCC.” The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea by Anubhav, seeking action against non-removal of garbage in Karol Bagh.
02 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Explain step taken to classify transgenders’||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) to explain what step has been taken to recognise and classify transgenders as a separate third gender in its annual publication of Prison Statistics India. Next hearing A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma to take instruction on the issue by December 7, the next date of hearing. The plea filed by law graduate Karan Tripathi has claimed that NCRB continued to fail to include the third gender or transgenders in the sex-wise statistics of the prison inmates all over India in its annual Prison Statistics India, since the past seven years.
02 December 2020||New Delhi,||AQI may dip in coming days due to cold||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram, and Noida remained in the “very poor” category on Tuesday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The national capital’s air quality is predicted to further deteriorate and stay in the “very poor” category on Wednesday and Thursday. Air pollution of the “very poor” category can cause “respiratory illness on prolonged exposure”, said CPCB. “Air quality is likely to worsen in north India due to cold waves and low temperatures. Ventilation conditions are likely to slow down further by tomorrow. The Air Quality Index (AQI) is forecasted to deteriorate to the middle-end of the ‘very poor’ category for the next two days,” said government-run monitoring agency, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).
02 December 2020||New Delhi,||Shaheen Bagh dadi Bilkis not allowed to join farmers’ stir||The octogenarian who rose to fame as Shaheen Bagh dadi came to join the farmers’ protest at Delhi-Haryana’s Singhu border on Tuesday but was not allowed to join the stir. Bilkis Bano from south-east Delhi was sent back to her residence when she came with her sons to join the agitation. Why was she sent back? Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Gaurav Sharma said, “She is a senior citizen and due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we stopped her at the Singhu border and requested her to return for her own safety and betterment”. “To avoid any kind of inconvenience to her, she was escorted by a police team to her home,” the officer added.
02 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Rebel AAP MLA rejoins party||After joining the Congress ahead of the 2019 parliamentary elections, rebel Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Ropar Amarjit Singh Sandoa on Tuesday rejoined the party, saying switching sides had been the biggest blunder in his life. Mr. Sandoa said: “I tender my sincere apologies to the party high command and State leadership, who were devastated by my decision to quit AAP. I undertake to work for the party like a tireless volunteer without any ambition for party post or position. Switching sides had been the biggest blunder in my life and I am ashamed of the decision, which seems to have been taken in a tearing hurry.” He said the Congress, before assuming power in 2017, had peddled promises like crushing drug mafia within weeks, “ghar-ghar-naukri”, complete loan waiver to the farmers among a host of others, which have remained unfulfilled.
02 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Two dozen farmers sent to preventive custody||Around two dozen farmers from neighbouring Nuh and Rewari were taken into preventive custody by Gurugram police on Tuesday while they were on their way to the Gurugram-Kapashera border to join the ongoing protest against the three controversial farm laws. Mewat Vikas Sabha president Salamudeen Meo said scores of farmers from Nuh and Rewari gathered near IMT Sohna and Gandhi Park in the morning to go to Singhu border to support the farmers’ agitation, but they later decided to hold a dharna at Delhi-Haryana border near Kapashera. “However, the Gurugram Police detained around two dozen of us and took us to Sohna Sadar police station. Our vehicles were also left behind,” said Mr. Meo. One of the detainees, Talim Hussain, a lawyer, claimed that he informed a Punjab and Haryana High Court judge during a hearing in a case through videoconference while being in the detention that he was arguing the matter from the police station, sitting on the floor and was in illegal detention. Judge seeks affidavit “The judge took a serious view of the matter and sought an affidavit from the Gurugram Police Commissioner in this regard,” claimed Mr. Hussain. He accused the police of high-handedness and misbehaviour. Swaraj India Haryana president Rajiv Godara said detention of the farmers was not just “condemnable” but also “undemocratic”. He said around 400 farmers assembled in Nuh to leave for Delhi but were stopped twice. They continued to march ahead but 50 prominent protesters were taken into preventive custody at Sohna. Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav said Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal, on one hand, claimed that the farmers from the State were not part of the protest, but took them into detention on the other hand.
02 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan farmers plan ‘chakka jam’ stir||The Rajasthan wing of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) on Tuesday announced to hold a ‘ chakka jam ’ (stop wheels) agitation at all district and tehsil headquarters in the State for two hours on December 3. The farmers will also stage demonstrations to protest against the Centre’s agriculture sector laws. AIKSCC State coordinator Sanjay Madhav said here that a 10-day-long campaign to generate awareness on the farm laws would involve the events in which the marginal farmers, peasants and agricultural labourers would apprise the common people of their plight. “The public at large should have a clear understanding about dreadful impact of these laws on the rural economy,” he said. Mr. Madhav said the AIKSCC, which had condemned the police action against the farmers taking part in the ‘Dilli Chalo’ march, would devise a strategy to lay siege to Delhi. “All highways leading to the national capital, except the Jaipur-Delhi road, are closed. Farmers from Rajasthan may block this highway as well,” he said. Despite the ongoing Zila Parishad and Panchayat Samiti elections in the State, the AIKSCC leaders have travelled to remote villages and interacted with the farmers on the threat to their livelihood, confusion on minimum support prices, the weakening public distribution system and the functioning of Krishi Upaj Mandis. All India Kisan Sabha vice-president and former CPI(M) MLA Amra Ram said the BJP government at the Centre, which was serving the interests of big corporate houses, wanted to destroy small and marginal farmers, agricultural labourers, small shopkeepers and the rural population. Taking advantage of the farm Acts, big companies would take over the farmers’ land and agricultural produce, he said. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has called upon Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take the lead for resolving the impasse over the agriculture sector legislations. While the farmers’ genuine demands must be met, the Centre’s talks with the farmer unions were a “step in the right direction, but [it was] taken too late,” he tweeted on Tuesday. Mr. Gehlot said there was a growing concern not only in the country, but in other countries as well, where a sizeable number of Persons of Indian Origin lived, regarding the protest of farmers in India.
02 December 2020||Mumbai,||Jalyukta Shivar: State sets up panel to pick works for probe||Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced a committee to finalise the list of works to be probed after their completion under the previous Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government’s flagship Jalyukta Shivar scheme. Former Chief Minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis had launched the scheme — a water conservation campaign aimed at making the State drought free — which involved collective efforts of government, farmers, NGOs and corporates. The scheme was launched on December 5, 2014 and ended after extension on March 2020. As per government data, over six lakh works were completed under the scheme. However, a CAG report had raised serious objections over the implementation of the scheme. This was discussed by the present Maha Vikas Agahdi (MVA) government at a cabinet meeting on October 14 this year, and it was decided to conduct an open inquiry into the Jalyukta Shivar scheme. “The number of works completed under the scheme are large. Therefore, it is important to decide which works should be selected for the inquiry. A committee has been appointed to select those works,” said an official from water conservation department. The committee will be headed by Vijay Kumar, former additional chief secretary, and will include the Additional Director General of Police (Anti Corruption Bureau), and two officials from the water conservation department. The committee will recommend which works, discussed in the CAG report, need to be probed and in which cases department inquiries are enough. The water conservation department has received over 600 complaint letters. “The committee will decide which of these complaints need to be looked into,” said the official. The committee will finish the work in the next six months. The BJP however, reacted strongly to the government’s decision to probe the scheme. “The announcement of inquiry is an insult of people’s movement started by our government. The probe will yield nothing,” said BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye.
02 December 2020||Mumbai,||Malegaon blast: all accused asked to be in court on Dec. 3||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court conducting trial in the 2008 Malegaon blast case on Tuesday directed all the seven accused, including BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur and Lt. Col. Prasad Purohit, to appear before it on December 3. The court’s direction came on a plea of one of the victim’s family, seeking day-to-day trial in the case being probed by the NIA. Judge P.R. Sitre asked all the accused to remain present in court on Thursday. Responding to the plea of one of the victim’s family for day-to-day trial, Special Public Prosecutor Avinash Rasal said they are ready to conduct a speedy trial, but they need to locate the witnesses, which is also a tedious task. “Most of the time advocates of the accused persons have requested for adjournment of the trial for one reason or the other,” he said. The court had framed terror charges against Lt Col Prasad Purohit, Pragya Singh Thakur and five other accused in October 2018. The NIA said after framing of the charges, it was making all efforts to expedite the case. It pointed out that around 140 witnesses out of 400 have been already been examined in the case. The NIA also told the court that the trial in the case was delayed due to retirement of the previous judge and the COVID-19 pandemic. On September 29, 2008, six people were killed and over 100 injured when an explosive device strapped on a motorcycle went off near a mosque in Malegaon, 200 km from Mumbai in north Maharashtra. The accused have been charged under Sections 16 (committing terrorist act) and 18 (conspiring to commit terrorist act) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.
02 December 2020||Mumbai,||‘Will decide on peak hour train travel for lawyers this week’||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday informed the Bombay High Court that it will decide by the end of this week on whether to allow lawyers to travel by local trains during peak hours. The statement was made by Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni before a Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni, which was hearing a bunch of petitions seeking that lawyers and their clerks be permitted to travel to work in local trains during peak hours. The pleas filed by lawyers sought that they be recognised as essential services. In October this year, following the High Court’s intervention on the same pleas, the State government had permitted lawyers to use local trains to commute to courts and their offices before 8 a.m. and after 11 a.m. everyday. Advocate Shyam Dewani, counsel in one of the petitions, on Tuesday told the Bench that since the High Court had resumed physical hearings, it was imperative that lawyers be permitted to commute by local trains during peak hours to reach the court that begin hearing at 11 a.m. every day. Advocate General Kumbhakoni told the court that the government will hold a meeting with stakeholders in a day or so and take a decision on the request by the end of this week. The court accepted Mr. Kumbhakoni’s statement and posted the matter for hearing on December 9. Until then, the previous allowances regarding local trains commute will continue.
02 December 2020||Mumbai,||BMC launches special drive against TB, leprosy||Already battling the COVID-19 pandemic, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday launched a campaign to control the spread of tuberculosis and leprosy in the city. The special 16-day drive also aims to create awareness among citizens about these contagious diseases, a release said. Under this drive, over 50 lakh people from more than 12 lakh households from severely affected areas will be surveyed for TB and leprosy by 3,451 teams of the BMC, it said. BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani appealed to citizens to cooperate with BMC staff and volunteers who will survey the households between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m.
02 December 2020||Nashik,||Teen killed over mobile game||One person was arrested for allegedly killing a teen in Nandgaon taluka of Nashik district over a dispute due to addiction to a survival-shooter mobile game called ‘Free Fire’, the police said on Tuesday. Jibhau Gaikwad (19) was found murdered in a field on November 26 and a probe found the act was committed by Sunil More, also 19, an official said. “Mr. More is addicted to playing the mobile game Free Fire and this led to the murder,” he added.
02 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi sees 4,006 fresh cases, 86 more deaths||The national capital saw 4,006 fresh COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 5,74,380, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. The death toll has reached 9,260 with 86 more fatalities reported in a single day. Of the total cases, 5,33,351 people have recovered and there are currently 31,769 active cases. The Capital has 5,669 containment zones. Earlier in the day, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that the Delhi government has requested the Centre to allow laboratories to conduct 10% fewer COVID-19 tests than their total capacity to avoid delay in results. “We are suggesting to the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Centre to allow labs to conduct 10% fewer tests so that it results in a higher turnaround rate and no delay. Delhi is optimally utilising both private and government labs, but there is a need for additional support as promised by the Centre,” Mr. Jain said. “During winters, pollution in Delhi due to stubble burning was the reason behind declining health of citizens. So, we saw an increase in hospital admissions. However, we anticipate that in 2-3 weeks, the situation will improve,” the Minister added. The positivity on Tuesday was 6.85%, and the overall positivity till now is 9.05%, as per the health bulletin. Out of the total 18,694 beds available for treatment, 58.3% are vacant, the bulletin read. About 76.4% of ICU beds with ventilators and 64.09% of ICU beds without ventilators were occupied by Tuesday night. Data manipulated: Cong. Meanwhile, the Delhi Congress alleged that the city government was trying to mislead the people about the seriousness of the pandemic by manipulating data to show fewer deaths and infections. Former Congress MLA Hari Shankar Gupta claimed crematoriums and burial grounds were overflowing with bodies and data show that over 10,000 COVID-related deaths have occurred in Delhi till November 23.
02 December 2020||New Delhi,||Virus claims most lives in November||The third wave of COVID-19 has emerged as the deadliest since the pandemic struck the Capital earlier this year. At over 2,612, the virus claimed more lives in Delhi in November alone compared to total fatalities recorded during the entirety of both October and September combined, according to Delhi government data. The number of COVID-19 deaths recorded in November was also greater than those recorded till the end of June following a peak, which was later acknowledged as the first wave of the virus in the city. While deaths remain a cause of concern, a government official said November also witnessed a gradual decline in the positivity ratio, indicating that the third wave was steadily subsiding. According to records, while 2,612 deaths were recorded during November, with 899 and 1,110, respectively, September and October had accounted for a total number of 2,009 COVID deaths. Beginning with a surge in daily cases peaking towards the end of June, as many as 2,219 deaths were recorded till June 30 during the first wave of COVID-19, which gradually abated over July. Cases began peaking again between mid-August and the middle of September, which was acknowledged as the second wave. The Delhi government believes the city is currently undergoing the third wave of COVID-19, which began peaking towards late October. Comparative figures While the total tally of cases stood at 87,360 on June 30, the number of cases had reached 2,79,715 till September, with 3,86,706 cases till October 31 and 5,70,374 cumulative cases till November 30. As both deaths and the number of cases surged, as many as 2,193 containment zones were delineated in Delhi during November compared to just 659 in October and 1,724 in September. Only 294 containment zones were marked in August. However, the government said a gradual decline in the positivity ratio during November was encouraging and being interpreted as the end of the ongoing third wave. According to Delhi government data, a positivity ratio of 15.26% – 7,745 of the total number of 50,754 individuals tested turning out positive – on November 7 had gone down to 7.24% till November 26 with only 4,998 of the 69,051 individuals tested turning out positive.
02 December 2020||new delhi,||Bhim Army chief joins farmers’ protest||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekar Azad on Tuesday joined the protesting farmers at the Delhi-Ghazipur border along with hundreds of his supporters and demanded that the new farms laws be withdrawn. The Dalit leader from Uttar Pradesh, who launched his political party in March this year, said: “The farmers have been fighting for their rights in this cold. These laws should be withdrawn. We extend our full support to our farmers. We are with them in this fight.” Even as farmers of Punjab and Haryana continued to rally at Singhu and Tikari border entry points, scores of Uttar Pradesh farmers gathered at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Ghazipur border in their bid to enter Delhi. Thousands of farmers stayed put at various Delhi border points for the sixth consecutive day on Tuesday protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system.
02 December 2020||New Delhi,||Trial of 3 homeopathic medicines for COVID-19 to be over by Feb.: Delhi govt.||The Delhi government has informed the High Court on Tuesday that trial of three homeopathic medicines for COVID-19, which started in October after obtaining clearance from the Institutional Ethics Committee and Clinical Trial Registration, will be completed by February. The Delhi government stated that its Directorate of Ayush has started the trial using three homeopathic medicines with sample size of about 18,000 people. “The study had commenced in the last week of October 2020 and by now, 3,000 samples have been registered. The study is likely to be completed by January/February 2021,” it said. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad came down heavily on Central Council for Research in Homoeopathy (CCRH) for failing to state as to what kind of clinical trials it has conducted to prevent and cure COVID-19 infection. While CCRH’s counsel stated that eight clinical trials are being conducted by it, he concedes that their details have not been furnished in the affidavit. The court directed CCRH to submit a fresh affidavit indicating the dates on which it had commenced steps for developing Nosode for fighting the pandemic and the stage at which the trials are.
02 December 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. quizzed over rules for disposal of kits||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the AAP government whether there were any guidelines or protocols in place for disposal of used COVID-19 testing kits and whether they were being followed by the hospitals, clinics and doctors under its jurisdiction. The court’s direction came while hearing a petition by advocate Pankaj Mehta, which alleged improper disposal of used swabs from rapid antigen testing for COVID-19 at the office of the District Magistrate (South-East Delhi) at Lajpat Nagar. Mr. Mehta has sought direction to the Delhi government to carry out safety audits at COVID-19 testing centres across the city. The HC posted the case for hearing on December 3.
02 December 2020||New Delhi,||Get masks in return for plastic waste||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Tuesday launched a campaign under which people can get masks in exchange of plastic waste at a collection centre on the premises of Charkha Museum in Connaught Place. The ‘ Plastic Lao, Mask Pao ’ campaign in partnership with United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) was launched by Chief Secretary Vijay Kumar Dev on Tuesday. As part of the campaign, a mini collection centre has been set up on the premises of Charkha Museum and people bringing plastic waste will get reusable cloth masks. The centre will be open on all days from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
02 December 2020||noida,||Gautam Buddha Nagar reports 112 cases||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar recorded 112 new COVID-19 cases, which pushed the district’s infection tally to 22,812 on Tuesday, official data showed. The active COVID-19 case count in the district came down to 1,127 from 1,136 on Monday, according to data released by the U.P. Health Department. The number of active cases of the novel coronavirus in Gautam Buddha Nagar is the fifth highest in the State. The death toll from the pandemic stands at 83 in the district with a mortality rate of 0.36%. The recovery rate of COVID-19 patients reached 94.69%, the statistics showed. The number of active cases in Uttar Pradesh came down to 23,670 from 24,099 on Monday, while the overall recoveries reached 5,14,087 and the death toll linked to COVID-19 climbed to 7,788 on Tuesday.
02 December 2020||Press Trust of India Mumbai,||High court questions Maharashtra govt. on FIR against woman for tweet||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday asked the Maharashtra government if it intended to take action against every person who says something objectionable on Twitter. A Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik was hearing a plea filed by city resident Sunaina Holey who was booked by Mumbai and Palghar police for tweets against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son Aaditya. Ms. Holey, in her plea filed through advocate Abhinav Chandrachud, has sought that the FIR against her be quashed. On Tuesday, Mr. Chandrachud told the high court that Ms. Holey was merely expressing her opinion and criticising the policy of the State government through her tweet. The State counsel, Y.P. Yagnik, however, said Ms. Holey couldn’t go scot-free, adding that she and the public in general must show restraint in their criticism of political parties. The Bench agreed that a person’s fundamental right to free speech cannot breach another person’s fundamental rights, but added that public offices in a democracy have to face criticism from the public. “Ultimately the society has to find a balance between the society and individual rights. Will you act against every person who says something on Twitter? How many actions will you have to take?” the Bench said. Advocate Yagnik said the police was probing the intent behind Ms. Holey’s tweet. At this, the Bench asked if the FIR against Ms. Holey could be quashed straight away based.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||China, Pakistan sign military deal||China and Pakistan have signed a new military memorandum of understanding to boost their already close defence relationship, as China’s Defence Minister and People’s Liberation Army (PLA) General Wei Fenghe met Pakistan’s leadership in Islamabad and visited the headquarters of the Army at Rawalpindi. Gen. Wei on Tuesday met Pakistan’s President Arif Alvi and Prime Minister Imran Khan. He called on both countries to “push the military-to-military relationship to a higher level, so as to jointly cope with various risks and challenges, firmly safeguard the sovereignty and security interests of the two countries and safeguard the regional peace and stability”, Chinese state media reported. On Monday, the two militaries signed an MoU following Gen. Wei’s meeting with Pakistan’s Chief of the Army Staff, General Qamar Javed Bajwa, at the General Headquarters, according to reports in the Pakistani media. Both “exchanged in-depth views on the international and regional situations, the relations between the two countries and militaries, the equipment and technology cooperation and other issues”, a report in China’s official media said. While details of the new MoU were not immediately available, it follows another agreement signed last year, when China’s Vice Chairman of the Central Military Commission (CMC) General Xu Qiliang visited Rawalpindi for defence cooperation and “capacity building of the Pakistan Army”. Gen. Wei also discussed ongoing projects under the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), in which the Pakistani military is playing an increasingly prominent role. Prior to Gen. Wei’s visit, recently appointed Chinese envoy to Pakistan Nong Rong conducted a “comprehensive review” of the CPEC projects along with Lt. Gen. Asim Saleem Bajwa (retd), who is heading the CPEC Authority. The Chinese Defence Minister also had talks with Pakistan’s Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee General Nadeem Raza, and both sides “reaffirmed their commitment to ‘Iron Brotherhood’ and ‘All-Weather’ friendship”. Firm support President Arif Alvi on Tuesday conveyed Pakistan “firmly supports China’s stand on issues related to the South China Sea, Taiwan, Xinjiang, Tibet and so on”, Chinese State media reported. “We hope that the two countries will further strengthen cooperation in the construction of the CPEC as well as the defence and security fields,” he said. Prime Minister Imran Khan called for “closer strategic cooperation to raise the iron-clad Pakistan-China brotherhood to a new height”. Gen. Wei’s visit followed his day-long visit to Nepal, where he was the highest ranking Chinese official to visit since President Xi Jinping’s visit in October last year. The Communist Party-run Global Times reported Gen. Wei as saying: “China firmly supports Nepal to safeguard its national independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity”, with the newspaper noting India’s recent territorial dispute with Nepal in Kalapani. He said China would “continue assisting Nepal’s military development, contributing to regional peace and stability”. The newspaper reported that military-to-military relations were growing with the PLA Air Force earlier this year sending protective outfits, medical masks and thermometers to the Nepalese military. Nepal’s then Defence Minister Ishwar Pokhrel visited Beijing in October 2019 when both sides signed a 150-million yuan ($22.8 million) deal on military assistance, the Global Times noted, adding that the two militaries have held joint special forces drills for three consecutive years.
02 December 2020||Washington,||Arizona, Wisconsin certify Biden’s victory over Trump||Arizona and Wisconsin officials on Monday certified Democrat Joe Biden as the winner of their respective States in the November 3 presidential elections, further formalising his win against incumbent U.S. President Donald Trump. Mr. Trump had won both the States in 2016 and sought to reverse Mr. Biden’s win via legal challenges and vote recounts. Arizona’s Secretary of State Katie Hobbs (Democrat) certified the election results on Monday, with (Republican) Governor Doug Ducey signing the results, confirming Mr. Biden’s win in the State, giving the Democrat 11 electoral votes. Mark Kelly, a Democrat, was also confirmed the winner of the State’s race for the U.S. Senate, defeating incumbent Martha McSally, a Republican. Turning blue Democrats performed well in the highly populated Maricopa County, flipping it for the first time in decades in a presidential race. The State has been turning blue on the back of demographic shifts — Krysten Sinema, a Democratic Senator, won Maricopa County in the 2018 midterm election. Protest in Phoenix Supporters of Mr. Trump gathered in downtown Phoenix, as per reports, to protest against Monday’s confirmation of the results. The President has made sweeping claims of a fraudulent election without backing those claims with adequate evidence. Members of Mr.Trump’s campaign, including former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, met Arizona State legislators to discuss these claims. “What is going on with@dougducey? Republicans will long remember!” Mr. Trump said in a tweet. Wisconsin gains In Wisconsin, Chairman of the Elections Commission, Ann Jacobs, signed the determination of the election results, where Mr. Trump’s campaign had requested a recount in Dane and Milwaukee counties. Mr Biden’s tally went up by 87 votes, confirming his win in the State and giving him 10 electoral votes. Democratic Governor Tony Evers signed the certification later on Monday. Other States such as Pennsylvania, Nevada, Michigan and Georgia, where Mr. Trump and his team had sought to challenge the results of the election, have already certified their votes, giving Mr. Biden a win. While Mr. Biden’s team has been granted official permission to transition resources, Mr. Trump has not conceded the election. The Electoral College is scheduled to meet on December 14 when electors meet in their respective States and will cast their votes for President and Vice- President as per the results of the vote in their states.
02 December 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka prison riot toll rises to 11||The death toll from the recent prison riots in Sri Lanka, sparked by fears of a raging second wave of COVID-19, rose to 11 on Tuesday. More than 100 prisoners were injured when guards opened fire to contain the unrest on Sunday, as inmates at the Mahara prison, near Colombo, demanded to be freed after at least 1,000 prison inmates in the country tested positive. Prison guards “used force in order to bring under control an unrest”, police spokesman DIG Ajith Rohana had said. Amid persisting calls from rights activists to address the problem of overcrowding in Sri Lanka’s prisons — they currently have about 30,000 inmates, nearly thrice their capacity — President Gotabaya Rajapaksa pardoned more than 600 prisoners last weekend. Further, the government has promised to consider releasing thousands in remand custody on bail, in the wake of the deadly prison riot that for many evoked memories of the 2012 riots at Sri Lanka’s Welikada prison when police shot dead 27 inmates. The Police Criminal Investigation Department is probing Sunday’s incident, while Justice Minister Ali Sabry on Monday appointed a five-member committee to investigate the violence and killings. Impartial probe Issuing a statement, human rights watchdog Amnesty International has sought a thorough and impartial investigation into the incident that saw “use of lethal force”. Urging authorities to address the underlying causes, it said the incident “reflects the anxiety among prisoners about the threat of COVID-19 within severely overcrowded prisons and the inadequate measures in place to protect them”. There is already a swelling number of inmates across the country who have tested positive for COVID-19. Although Sri Lanka had contained its first wave of COVID-19 that broke out in March effectively, the second wave that began early in October is witnessing a rapid rise in cases and fatalities. As of Tuesday evening, Sri Lanka’s Health Promotion Bureau reported 23, 987 cases and 118 deaths.
02 December 2020||STEPANAKERT,||In Karabakh, Putin plays peacemaker||stAs a dilapidated old van pulled up at a hillside checkpoint, an Azerbaijani soldier inside scrubbed furiously at his fogged-up window, then cast a glowering look at an Armenian standing just a few feet away. Just days before, they were on opposite sides of a bitter war. But now the Russian peacekeeper next to them was in charge. He waved the van through toward Azerbaijani-held territory to the right. The Armenians travelled on to Armenian-controlled land to the left. The vicious war between Azerbaijan and Armenia over the disputed mountain enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh has settled into a tense truce enforced by heavily armed Russian troops. For Russia, long a provocateur in the broader Caucasus region, the peacemaker role is a switch — a new test and opportunity for a country struggling to maintain its influence in the former Soviet lands. “They say that things will be OK,” said Svetlana Movsesyan, 67, an ethnic Armenian who remained in the Nagorno-Karabakh capital of Stepanakert, even after narrowly escaping an Azerbaijani strike on the market where she sells dried fruits and honey. “I believe in Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin.” Kremlin’s playbook It was Mr. Putin, the Russian President, who by all accounts stopped the war that killed thousands this fall. But he did so by departing from the iron-fisted playbook Russia has used in other regional conflicts in the post-Soviet period, when it intervened militarily in Georgia and Ukraine while invading and annexing Crimea. In the negotiations to end the recent war, Mr. Putin leaned on the threat of Russia’s military power, forcing concessions from both sides in the conflict but gaining a grudging measure of trust in the rival camps. Russia has a mutual-defence alliance with Armenia, but Mr. Putin insisted it did not apply to Nagorno-Karabakh. He has maintained close personal ties to President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan. The strategy seems to have paid immediate dividends, providing the Kremlin with a military foothold in the region and welding Armenia firmly into Russia’s sphere of influence, without alienating Azerbaijan. “This is an opportunity to play the role of peacekeeper in the classical sense,” said Andrei Kortunov, the director general of the Russian International Affairs Council, a research organization close to the Russian government. “I want to hope that we are seeing a learning process and a change in the Russian strategy in the post-Soviet space.”Ny times
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Wisconsin, Arizona certify Biden wins in presidential poll||Two battleground States, Wisconsin and Arizona, certified their presidential election results in favor of Joe Biden, even as President Donald Trump’s legal team continued to dispute the results. Mr. Biden’s victory in Wisconsin was certified on Monday following a partial recount that only added to his 20,600-vote margin over Mr. Trump. Governor Tony Evers, a Democrat, signed a certificate that completed the process after the canvass report showing Mr. Biden as the winner following the recount was approved by the Chairwoman of the bipartisan Wisconsin Elections Commission.  Earlier on Monday, Arizona officials certified Mr. Biden’s narrow victory in that State. Democratic Secretary of State Katie Hobbs and Republican Governor Doug Ducey both vouched for the integrity of the election before signing off on the results. “We do elections well here in Arizona. The system is strong,” Mr. Ducey said. Mr. Biden is only the second Democrat in 70 years to win Arizona. In the final tally, he beat Mr. Trump by 10,457 votes.  ‘Why the rush?’ Mr. Trump berated Mr. Ducey on Twitter, asking, “Why is he rushing to put a Democrat in office, especially when so many horrible things concerning voter fraud are being revealed at the hearing going on right now.” “WOW, total election corruption in Arizona. Hearing on now!,” Mr. Trump tweeted as lawyers for the President and some lawmakers met in Arizona.
02 December 2020||Washington,||Trump virus adviser quits as vaccine hopes get new boost||President Donald Trump’s controversial coronavirus adviser resigned on Monday, while hopes for a first wave of vaccinations before the end of 2020 received a further boost with an announcement from U.S. firm Moderna. Scott Atlas, a favoured coronavirus adviser of the U.S. President, who tweeted in October “Masks work? NO,” has submitted his resignation, effective as of December 1, Fox News reported. Lacking relevant experience or qualifications in public health or infectious disease, he also called in November for people in Michigan to “rise up” against COVID-19 measures. Mr. Atlas stepped down as hopes rose for a first wave of vaccinations before the end of the year after Moderna said it was filing for emergency authorisation of its vaccine in the U.S. and Europe. After top U.S. scientists warned Americans to brace for a “surge superimposed on the surge,” Moderna reported full results had confirmed a high efficacy estimated at 94.1%. It was set to join American pharmaceutical maker Pfizer and Germany’s BioNTech, which applied for similar approvals last week, and have predicted their vaccine could be greenlit in the U.S. shortly after December 10. If the U.S. Food and Drug Administration agrees Moderna’s product is safe and effective, the first of the drug’s two doses could be injected into the arms of millions of Americans by the middle of December. Jabs before December Health Secretary Alex Azar told CBS News: “We could be seeing both of these vaccines out and getting into people’s arms before Christmas.” Co-developed with the U.S. National Institutes of Health, the jabs were generally well-tolerated, with the most common side effects including injection site pain, fatigue, muscle pain, joint pain and headache. Moderna expects to have approximately 20 million doses of the vaccine available in the U.S. by the end of 2020, and between 500 million to a billion doses globally in 2021.  The U.S. is the worst-affected country in the world, with 13,920,038 COVID-19 cases and more than 2,67,000 deaths.
02 December 2020||Multan,||Pak. protesters call for Imran’s resignation at Multan rally||Despite a government ban and arrests of hundreds of activists, Pakistani Opposition supporters rallied in a central city on Monday, calling on Prime Minister Imran Khan to resign over alleged bad governance and incompetence. The rally in Multan by the Pakistan Democratic Movement, an alliance of Opposition parties, was held a day after the police, on orders from the government, carried out the arrests and banned the gathering, defending the move as necessary to combat the coronavirus pandemic. The police acknowledged arresting more than 370 people, while Opposition groups put the number at more than 1,800. Authorities also switched off the mobile phone network.  Maryam Nawaz, the daughter of former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, attended the rally. “There is no doubt that this government will no more be in power in the coming days, God willing, and I have no doubt about it,” she said. Also in attendance and marking her political debut was Assefa Bhutto Zardari, the daughter of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, who was assassinated in 2007.
02 December 2020||London,||Facebook News to launch in U.K. next year||Facebook said on Tuesday it will launch its news tab feature in Britain from next year, paying publishers for stories delivered through the world’s leading social network. The arrival of Facebook News in January comes after the service was rolled out in the U.S. in late 2019 and is part of plans to extend it worldwide, the company said. “With Facebook News, we will pay publishers for content that is not already on the platform, help drive new audiences, and bring publishers greater monetisation opportunities,” it added. Titles covered in the first wave of deals include The Economist , The Guardian , The Independent and the Mirror , and local newspapers the London Evening Standard , the Manchester Evening News and the Scotsman . Lifestyle magazines such as Cosmopolitan , GQ, Vogue and Tatler have also signed up, while there is a video partnership with Channel 4 News. Facebook’s director of news partnerships Jesper Doub said the company was “in active negotiations” to bring the feature to France and Germany. “We will continue to work with publishers in countries where market conditions and regulatory environments invite this kind of investment and innovation,” he added.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The pernicious idea of exclusive belonging||The idea that each human being belongs to only one religious or linguistic community, a single culture or a unique civilization appears to be ubiquitous. Many have begun to believe that our identity is defined by membership to only mutually exclusive groups. If we are Bengali, then we cannot be Odia or Assamese; if Hindu, then not Muslim or Christian. This idea of exclusive belonging is relatively recent. Indeed, even today, a substantial number of humans appear not to have it. Or if they do, only very faintly. Multiple belonging is common because we imbibe from other cultures when we go to them. And because ideas and values, energetic and nimble-footed, come to us as they seek uncharted territories. This fluidity in understanding who we are is ineradicable, infinitely better than a condition in which we are confined to a fixed, categorical idea of identity. Identity is multi-layered That we belong exclusively to one culture, religion or language is undesirable and unfeasible. It is not feasible because our overall identity is far more complex and multi-layered than what we articulate or others believe. To take the manifest part of ourselves as our only identity is to accept a truncated, impoverished self. It is undesirable because it forces us to rely exclusively on one tradition when in fact we can be nourished by many. We live much better when we are open to multiple influences, enriched by varied currents of thought and value. Intersecting cultures Take any one of us living in say in Delhi. We are heirs to myriad streams of Hindi/Urdu/Punjabi. Local dialects apart, these are shaped by old Sanskrit and old Persian, close cousins in an ancient family of languages — consider words such as asura / ahura or yajna / yasna ). Those who speak them do not realise that several words on their tongue are of Arabic origin ( Aadmi , Maalik ). Since languages are not simply a means of communication but constitute multiple worlds, the criss-crossing and overlapping worlds they inhabit are infinitely more complex and expansive than is recognised. Monuments and public spaces that surround us (Humayun’s Tomb, the Ramlila Maidan, Parliament building) and the varied cuisines that shape our taste and sensibility are also creations of intersecting cultures. And so are the identities they shape. The same is true of moral frameworks that ground our commitments and convictions — structures of values that have developed over 5,000 years. I doubt if there is any Indian who has not been shaped by multiple ancient strands that compose Hinduism, the precepts of Buddha and Mahavir, the partly homegrown Islamic and Christian traditions, the teachings of Nanak and Kabir, not to forget the enormous impact that western values have had since Vasco Da Gama stepped ashore, all the way to the globalised world we now inhabit. The idea of exclusive allegiance to any one of these flies in the face of evidence and is based on ignorance or deliberate denial. Why should we, instead of embracing all of them, insist on exclusive belonging and loyalty to just one? A serious objection At this point it might be objected that a person’s identity is defined not by everything that has influenced her but by those elements she has evaluated to be of greater importance. Someone can say that her fundamental commitments flow from a single framework — and this alone defines her identity. Identity is defined by what is publicly affirmed because of judgement of its real significance. It announces where we truly belong, to what we owe our overriding allegiance. A person’s identity, the argument goes, is defined by his orientation to an incomparably higher good. It underlines the quest to be a certain kind of person, to give oneself a direction. Does this often not require removing all ‘alien or bad features’? Is not this movement towards something higher often a battle between the good and the evil within? Why cannot this be seen as a certain kind of purification? A shuddhikaran for a Hindu or for that matter, a jihad for a Muslim. If so, does it not follow that one is a Hindu because of one’s aspiration to realise what is most valuable in Hinduism rather than in any other ethical tradition? To tell such a person that there is a Muslim ingredient in his self is irrelevant because the whole point of his existence is to become a good Hindu and remove extraneous, non- or anti-Hindu elements. This seems like a forceful rebuttal. But it overlooks two stronger challenges. First, the encounter between two different ethical traditions results in mutual transformation of what is truly worthwhile in these traditions. Arguably, the ethics of Vedic people originally comprised three ends of life: kama , artha and dharma . It needed the teachings of the Buddha to add a fourth value, Moksha . Similarly, the Arya Samaj challenged idol worship as a perverse substitution of original Vedic fire rituals, but can one deny that it was also influenced by the Islamic conception of a formless god? Religions have frequently shaped each other’s conception of the ultimate good, even as they conceal or stigmatise the source. Second, and equally important, most of us are powered by multiple moral sources. We acknowledge within us the presence of different even incompatible normative orientations. Consider the French philosopher, Paul Ricoeur’s disclosure that the private reading of the Bible was central to the pietistic Protestant milieu in which he was born. This part of his upbringing, leaning on prayer and the undogmatic examination of conscience, had little intellectual content about it. But Ricouer was equally impacted by another milieu wherein critical thinking and public standards of rationality were essential. He says: ‘I always moved back and forth between these two poles: a biblical pole and a rational, critical pole. A duality that has lasted through my entire life. I remained faithful to this double allegiance.’ I believe this self-description captures the life of many intellectuals. Many scientists take their Hindu outlook seriously; many philosophers are at home in their Jewish, Islamic or Catholic spiritualities. Loyal to both, they feel that something terribly important would be lost if either was snatched away from them. Multiple allegiances Indeed, I will not be surprised if there are many Muslims today who are inspired by both the Ramayana and the Koran . This was something commonplace till the mid-20th century in large parts of Haryana’s Meo community. It is still common to find some of our greatest singers, musicians and poets moved equally and simultaneously by Hindu and Muslim mysticism. I recently saw a film on Bismillah Khan in which he tells viewers how blessed he was to live in Benaras. “… I can step down the ghats, bathe in the Ganga, walk up to the masjid for namaz , and then head straight to the Balaji temple for riyaz …”. The fact is that large numbers of people in the past embraced not just dual but multiple allegiances and this is unlikely to disappear in future. The demand for a single, exclusive allegiance makes for a sorry, desiccated self. The idea of exclusive belonging or allegiance is a pernicious intrusion into world cultures. Equally dangerous is a political project that foists a singularity or homogeneity and calls for the obliteration of multiplicity and fluidity – so that we become purely one or the other. The demand to ‘purify’ ourselves, rid ourselves of anything ‘foreign’ that contaminates is not only hard to meet but, if we are to lead better, richer lives, not worth compliance. Rajeev Bhargava is Honorary Professor, Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), Delhi
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Why business barons should not run banks||First, a confession is in order. Would I want to own a bank and have a key to the bank treasury to start a new airline? You bet! Can I promise that I won’t dip my hands into the till when my airline runs out of cash? Don’t you doubt it. And will I recuse myself where needed and follow corporate governance? Of course. Anything for the keys to the bank safe. If you ask a fox that is in charge of the henhouse to promise not to eat the chicks if he is hungry, what would the fox say? My promise would be as sacrosanct as his. You don’t give the keys of a henhouse to a fox. Not even to a virtuous fox. Period. But the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the last guardian of India’s financial and banking system, wants to do just that. That the RBI constituted an Internal Working Group to determine if large corporate houses can be given licence to promote banks and recommended that they be allowed to operate banks, all without inviting a larger public debate, is unconscionable. Banking regulations for licensing have not been diluted in the last 50 years to allow business barons to promote a bank. Whenever these requests came up, it was always frowned upon. That the RBI has recommended it even after its own Internal Working Group “found out from its set of experts that barring one, all of them were of the opinion that large corporate/industrial houses should not be allowed to promote a bank” is baffling. Not a welcome move In a joint paper posted on November 23, former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan and former RBI Deputy Governor Viral Acharya termed the recommendations allowing corporates into banking a “bombshell” and said this proposal is “best left on the shelf”. Referring to business houses owning an in-house bank that may lead to self-lending, they said, “The history of such connected lending is invariably disastrous — how can the bank make good loans when it is owned by the borrower? Even an independent committed regulator, with all the information in the world, finds it difficult to be in every nook and corner of the financial system to stop poor lending. Information on loan performance is rarely timely or accurate. Yes Bank managed to conceal its weak exposures for considerable periods.” Indeed, anything coming from Mr. Rajan or Mr. Acharya may be seen as being partisan or motivated by the present dispensation. But other experts have also not welcomed this move. Professor T.T. Ram Mohan wrote in this newspaper, “If the record of over-leveraging in the corporate world in recent years is anything to go by, the entry of corporate houses into banking is a road to perdition.” Hemindra Hazari, a well-known Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) research analyst, wrote in an article titled ‘RBI’s working group recommends foxes be put in charge of chicken coops’: “Even under the existing financial regime, the RBI was unable to detect at an early stage the connected lending which felled large regulated financial entities like IL&FS, Yes Bank (Rana Kapoor and his entities held 10.6% as on end September 2018), Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank and DHFL (promoter holding 39%). Will it be able to effectively regulate and monitor large, complex industrial houses which are well versed in disguising financial transactions through a vast web of opaque domestic and foreign-based entities?” In a blistering critique in Bloomberg titled ‘India’s banking rules need to close door to tycoon cronyism’, renowned analyst Andy Mukherjee wrote: “From telecommunications to transportation, India’s business landscape is already starting to resemble a Monopoly board.” He recommended less risky options of asking corporates who promote banks to pare down their shareholding to 15% over the long term and penalties for misdemeanours and connected lending violations, by bringing down their voting rights to 5%. The RBI is overlooking time-tested principles and limits of disallowing mega business houses from promoting and owning banks. It is saying this can be done by making necessary amendments to the Banking Regulation Act of 1949 to deal with connected lending and linkages between banks and non-financial group entities, and strengthening the supervisory mechanism for conglomerates. This is in stark departure from its long-held opinion on the subject since 1969 when banks were nationalised. History is replete with evidence of business barons who were good when they started out only to eventually morph into robber barons who not only enriched themselves owing to their enormous wealth and nexus with politicians in power, but also crushed competition. It will be naïve to believe that a bank owned by a corporate house will permit lending to its competitors. Mr. Mukherjee ended his article eloquently saying, “To roll out red carpet to wannabe JP Morgans would be an abdication of the RBI’s financial stability and mandate.” The way forward Public sector banks may be inefficient and indifferent and under the influence of the party in power but private sector banks that are owned by oligarchs and business tycoons in cahoots with politicians will be rapacious beings. The way forward should be to privatise public sector banks by allowing wide and diversified holding of stock by the general public. If the government exits banking ownership, that would lead to professional management and broader distribution of wealth. The banks would come under both SEBI and stringent RBI guidelines. Many a time when my company could not manage to restructure its loan and ended up in Debts Recovery Tribunals, how I wished I owned a bank! How can we expect virtue from modern-day business Maharajas when in the Mahabharata, even King Yudhishthira gambled away his wife, family and kingdom? Captain G.R. Gopinath is a writer and founder of Air Deccan
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The last straw is being further disabled||There has been much outrage expressed over the denial of a sipper and straw to Father Stan Swamy. Father Swamy, the 83-year-old activist who suffers from Parkinson’s disease, was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in October for his alleged involvement in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon violence and charged under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. Lodged in Mumbai’s Taloja prison, Father Swamy reportedly made an application to be provided with a sipper and straw, as he was unable to hold a glass, a request which was inexplicably deferred for 20 days, only for the NIA to inform the court that it did not have a straw and sipper to give to the incarcerated octogenarian. The court has now posted the matter on December 4, seeking a report from the jail authorities on allowing Father Swamy to receive a straw and sipper at his own cost. However, there are subsequent reports that have emerged that Father Swamy has been provided with a sipper and straw by the jail authorities. Nevertheless, given Father Swamy’s allegations, a fuller examination is merited by the court. If Father Swamy’s allegations are true, the above events, apart from demonstrating the insensitivity of legal procedure, outline another fundamental issue — that of the rights of prisoners with disabilities. While incarceration itself is not easy, it is significantly more difficult for persons with disabilities. Given the nature of overcrowded and underfunded prison environments, the difficulties persons with disabilities face in society are exacerbated in prison. It is precisely for this reason that both international and domestic laws recognise and protect the rights of disabled prisoners.  Rights upheld by laws Under international law, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD), which applies to all persons with disabilities including detainees and prisoners (https://bit.ly/3fVuNdY), and to which India is a signatory (https://bit.ly/37ln5pH), imposes a positive obligation on authorities, including prison staff, to ensure that prisoners with disabilities are on an “equal basis with others, entitled to guarantees in accordance with international human rights law” and are “treated in compliance with the objectives and principles of the convention, including by provision of reasonable accommodation”. The obligation encompasses the provision of auxiliary aids relevant to the disability to secure the inherent dignity of the prisoner to enable them to live independently and participate in all aspects of their daily lives. In cases where such provision is not made by prison authorities, it may amount to a breach of a state’s obligation to “prevent persons with disabilities... from being subjected to torture, cruel or inhuman degrading treatment or punishment”. These obligations under the CRPD are complemented by the provision of Article 10 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, or ICCPR (https://bit.ly/33yQDyR). The Nelson Mandela Rules (https://bit.ly/37mZUex), approved by the UN General Assembly through a resolution in 2015, on the standard minimum rules for the treatment of prisoners, also requires that the prison administration “make all reasonable accommodation and adjustments to ensure that prisoners with physical, mental or other disabilities have full and effective access to prison life on equitable basis” (https://bit.ly/3qrqMmu). Apart from the constitutional guarantees under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution available to persons with disabilities, there is specific Indian legislation on the subject. The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (https://bit.ly/3muVI2S) enacted with the object of giving effect to the CRPD, also requires that persons with disabilities enjoy the right to equality, life with dignity and respect for integrity equally with others; they are not to be discriminated against on the ground of disability, unless to achieve a legitimate aim. The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act also enjoins the state to take necessary steps to protect persons with disabilities from being subjected to torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment; and take necessary steps to ensure reasonable accommodation for persons with disabilities. While the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act does not specifically provide for persons with disabilities who are incarcerated, given the object of the legislation to give effect to the CRPD, it would even encompass prisoners. It is important to note that the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act explicitly recognises Parkinson’s disease as specified disability in its Schedule. Injustice magnified The denial of aids such as a sipper and straw to Father Swamy in prison to deal with his neurological disability is arguably inconsistent with both domestic and international law. (There are reports of lawyers having arranged for sippers and straws for him.) The injustice in Father Swamy’s case is magnified by the fact that he still awaits trial. The fundamental tenet on which Indian criminal law operates is that an accused is presumed innocent until proven guilty. In the event the prosecution is unable to prove its case, the damage to Father Swamy’s health will be irreparable. While his guilt or innocence is ultimately a matter for the court to decide, the denial of his rights by the justice system not only constitutes a legal wrong but also displays an absence of compassion. It is the absence of compassion that ultimately corrupts the decency of any society. Forgotten ideal In his excellent memoir, Just Mercy: A Story of Justice and Redemption , Bryan Stevenson writes that the true measure of a society’s commitment to justice, the rule of law, fairness and equality, cannot be measured by how it treats the rich, the powerful, the privileged and the respected. But that the true measure of a society’s character is how it treats the poor, the disfavoured, the accused, the incarcerated and the condemned. It is time for the Indian justice system to stand up to this ideal. Jay Manoj Sanklecha is a lawyer specialising in international law. The views expressed are personal
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||No leverage for Biden on Iran||The murder of Iranian nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh has not only exposed the vulnerabilities of Iran’s military intelligence, but also triggered a series of questions concerning the future of Iran-U.S. relations after the recent election of Joe Biden as President of the U.S. Many inside Iran and around the world have pointed the finger at Israel’s intelligence agency, Mossad, which is suspected to have killed Iranian nuclear scientists earlier this decade. In the Mossad’s point of view, Fakhrizadeh was the brain behind the militarisation of Iran’s nuclear programme and therefore represented an imminent threat to the security of Israel. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu even mentioned him by name during a May 2018 press conference while revealing secretly stolen documents on Iran’s nuclear programme. Unsurprisingly, President Donald Trump retweeted Israeli writer Yossi Melman’s tweet that said Fakhrizadeh’s assassination is a “psychological and professional blow” to Iran. As for Mr. Biden, he has been silent on the matter. The reason is not because he does not want to interfere in presidential matters until he assumes office; the truth is that Fakhrizadeh’s assassination could easily damage and diminish any hope for future dialogues with Iran. No easy solutions Consequently, the Iranian authorities also find themselves in a difficult position. There are no easy solutions to the challenges posed by Fakhrizadeh’s assassination. At a time when Iran is weighing its options for taking revenge for Fakhrizadeh’s death, its political scene seems divided. While the Iranian hard-liners are shouting for an immediate “harsh revenge”, President Hassan Rouhani has announced that his government will not fall for Israel’s trap by responding hastily. Iran’s response will depend on how the dialogue with the future U.S. administration will evolve. That said, it is no secret that many in Tel Aviv and Riyadh are against any efforts to revitalise U.S.-Iran diplomacy. Israel has repeatedly underlined the fact that returning to the 2015 nuclear deal with Iran would be a mistake. Even so, Israel and Saudi Arabia are confident that it won’t be easy to put the nuclear deal back together in a way that can last. Despite the encouraging statements by both the Biden camp and officials in the Rouhani administration, there is a remarkable degree of scepticism surrounding the prospect of the U.S. returning to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). But the Iranian population is hoping that Mr. Biden and his group of experts will enable a return to the short period between the implementation of the JCPOA in January 2016 and the election of Mr. Trump in November that year. Addressing the possible impact of U.S. elections on U.S.-Iran relations, Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said, “We follow a sensible, calculated policy which cannot be affected by changes of personnel.” The policy to which he was referring is that of engaging in a deal with Iran while respecting its vital strategic interests. Importance of the IRGC What is certain is that the killing of General Qasem Soleimani in an American drone attack in January 2020 did not have a major impact on Iran’s projection of power in the Persian Gulf region. The Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) still has the upper hand in many operations taking place in Iraq and Lebanon through the Shi’a militias, the Hashd al Sha’abi (Popular Mobilisation Forces), Kata’ib Hezbollah or the Lebanese Hezbollah. Despite the popular rage against Iranian interference in Baghdad and Beirut, the IRGC continues to play an important role in shaping Iranian foreign policy in West Asia. The IRGC is the unique pre-eminent power in Iran which is capable of replacing Ayatollah Khamenei after his death and is likely to impact the future of U.S.-Iran relations. As such, there is little likelihood of any flexibility towards the Iranian regime from the American side while the IRGC has total control of Iranian domestic and foreign policies. Last but not the least, the end of the Trump administration does not necessarily mean the end of economic sanctions and “maximum pressure” on Iran. It is true that Iranians are suffering from rampant inflation and a decline in the value of the Iranian rial against the U.S. dollar, but Mr. Trump’s sanctions have not coerced the Iranian government into talks. Mr. Trump’s withdrawal from the JCPOA followed by economic coercion offer Mr. Biden no real leverage on Iran. Iran’s adaptability to sanctions pressure shows quite well that the future Biden administration would need more than promises of sanctions relief — promises to bring the Iranian policymakers to the negotiating table. Mr. Biden will face a tough road ahead, especially if an element of the IRGC wins in the next year’s presidential election in Iran. Ramin Jahanbegloo is Director of the Mahatma Gandhi Centre for Nonviolence and Peace Studies at O.P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat, Haryana
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Winners who disappoint||When Ethiopia’s Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed launched a large-scale military offensive against separatists in the restive Tigray province, which led to the deaths of possibly thousands and forced tens of thousands to flee as refugees, a familiar disquiet arose across the world. Had the Nobel Committee made a mistake in awarding the 2019 Peace Prize to Mr. Abiy, who until last year was hailed as a beacon for democratising Ethiopia and befriending Eritrea? With ethnic tensions spiralling and Mr. Abiy resorting to violent means to manage the nationwide turbulence, was the Nobel Committee naïve in having so much hope in him? Failing to live up to ideals There was similar heartburn over President Juan Manuel Santos of Colombia failing to live up to ideals. Mr. Santos won the Peace Prize in 2016 for ending the decades-long civil war with FARC (Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia) guerrillas. Despite his image as a peacemaker, Mr. Santos’s presidency saw continuing paramilitary excesses and rampant human rights violations by agents of the state. Likewise, when the Nobel Committee gave the 2009 Peace Prize to U.S. President Barack Obama, it proved a controversial choice. Shortly after receiving the Prize, Mr. Obama ordered an American troop surge in Afghanistan, deepening a bloody war. In 2011, he also backed a disastrous military intervention in Libya and subsequently abandoned it when there was chaos. Yet another much-maligned Nobel Peace Prize winner is Myanmar’s Aung San Suu Kyi. She was chosen in 1991 while in house arrest for her courageous activism against military dictatorship and her campaign for democracy. But once she assumed the title of State Counsellor in 2016 under a power-sharing arrangement with the military in Myanmar, calls for revoking her Prize echoed in international public discourse. Ms. Suu Kyi’s decision to team up with the repressive armed forces and defend her government at the International Court of Justice against charges of genocide of the Rohingya triggered a global uproar. Several other awards heaped on her have lately been rescinded, with Amnesty International slamming her for “shameful betrayal of the values she once stood for”. While there is no question that Mr. Abiy, Mr. Santos, Mr. Obama and Ms. Suu Kyi have disappointed legions of admirers, what is common to them is that they have been holders of executive state power. The very logic of raison d’etat pushes these personalities to work under compulsions and make compromises. Mr. Abiy has justified his war in Tigray as part of the Ethiopian government’s “responsibility to enforce rule of law” and the writ of the state. Should his regime collapse, there could be anarchy or a return to the authoritarianancien régime. Ms. Suu Kyi feels she has no option but to cooperate with the military if Myanmar’s democratisation transition has to eventually succeed. If she openly challenges the military in the transitional period or steps down on conscientious grounds, the dream of full transfer of authority to civilian leadership could be lost. Mr. Obama too rationalised his actions. He said that as “a head of state sworn to protect and defend my nation”, he believed that “force is sometimes necessary”. Unrealistic expectations It is unrealistic to expect Nobel Laureates running government machineries to behave like saints. Giving the Nobel Prize to sitting prime ministers or presidents is inherently risky and these recipients should not be held to the gold standard of a Mother Teresa or Malala Yousafzai. If one adopts a less perfectionist lens, all the problematic Nobel Laureates have done some good and some harm. Unless the Nobel Committee consciously avoids picking incumbent politicians altogether in the future, there will always be reasons to be dejected by such Laureates’ records in hindsight. Understanding them in their political contexts and in particular moments may help us reach a balanced final judgment. Sreeram Chaulia is Professor and Dean at the Jindal School of International Affairs
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Slow progress||In 2003, a WHO team was able to identify the animal source of SARS coronavirus within weeks despite its arrival in China nearly three months after the initial outbreak. In the case of MERS coronavirus, the intermediate host was identified more than a year after the first human case was reported. However, in the case of the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), its source is still unknown even 11 months after WHO reported the first case. Knowing the natural reservoirs and intermediate hosts and the events that allowed the virus to jump across the species barrier are important in prevention. Soon after the virus spread around the world, there was heightened demand to identify its origin in China’s Wuhan where the first case cluster was reported. Even as the global focus shifted to therapeutics and vaccine trials, it is reassuring that the global health body is still determined to find the virus’s origin. But the pace of investigation leaves much to be desired. Efforts began in February but it was only in early August that WHO completed the mission to lay the groundwork for joint efforts to identify the origin; its two-member team did not visit Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak. It was only in late October that China began early studies for the two-phase investigation. In the first phase, short-term studies will be undertaken to better understand how the virus might have begun circulating in Wuhan. Longer-term studies will follow based on these results. It is only then that a WHO-led team can operate in China to collaborate with Chinese scientists. If China failed to alert WHO immediately after a Wuhan cluster was reported, its reluctance to quickly and earnestly investigate the source can partly be explained by U.S. President Donald Trump’s attempt to politicise the issue. The reluctance has only increased after mounting international ire over its reporting the outbreak and the huge economic cost of the pandemic globally. There is strong evidence that the virus originated in bats and probably spread to humans through an intermediate species. One way to find this out is to know the susceptibility of different animal species. Already, many animals including cats have been found susceptible to the virus in the lab and outside. With the virus spread so wide, zeroing in on the intermediate host becomes more difficult as the possibility of humans having spread the virus to animals cannot be ruled out. Hence, a multi-pronged approach with an emphasis on investigating China’s wildlife farms becomes crucial. This highlights the importance of working alongside China to uncover the virus’s origin.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Regional priorities||Three years after joining the eight-nation Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), India hosted the SCO heads of governments (HoG) meeting for the first time on Monday. The focus of the 66-point joint communiqué at the end of the virtual conference was in developing a “Plan of Priority Practical Measures for 2021-2022 to overcome the socio-economic, financial and food consequences of COVID-19 in the region”. Members committed to strengthening multilateralism and the UN charter while welcoming the fact that the grouping is now being seen as an “influential and responsible participant in the modern system of international relations”. The meeting also showed up persisting differences. Although the HoG Council consists of the Prime Ministers of all SCO countries, neither Prime Minister Narendra Modi nor Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan attended the meet, ostensibly due to a protocol mismatch between the position of PMs in parliamentary democracies versus those in the former Soviet bloc and China. Mr. Modi was represented by Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu, who made strong observations on cross-border terrorism; he called it the SCO region’s “biggest challenge”, in comments aimed at Pakistan. Pakistan’s representative too spoke of the need to combat what she called “state terrorism” in disputed areas, in a reference to Jammu and Kashmir. The SCO is a rare forum where India-Pakistan troops take part in joint exercises under the Regional Anti-Terror Structure, although it would seem the two countries have come no closer on the issue. Neither statement on terrorism was reflected in the final joint statement, which focused on trade and economic issues. India also marked its differences with China over the BRI by not joining other SCO members in a paragraph endorsing the BRI. Mr. Naidu made a pitch for “transparent and trustworthy” trade practices, seen as a sidebar aimed at China. Regardless of the differences, the Modi government has consistently maintained the importance of the SCO grouping, referred to as the “Asian NATO” although it does not mandate security alliances. The SCO is one of the few regional structures India is a part of now, given a decline in its engagement with SAARC, BBIN and the RCEP. The SCO provides India a convenient channel for its outreach — trade and strategic ties — to Central Asian countries. It has afforded a platform, when needed, for bilateral discussions with the two countries India has the most tense ties with: China and Pakistan. While the government has eschewed meetings with Pakistan for the last five years, it has used the SCO for talks with China, including this year amidst the LAC stand-off, when Rajnath Singh and S. Jaishankar met their counterparts on the sidelines of SCO meets. Above all, the SCO has been seen as a grouping worth pursuing as it retains India’s geopolitical balance, a useful counterpoint to New Delhi’s otherwise much more robust relations with the western world, and hosting the SCO meeting was one more step towards developing that engagement.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Limited divorce in Italy||The Italian Parliament to-day [December 1, Rome] finally approved a Bill introducing limited divorce in this country in the face of prolonged and bitter opposition from the Vatican and the powerful church-backed Christian Democrat Party. In an historic ballot shortly before dawn, members of the 630-man Chamber of Deputies (Lower House) voted by 319 to 286 to approve the measure after a five-year parliamentary battle. An economic package submitted by the Government was simultaneously approved. Already approved by the Senate (Upper House), the Divorce Bill now requires only the signature of President Guiseppe Saragat and publication in the official State gazette to become law, possibly before the end of the year. Early in 1971 the courts are expected to issue divorce decrees to many of the huge numbers of Italians — estimated at between one and two million — now living separated from their partners. Many of them have taken new partners whom they are unable to marry. Their children are regarded as illegitimate.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||PMI shows manufacturing losing steam||The Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for India’s manufacturing touched 56.3 in November, signaling that even as an improvement in wider industrial activity continued, the sector’s expansion as well as the pace of of new orders slowed down while employment declined further as business optimism faded during the month. After hitting 58.9 in October, the highest in over a decade, November’s manufacturing PMI marked a three-month low, IHS Markit, which compiles the index, said on Tuesday. “Growth in the Indian manufacturing sector lost momentum in November, but the latest PMI reading was still consistent with a sharp rate of expansion,” the firm said in a release. “There were slower increases in factory orders, exports, buying levels and output. Meanwhile, COVID-19 restrictions caused a further drop in payroll numbers,” it added. Though aggregate new orders rose at the slowest pace in three months, their growth was “stronger than any seen for eight years prior to September”, IHS Markit noted and said export orders had also picked up last month, as per the purchasing managers of 400 manufacturers it had surveyed. “Employment... decreased again as companies observed social distancing guidelines. The rate of job shedding was solid and little-changed from October,” the firm pointed out. ‘Safety stocks’ “For now, firms are projecting sustained demand growth in the near-term and responded to this by lifting input buying to increase their safety stocks,” said Pollyanna De Lima, Economics associate director at IHS Markit. Interestingly, firms increased their purchases of inputs even as inventories of finished goods dwindled. Also, input costs saw a sharp increase “with the overall rate of inflation the joint-strongest in two years”, with firms reporting higher prices for raw materials such as chemicals, metals, plastics and textiles, it said. While India’s manufacturing sector remained on the recovery track, Ms. De Lima stressed that a spike in COVID-19 cases and the possibility of associated restrictions could undermine the recovery and constituted a key uncertainty that was weighing down business confidence. “Business optimism faded slightly in November. Output growth is still predicted for the year ahead, but concerns about public policies, rupee depreciation and the COVID-19 pandemic dampened overall confidence,” the business intelligence firm said.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Save Maruti, auto wholesales see growth||A majority of automobile manufacturers registered year-on-year growth in dispatches to dealers in November citing improving consumer sentiment and expectations that preference for personal mobility due to the pandemic would continue to drive demand. However, market leader Maruti Suzuki India on Tuesday said its domestic passenger vehicles sales fell 2.4% to about 1.35 lakh units. The company’s export sales, however, rose almost 30% to 9,000 units. Hyundai Motor India recorded its highest-ever November domestic sales of 48,800 units, a growth of 9.4% over the year earlier period. However, exports fell 34.6% to 15,900 units. Tata Motors said its domestic sales has risen 26% in November year-on-year to 47,859 units. While passenger vehicle sales more than doubled to 21,641 units, commercial vehicles fell 5% to 26,218 units in the month. Likewise, M&M registered 6% growth in domestic sales at 41,095 units. While sales of passenger vehicles rose 24% to 14,637 units, that of commercial vehicles climbed 9% at 19,029 units. However, three-wheeler sales fell 42% to 3,854 units. Honda Cars India registered 55% growth in domestic sales in November at 9,990 units from 6,459 units in the same month last year. “The rise in personal mobility is expected to help us sustain our sales momentum during the rest of the fiscal year,” said Rajesh Goel, senior VP and director, Marketing & Sales. Kia Motors India said its total sales stood at 21,022 units in November 2020, rising 50% year-on-year. “Not only urban, but customers from tier II, III, and IV markets too are acknowledging the need for personal mobility to maintain personal safety,” Kookhyun Shim, MD & CEO, Kia Motors India said. Toyota Kirloskar Motor also announced sales of 8,508 units, rising 2.4% from 8,312 units in November 2019. Two-wheelers Hero MotoCorp said it sold more than 5.75 lakh units in the domestic market, rising from 5.05 lakh units in the year-earlier period. Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India closed November 2020 with domestic sales of more than 4.12 lakh units compared with more than 3.73 lakh units a year earlier. TVS Motors said its domestic two-wheeler sales had risen 20% to more than 2.47 lakh units as against more than 1.91 lakh units in November 2019.
02 December 2020||New Delhi,||Nov. diesel sales decline 7%||India’s diesel sales fell 7% year-on-year in November after rising for the first time in eight months in October, industry data showed on Tuesday. Sale of diesel, the most-used fuel in the country, was, however, 8% higher than in October. Diesel consumption in November was 6.23 million tonnes, having fallen from 6.7 million tonnes a year earlier. It was, however, higher than the 5.7-million tonne demand during October. The fall in consumption in November, after diesel sales had reached pre-COVID levels in September, showed the recovery was fragile, an industry official said. Petrol sales rose to 2.4 million tonnes, from 2.28 million tonnes, while cooking gas (LPG) sales climbed 4.5% to 2.36 million tonnes. ATF rises from Oct. Aviation turbine fuel sales fell 48% year-on-year to 3,46,000 tonnes, but were 6.3% higher over October. Total demand for petroleum products rose 2.5% in October to 17.77 million tonnes. While petrol had reached pre-COVID levels in September, diesel consumption had returned to normal only in October. Diesel demand had spurted 7.4% year-on-year in October, while petrol sales rose 4.5% to 2.54 million tonnes. The growth in diesel consumption was the highest in a year. Industry sources said month-on-month diesel sales have risen in November, which was a good sign. Fuel demand had slumped 49% in April after a nationwide lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of COVID-19, shut industries and took most vehicles off the roads. The festive season had fuelled a rise in consumption, but public transport has not returned to normal as educational institutions remain shut in most parts.
02 December 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Junior security holders of erstwhile LVB to lose’||The write-down of Basel III Tier 2 securities of the erstwhile Lakshmi Vilas Bank’s would be credit negative for holders of junior securities because they would lose their investment, Moody’s said in a report on Tuesday. But it was credit positive for bank depositors and senior creditors because of the loss-absorption capacity provided by Tier 2, it said. On November 26, LVB announced that it had written down in full its Basel III Tier 2 securities because the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had deemed the bank to be non-viable or approaching non-viability. Terms and conditions of Indian Basel III compliant AT1 and Tier 2 securities specify that such securities will be written down before authorities can step in to support a bank. “This marks the first time an Indian bank has written down Basel III Tier 2 securities and follows Yes Bank Ltd.’s write-down of Basel III Additional Tier 1 (AT1) securities earlier in the year for the same reason,” Moody’s said. The write-down is consistent with the approach regulators use globally to minimise the cost of a bank bailout to taxpayers, it said. “However, before these two cases, the regulator had never imposed losses on junior creditors; it has now set a precedent,” it added.  With LVB and Yes Bank, RBI has set a precedent in imposing losses on junior creditors
02 December 2020||New Delhi,||Nov. power consumption growth slows to 4.7%||Power consumption growth slowed to 4.7% at 98.37 billion units (BU) in November amid the onset of early winter, especially in the northern part of the country. In November 2019, electricity consumption in the country was recorded at 93.94 BU, as per government data. Power consumption growth had entered positive territory in September and recorded a double-digit surge in October, power ministry data showed. In September, power consumption recorded growth of 4.4% at 112.24 BU, compared with 107.51 BU in the same month last year. India’s power consumption grew by almost 12% to 109.53 BU in October this year, as against 97.84 BU in the same month last year. According to experts, the onset of early winter, especially in the North, has affected power consumption. Economic activities were almost near normal due to the easing of lockdown curbs, they said, adding that growth in power consumption would continue in the coming months.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Railways hauled highest load for 2020 in Nov.||The Railways on Tuesday said it registered the highest freight loading for 2020 in November at 109.68 MT (million tonne), even as loading during the last month was affected due to the festival holidays and cyclone Nivar. Last month, freight loading was higher by 9% from 100.96 MT in November 2019, resulting in an increase of about Rs. 450 crore in revenues over the year-earlier period. “In this period, Indian Railways earned Rs. 10,657.66 crore from freight loading, which is about 4% higher compared to last year’s earnings for the same period [Rs. 10,207.87 crore],” the Railways said. The loading this November included 48.48 MT of coal, 13.77 MT of iron ore, 5.1 MT of foodgrains, 5.41 MT of fertilizers and 6.62 MT of cement (excluding clinker). “This is the highest loading that we have done this year despite festival holidays and disruptions caused by cyclone Nivar. In fact, in the last four days of November, we loaded 4 MT of goods every day,” Railway Board Chairman and CEO V.K. Yadav said during a virtual conference.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||DRL begins phase 2/3 trials for Sputnik V||Clinical trials for Russian COVID-19 vaccine candidate Sputnik V have commenced in India and are set to involve 1,600 volunteers at nine sites across the country. Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories and the Russian Direct Investment Fund, which partnered the drugmaker for the trials and distribution of the first 100 million doses in India, on Tuesday said the adaptive phase 2/3 trials had begun after receiving clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli. It will be a multicentre and randomised controlled study. The Clinical Trials Registry-India said the trials were planned to be conducted on 1,600 subjects — 100 in phase II and 1,500 in phase III.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Elgi sees faster recovery in firm’s markets||Air compressor manufacturer Elgi Equipments expects domestic and international markets to have equal contribution to its business in the second half of the financial year. Managing director Jairam Varadaraj told The Hindu that the COVID-19 impact was not as deep as expected and recovery was faster in both domestic and international markets. The company’s consolidated sales for the second quarter was Rs. 480 crore in FY21 as against Rs. 445 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. Elgi will not look at acquisitions now but will continue to make the required investments, Mr. Varadaraj added.
02 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Mindtree ropes in Databricks to sharpen its intelligence||Mindtree has roped in Databricks, a data and AI firm, to help customers implement cloud-based data platforms for advanced analytics. With Databricks platform, enterprises can build rich data sets and optimise machine learning at scale, streamline workflows across teams, foster collaboration and reduce infrastructure complexity as per a Mindtree release.
02 December 2020||Mumbai,||Indebtedness of states may hit decade-high of 36% this fiscal says Crisil||The lockdown and consequent slump in economic activity would raise States’ indebtedness to at least 36% this fiscal, the highest in a decade, Crisil said in a report. It attributed the trend to “falling GST collections and sticky revenue expenditure of States.” Its conclusions came from a study of the top 18 States, which account for 90% of the aggregate GSDP.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Paytm waives off charges on merchant transaction||Paytm on Tuesday said it has waived all charges on merchant transactions, enabling them to accept payments from Paytm wallet, UPI apps and RuPay cards at zero charges. “Paytm will absorb Rs. 600 crore in MDR (merchant discount rate) charged annually by banks and other charges to support MSMEs during the ongoing pandemic,” the firm said.
02 December 2020||Canberra,||Can Kohli’s India avoid a clean sweep?||Left chasing shadows in the first two games, a listless Indian team would most certainly tweak its bowling combination in order to avoid a second successive clean-sweep when it takes on Australia in the third and final ODI here on Wednesday. A 0-3 defeat against Australia would be its second rout in consecutive ODI series having met the same fate in New Zealand earlier this year. “We are very much determined to go out there to win the next match and see that it’s not a clean sweep,” top-order batsman Shreyas Iyer said when asked what his team can do to stop Australia’s first in 20 years. Positive work ethic “Our bowlers are really positive with their work ethic and we could see that during training, a few of the bowlers practising with certain plans,” he added. The first two games turned out to be run-fests in which Australia out-batted Virat Kohli’s men and before they switch over to the T20 series, a win at the picturesque Manuka Oval could do their confidence a world of good. Skipper Kohli has been the first to admit that they have been “outplayed” in the two games and it is expected that some corrective measures will be taken in order to get their campaign back on track. Clueless Navdeep Saini, India’s fastest bowler, like a lot of others on his first tour of Australia, has looked clueless. Such has been his plight that Kohli was forced to bowl a half-fit (bowling wise) Hardik Pandya and even Mayanak Agarwal to complete Saini’s spell after he gave away 70 runs in seven overs. It could well be possible that one among Shardul Thakur, with an experience of 27 international games, or the ‘yorker sensation’ rookie left-armer T. Natarajan will be seen replacing Saini. In case of Natarajan, it could be his international debut and a chance to test himself in an inconsequential game before the start of the T20 series where he is sure to play a part. It could well be a case of both Shardul and Natarajan being given a go in case Kohli decides to rest both Jasprit Bumrah and Mohammed Shami, who need to remain fit and fresh for the big-ticket Test series. Different dimension Natarajan, with his clever variations and change of pace, could provide a different dimension, as the cutters might work well and a bit of swing may be on offer on a ground which is not exactly a closed concrete jungle and may aid a bit of swing. Never had an Indian attack looked so out of sorts as it did in the two games — hit for 69 boundaries and 19 sixes. If the pacers have had their share of woes, the spinners have only compounded worries with their inept performances. In case of batting, Kohli and Rahul looked in good touch during the second game but the inability of Rahul to rotate the strike during the second PowerPlay was glaring. Injured Porel flown back Meanwhile, promising Bengal fast bowler Ishan Porel’s saga of injuries continued as he has been sent back home from Australia after sustaining a hamstring injury during a net session.
02 December 2020||Paris,||More than just prestige on the line for PSG||Paris Saint-Germain will be playing for its Champions League lives against Manchester United on Wednesday, with last season’s runner-up knowing the cost of group-stage elimination could be enormous on and off the field. Anything less than victory at Old Trafford and the French champion could see destiny slip out of its hands going into the last game in Group H. Neymar’s penalty gave the Qatar-owned club victory over RB Leipzig last week, but Thomas Tuchel’s team performed poorly and the coach’s agitation when searching questions are put to him by the press suggest all is not well in Paris. PSG is top of Ligue 1, although its lead has been trimmed back in recent weeks following more disappointing displays. “There is no way we can play like that in Manchester, like we did in the second half,” Tuchel warned after Saturday’s 2-2 draw with Bordeaux. There will be potentially major consequences if it fails to qualify for the last 16 of the Champions League, something it has managed in each of the last eight seasons since becoming regulars in the competition again after the Qatari takeover. Barcelona has made it out of its group in every season since returning to the competition in 2004, while Real Madrid has got out of its group in every year since 1997. Bayern Munich has done so in every year since 2008. Manchester City has already secured an eighth consecutive appearance in the last 16, Juventus a seventh. After revelling in the team’s run to the final in Lisbon, PSG’s Qatari owners would not take kindly to such a sporting slap in the face. Financially, the repercussions could be serious.   Wednesday’s fixtures  Krasnodar vs Rennes Istanbul Basaksehir vs Leipzig Sevilla vs Chelsea Dortmund vs Lazio Club Brugge vs Zenit Juventus vs Dynamo Kiev Ferencvaros vs Barcelona Manchester United vs PSG
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Steve Smith finds his hands – India’s fortunes lie in them||For so long have coaches been telling us about the importance of a batsman’s footwork that handwork (a clumsy word, but you get the idea) has been neglected. By proclaiming “I have found my hands” before he went on to hit two successive ODI centuries against India, Steve Smith has brought this element back into cricket talk. But more of that later. At 31, Smith (Test average: 62.84, ODI average: 43.71) is statistically the greatest batsman after Don Bradman (given a minimum of 15 Tests), and seems set to stamp his authority on yet another series. India’s fortunes in Australia will depend on how well they counter his methods. The only time they won a Test series there was when Smith was serving out a ban for ball-tampering. Following textbook s Smith is not the prime example of a batsman who chooses effectiveness over staid orthodoxy, but one who follows the textbook where it matters. Yes, he fidgets, he squirms, he twiddles, but that is not what drives bowlers to distraction. He is in the right place at the right time, and never mind what happens before he gets there. Watch him closely. He might bring his bat down from gully (or even point), but he presents a straight bat to the ball after rotating it in a semicircle. The essence of batsmanship is the ability to convert stillness into motion; you can do it the traditional way by remaining immobile till you have judged length, or the Smith way by getting a head start on the movement — the momentum setting him off. The initial back-and-across movement as the bowler approaches is sometimes exaggerated so he finishes outside the off stump, even exposing the leg stump. But when the bowler targets the unprotected stump, the front foot is planted so he both denies the bowler a glimpse of it and gives himself room to glide the ball down the leg-side. A fielder is sometimes placed at leg-slip, mainly in the hope of a miracle. When the bat meets the ball, Smith’s head is in line, and more importantly, perfectly still. Organised mindset For all his apparent cat-on-a-hot-tin-roof technique, where it matters, Smith’s batting is out of the coaching manual. Sachin Tendulkar called it a “complicated technique with an extremely organised mindset”, but the complications are around the stroke, not at the time of playing it. Yes, Smith plays away from his body; but he makes up by the ability to hit through the line. The bat becomes an extension of his hands. You imagine he can’t play the cover drive with that right hand grip, but he fools you by turning his shoulder around as he pulls his right elbow in. Again, the momentum does the trick. The wrists help in placing the ball between fielders. ‘The gift of hands’ was a speciality of Virender Sehwag too; another player who wasn’t too fussed about where his feet where in relation to the bat swing. And another player who was balanced in strokeplay. One-day cricket helped make Sehwag a great Test player. In Smith’s case it is the other way around — Test cricket seems to be the stepping stone to one-day mastery. “All of your energy is in your hands,” said a baseball coach once. Most cricket coaches tend to underplay the importance of the hands, focusing on feet movement instead. Importance of self-knowledge That it took even a batsman of Smith’s calibre some four months to “find his hands” is testimony to the importance of self-knowledge in sport. With most batsman, they know they are in the groove when their favourite strokes begin to roll out easily. Smith knew he was back on track when his off drive — his rarest stoke — worked well in practice. “You shouldn’t get out if the ball is not hitting the stumps.” That is Smith’s mantra. Such is his self-belief that he once changed his technique in the middle of a Test innings, working out the back-and-across movement to his satisfaction. What must worry India is that the last time he spoke of finding his hands, ahead of the 2017-18 Ashes series, Smith aggregated 687 at an average of 137. In the following Ashes series he made 774 in four Tests. Troubled by a left-armer The Indian camp has said brave things about fast bowlers targeting Smith’s rib cage. New Zealand’s left- arm seamer Neil Wagner had troubled him thus in the series a year ago. It will be interesting to see if India’s left armer, T. Natarajan, will be picked to try the Wagner method. He is not in the original Test squad, but it might be worth taking a chance. It is possible that when Smith “found his hands”, he meant it metaphorically. But it is also literally true. He looks too comfortable for Indian bowlers to feel the same way.
02 December 2020||London,||Fulham springs a surprise on Leicester||Fulham climbed out of the Premier League relegation zone on Monday after finally solving its penalty woes in a shock 2-1 win at Leicester, while West Ham rode its luck to move into fifth place with a dramatic 2-1 victory against Aston Villa. Scott Parker’s side won for just the second time in the league this season thanks to Ademola Lookman’s 30th minute opener and Ivan Cavaleiro’s penalty eight minutes later. Fulham had missed three of its four previous penalties this term, but Cavaleiro held his nerve to convert from the spot for the crucial second goal. Harvey Barnes scored for Leicester in the 86th minute, but Fulham held on and moves one point above the bottom three. Pressure situation “Cav slipped last week and I’m not on Twitter or Instagram but I can only imagine what was being said, the jokes at his expense and Cav would have seen that,” Parker said of Cavaleiro’s recent penalty miss against Everton. Courageous Cavaleiro “I said to him: ‘Are you ready to take one if we get it?’ He looked at me dead in the eye and said: ‘I’m ready’. “The courage to step up there are the things we need. There’s no denying there’s relief. I’ve spoken to them about not letting defeats cripple us.” Leicester would have gone second with a win, but instead remains fourth — three points behind leader Tottenham — after a second successive league defeat.  The results: Premier League: Leicester 1 (Barnes 86) lost to Fulham 2 (Lookman 30, Cavaleiro 38-pen); West Ham 2 (Ogbonna 2, Bowen 46) bt Aston Villa 1 (Grealish 25).   Serie A: Torino 2 (Belotti 25, Meite 77) drew with Sampdoria 2 (Candreva 54, Quagliarella 63); Genoa 1 (Shomurodov 50) lost to Parma 2 (Gervinho 10, 47).   LaLiga: Real Betis 0 lost to Eibar 2 (Muto 49, Burgos 54-pen) .
02 December 2020||MUMBAI,||State associations divided on domestic season||The State cricket associations appear divided on how the upcoming domestic season, severely curtailed by the COVID-19 pandemic, should play out. The BCCI on Saturday had asked the 38 associations to choose one of four options for how the season should be staged: 1: Only Ranji Trophy; 2: Only Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy (SMAT20); 3: Both Ranji and SMAT20; 4: SMAT20 and Vijay Hazare Trophy (VHT). By Tuesday evening — a day before the deadline for submitting the response — more than 20 member units are understood to have written to the BCCI. While no unit has chosen option one, The Hindu has learnt that the third and fourth options have the most takers. Of the 20 associations whose details are known, seven have preferred Ranji and SMAT20 and seven have chosen SMAT20 and VHT. While some of the central and northern units such as Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have opted for only SMAT20, some of the major State units, including Mumbai, Saurashtra and Tamil Nadu, have preferred to start with the limited-overs option and then consider staging the Ranji Trophy if the pandemic eases. It means that neither Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA), the most successful Ranji outfit, nor defending champion Saurashtra (SCA) has ticked the Ranji box. MCA secretary clarifies MCA secretary Sanjay Naik told The Hindu that the MCA had made its decision “considering we have the IPL and two T20 World Cups in the next two years and the need to manage shorter tournaments”. SCA secretary Himanshu Shah said the “Ranji Trophy can be thought of only after the COVID-19 wave subsides”. The only exception is the Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA), which according to a BCCI insider, has stressed on the need to “stage all the senior tournaments, even if they clash with IPL 2021, and even conduct women’s and age-group events later on”. The KSCA and Tamil Nadu Cricket Association are also among a few units that have offered to host the tournaments.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Mumbai roars past East Bengal||Last season’s MVP Hugo Boumous finally found form much to the delight of head coach Sergio Lobera as Mumbai City FC blanked SC East Bengal 3-0 in its ISL encounter at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim on Tuesday. The 25-year-old had a hand in all three goals. When he assisted Hernan Santana for Mumbai’s third and final goal in the 58th minute, it helped Boumous overtake Odisha FC’s Marcelinho as the player with most assists in ISL history. After struggling to find the back of the net in their opening two games, the Islanders scored twice in the second half, the first off a penalty awarded after Boumous was brought down by the Red and Gold Brigade goalkeeper Debjit Majumder. Adam Le Fondre stepped up to convert the spot-kick. Earlier, East Bengal skipper Daniel Fox was substituted after he suffered an injury while being tackled by Le Fondre in the very first minute. The centre-back tried his best to continue but had to be replaced. Manager Robbie Fowler then changed his formation, opting for a midfielder — Mohammed Rafique — instead of a centre-back. Rafique made an instant impact, testing Mumbai goalkeeper Amrinder Singh with a shot from distance. A minute later, Mumbai opened the scoring with a superb counterattack, initiated by a long ball from Rowllin Borges which reached Boumous. The playmaker got past Surchandra Singh, entered the box, evaded Mohamed Irshad's sliding tackle and set up Le Fondre for a simple tap-in. For the rest of the game, Lobera’s side continued to create chances and went on to win by a healthy margin to move to the top of the standings. Mandar Dessai’s 100 The contest marked the 100th ISL appearance for Mumbai full-back Mandar Rao Dessai, who became the first player ever to reach the milestone. East Bengal defender Narayan Das, with 92 outings, lies next.  The result: Mumbai City FC 3 (Le Fondre 20 & 48-pen, Santana 58) bt SC East Bengal 0 .
02 December 2020||KOLKATA,||Ananta Saha’s five-for earns Town victory||Seamer Ananta Saha’s superb five-wicket haul, including a hat-trick, propelled Town Club to a 23-run victory over Mohun Bagan in the Bengal T20 Challenge at the Eden Gardens here on Tuesday.  Town, inserted in, benefited from opener Kazi Saifi’s impressive half-century (70 off 56 balls, 9x4) to score 161 for six before wrapping up the Bagan innings.  Town was under pressure at 40 for three. But Kazi showed his timing on the off-side as he built a 74-run stand with captain Avijit Singh (37, 33b, 4x4, 1x6). Mohammed Kaif played a cameo (26 n.o., 8b, 3x4, 2x6) to boost Town’s total. Defending 162, Saha removed Vivek Singh and Kaif claimed Sourav Paul. Left-arm spinner Aritra Chatterjee sent back Writtick Chatterjee (23, 19b, 3x4, 1x6) and Shivam Sharma in the seventh over as Bagan struggled at 38 for four. Anustup Majumdar (21, 15b, 1x4, 1x6) and Sunil Dalal (27, 23b, 3x6) showed some resistance before the former was run out off a direct throw. A disciplined Saha returned to dismiss Debabrata Das (18) and Akash Deep in the last two deliveries of the 17th over and Prince Yadav (20) off the first ball of 19th. He had Anurag Tiwari lbw to complete his fiver.  The scores:   Town Club 161/6 in 20 overs (Kazi Saifi 70, Avijit Singh 37, Writtick Chatterjee 2/24, Suraj Jaiswal 2/33) bt Mohun Bagan 138 in 18.3 overs (Ananta Saha 5/17, Aritra Chatterjee 3/27).   On Monday: East Bengal 175/6 in 20 overs (Shreevats Goswami 100, Bapi Manna 2/23, Karan Lal 2/25) bt Calcutta Customs 121/6 in 20 overs (Karan Lal 30 n.o., Sujit Yadav 3/24, Akash Pandey 2/24) .
02 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Indian women can qualify for 2027 WC: Patel||All India Football Federation (AIFF) president Praful Patel on Tuesday said that the National women’s side can qualify for the FIFA World Cup before the men’s team does, despite the less attention given to it. Patel said the AIFF is hoping for the women’s team to qualify for the 2027 FIFA World Cup. Supporting his view, the sports ministry asked the AIFF to prepare a “concrete and actionable” roadmap to work towards the women team’s qualification for the 2027 World Cup. “The women team’s FIFA ranking is better than the men’s, which is very good, as we have paid less attention to women’s football compared to men’s,” Patel said at a virtual interaction with the members of the under-17 Women’s World Cup team with Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju in attendance. “When these kids grow, I feel the women’s team will be participating in the World Cup much before the men... I’m very hopeful about the 2027 edition (of the World Cup). We will continue to give all the support and I am sure these players will represent India in the future,” said Patel. The women’s team is currently ranked 55 out of 159 nations while the men’s team is 104 out of 210 countries. Rijiju also expressed similar optimism, saying that in the near future, India will qualify for the FIFA Women’s World Cup. “Be it senior or junior, the ranking of the women’s teams is higher than men’s. We have the ability to qualify, even if we are not the host nation. I believe we will soon make it. We feel that the men should also qualify, he said. SAI director General Sandeep Pradhan asked the AIFF to prepare a roadmap for the women’s team’s qualification for the 2027 World Cup.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||So spoils Carlsen’s birthday, wins title||Wesley So started with a loss, but ended up winning the $100,000 Skilling Open online chess tournament and spoilt the 30th birthday celebration of Magnus Carlsen on Monday. After Carlsen won with black, So took the second. The next two rapid games were drawn. In the first blitz game, So dominated and won. Carlsen could not find the much-needed win in the second blitz game and the resultant draw gave So the title. So apologised for spoiling Carlsen’s birthday and said, “All I wanted to do was to put up a good fight and make the games interesting. But today has been my day.” Carlsen responded, “I did some blunders like an old man today! This time I wasn’t good enough.”  The results:   Final: Set Two (rapid): Magnus Carlsen (Nor) drew with Wesley So (USA) 2-2; Tie-breaker (blitz) So bt Carlsen 1.5-0.5.   Final Standings: 1. Wesley So (USA); 2. Magnus Carlsen (Nor); 3. Hikaru Nakamura (USA); 4. Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus); 5. Levon Aronian (Arm); 6. Teimour Radjabov (Aze); 7. Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra); 8. Anish Giri (Ned); 9-16. Alireza Firouzja (FIDE), Liem Quang Le (Vie), Ding Liren (Chn), Vidit Gujrathi (Ind), David Anton (Esp), Peter Svidler (Rus), Sergey Karjakin (Rus) and Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol), (no points).   (The top eight players qualified for the next Tour event beginning on December 26).
02 December 2020||Canberra,||‘Happy that the Aussies have a plan for me’||Overwhelmed that the Australians devised a short ball strategy against him, Indian batsman Shreyas Iyer says it can best be tackled by adopting a counter-offensive approach and taking advantage of the field placing. “I am really happy that they are coming up with a plan (against me),” Shreyas said. “I feel overwhelmed and take it as a challenge. But I thrive under pressure and it motivates me to go against them,” said India’s No. 4 batsman. “It’s all about mindset that you need to adjust. How you need to place yourself on the wicket. Rather than bending down too much (during stance), you stand upright. It’s easier to pick the short one,” said Shreyas about tackling the short delivery. He agreed that confusion about shot selection brought about his downfall in the first game. “I knew that the short ball was going to come. I was in two minds whether to pull or play the upper cut. I got stuck between the two and ended up not playing a shot.” Shreyas feels that bowlers are having a tough time since most had a heavy workload during the IPL. “The amount of workload, staying in quarantine, it plays on your mind. “They are world-class bowlers and they will come back strong. I really believe in them and I am happy with the kind of work (effort) they are doing (at nets).”
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Paras Dahiya on a roll||Second seed Paras Dahiya shocked top seed Yugal Bansal 6-3, 7-5 in the final of the Rs. 100,000 AITA-ranking tennis tournament in Sonepat. Paras, who didn’t drop a set, had defeated Chirag Duhan and Fardeen Qamar along the way. It was the second successive title for the 22-year-old Paras, who trains at the Altevol Academy in Ahmedabad. “I am delighted to win two titles in two weeks. I am happy with my game as I dropped only one set in two weeks. Coach Jignesh Raval is travelling with me,” said Paras, who had beaten Dev Javia 4-6, 6-2, 6-2 in the final the previous week in Gurugram. Paras had got past Shivam Dalmia, Fardeen Qamar, Karan Singh and Rohan Mehra in the earlier rounds of the tournament then.   The results: Final: Paras Dahiya bt Yugal Bansal 6-3, 3-6, 6-3; Semifinals: Yugal bt Karan Singh 6-4, 6-3; Paras bt Chirag Duhan 6-3, 6-4; Quarterfinals: Yugal bt Udit Kamboj 6-4, 6-3; Karan bt Aditya Balda 6-3, 7-5; Chirag bt Ajay Malik 6-2, 6-4; Paras bt Deepender Bains 6-3, 6-4 .
02 December 2020||TOKYO,||Olympic rings back in Tokyo Bay||The Olympic rings are back in Tokyo Bay. They were removed for maintenance four months ago shortly after the Olympics was postponed until next year because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The rings arrived on Tuesday after a short cruise from nearby Yokohama and are positioned on a barge in the shadow on Tokyo’s Rainbow Bridge. The rings — painted blue, black, red, green, and yellow — stand about 15 meters tall and are 33 meters in length. The rings will be lighted at night and herald the coming of the Olympics, which are to open on July 23, 2021, followed by the Paralympics on Aug. 24. The rings made their first appearance early in 2020, just a few months before the Olympics was postponed late in March. Positive sign The reappearance of the rings is the latest sign that organisers and the International Olympic Committee are increasingly confident that 15,400 Olympic and Paralympic athletes can safely enter Japan during the pandemic.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Kesava explained||One of Lord Krishna’s wives (some versions say it is Rukmini; some say it is Jambavati) wanted a child and expressed her desire to Krishna. Krishna said He would do tapas to propitiate Lord Siva and ask for this boon. This incident is described in the Kailasa Yatra parva of Hari Vamsa, which is an appendix of the Mahabharata, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. In the meanwhile, in Kailasa, Siva spoke about Sri Vaikuntha. There was a devotee of Siva in Kailasa, called Ghantakarana. He was known by that name because he wore bells on his two ears. He hated Vishnu, and whenever someone mentioned Vishnu, he would shake his head so that the bells would ring loudly, and Ghantakarana would not hear the name. At the end of Siva’s discourse, Ghantakarana asked Siva how he could attain moksha, and Lord Siva said he never could as long as he hated Vishnu. Lord Siva said the name Kesava, which Vishnu bore, indicated that Brahma (ka) and Siva (Isa) came from Him. He also said that Vishnu was on the way to Kailasa, and had reached Badrikasrama. Ghantakarana rushed to Badrikasrama, where he worshipped Vishnu, and was granted moksha. While explaining the name Kesava in his Vishnu Sahasranama commentary, Adi Sankara, cites this story. But why would Krishna, who could accomplish anything He wanted, do tapas for a child? Siva Himself gave the answer in Hari Vamsa. He said this was playacting on the part of Krishna. Appayya Dikshitar, in his commentary on Vedanta Desika’s Yadavabhyudaya, says the One who has no birth took many avataras for the sake of His devotees. This sounds unbelievable, and yet it happened. In the same way, He also became a messenger of the Pandavas.
02 December 2020||Bengaluru,||KSCA eager to host domestic games||The Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) has expressed its eagerness to host the 2020-21 season’s domestic matches in Bengaluru. This comes in response to the proposed plan of the BCCI to stage a truncated season in bio-secure hubs. “We will be very happy to conduct tournaments in Bengaluru. “We are in communication with the BCCI,” KSCA spokesperson Vinay Mruthyunjaya said on Tuesday. Well equipped Apart from the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium, other venues like Alur grounds (1, 2, 3) and Just Cricket Ground are well equipped to host domestic matches, Mruthyunjaya added. On the BCCI seeking suggestions from state associations on how to conduct a truncated domestic season due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the KSCA stated its preference to “conduct the Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 Trophy and Ranji Trophy, and later Vijay Hazare Trophy”. “We have further suggested to the BCCI to conduct all tournaments for both men and women for all age groups for the season 2020-21. “If need be, skip the Duleep Trophy, Irani Trophy and Deodhar Trophy,” the KSCA statement read. The KSCA added that if cricket activities are not held, stakeholders including players, age-group cricketers, umpires, scorers, video analysts, coaches and support staff stand to lose substantially on the cricketing and financial fronts.
02 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Jimmy George award for Minimol||India international Minimol Abraham has been selected for this year's Jimmy George Foundation Award. The award carries a cash award of Rs. 25,000 and a memento. Minimol was chosen by a committee headed by Jose George. Anju Bobby George, Sebastian George, Robert Bobby George and Devaprasad are the members of the committee. The award will be presented to Minimol at a function which will be held in Peravoor early next year. Minimol has been representing the senior Indian team in various international competitions since 2010. She led India in the 2018 Jakarta Asian Games. A product of SAI, Thalassery, Minimol is now working with the Indian Railways as Chief Ticket Inspector.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Women’s Pro Tour back on course||After a nine-month break, the Hero Women’s Pro Golf Tour resumes with its seventh leg beginning at the Noida Golf Club near here on Wednesday. Tour leader Vani Kapoor is set to be challenged by Diksha Dagar, Ridhima Dilawari, Neha Tripathi and Amandeep Drall, among others. The Hero WPG Tour had six events in the first three months of the year before the pandemic forced a premature closure. These six events produced different winners, including an amateur.
02 December 2020||London,||Cloud over Newcastle vs Villa game||Newcastle’s Premier League game with Aston Villa on Friday is under threat due to an outbreak of coronavirus cases, according to media reports. Newcastle has closed its training ground and it is not expected to re-open until Wednesday at the earliest, The Guardian said. Magpies manager Steve Bruce had already cancelled training on Sunday after four players and a member of the backroom staff tested positive. According to The Daily Telegraph , more players tested positive when the latest batch of results were returned on Monday.
02 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anirudh and Manish in last eight||Anirudh Chandrasekar and Manish Sureshkumar combined well to stun the third-seeded combination of Ignacio Monzon and Fermin Tenti of Argentina 5-7, 6-0, [10-2] in the pre-quarterfinals of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament in Cairo on Tuesday.  The results:   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Anirudh Chandrasekar & Manish Sureshkumar bt Ignacio Monzon & Fermin Tenti (Arg) 5-7, 6-0, [10-2].   Toby Kodat (USA) & Oleksil Krutykh (Ukr) bt Sidharth Rawat & Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam 6-3, 6-4.
02 December 2020||Canberra,||Starc’s no- show doesn’t worry Finch||Top pacer Mitchell Starc’s patchy form is among the few worries for a rampaging Australia in the series against India, but skipper Aaron Finch threw his weight behind the seasoned campaigner, saying there is no need to panic. “He hasn’t been at his very best, and you have to understand his standards are a lot higher than what you expect from most other people because of how dominant he’s been over the last eight or nine years, especially in the white-ball formats,” Finch said. “He’d love to be swinging the ball and getting it right early on, but the reality is when you’re defending big totals and playing against good players, they’re coming hard at you,” he added.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Collage SC enters quarterfinals||Three wickets by left-arm spinner Sandeep Saini and useful contributions from Ashish Sehrawat and Robin Bisht with the bat saw Collage Sports Club beat Udai Bhan Cricket Academy by six wickets and enter the quarterfinals of the 30th all-India Om Nath Sood memorial cricket tournament.  The scores: UBCA 162/8 in 35 overs (Prashant 39 n.o., Sandeep Saini 3/20) lost to CSC 166/4 in 25.4 overs (Ashish Sehrawat 62, Robin Bisht 49 n.o.) .    Captain Harshit Bisht scored an unbeaten 136 while Abhishek Kumar and Anshul Sehrawat picked up three wickets apiece as Rohtak Road Gymkhana beat Madan Lal Academy by 62 runs in the Turf Youth Cup under-19 cricket tournament.  The scores: RRG 252/5 in 40 overs (Harshit Bisht 136 n.o., Akash Chauhan 56, Priyansh Jain 3/27) bt MLA 190 in 35.1 overs (Anish Raut 36, Abhishek Kumar 3/24, Anshul Sehrawat 3/42) .    Parth Wadhera and Saksham Singroha picked up three wickets each and Dinesh Mor and Anuj Rawat scored half-centuries as Bal Bhawan Academy defeated Rann Star Club by 56 runs in the Shanti Devi memorial cricket tournament.  The scores: BBA 279/7 in 40 overs (Dinesh Mor 68, Anuj Rawat 51, Arpit Rana 40) bt RSC 223 in 38 overs (Aditya Sharma 46, Sombir 42, Parth Wadhera 3/43, Saksham Singroha 3/52) .    Half-centuries by Aaron Chandhok and Dhanya Nakra helped West Delhi Academy beat Harbhajan Institute Of Cricket by 138 runs in the HB Sharma memorial under-14 cricket tournament.  The scores: WDA 219/3 in 40 overs (Aaron Chandhok 66, Dhanya Nakra 54, Rohan Kumar 42) bt HIC 81 in 27.1 overs (Netik Mathur 3/18) .    Left-arm spinner Asif Mansoori picked up five wickets and Ayush Jamwal took three as Delhi Challengers beat Sahgal & Chaudhary Academy by 28 runs to enter the semifinals of the all-India Unique T20 cricket tournament.  The scores: Delhi Challengers 117/7 in 20 overs (Shiva Singh 30, Ashutosh Kumar 27 n.o., Vishal Chaudhary 2/17, Subodh Bhati 2/34) bt SCA 89 in 18 overs (Ekansh Dobal 46, Asif Mansoori 5/25, Ayush Jamwal 3/24) .    A quickfire 57-ball 107 by Man-of-the-Match Deepanshu Chaudhary helped Hari Singh Academy post a seven-wicket win over Sporting Club in the Satish Sharma memorial under-16 tournament.  The scores: Sporting Club 217 in 39.1 overs (Ishan Rana 62) lost to HSA 219/3 in 29.4 overs (Deepanchu Chaudhary 107, Yash Chandila 43, Puru Sharma 36 n.o.) .    Delhi under-19 player Dhruv Kaushik’s 119 and Tushar Bairwa’s 4/4 saw Telefunken Club tbeat Sanjay Academy by 200 runs in the Friendship Cup cricket tournament.  The scores: Telefunken Club 284 in 40 overs (Dhurv Kaushik 114, Chetanya 43, Saksham 41, Paramjeet Singh 8/48) bt Sanjay Academy 84 in 21 overs (Sanjay Kumar 43, Tushar Bairwa 4/4) .    Deepak Khatri top-scored with a 46-ball 76 as Swami Shraddhanand College defeated Delhi Defibrillators by eight wickets in the Choudhary Shyam Singh memorial T20 tournament  The scores: Delhi Defibrillators 140/5 in 20 overs (Sameer Zahid 73, Bharat Sindhwani 2/28) lost to SSC 146/2 in 14.5 overs (Deepak Khatri 76, Vikrant 31, Sanchit Sabharwal 29) .
02 December 2020||Bengaluru:,||Naga on song for Swastic Union (2)||Naga Bharath (135 n.o.) propelled Swastic Union CC (2) past Chamrajpet CC in the Y.S. Ramaswamy Memorial tournament here.  The scores:   Swastic Union CC (2) 283/5 in 36 overs (Naga Bharath 135 n.o., Amit Verma 42) bt Chamrajpet CC 92 in 24.1 overs (M.N. Praveen 39, Kartikye Wadhwa 4/36). Match reduced to 36 overs due to wet outfield.   Friends XI CC 278/5 in 50 overs (Swaroop 54, Srujan 49, Vikram 82 n.o., Gaurav 28) bt Sangam CA 263 in 48.5 overs (Shimjith 37, Nikhil Naik 34, Raghu 31, Vikram 3/42).   Cavaliers CC 216/8 in 50 overs (Riyaz Ahmed 48, Pravesh 37, S. Yashas 38 n.o.) bt Jaidur Cricketers 104 in 22.4 overs (B.C. Devraj 48, Pravesh 3/30, Vishnu Jain 3/16, S.B. Sanket 3/29).   Jupiter CA 227 in 44.3 overs (Suhas 59, T.S. Sharath 30, Saurabh Godbole 56, Shoheb Pasha 3/28) bt Malleswaram SC 124 in 38.3 overs (Varun Annadani 36, Kushal Gowda 6/21).   Eleven Brothers CC 137/8 in 50 overs (K.N. Anish 26, Mohammed Saif 3/14) lost to Bangalore Occasionals 139/4 in 28.4 overs (S. Nithin 37, Sumit Dhawani 38, Mohammad Saif 37 n.o.).   BUCC (1) 284/5 in 50 overs (Rohan Kadam 71, Sharath Srinivas 114, Liyan Khan 77) bt Merchants CC (1) 127 in 44.4 overs (Vishruth Dev 50, Pranav Bhatia 3/19).   Friends Union Cricketers 112 in 43.1 overs (Yatish Kumar 33, Suraj Seshadri 3/5, S. Punith 3/33, Kushaal Wadhwani 3/31) lost to Sir Syed Cricketers 113/3 in 13.4 overs (B. Manoj 62, H.S. Shashidhar 3/15).   Vijaya CC 144 in 35.2 overs (Shivraj 32, Syed Asif 5/44, P. Ravi 3/24) bt Silky Town CC 127 in 40 overs (K.S. Somashekar 28, H. Venkatesh 34, Vidyadhar Patil 3/35, Tanish 3/17).    Former Karnataka State footballer Francis Ignatius passed away in Bengaluru on Tuesday. He was 56. Ignatius, an Indian Telephone Industries (ITI) employee, represented Karnataka in the Santosh Trophy from 1986 to 1993. A goalkeeper, Ignatius played for Kerala Police — alongside I.M. Vijayan — before moving to ITI in 1986. Ignatius represented ITI with distinction till 2000.   Sandeep Malhan (42 points) won the Prestige Master of Masters stableford amatuer golf tournament at Prestige Golfshire here. Malhan edged out runner-up Sanjay Shridhar by one point.   S.J. Nikin Jose (three for 33 & 76 n.o.) helped RBNCC register a facile seven-wicket win over Jo Jo CC in the semifinals of the Sri. M. Gopalaswami Memorial cricket tournament here on Tuesday.  The scores: Semifinals: Jo Jo CC 187 in 46.1 overs (G.L. Yashas 49, K.S. Lankesh 47, M.B. Darshan three for 26, Saishiv Narayan three for 41, S.J. Nikin Jose three for 33) lost to RBNCC 189 for three in 34.5 overs (S.J. Nikin Jose 76 n.o. ).   The Mysore Gymkhana 30 in 15.1 overs (Gautham Sagar five for 12) lost to Saraswathipuram SC 32 for no loss in 2.4 overs.
02 December 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Sowmya joins Indian football camp||G. Soumya of Telangana has joined the on-going Indian women's football coaching camp which began in Goa on Tuesday, according to G. Palguna, secretary of Telangana Football Association. The Indian team is attending a 15-day preparatory camp for the AFC Asian women's championship to be held in India next year.
02 December 2020||December 02 2020 10:50 IST,||Sudoku - December 2, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
02 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha reports fall in new COVID-19 cases||Odisha has reported significant fall in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases with daily positive cases dropping below 500 mark consecutively for past two days. The daily fatalities have also come down proportionately. The State on Tuesday recorded 378 active cases while it was 418 on Monday. The State’s total caseload grew to 3,19,103 while total active cases stood at 5,241, which accounts for 1.64% of total positive cases. The daily toll, which was hovering around 15 a week ago, has been five for past two days. The State’s coronavirus fatalities went up to 1,744. Three districts did not report a single positive case on Tuesday. Recovery rate currently stands at 97.79%.
02 December 2020||FARIDABAD,||Eyewitnesses depose in Nikita Tomar murder case||Two eyewitnesses deposed before the special court for heinous crime against women here on Tuesday as the trial began in the sensational Nikita Tomar murder case. The prosecution claimed that both witnesses supported their case, but the defence counsel said there were several “contradictions” in their statements and the versions were “concocted”. Nikita’s cousin Tarun and her friend Nikita Sharma, who was present with her at the time of murder, deposed before the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Sartaj Baswana. The complainant’s lawyer Adal Singh Rawat said both the witnesses supported their case. Defence counsel P.L. Goyal said that Ms. Sharma’s statement was recorded partially and her cross-examination would be conducted on Wednesday. “Since the face of the assailant was muffled at the time of incident, Ms. Sharma could not identify the accused clearly. She said that she was not sure whether the accused had fired the shot. Mr. Tarun’s statement was full of contradictions. He claimed that he was present at the spot at the time of the incident, but none of the CCTV footages shows his presence in the vicinity at the time of murder. The CCTV footage is against us. But so far as the account of the eyewitnesses is concerned, it is totally concocted,” said Mr. Goyal.
