02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Rahul, Priyanka held on way to Hathras||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police on the Yamuna Expressway in Greater Noida on Thursday when they, along with hundreds of Congress workers, were going to Hathras to meet the family members of the gang-rape victim. They were taken to the guest house of the Buddha International Circuit for violating Section 144 and later released on personal bonds. Mr. Gandhi said he agreed to go alone if his visit violated Section 144. “But still they didn’t allow me and we were pushed around,” he said. When Mr. Gandhi started walking on foot, he was stopped by the Gautam Buddh Nagar police. In the pushing and shoving that ensued, Mr. Gandhi fell down and sustained bruises on his arm. “Just now the police pushed me, lathi charged me and threw me to the ground. I want to ask if only the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) and RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) can walk in this country? Can’t a normal person walk? Can only Modi ji [Prime Minister Narendra Modi] walk in this country? Can’t a normal person walk?” Mr. Gandhi said. After that, he sat down on a dharna  on the Expressway. Ajay Kumar Lallu, president of the State unit of the party, who continued the sit-in with party workers after the Gandhis were taken away by the police, was also detained. Reacting to the police action, Ms. Vadra told mediapersons that the government was insensitive and did not follow the rule of law. “The government has to take responsibility for the protection of women. You would remember that last year around this time, we were protesting against the Unnao rape victim,” she said. She further said, “You [the government] portrays itself as the saviour of Hindusim but what kind of religion is this that could not allow a father to perform the last rites of his daughter?” Love Kumar, Additional Commissioner (Law and Order), Gautam Buddh Nagar, first told The Hindu that the Congress leaders had been detained but later in the day clarified that technically it was an arrest for violating Section 144. “They were released after signing personal bonds. No witnesses were called for bail. So practically, it was detention,” he said.
02 October 2020||Kochi,||Dismantling of Palarivattom flyover deck begins||The work to dismantle the crack-ridden Palarivattom flyover, which began earlier this week, gained pace on Thursday evening with the crucial work to dismantle the structure’s deck. A chunk of the concrete deck was cut using diamond cutters and removed using crane. It is estimated that it will take three days to cut the deck portion atop each girder. This will be followed by dismantling of girders. Officials associated with the flyover work refused to confirm whether a pair of girders of the existing structure will be retained. Girders numbering 100 will be dismantled. Work to dismantle the crash barriers on either side of the flyover began on Wednesday, followed by that to break the divider that separated the two sides of the flyover on Thursday morning. Sources in Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (DMRC) and Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS) said that dismantled concrete will be stored in the space below the flyover and crushed to small pieces, before being transported to the pre-casting yard in Kalamassery. Pier caps and girders to reconstruct the flyover will be cast at the yard and transported to the site in trailer lorries, for being launched atop the existing structure’s piers. Traffic movement was not disrupted, even as these works were under way. Steel barricades to regulate traffic when more areas are dismantled are being readied at the site. The DMRC had said that work spaces will be covered using barricades and nets, to prevent debris or even water that is used while cutting, to fall on road users. ULCCS sources said that barricades will be installed when a considerable length of the flyover is pulled down. In the meantime, traffic police officials said that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has been directed to repair all potholes beside the flyover. Motorists are often caught unawares by dozens of potholes that dot the road beside the structure, on the southern side of the Palarivattom bypass junction. Similarly, DMRC would ready U-turns on either side of the flyover and install lights, to enable traffic diversion when the area beneath the flyover’s central spans is closed for vehicles.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||SC grants bail to man accused under UAPA||The Supreme Court has granted bail to a person accused under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). He has spent over six years in jail. Advocate Neel Kamal Bohra, for accused Aadil Ansari, toldThe Hindufrom Jodhpur on Thursday that his client would be released on producing a bail bond and two sureties, in addition to the submission of a certifi ed copy of the court order. “The process for his release may take a day or two,” Mr. Bohra said. A Bench led by Justice Rohinton Nariman, in an order on Wednesday, disagreed with the Rajasthan High Court’s refusal to grant bail to the accused. In a short order, it said the High Court’s view that aprima faciecase had been made out against the accused solely based on the statement given by the public prosecutor was not “strictly correct”. Name not in FIR Aadil is accused of facilitating the escape of a Jodhpur-based alleged accomplice of Sakib Ansari, arrested in a joint operation of Jodhpur and Delhi police in March 2014. He was booked under Section 43D(5) of the UAPA for allegedly indulging in terror activities. It is practically impossible to get bail under this provision. It allows a court to reject bail even if police documents or the prosecutor suggests the allegations are “prima facietrue”. But the apex court found that Aadil’s name was not mentioned in the police FIR. The Bench said it had also gone through the chargesheet filed in September 2014. It noted that Aadil was denied bail in October 2014. Mr. Bohra said he had contended in the High Court that the police had failed to collect substantial evidence against Aadil. After framing of charges, only one prosecution witness was examined in the trial court till the High Court heard the bail plea in April 2019. The apex court ordered Aadil’s release on bail without making any remarks about the case in order to not “prejudice the trial”.
02 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||A.P. second State to record over 7 lakh COVID cases||The State's COVID tally crossed the seven-lakh mark as the number of cases went up to 7,00,235 with 6,751 new infections and 41 deaths being reported in last 24 hours ending Thursday morning. Andhra Pradesh became the second State in the country to record over seven lakh cases after Maharashtra where the cases were over 13.8 lakh. It is followed by neighbouring Karnataka and Tamil Nadu with 6.01 lakh and 5.97 lakh infections respectively, according to the data released by the State. The State has the lowest death rate of 0.84% (5,869) and highest recovery rate of 90.90% among the top four States. Also, it is the only State with over one lakh tests per million ratio. Also, nearly 10 lakh samples were tested to detect the last one lakh cases and the positivity rate was lowest at 9.94%. However, A.P. continues to have the highest number of cases per million at 13,113 as more than 1% population was infected so far. After continuously seeing an increase by a lakh in an interval of 10 to 11 days, the seventh lakh of cases were reported in 14 days. The overall positivity rate of the 58.78 lakh tests conducted was 11.91%. The tests per million ratio was at 1,10,077. With 7,297 new recoveries in the past day, the total recoveries went up to 6,36,508 and 57,858 patients are undergoing treatment currently. Meanwhile, East Godavari reported close to a 1,000 new infections and its tally is also close to one lakh.  The district-wise new cases and deaths were as follows: East Godavari (986 and 4), Chittoor (888 and 7), Prakasam (783 and 5), West Godavari (753 and 2), Guntur (594 and 3), Nellore (472 and 1), Krishna (424 and 6), Kadapa (400 and 3), Anantapur (333 and 4), Srikakulam (301 and 1), Visakhapatnam (277 and 5), Vizianagaram (275 and 0) and Kurnool (265 and 0).
02 October 2020||CHITTOOR,||Galla Arunakumari quits as TDP Polit Bureau member||Former Minister Galla Arunakumari on Thursday resigned as Telugu Desam Party Polit Bureau member. In her letter to TDP supremo N. Chandrababu Naidu, she cited the reason for quitting the position as “personal”. At a time when the TDP high command is going ahead with revamping of the party from the grass-root level, Ms. Arunakumari’s resignation turned into a hot topic among the cadres. Hailing from a politically vibrant family, she represented the Congress from the Chandragiri Assembly Constituency for three consecutive terms, working as State Minister during the regimes of the late YSR and Kiran Kumar Reddy prior to the bifurcation of the State. She lost to YSR Congress Party candidate from Chandragiri in 2014, and later joined the Telugu Desam Party, which came to power. However, she lost to the YSRCP once again in 2019, and since then had not being active in party programmes, despite her induction into the party’s politburo. Ms. Arunakumari’s industrialist-son Galla Jaydev is TDP MP from the Guntur Lok Sabha constituency. The Galla family wields considerable sway in Tirupati, Chandragiri and Puthalapattu Assembly constituencies. Though there were speculations from time to time that the Galla family might join the ruling YSRCP, the same was largely rejected by the party cadres.
02 October 2020||Srinagar,||3 soldiers killed, 5 injured in firing by Pakistan along LoC||Three soldiers were killed and five others injured in “unprovoked ceasefire violations” by the Pakistan Army along the Line of Control in J&K’s Kupwara and Poonch districts in the past 24 hours. A Srinagar-based defence spokesperson said the ceasefire violations in Naugam Sector, Kupwara, began on Thursday morning. “The Pakistan Army resorted to firing mortars and other weapons. Two soldiers sustained fatal injuries,” he said, adding that four others had been evacuated to hospital. “A befitting response is being given,” the Army said. In a separate incident in the Pir Panjal Valley’s Poonch district on Wednesday night, Pakistani troops resorted to “firing and shelling”, which left one soldier dead and another injured.
02 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||2,214 more people test COVID positive in TS||Telangana State recorded 2,214 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total to 1,93,600. 8 people succumb Eight more COVID-19 patients died on Wednesday, which took the toll to 1,135. While 54,443 people underwent tests, results of 1,393 were awaited. The new 2,214 cases include 305 from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 191 from Rangareddy, 153 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 131 from Warangal Urban, 149 from Nalgonda, 106 from Karimnagar, 99 each from Bhadradri Kothagudem and Khammam. The number of samples tested for COVID crossed 30 lakh on Wednesday. From March to September, a total of 30,50,444 samples were tested. Of them, 1,93,600 tested positive for coronavirus. Out of the total, 29,058 were active cases, 1,63,407 have recovered, and 1,135 have died.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||GST collections cross Rs. 95,000 cr. in Sept.||Revenue collections from the Goods and Services Tax (GST) in September hit Rs. 95,480 crore, the highest in this financial year so far, indicating that economic activity is picking up steam in tandem with the gradual easing of lockdown restrictions necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic. September’s indirect tax collections were over 10% higher than those in August, 4% higher than the GST kitty in the corresponding month a year ago and marked only the second time that the Rs. 90,000 crore mark was crossed this financial year. GST collections had been sliding after January 2020, when nearly Rs. 1.11 lakh crore came in. March, by the end of which the national lockdown was imposed, recorded GST inflows of Rs. 97,597 crore. April and May were the worst hit, bringing in a little over Rs. 32,000 crore and Rs. 62,000 crore respectively. “The gross GST revenue collected in the month of September 2020 is Rs. 95,480 crore, of which Central GST is Rs. 17,741 crore, State GST is Rs. 23,131 crore, Integrated GST is Rs. 47,484 crore [including Rs. 22,442 crore collected on import of goods] and cess is Rs. 7,124 crore [including Rs. 788 crore collected on import of goods],” the Finance Ministry said in a statement on Thursday. Experts cautious Economists were cautious about reading the healthier numbers as a sign of a sustainable rebound from the sharp 23.9% contraction in the country’s gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2020-21. Principal economist at rating agency ICRA Aditi Nayar said the uptick in GST collections had come as a relief, although it was likely driven by “a combination of pent up demand and inventory restocking, and thus its sustainability remains unclear”.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||Cinema halls, entertainment parks to remain closed in Delhi||The Delhi government has decided to maintain “status quo” on cinema halls, entertainment parks, and swimming pools for sportspersons despite the Central government allowing these to open. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority, in an order issued on Wednesday night, allowed two weekly markets in each municipal zone every day, up from one such market allowed earlier, on a trial basis till October 31. However, this will not be allowed in containment zones. All activities which are permitted in the city at this point will be allowed to continue. “The situation of COVID-19 in Delhi has been reviewed and it has been decided that status quo in respect of prohibited/permitted activities (including activities on trial basis) may be maintained in NCT of Delhi till 31.10.2020 or further orders, whichever is earlier,” the DDMA order said. No word on schools Though the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in its guidelines on reopening issued on Wednesday gave powers to the States to decide if they wanted to open schools from October 15, there was no word on it in the DDMA order. The Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to a query on whether the government will review whether to open schools after October 15 or if they will remain closed at least till the end of the month. Curbs on gatherings On Wednesday, the MHA had said that the limit of 100 persons in all kinds of congregations, including those that are religious and political, has been removed, and from October 15 States have been given the flexibility to permit such activities outside containment zones. But the Delhi government has not allowed it at this point. “It is further directed that all social / academic / sports / entertainment / cultural / religious / political functions / other gatherings and large congregations shall be continued to be prohibited throughout NCT of Delhi,” the DDMA order said. In line with the ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines issued earlier, a maximum 50 people will continue to be allowed in marriage-related gatherings and up to 20 people in gatherings relating to funerals and last rites, subject to social distancing. Also, bars in restaurants, clubs, and hotels, which were allowed to open in September, will continue to function.
02 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Senior A.P. cadre IFS officer ‘jumps’ to death||A senior Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer allotted to the Andhra Pradesh cadre, V. Bhaskara Ramana Murthy (59), allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the ninth floor of his apartment complex at Nagole here in the early hours of Thursday. The 1987 batch officer was working as Principal Chief Conservator of Forests for Coastal Zone Management at Aranya Bhavan in Guntur. Dr. Murthy is survived by his wife Jyothi and two daughters. He had been on leave for personal reasons since the third week of July, and had since been residing at the apartment complex at Rajiv Swagruha Sadbhavana Township in L.B. Nagar, said inspector V. Ashok Reddy. “After dinner, he went to bed at around 9.30 p.m. on Wednesday. At around 1.30 a.m. on Thursday, the security guard at the complex, Appa Rao, heard a thud near the ‘A’ block. On rushing there, he found Dr. Murthy lying in a pool of blood,” Mr. Ashok Reddy said. “The reason for his extreme step is not known. A case under Section 174 of the CrPC (suspicious death) has been registered. The body has been handed over to the family members after autopsy,” he added. “There are no family or financial issues. I don’t know about issues at work,” said Ms. Jyothi’s brother Prabhakar, who works in the LIC of India.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. joins ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday launched the ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme in 32 districts of Tamil Nadu. It will be implemented in Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Thanjavur, Thoothukudi, Tiruvannamalai and Virudhunagar districts from October 16. Biometric authentication Under this scheme, families having Priority Household (PHH) ration cards and Antodaya Anna Yojana (PHH-AAY) ration cards from Tamil Nadu, while migrating to other States, can receive their monthly entitlements through biometric authentication under the National Food Security Act, 2013, an official release said. Likewise, families migrating to Tamil Nadu from other States with these cards can receive their entitlements at the Central-issue price at the shops near their residence after biometric authentication. “If the ration cardholders from Tamil Nadu could not complete biometric authentication, they can use their smart cards and receive an OTP in their Aadhaar-linked mobile phone and the existing system of using Aadhaar and scanned ration cards to receive their monthly entitlements,” the release said. The elderly and those with illnesses who cannot go to receive their monthly entitlements can nominate a person to receive them. Smart cards After computerising the public distribution system operations in the State at a cost of Rs. 330 crore, the Tamil Nadu government has been distributing essential items to beneficiaries with smart cards since April 1, 2017. Under the Centre’s Integrated Management of Public Distribution System, efforts were made to provide essential items even to families that migrate to Tamil Nadu from other States. Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju, Food Minister R. Kamaraj, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and senior officials were present at the event.
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Moved HC for clarity: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said Kerala had to get to grips with the larger legal and political question of what a State government should ideally do when the CBI interfered with the federal system. Hence, for the sake of legal clarity, the State government had moved the High Court. The State had attempted to address the question legally, he said.
02 October 2020||Kolkata,||3,275 cases in WB; deaths cross 5,000||West Bengal on Thursday recorded 3,275 new COVID-19 cases, taking its total case tally to 2,60,324. The State also reported 59 deaths, pushing the death toll past the 5,000 mark to touch 5,017. While there are 26,552 active cases, the recovery rate stands at 87.87%. Of the deaths, 11 were recorded in Kolkata, taking its toll to 1,721. With 15 deaths in the past 24 hours, the toll in North 24 Parganas rose to 1,121. MLA succumbs Gurupada Mete, Trinamool Congress MLA from Indas in Bankura district, died of COVID-19 on Thursday after testing positive a month ago. “Deeply saddened by the passing away of @AITCofficial Bankura District Coordinator and two-time MLA Gurupada Mete. His unparalleled devotion to serve the citizens of Bengal will always be remembered. My heartfelt condolences to his family and closed [close] ones,” Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted, expressing condolences. Mete is the third Trinamool Congress MLA to succumb to the virus. In August, Samaresh Das, who represented Egra Assembly constituency in Purba Medinipur district, died after testing positive for COVID-19. In June, Tamonash Ghosh, a three-time MLA from Falta constituency, died of COVID-19.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||NCRB: most counterfeits Rs. 2,000 notes||Four years after demonetisation, the highest number of all counterfeit notes seized last year was in the denomination of Rs. 2,000, according to the National Crime Records Bureau’s annual Crime in India report. The data on seizures of counterfeit notes also show there is a surge in seizure of fake Indian currency notes in 2019 compared to 2018. The government had claimed that the Rs. 2,000 notes had several high-security features.
02 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Runaway boy flees with jewellery||A 17-year-old runaway boy who had been staying with a caterer in Vashi for over six months fled with a bag of gold jewellery worth Rs. 2.49 lakh on Sunday. According to the police, the juvenile had run away from his home in Uttar Pradesh. The boy was traced to a chawl in Jogeshwari (East) where he was hiding.
02 October 2020||Mumbai,||Plea to reopen theatres||Representatives of screen associations have urged the Maharashtra government to consider reopening theatres in light of the upcoming festive season when some big films are scheduled for release. The State has showed reluctance to open theatres, cinema halls and multiplexes under its Mission Begin Again programme despite the Union government announcing their reopening under Unlock 5. Cultural Affairs Minister Amit Deshmukh, in a meeting with representatives of the industry, said the government is positive about their demands, but will give highest priority to the safety of citizens before taking any decision.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||NCRB: most counterfeits Rs. 2,000 notes||Four years after demonetisation, the highest number of all counterfeit notes seized last year was in the denomination of Rs. 2,000, according to the National Crime Records Bureau’s annual Crime in India report. The data on seizures of counterfeit notes also shows there is a surge in seizure of fake Indian currency notes in 2019 compared to 2018. The government had claimed that the Rs. 2,000 notes had several high-security features.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Body of minor found||A 14-year-old Dalit girl is suspected to have been raped before being murdered in Bhadohi district of U.P. Her head was smashed with bricks. While the family suspects that she was raped, the police are waiting for the autopsy report to issue a confirmation.page 11
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Two held for rape, murder||The police in Balrampur, Uttar Pradesh, said they had arrested two persons for allegedly raping and murdering a 22-year-old Dalit woman. The accused were identified as Shahid and Sahil. While local reports claimed that the body was battered, the police denied this.Page 11
02 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Man dies in SEB police custody||D. Ajay (30) of the city, who was brought to the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) police station at Krishnalanka at 2.30 p.m., allegedly died in custody on Thursday. During questioning, he reportedly fainted. He was rushed to a private hospital, where he died. Family members alleged that he died due to police torture. “A case under Section 176 CrPC has been registered,” said a police officer. Investigation is on, police said.
02 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Govt. orders ban on public gatherings||Tightening the COVID-19 containment measures, the government has directed District Collectors to impose prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC to prevent public congregations and gatherings. In an order issued by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta late Thursday, assembly or gathering of people numbering over five has been prohibited from 9 a.m. on October 3 to 12 a.m. on October 31. The move is aimed at reining in gatherings that pose the threat of unleashing a super spread of the infection in the State.
02 October 2020||Hyderabad,||‘Pass resolution against farm bills in Assembly’||Questioning the TRS government’s sincerity on their opposition to the three farmers bills, the TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy asked Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to convene a special session of the Assembly and pass a unanimous resolution against the bills. Speaking to reporters through online platform Zoom, he asked the Chief Minister to pass new laws in the State Legislature.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Cabinet nod to re-promulgate Bills as Ordinances||The State Cabinet on Thursday decided to re-promulgate as Ordinances three controversial Bills that were passed by the Legislative Assembly but failed to make it through Legislative Council in the recently concluded monsoon session. It will also re-promulgate a fourth Bill that remains pending in the Assembly. The Cabinet decided to re-promulgate the Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Bill, 2020, the Karnataka Land Reforms (Second) Amendment Bill, 2020, and the Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Before introducing these Bills in the legislature, they were promulgated as Ordinances during the COVID-19 induced lockdown. While farmers held a protest against amendments to the APMC and land reform Bills, the Congress had petitioned Governor Vajubhai Vala not to give assent to the Bills. Trade unions had opposed the labour Bill. The government will also re-promulgate the Karnataka State Universities and Certain Other Law (Amendment) Bill, 2020, pending in the Assembly, as Ordinance. A Cabinet meeting on Thursday decided to re-promulgate these Bills as Ordinances with the Governor’s assent. The Ordinances will be in force for six months.
02 October 2020||Kolkata,||CM: Hathras gang rape barbaric and shameful||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday described the gang rape, assault and murder of a 19-year-old woman in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, as “barbaric and shameful”. “Have no words to condemn the barbaric & shameful incident at Hathras involving a young Dalit girl. My deepest condolences to the family..,” Ms. Banerjee said on social media. Speaking at an event in north Bengal later in the day, Ms. Banerjee said: “Look how Dalits are suffering today...During elections they visit Dalit homes, bring food from outside and say look we are having food here… and then they torment them…In U.P. today, how women are being burnt after being raped.”
02 October 2020||TIRUCHI,||New ASI Circle inaugurated in Tiruchi||A new administrative circle of the Archaeological Survey of India, with jurisdiction over 20 central and southern districts, came into existence in Tiruchi on Thursday. The Circle, created by bifurcating the Chennai Circle, will have 162 monuments and sites under its control.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,||State sees over 10,000 COVID-19 cases again||After a day’s gap, the State again reported over 10,000 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday. A record 10,453 cases was reported on Tuesday, the highest single-day surge. Thursday saw 10,070 persons testing positive taking the total number of cases to 6,11,837.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Midterm holidays cancelled||Students will not have midterm holidays for 2020-21. Private schools will continue to have online classes during this period. The government on Thursday stated that the Vidyagama programme for students of government schools would also continue during this period.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Theatres gearing up to reopen amidst worries||After over six months of inactivity, the cinema trade circle – comprising producers, distributors and exhibitors – is abuzz following the Central government’s decision to allow cinemas to resume operations with 50% seating from October 15.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||Rai seeks action against 11 thermal plants, kilns||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said he has requested Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar to take action against brick kilns and 11 thermal power plants in States close to Delhi in order to reduce air pollution during winter. He has also asked the Environment Department officials of Punjab and Haryana to use a “bio-decomposer” developed by the PUSA Institute that decomposes crop stubble.
02 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||‘Suspend NEKRTC staff’||The Kalaburagi district unit of the Republican Youth Federation staged a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office here on Thursday demanding that employees attached to North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation Division-I be suspended for disrespecting B.R. Ambedkar during the Independence Day celebrations. Federation organiser Hanumanth Itagi in a memorandum stated that NEKRTC employees, Nagaraj Warad and S.S. Sajjan, showed disrespect to Ambedkar by not putting up the late leader’s portrait during the 74th Independence Day programme at the divisional office.
02 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||Gate meetings against privatisation of Rlys.||In response to the call for All India Agitation Week given by All Indian United Trade Union Centre (AITUC), members and office-bearers of the organisation held gate meetings at railway divisional offices here on Thursday, distributed pamphlets and submitted a memorandum pertaining to various demands.
02 October 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 case tally crosses 14 lakh||Maharashtra’s total case tally breached the 14 lakh mark on Thursday with the State reporting 16,476 new COVID-19 cases. Now the total number of cases in the State stands at 14,00,922 of which 2,59,006 are active. With 16,104 patients being discharged, recoveries rose to 11,04,426. The recovery rate has risen to 78.84%. A relatively high fatality surge of 395 saw the State’s death toll climb to 37,056.
02 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Bio-mining proposal awaits govt. nod||A Mangaluru City Corporation proposal for bio-mining of solid waste at its landfill site at Pachchanady to reclaim land for further use is awaiting the approval of the State government, according to Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar.
02 October 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab withdraws night curfew, Sunday lockdown||With the number of COVID-19 cases and deaths falling, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced a slew of relaxations, including lifting of night curfew and withdrawal of lockdown on Sundays. The number of people that can attend weddings and funerals has been increased to 100 in line with the Union government’s guidelines for reopening.
02 October 2020||MYSURU,||Abhimanyu, other jumbos arrive for Dasara||The five elephants from the jungle camps shortlisted to participate in what will be a low-key Dasara due to COVID-19, left Veeranahosahalli for Mysuru on Thursday. The symbolic march of the elephants from the jungle camps to the city is a grand event every year and entails a huge gathering.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Several CLAT candidates allege discrepancies||Hundreds of UG Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) candidates who saw their answer papers — assessed based on the provisional answer key — on Wednesday have alleged that there are discrepancies.
02 October 2020||Mysuru,||JSS to carry out trials for Novavax vaccine||JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research has been approached for human trials of Novavax, another COVID-19 vaccine candidate developed by a U.S.-based company, as well as Russia’s Sputnik V.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Shortfall in realisation of Cauvery water share||After two successive years of excess realisation of its share of Cauvery water during the crucial southwest monsoon, Tamil Nadu has ended this year’s season with a deficit. The State got 120.24 tmc ft, marking a shortfall of 2.895 tmc ft.
02 October 2020||Chennai,||T.N.’s COVID-19 case count tops six lakh mark||With an addition of 5,688 new infections, Tamil Nadu on Thursday crossed six lakh virus cases. The toll mounted to 9,586 with 66 more fatalities. Of the new cases, Chennai accounted for 1,289, Coimbatore 550, Chengalpattu 356, Tiruvallur 260 and Kancheepuram 148.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Virus spreads steadily in Karnataka, Kerala||The steady spread of COVID-19 continued in Kerala, with 8,135 new cases being added on Thursday, from 59,157 samples. The test positivity rate was also steady at 13.7%. There were 72,339 patients under treatment in hospitals. Of these, 481 were in ICUs, with another 115 on ventilator support. The State’s COVID-19 toll was 771, as 29 more deaths which occurred between September 1 and 30 were added to the official list on Thursday. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for 10 deaths, Ernakulam seven, Thrissur six, Kasaragod three, Kollam two and Alapuzha one death. Of Thursday’s new cases, 7,850 cases (96.4%) were locally acquired infections. Thiruvananthapuram, which topped the tally for over two months, fell to the fourth place as the case graph rose in other districts. On Thursday, Kozhikode reported the most cases at 1,072, Malappuram 968, Ernakulam 934, Thiruvananthapuram 856, Alapuzha 804, Kollam 633, Thrissur 613, Palakkad 513, Kasaragod 471, Kannur 435, Kottayam 340, Pathanamthitta 223, Wayanad 143 and Idukki 130 cases. Andhra Pradesh added 6,751 new infections and 41 deaths on Thursday. It became the second State to see over seven lakh cases after Maharashtra. Karnataka and Tamil Nadu with 6.01 lakh and 5.97 lakh infections followed, a State bulletin said. It claimed to be the only State with over one lakh tests per million ratio. After an increase by one lakh in intervals of 10 to 11 days, the seventh lakh was reported in 14 days. The district-wise new cases and deaths were as follows: East Godavari (986 and 4), Chittoor (888 and 7), Prakasam (783 and 5), West Godavari (753 and 2), Guntur (594 and 3), Nellore (472 and 1), Krishna (424 and 6), Kadapa (400 and 3), Anantapur (333 and 4), Srikakulam (301 and 1), Visakhapatnam (277 and 5), Vizianagaram (275 and 0) and Kurnool (265 and 0). Telangana recorded 2,214 new cases on Wednesday and eight more patients died. While 54,443 people underwent tests, results of 1,393 were awaited. New cases included 305 from Greater Hyderabad. Tamil Nadu’s overall COVID-19 tally breached the six lakh-mark on Thursday as another 5,688 persons tested positive for the infection.In less than a month of surpassing the five lakh-mark (September 13), the State added another one lakh cases, taking its overall count to 6,03,290. The State reported its first case of COVID-19 on March 7. Another 5,516 persons were discharged on Friday.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Chennai bureaus)
02 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||Autopsy shows strangulation, fracture||The autopsy report of the Hathras gang rape victim confirms injury to the cervical spine (neck) produced by indirect blunt trauma, and its resultant sequelae. Mentioning fracture in C 6 cervical vertebra, the report, signed by three doctors of the Safdarjung Hospital, says the ligature mark over the neck is consistent with attempted strangulation but did not contribute to death. The woman was brutally assaulted by four upper caste men on September 14 in Boolagarhi village of Hathras. After struggling for life in Aligarh’s JN Medical College and Hospital, she passed away in Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday morning. The final diagnosis says “alleged post strangulation with cervical spine injury with sepsis and cardiopulmonary arrest”. The death summary notes “no vomiting and seizure”. The report says the viscera has been preserved, along with pre-vaginal swab and smear, swab and smear from the right upper thigh, and nail clippings from both hands. Later in the day, Prashant Kumar, Additional Director-General of Police (Law & Order), said the forensic report from the government lab in Agra had confirmed that the victim was not raped. He also cited the autopsy report to corroborate his point. “The lab report clearly says that no sperm was found in the sample,” he said. However, he went on to add that the girl first mentioned rape on September 22 and the samples were sent to the FSL on September 25. Sample collection Dr. Haris Khan, medical superintendent, JNMCH, told The Hindu, “the gynaecological and forensic examinations were conducted on September 22”. Dr. Hamza Malik, president, JN Medical College Resident Doctors’ Association, said that if the samples were collected eight days after the incident, there was little chance for spermatozoa to show up. “In such cases, sample collection is done within 72 to 90 hours of the incident, and that too when the survivor has not passed urine, changed clothes or taken bath,” he said.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ready to meet farmers: Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said the government was open to talks with farmer groups to allay any apprehensions about the three farm-related Acts passed in the monsoon session. Parliament had passed the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, in the last session prompting protests from the Opposition and farmer groups and leading to the exit of the Shiromani Akali Dal from the National Democratic Alliance. “I appeal to all farmer organisations to come and talk to us to clear issues; I’ve already begun such meetings,” said Mr. Singh who has held the Agriculture portfolio in the Vajpayee government. Describing himself as the “son of a farmer”, he said the Modi government would not do anything against their interests. “As a farmer’s son, I want to make it clear that the Modi government will not do anything against farmers’ interests,” he said. He said the system of minimum support price (MSP) for certain crops would continue as before. Mr. Singh condemned the burning of a tractor in central Delhi by leaders of the Congress. “Tractors are as sacred to farmers as weapons are to soldiers and burning them is like insulting our farmers,” he said.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||First plane for VVIPs lands in Delhi||The country’s first-ever VVIP plane, a Boeing 777-300 ER, landed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport Thursday afternoon, after undergoing retrofitment in the U.S. for more than two years. The aircraft’s delivery was delayed by three months due to lockdown-related restrictions in the United States. A small welcome ceremony was conducted at the airport, where Air India Chairman and Managing Director Rajiv Bansal, senior officials from the airline and representatives from the Ministry of Civil Aviation, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation and the Indian Air Force were present. A tilak was put on the body of the aircraft and sweets were distributed among the officials present, following which they were given a tour inside the aircraft. Air India’s Captain Himanshu Tiwari was the commander of the plane and flew it from the U.S. to India. “The aircraft is now parked at the IAF’s [Indian Air Force] technical area at the airport and ready to be flown for VVIP use,” an official told The Hindu . The aircraft is one of the two Boeing 777-300 ERs, which joined Air India’s fleet in 2018 and were sent to Dallas Fort Worth in Texas, Boeing’s headquarters, for retrofitment worthy of India’s VVIPs, including the President, the Vice-President and the Prime Minister. The second aircraft is likely to return to India by the end of October. Until now, the government borrowed Boeing 747s from Air India whenever there was a VVIP visit scheduled. Apart from being set aside for exclusive use by VVIPs, the planes also offer the capability of flying long haul distances without the need to make a stop for refuelling midway because of the longer range offered by 777-300 ERs as compared to the 747s. The Ministry of Civil Aviation is in the process of moving a Cabinet note on the transfer of the ownership of the two planes from Air India to the Indian Air Force as the national carrier is likely to be sold to a private player, an official confirmed.
02 October 2020||Srinagar,||L-G Sinha visits Qadri’s family||J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha visited the congested and volatile locality of Hawal in Srinagar’s old city on Thursday to meet the family of advocate and TV analyst Babar Qadri, who was killed by unknown gunmen on September 24 at his residence. L-G Sinha spoke to Babar’s father, Mohammad Yaseen Qadri, and brother, Zafar Qadri. Besides expressing his condolences, the L-G assured the Qadri family that the killers would soon be identified. Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh, Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar and Senior Superintendent of Police, Srinagar, Dr. Haseeb Mughal, accompanied the L-G. According to the police, they have laid their hands “vital clues to establish the identity of the killers and their outfit”. Meanwhile, the L-G chaired a meeting of all the deputy commissioners across the Union Territory through video conferencing, a day before the launch of the ‘Back to Village’ programme. He said the ‘Jan Abhiyan’ and the ‘Back to Village’ schemes “will be monitored very closely at the highest level to assess the ground level situation.”
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.S., E.U. should not condone Amnesty’s actions, says govt.||Responding sharply to the U.S. and the European governments for expressing their concerns about the investigations into the Amnesty International, the government said foreign governments must not condone NGOs that break Indian laws. “The NGOs are expected to adhere to all our laws, including with respect to foreign funding, just as they would in other countries like the U.S. and the European Union. We also expect that other governments would not condone the contravention of Indian laws by any entity,” said Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Thursday. Over the past few days, the U.S. State Department, the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), the United Kingdom Foreign Office and the European Union have issued statements expressing concern over the government’s decision to freeze the Amnesty’s funds that led the international human rights agency to close its India office on September 29. Both the U.K. and the E.U. said they have raised concerns through bilateral diplomatic channels as well. “The U.K.’s Minister for South Asia [Tariq Ahmed] and our Acting High Commissioner in New Delhi met Indian government representatives after Amnesty International India’s accounts were frozen, to emphasise the importance of organisations like this being able to continue their important work,” said a British High Commission spokesperson, adding that “the U.K. is seeking further information on recent decisions affecting Amnesty and believes the freedom of civil society organisations to operate underpins any functioning democracy”. The U.S. State Department also issued a statement saying the moves on Amnesty International had been noted “at the highest levels” of the U.S. government as well as by members of the U.S. Congress, adding that the U.S. is “concerned about obstacles to the work of civil society, whether in India or anywhere else in the world”. The E.U. had issued a similar statement on Tuesday.  (With inputs from Sriram Lakshman in Washington)
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC clears scheme for refund of cancelled flight tickets||The Supreme Court on Thursday endorsed a refund and credit shell policy scheme proposed by the government to reimburse passengers whose flights were cancelled during the lockdown. A three-judge Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah agreed with the government’s view that the scheme equitably balanced the interests of the passengers and the financially distressed air sector. The court directed that airlines will have to give full and immediate refund — within three weeks from the date of cancellation — to passengers who had booked their flight tickets during lockdown for travel anytime between March 25 and May 24. This is applicable to both domestic flights and international ones out of India on either Indian or foreign carriers. In case the tickets were booked during the lockdown through travel agents for flights scrapped in the course of the lockdown, the airlines will pay the refunds to the travel agent, who will immediately transfer them to the passengers. Civil aviation norms The court said the Civil Aviation Requirements (CARs) will, as usual, govern passengers who have booked tickets at any point of time for travel on dates beyond May 24. In “all other cases” — which include tickets booked prior to the lockdown for travel during the lockdown — the airlines will get 15 days from October 1 to refund the passengers. The court has acknowledged the government’s alternative scheme for airlines to open credit shells in the names of passengers. The court found that this was a necessary step to balance the interests of the passengers and the airline sector. According to this scheme, a credit shell will be opened in the name of the passenger who booked the ticket. This shell is valid up to March 31, 2021. In case the passenger chooses not to use the credit shell, the airline will have to refund the ticket money by the end of March 2021. The credit shell is transferable to any person of the passenger’s choice. As an incentive mechanism, the proposal offered .5% increase in the valuation of the credit shell if it was not “consumed” till June 30, 2020. The value of the credit shell would increase .75% if the credit remains untouched till March 31, 2021.
02 October 2020||KOCHI,||Let CBI probe LIFE Mission case: HC||The Kerala High Court on Thursday orally observed that the investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the alleged irregularities in the LIFE Mission housing project in Wadakancherry, Thrissur, could not be stopped. Justice V.G. Arun made the observation during the hearing on a petition filed by LIFE Mission Chief Executive Officer U.V. Jose seeking to quash the First Information Report registered by the CBI at a magistrate court here in connection with the alleged irregularities in the project. Observing that there were certain grey areas in the issue, the judge said “Let the investigation go on.” The court also asked the CEO to cooperate with the probe. The court also declined orally a plea by Senior Supreme Court lawyer K.V. Viswanathan, counsel for the CEO, to restrain the CBI from taking any coercive measures against the CEO. The lawyer said the agency had issued a notice summoning the CEO to produce certain documents in connection with the project. Without a protective order, the morale of the officers would be affected. Counsel for the CEO further contended that the filing of the FIR was a politically motivated move. The FIR had alleged violation of Section 3 of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act. In fact, the LIFE Mission had not accepted any contribution, much less any foreign contributions. The contractual agreements for the construction of buildings under the LIFE Mission were executed between the Consular General of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and construction companies. Neither the State government nor the LIFE Mission had any role in the selection of contractors. The role of the government was only to make available land for the project. Counsel for the CBI submitted that the investigation “is in an embryonic stage.” It had to be taken forward to find out whether the companies were acting as proxies for government officers or agency for receiving kickbacks. He contended that the petition was not maintainable as the CEO had no locus standi to file the petition. In fact, the CEO had not been named in the FIR. The court adjourned to October 8 the petition for further hearing.
02 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Poll to select national butterfly takes wing||A citizen campaign to drum up support for identifying a national butterfly has gained momentum with close to half a lakh people joining the movement from across the country. Spearheaded by butterfly researchers, scientists and enthusiasts, the National Butterfly Campaign has revived focus on the relevance of the charming scaly winged insects in enhancing biodiversity. A n indicator of healthy ecosystems, butterflies are found in wide varieties in biodiversity hotspots that teem with rich and diverse flora and fauna.  Kalesh Sadasivan, research associate, Travancore Nature History Society, points out that India is yet to designate a national butterfly despite being home to over 1,300 species belonging to six butterfly families that are primarily found in northeast India, the Western Ghats and other mountainous and plateau regions. Several countries, including Malaysia, Taiwan, Indonesia and Bhutan, have national butterflies. As part of identifying butterfly species that could make it to the coveted status, the National Butterfly Campaign Consortium prepared a long-list of 50 butterflies that was further trimmed to seven. Krishna Peacock ( Papilio krishna ), Indian Jezebel or Common Jezebel ( Delias eucharis ), Orange Oakleaf ( Kallima inachus ), Five-bar Swordtail ( Graphium antiphates ), Indian Nawab, Yellow Gorgon and Northern Junglequeen ( Stichophthalma camadeva ) are the contenders for the premier position. A country-wide online poll that commenced on September 11 to identify the most-favoured butterfly species has currently generated 42,090 votes with Maharashtra recording the highest number — 16,210. Several people have also cast their votes in West Bengal (3,029) and Karnataka (2,435), while 786 nature lovers from Kerala have also joined the campaign. Cast your votes The public poll, which can be accessed on https://forms.gle/u7WgCuuGSYC9AgLG6, will continue till October 8. A formal proposal with the top-ranking species will be submitted to the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change.
02 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,||In Kerala, fans, locals join hands to preserve legendary snakeboat||It was in 1952 that India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, during a visit to Alappuzha, hopped on the Nadubhagam Chundan (snakeboat) after witnessing a snakeboat race. The rest is history. On his return to New Delhi, Nehru donated a silver trophy, a replica of a snakeboat and paved way for the renowned Nehru Trophy Boat Race. As time passed, the legendary snakeboat ceased competing in races and the Nadubhagam Boat Club (NBC) retired the snakeboat in 2013. They replaced it with a brand new boat with the same name. Since its retirement, the snakeboat has been kept in a crumbled shed, leaving a piece of history to decay. But not any more. Although the Tourism Department’s promise to set up a museum and shift the snakeboat there remains unfulfilled, the NBC, Nadubhagam Chundan Fans Club (NCFC) and local residents have now joined hands to preserve it. As part of protecting it, the snakeboat will be reconditioned under the guidance of craftsman Sabu Narayanan Achary, who built the new boat a few years ago. A new ‘vallapura’ (boathouse) will also be constructed at Nadubhagam. The project is expected to cost Rs. 10 lakh. While the NCFC members will bear a major share of the cost, the rest will be raised from the public. “The chundan has great historical significance. We have taken ourselves the task of conserving it. We hope to complete the work in six months,” says K.S. George, president, NBC. Dream of a people The story of Nadubhagam Chundan dates back to the 1920s. In 1927, the people of Nadubhagam decided to compete in their own boat in the race at Champakulam. They bought a ‘palliyodam’ from Vembala in Aranmula. Later, the villagers transformed it into a snakeboat. During Nehru’s visit, the snakeboat ferried him, his daughter Indira Gandhi and grandson Rajiv Gandhi to the Alappuzha boat jetty from Meenappally Kayal, following an exhibition race, in which it came first. Since then, the boat race has been held every year. The trophy was initially named Prime Minister’s trophy but later came to be known as Nehru trophy. In 2019, the Nadubhagam Chundan (new snakeboat), rowed by the Pallathuruthy Boat Club, repeated history by lifting the Nehru trophy for the first time since 1952.
02 October 2020||Mysuru,||Mysuru-based JSS to carry out trials for Novavax vaccine||JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research (JSSAHER), which has already begun phase three of the clinical trials for vaccine candidate Covishield at its facility in Mysuru, has been approached for human trials of Novavax, another COVID-19 vaccine candidate developed by a U.S.-based company, as well as Russia’s Sputnik V. JSSAHER Pro-Chancellor B. Suresh said the institution has consented to carrying out trials for Novavax, while the request on Sputnik V has been kept in abeyance. Novavax, the U.S.-based biotechnology company, had entered into a manufacturing pact with the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). “Novavax approached us through SII and we consented to it. We will be submitting the required documents shortly,” he said. Though the institution was also approached for the human trials of Sputnik V, which has tied up with the Hyderabad-based Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Dr. Suresh said JSSAHER was still studying the proposal. Apart from carrying out clinical studies for Covishield, the vaccine candidate developed by Oxford University and multi-national pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca, JSSAHER has taken up human trials to study the efficacy of BCG, the anti-tuberculosis vaccine, against COVID-19. As part of the studies on BCG vaccine, about 250 elderly citizens in the age group of 60 to 80 will be inoculated with a dose of the anti-tuberculosis vaccine and monitored for the presence of antibodies in their blood and their response in the context of COVID-19. The flood of enquiries received by JSSAHER for carrying out human trials of COVID-19 vaccines comes in the backdrop of the legal requirements for manufacturing vaccines in the country. Dr. Suresh pointed out that a lot of interest has been generated for human trials in India because of the country’s huge capacity for manufacturing drugs. “Also, by law, you cannot manufacture the drug elsewhere and import it into India. If you are manufacturing in India a vaccine developed elsewhere, you should carry out the trials in India,” he said. Manufacture of vaccines can be allowed in India only after trials are conducted in the country and evidence of the trials on Indian population submitted. “Only then can you make it available to the people of the country,” Dr. Suresh said. Dr. Suresh also said phase three of the Covishield trials had begun after no adverse effect was shown on any of the 25 healthy volunteers who enrolled for the trials. Phase three is expected to test the immunogenicity of the vaccine, crucial to check if the shots had helped produce antibodies in the blood to fight COVID-19.
02 October 2020||Chennai,||IIT-M makes sutures with nanofiber yarns||A team of researchers at IIT Madras is ready with a prototype of suture thread made of nanofiber yarns that is bio-absorbable and can deliver a higher load of antibiotics and/or therapeutics at the site itself. The suture material uses nanofibers woven as yarn using certain specific techniques, and the strength can be varied depending on the target tissue (skin, muscle, cartilage), explains Rama S. Verma of the Stem Cell and Molecular Biology laboratory, Department of Biotechnology, IIT Madras. Each strand has a good tensile strength, besides degrading rapidly and mimics the collagen fibrils of body tissues, he adds. Several innovations globally in suture material have advanced infection control and achieved in some cases, better recovery among patients, even as other options such as staples, glues and strips have become available. Nanofiber yarns are thread-like structures formed by twisting together hundreds of nanofibers, Prof. Verma explains. The way the nanofibers mimicked the collagen fibril sparked the idea in a lab that primarily works on scaffold-based tissue engineering to create thread like structures by twisting nanofibers together using custom-made machinery. Arti Sunil Richard, Research Scholar, Department of Biotechnology, IIT Madras, also worked on the project that won the ‘SITARE-Gandhian Young Technological Innovation (GYTI) Award 2020’ recently. “Several experiments were done to prove its compatibility, mechanical strength, stem cell interaction, immune responses, and antibacterial property, and they were compatible with prescribed norms in surgical procedure,” Prof. Verma claims.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chargesheet against Hafiz Saeed, others||The Enforcement Directorate has filed a chargesheet against Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) chief Hafiz Saeed, the Pakistan-based terrorist who is also the founder of the Jamaat-ud-Dawah (JuD) and the Falah-i-Insaniyat Foundation (FIF), and others in a terror-funding case. Among those arraigned are Hafiz Saeed’s deputy Shahid Mehmood, one Salman, Dubai-based Pakistan national Mohammed Kamran, and Mohammed Salim, an alleged “hawala” operator from Delhi.  The ED probe is based on a chargesheet filed by the NIA under various provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, against Salman, Salim and Kamran. It is alleged that Salman received funds from FIF operators and his associates through the “hawala” channel. “FIF is a Pakistan-based terror organisation established by JuD ... The Foundation was designated a terrorist organisation by the United Nations on March 14, 2012. Hafiz Saeed was also designated a global terrorist. FIF, a front of LeT and JuD, was floated to evade sanctions,” said an ED official. The ED probe revealed that funds were routed from Pakistan to Dubai and then to India through the “hawala” channels.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||Most counterfeits are Rs. 2,000 notes, says NCRB||Four years after demonetisation, the highest number of all counterfeit notes seized last year was in the denomination of Rs. 2,000, according to the National Crime Records Bureau’s (NCRB) annual Crime in India report. The data on seizures of counterfeit notes from all the States and Union Territories also shows there is a surge in the seizure of fake Indian currency notes in 2019 compared to 2018. According to the NCRB, fake Indian currency notes with a face value of Rs. 25.39 crore were seized in 2019, compared to Rs. 17.95 crore in 2018, showing an increase of 11.7%. On November 8, 2016, when the government announced the scrapping of old Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 notes, one of the reasons attributed was wiping out fake currency notes in circulation. The government claimed that the Rs. 2,000 notes had several high-security features. According to the NCRB, 90,566 pieces of fake Rs. 2,000 notes were seized in 2019. The highest number of seizures were from Karnataka (23,599 pieces), Gujarat (14,494) and West Bengal (13,637). The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Annual Report for 2019-20, released on August 25, said the RBI presses did not print even a single Rs. 2,000 note last fiscal. There had been a gradual decline in pieces of Rs. 2,000 notes in circulation, from 3.6 billion pieces in 2017-18 to 2.73 billion pieces in 2019-20. The NCRB report said that 71,817 pieces of fake Rs. 100 notes were seized last year. The biggest recoveries were made from Delhi (31,671 pieces), Gujarat (16,159) and Uttar Pradesh (6,129). In 2019, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) registered 14 cases, where 13,459 pieces of Rs. 2,000 counterfeit notes had been seized. It also registered eight cases to probe recovery of fake Rs. 500 notes. A specialised unit to investigate fake currency notes was established in the NIA few years ago. A study done by the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata, in 2015 said that at any given point of time Rs. 400 crore in fake notes were in circulation.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||State can’t term slowdown a public emergency, says SC||The State cannot declare the slowdown caused by the pandemic a “public emergency” to curtail the rights of people, the Supreme Court said on Thursday. The pandemic had not resulted in an “internal disturbance” of a nature that posed a “grave emergency” whereby the security of India was threatened, it said. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud observed that the sweeping powers of the State to declare a public emergency could only be wielded in case of “threat to the security of India or a part of the territory must be caused by war, external aggression or an internal disturbance”. In a 41-page judgment, Justice Chandrachud observed: “We find that the economic slowdown created by the COVID-19 pandemic does not qualify as an internal disturbance threatening the security of the State”. The verdict dealt with blanket notifications issued by the Gujarat government denying factory workers overtime wages during the lockdown by invoking its powers of declaring a public emergency under Section 5 of the Factories Act.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||Supreme Court grants bail to person accused under UAPA||The Supreme Court has granted bail to a person accused under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). He has spent over six years in jail. Advocate Neel Kamal Bohra, for accused Aadil Ansari, told The Hindu from Jodhpur on Thursday that his client would be released on producing a bail bond and two sureties, in addition to the submission of a certified copy of the court order. “The process for his release may take a day or two,” Mr. Bohra said. A Bench led by Justice Rohinton Nariman, in an order on Wednesday, disagreed with the Rajasthan High Court’s refusal to grant bail to the accused. In a short order, it said the High Court’s view that a prima facie case had been made out against the accused solely based on the statement given by the public prosecutor was not “strictly correct”. Ansari is booked under Section 43D(5) of the UAPA for allegedly indulging in terror activities. It is practically impossible to get bail under this provision. It allows a court to reject bail even if police documents or the prosecutor suggests the allegations are “ prima facie true”. But the top court found that Ansari’s name was not mentioned in the police FIR. The Bench said it had also gone through the chargesheet filed in September 2014. It noted that Ansari was denied bail in October 2014.
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Mullappally, Murali face off over suspension of mass stir||Congress leader K. Muraleedharan, MP, on Thursday questioned the decision of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) to suspend mass agitations against the government, given the worrisome COVID-19 situation. He said the Political Affairs Committee (PAC) was kept in the dark about the resolution. The settlement gave the impression that the Congress had developed cold feet and backed out of the fight. Top leaders were not consulted and the decision appeared arbitrary. Sources close to Mr. Muraleedharan said the leader seemed vexed that the decision-making process at the apex level of the KPCC often bypassed leaders such as him and was limited to a "triumvirate" at the top. Imaginary opponents KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said Mr. Muraleedharan's political shadowboxing would only serve to undermine the sense of unity and purpose in the party. Mr. Muraleedharan was sparring with imaginary opponents. The KPCC decided to suspend mass agitations in consultation with Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy. The party felt that the assemblage of workers for protests could accelerate the spread of the pandemic. It had chosen public interest above everyday politics. The KPCC had consulted an immediately available quorum of leaders to take the decision. In the time of the pandemic, it was often difficult to have the PAC at hand to debate such matters. The decision was open to discussion at the next PAC meeting, he said. Mr. Ramachandran said the All India Congress Committee had cracked the whip on combative public statements and opinionated social media posts on organisational matters in January. None was above the rule. The KPCC president ruled out any disciplinary action against Mr. Muraleedharan, but said the AICC was aware of the issue.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Peace, harmony in India essential for Asian future, says Sugata Bose||Peace and harmony in India is essential for Asian future, said Professor Sugata Bose of Harvard University. Delivering the inaugural Mushirul Hasan Memorial Lecture of Jamia Milia Islamia on Thursday, the academic remarked that Asian universalism’s future in the 21st century will be determined by the rivalry between India and China which is currently intensifying. “Mahatma Gandhi understood that peace and unity of India was the precondition for contributing to the universalism of Asia,” said Prof. Bose delivering the Lecture on “Asian Universalism in the Age of Nationalism” which was held virtually. The scholar and academic pointed out that Asian universalism came up on the common anti-colonial agenda. The anti-colonial agenda, he noted gave a chance to nationalist China and India as well as Japan and several other countries to unite in the early 20th century. The scholar highlighted that Mahatma Gandhi, Rabindranath Tagore and Sun Yat-sen were the leading proponents of Asian universalism that began to fall apart after Japan joined the western trend of aggressive nationalism and pursued imperial policies. He urged for better understanding between the contemporary Asian powers to ensure a future free from narrow nationalism which, he noted is currently being played out in the relationship among various countries of Asia.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||AAP spent Rs. 21.06 crore on Delhi poll campaign: expenditure report||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spent a total of Rs. 21.06 crore on its campaign for the 2020 Delhi Assembly election, in which it won 62 out of 70 seats, according to its expenditure report submitted to the Election Commission (EC) on September 14. While submitting the report, AAP national treasurer and Rajya Sabha MP Narain Dass Gupta wrote that the election expenditure report could not be submitted by the deadline of April 28 due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown and the auditor’s office being in a containment zone. The report, which was made public by the EC on Wednesday, showed that the party had spent a total of Rs. 21,06,36,705, of which Rs. 17,80,85,490 was spent on “general party propaganda” and Rs. 3,25,51,215 on candidates, including payments to candidates, expenditure on publishing criminal antecedents of contenders and publicity. The party’s report also showed that it spent Rs. 8,43,75,818 on media advertisements, the majority of which was on social media, SMS and calling campaigns; Rs. 5,90,68,649 on publicity materials, like posters and hoardings; and Rs. 20,63,274 on public meetings, processions and rallies. The party also spent Rs. 2,79,70,372 on “survey expenses”, according to the report. The party spent or authorised expenditure on publicity materials for two candidates – Arvind Kejriwal and Atishi Marlena.
02 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Motorists need carry only digital documents||Vehicular documents, including registration certificate, and driving licence of motorists, found validated through electronic means will not be demanded in physical forms for inspection by the law enforcers. Instead, the motorists can show the documents in digital format in the mParivahan, the mobile application of the MoRTH that allows users to get details of vehicles such as owner name, vehicle manufacturer, insurance and fitness validity among others or in the DigiLocker, the national Digital Locker System launched for providing paperless governance. Use of IT services and electronic monitoring is expected to lead to better enforcement of traffic rules, end complaints of harassment and hassle-free travel. The step towards easing commuter convenience has been possible with the Centre digitising documents, including maintenance of the motor vehicles, driving licences and e-challans from Thursday. In Kerala, the introduction of e-challan by Motor Vehicles Department in January this year and followed by the Kerala Police in five major cities have come in handy. “The enforcement has been tightened and erring motorists are being booked on the spot using hand-held machines. The vehicles coming from other States cannot now escape checking as details can be verified,” Joint Transport Commissioner Rajeev Puthalath said. If the details of the documents are found validated through the electronic means by the enforcement officer, then physical forms of such documents will not be demanded, including in cases where there is an offence made out necessitating for the seizure of documents. Ministry of Road Transport & Highways (MoRTH) has issued notifications regarding various amendments in Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989 requiring the implementation of enforcement, Maintenance of Vehicular Documents and e-Challans for better monitoring and enforcement of the MV Rules. Keeping tab Henceforth, details of driving licences disqualified or revoked by the licensing authority will be recorded chronologically in the portal and will be updated on a regular basis on the portal. This will keep the law enforcers to keep a tab on the driving behaviour.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||GST collections cross Rs. 95,000 crore in Sept.||April and May were the worst hit, bringing in a little over Rs. 32,000 crore and Rs. 62,000 crore respectively. “The gross GST revenue collected in the month of September 2020 is Rs. 95,480 crore, of which Central GST is Rs. 17,741 crore, State GST is Rs. 23,131 crore, Integrated GST is Rs. 47,484 crore [including Rs. 22,442 crore collected on import of goods] and cess is Rs. 7,124 crore [including Rs. 788 crore collected on import of goods],” the Finance Ministry said in a statement on Thursday. Experts cautious Economists were cautious about reading the healthier numbers as a sign of a sustainable rebound from the sharp 23.9% contraction in the country’s gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2020-21. Principal economist at rating agency ICRA Aditi Nayar said the uptick in GST collections had come as a relief, although it was likely driven by “a combination of pent up demand and inventory restocking, and thus its sustainability remains unclear”. “Overall, the high frequency data available for the month of September 2020 confirms that a fragmented recovery is under way. We continue to expect the GDP contraction to narrow appreciably to 12.4% in the second quarter,” Ms. Nayar said. “With a significant part of the economy resuming operations and international trade as well resuming pace, the collections have shown decent growth,” said Abhishek Jain, EY tax partner. Revenues from import of goods were at 102% and revenues from domestic transactions which include import of services were at 105% of the revenues from these sources during September 2019. Among the larger States, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu saw the highest growth in GST inflows at 17% and 15%, respectively, compared to September 2019.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Rahul, Priyanka held on way to Hathras||She further said, “You [the government] portrays itself as the saviour of Hindusim but what kind of religion is this that could not allow a father to perform the last rites of his daughter?” Love Kumar, Additional Commissioner (Law and Order), Gautam Buddh Nagar, first told The Hindu that the Congress leaders had been detained but later in the day clarified that technically it was an arrest for violating Section 144. “They were released after signing personal bonds. No witnesses were called for bail. So practically it was detention,” he said.   Mr. Kumar said around 150 Congress party workers were also arrested under Section 188 of the IPC for violating orders of a public official. On the behaviour of the police, Mr. Kumar said they had to use mild force when party members were not allowing the car of the leaders to move. He said the leaders were stopped after the Hathras District Magistrate issued an order whereby he asked the District Magistrates of U.P. to not allow any person to enter Hathras in view of the delicate law and order situation. “It is a kind of preventive measure. It meant that no political person could be allowed. So in this case, the number doesn’t matter,” he said. BJP spokesperson Siddharth Nath Singh described the Congress protest as a “photo-op” by Mr. Gandhi and said nobody could be allowed to roam around on an expressway. The Hathras administration also blocked the entry of the media to the Boolagarhi village on Thursday. Vikrant Vir, Superintendent of Police, Hathras, said Section 144 was already in place in the district and only the media was allowed entry inside the village on Wednesday. “Now that the three-member SIT (Special Investigation Team) is working in the village and there is COVID-19 scare in the area, we have blocked media entry to the village as well,” he added. Mr. Vir said Hathras was a congested village, and with people not adhering to social distancing and other protocols, there was a real possibility of the virus spreading in the area. “Already two of our men have tested positive,” he told The Hindu . The police used force to stop members of the Samajwadi Party, who tried to cross the police barricades and enter the village. The incident led to protests in Aligarh, Agra and Moradabad, where sanitary workers came out on the streets and protested against the State government. Several senior Congress leaders criticised the U.P. police for not allowing the Congress leaders to proceed to Hathras.
02 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||Two held in Balrampur rape and murder case||The police in Balrampur said on Thursday that they had arrested two persons for allegedly raping and murdering a 22-year-old Dalit woman. While local reports claimed that the woman’s body was battered, the police denied this. “Some media channels are playing the news that her back and hands and legs were broken. This has not been ascertained in the post-mortem,” said Balrampur SP Dev Ranjan Verma. However, a further probe into the matter was on, he said. The woman’s mother also claimed that her back and legs were broken. “She didn’t have energy left even to stand or talk,” she told local reporters. According to the police, the woman’s family said she did not return from her work in a private firm till late in the evening on September 29. Then, around 7 p.m. she came home in a rickshaw. She had a ‘viggo’ installed on her wrist for administering glucose. She was in a pretty bad condition, said Mr. Verma. The family rushed her to a hospital, but she died on the way, said the officer. The family said the two accused took their daughter to a doctor for treatment and then raped her, said the officer. Why she was taken to the doctor is not clear. In his complaint, the victim’s brother alleged that she was “kidnapped” by the accused, taken to their room and gang-raped. A case of gang rape and murder has been filed, and both the persons named as accused by the girl’s brother have been arrested, said Mr. Verma. They were identified as Shahid and Sahil.
02 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||Hathras incident shocked our conscience, says HC||The Allahabad High Court on Thursday took suo motu cognisance of the Hathras incident and the events leading up to the cremation of the victim in the Hathras alleged rape and murder case and issued notices to the Uttar Pradesh government. “The incidents which took place after the death of the victim on 29.09.2020 leading up to her cremation, as alleged, have shocked our conscience, therefore, we are taking suo moto cognizance of the same,” the Lucknow Bench said. ‘Immense importance’ Justices Rajan Roy and Jaspreet Singh said the matter was of “immense public importance and public interest as it involves allegation of high handedness by the State authorities resulting in violation of the basic human and fundamental rights not only of the deceased victim but also of her family members”. The court directed the Senior Registrar to register a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) with the title, “In Re : Right to decent and dignified last rites/cremation”. The court listed the case for October 12.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Grand alliance’ yet to reach a consensus||At the meeting of the Congress screening committee held ahead of the Bihar poll, a section of party leaders expressed the view that the Congress should not wait any longer for the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) to make up its mind on the seat-sharing formula for the mahagatbandhan (grand alliance). Sources said that, so far, no consensus has emerged within the party. The last date for nomination to the first phase of the Assembly election is October 8. Seventy-one seats in 16 districts go to polls in the first phase on October 28. The Congress screening committee had a meeting on Wednesday from 3 p.m till 7 p.m. Another round of meetings was held on Thursday. The Congress has been demanding nearly 70 seats; the RJD wants to concede only close to 60. The Congress fought on 42 seats in the 2015 Assembly elections, with the Janata Dal-United (JD-U) candidates fighting on a Congress symbol in a couple of them. The RJD’s argument is that the Congress does not have enough ground presence to even come up with a suitable candidate for all seats. ‘Not about number’ A senior Congress leader said, “We had almost finalised the seat arrangement, but in this land of Chanakya, the political situation changes every minute. It is not about the number, it is about the ideological commitment. The problem is with their attitude, which drove away Jitan Ram Manjhi [Hindustan Awam Morcha] and then Upendera Kushwaha [Rashtriya Lok Samata Party]”. The party has also been egged on by others to patch up the third front, what a section of the party says is the “true secular front”. A narrative that the RJD is being manipulated by the BJP, since its president Lalu Prasad Yadav’s bail plea is up for a hearing on October 9, is also taking root.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||NDA seat-sharing meet for Bihar inconclusive||No announcement was forthcoming on the National Democratic Alliance’s seat-sharing agreement for the Bihar Assembly election despite a 50-minute meeting of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP president J.P. Nadda and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan. But with time running out, a tentative date for a meeting of the BJP’s central election committee has been fixed for October 4. The seat-sharing agreement will, in all likelihood, be settled before that date. Mr. Paswan met Mr. Shah and Mr. Nadda at the latter’s residence in New Delhi, even as the other partner in the alliance, the Janata Dal(U) made it clear that it was the BJP’s job to sort out the seat-sharing arrangement with the LJP. The LJP has been demanding 36 to 40 seats considering that it won six Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 election. Mr. Paswan has said that he has no issues with the BJP but does not support the candidature of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar as the face of the NDA in the State. He has said that he was also contemplating putting up 143 candidates from his party, but only in seats where the JD(U) was fighting. BJP sources said that much of the talk was for positioning and the political space that Mr. Paswan feels his party should occupy. Mr. Shah and Mr. Nadda will be meeting Mr. Paswan again soon as Thursday’s meeting remained inconclusive.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Setting up of IROs will not result in merger of independent bodies’||The Union government on Thursday clarified to the High Court of Karnataka that the process of setting up 19 integrated regional offices (IROs) of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change by reorganising the existing regional and sub-regional set-ups will not result in merger of any of the organisations and authorities. Resources utilisation The establishment of 19 IROs is to strengthen the outreach in a more coordinated manner through optimum utilisation of resources without impending in any manner the independence or functional autonomy of any of the organisations such as the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB), the Forest Survey of India (FSI), and the Central Zoo Authority (CZA), it was stated on behalf of the Ministry. The statement in this regard was filed before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by Giridhar Kulkarni, an environment enthusiast. The petitioner had contended that process of reorganisation was intended for merger of NTCA, WCCB, FSI, and CZA contrary to statutory provisions. “All the organisations will continue to carry out their mandate independently and separately through their headquarters as is being done now. Instead of having limited offices in the filed, now they will be able to utilise services of 19 IROs in a better manner. It is emphasised that the exercise will strengthen the functional capabilities of each of the organisation,” the Bench was informed.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||3 soldiers killed, 5 injured in Pak. firing along LoC||An official said Pakistan opened fire “both from small arms as well as mortars” on Wednesday night in the Krishna Ghati Sector in Poonch. Officials identified the deceased soldier as sepoy Karnail Singh. Another soldier, rifleman Virender Singh, was shifted to a hospital and is being treated. On Thursday afternoon, ceasefire violations by Pakistan spread to other parts of north Kashmir. “Pakistan also initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Keran and Machil sectors, Kupwara, in the afternoon. Pakistan fired from artillery guns, mortars and other weapons,” the Army spokesperson said. The latest ceasefire violations have come as a major escalation between the two countries in J&K, after months of frequent but minor incidents of ceasefire violations. According to data from the Ministry of Home Affairs, J&K till July 2020 witnessed 2,952 ceasefire violations from the Pakistani side, which left 15 civilians and eight security forces personnel dead.
02 October 2020||KOCHI,||HC rejects Franco’s plea||The Kerala High Court dismissed a petition filed by bishop Franco Mulakkal, accused in a nun rape case, challenging the Kottayam Additional Sessions Court’s order rejecting his plea to defer the cross-examination of witnesses until the COVID-19 pandemic is brought under control or to adjourn the cross-examination by two months. The petition sought to postpone the cross-examination as his 73-year-old counsel would not be able to reach Kottayam to conduct the examination in view of the COVID-19 situation. The counsel who suffers from various age-related ailments is now confined to his house in Kochi, according to the petitioner. The sessions court has posted the case on October 5.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Festival duty||
02 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||Girl found dead, family alleges rape||A 14-year-old Dalit girl is suspected to have been raped before being murdered in Bhadohi district of Uttar Pradesh, police said on Thursday. “Her head had been smashed with bricks,” said Superintendent of Police, Bhadohi, Ram Badan Singh. Autopsy awaited While the family suspect that she was raped, the police are waiting for the autopsy report to issue a confirmation. “It could be rape. Because there could not be any other reason for killing her. She could not have had animosity with anyone. But final confirmation would be done after autopsy,” said the officer. A case under murder was registered and search is on for the suspects, said the police.
02 October 2020||Srinagar,||9 BJP workers resign ahead of Leh polls||Nine leaders and workers of the BJP have resigned from the party in Ladakh’s Leh district in the past two days, after the party selected ten new faces to contest the upcoming polls to the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council-Leh (LAHDC-Leh). “The party has chosen candidates on the basis of their winnability and report card from the ground,” said Dr. Skalzang Dorjey, Leh BJP’s political affairs in-charge. The polls are scheduled for October 16. “The BJP has done favouritism by not choosing the right candidate for Chuchot seat. The BJP chose a candidate who can’t spell the LAHDC correctly,” two workers, Manzoor Hussian and Mumtaz Hussian, wrote in a joint resignation letter.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bhushan files review plea against fine||Advocate Prashant Bhushan has filed a review petition in the Supreme Court against its decision to fine him a nominal Rs. 1 as punishment for committing criminal contempt by ‘scandalising the court’ with his tweet on a picture of the Chief Justice of India on a heavy bike, and another about the role of the court in the past six years. Mr. Bhushan urged the court to recall the punishment. He said the tweets were criticism, and argued that dissent and criticism of an institution did not amount to criminal contempt. The senior lawyer asked the court to look into whether its power to initiate suo motu contempt was subject to the fundamental rights of a person. Dissent and fearless exchange of ideas were the central pillars of democracy, he said.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Shah to lead BJP’s charge in Bengal||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will be leading the BJP’s charge in West Bengal and will be headed to the State just ahead of Durga Puja, later this month, to address a workers meeting there. Senior leaders in Delhi and West Bengal met at party president J.P. Nadda’s residence on Thursday for nearly four hours to hammer out some of the programmes to play up the political activity in the State. West Bengal is scheduled to go to the polls early next year. Among those who attended the meeting were Mr. Shah, Mr. Nadda, general secretary in charge of West Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya, newly-appointed vice-president Mukul Roy and State chief Dilip Ghosh. After the meeting, Mr. Ghosh told presspersons that Mr. Shah would be overseeing much of the party’s strategy with regard to West Bengal going ahead.
02 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Rahul to lead Punjab stir from Oct. 3||As farmers continue to agitate against the Union government’s agriculture sector laws, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi will lead tractor rallies across Punjab from October 3 to 5. All Punjab Ministers and Congress MLAs will participate in the protest rallies, said an official statement of the party on Thursday. “The tractor rallies, expected to be supported by farmer organisations across the State, will cover more than 50 km,” it said.
02 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Will use every drop of river water: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has expressed the strong resolve of State government to tap every drop of water that accrued to Telangana as a matter of right in Krishna and Godavari rivers. While strengthening irrigation sector, the government will use river water to turn barren land into green pastures, Mr. Rao said while discussing the stand to be taken by Telangana government at the October 6 meeting of the Apex Council on river water disputes with Andhra Pradesh to be attended online by himself, his Andhra Pradesh counterpart Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy and Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. Mr. Rao said on the occasion that he was prepared even to fight with `God' when it came to protecting the interests of agriculture and farmers.  Festive atmosphere “The movement for Telangana itself was linked to deprivation faced by the State in water sector. Now, a festive atmosphere prevailed in agriculture sector in separate State. The farmers were a role model for rest of the country in reaping rich harvest. The State had become the foodgrain bowl of the country,” the CM said. Mr. Rao asked irrigation officials to come up with sound arguments in support of Telangana's stand at the Apex Council meeting. Planning board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar, Adviser (Irrigation) S.K. Joshi, Principal Irrigation Secretary Rajat Kumar and Chief Adviser to government Rajeev Sharma were present.  I am prepared even to fight with God when it comes to protecting the interests of agriculture and farmers. K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Chief Minister.
02 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Bapu Museum in A.P. gets a new look||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy inaugurated the revamped Bapu Museum on Thursday, which now features a brand new museum building and a renovated Victoria Memorial building, which was built in 1887.
02 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||Video of Hathras gang-rape victim goes viral||A purported video of the Hathras gang-rape victim has gone viral on social media. In the video, she could be heard saying that she was raped by two men, while the other two ran away when they saw her mother coming. She could be heard saying that the accused tried to rape her earlier as well but she escaped. She named Ravi, one of the four arrested.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pakistan exploiting death of Pakistani Hindus in Jodhpur: MEA||Islamabad is manipulating the case of Pakistani Hindus who were found dead in Jodhpur in August, an official of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday. Addressing the weekly media conference of the Ministry of External Affairs, official spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said investigation is currently on in the death of 11 members of Pakistan’s minority Hindu community in Rajasthan. “Unfortunately, this incident has been used by Pakistan to further its anti-India propaganda,” said Mr. Srivastava.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||Congress leaders quote Trump’s words to target Centre||Congress leaders on Thursday quoted U.S. President Donald Trump’s comments made during the presidential debate with Joe Biden to target the Central government on its handling of COVID-19. “The President of the United States has made a serious charge that India is concealing COVID-19 deaths... We hope our Government answers to his allegations,” tweeted Congress leader Ahmed Patel.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Railways may run 200 more trains for festival season||Railway Board Chairman and CEO V.K. Yadav on Thursday said the Railways plans to introduce about 200 more special passenger trains between October 15 and November 30 to cater to the festive season demand. “We have conducted meetings with the general managers of zones and instructed them to speak with local administration and review the COVID-19 situation,” he said.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Government is using NCPCR to defame me, says Harsh Mander||Activist and former IAS officer Harsh Mander said on Thursday that the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had raided two children’s homes in Delhi that he had been associated with in the past with the main aim of finding out if any of the residents had participated in the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to issue EPIC for new voters from next week||The Greater Chennai Corporation will start distributing Electoral Photo Identity Cards (EPIC) to new voters in the city from October first week. The civic body had completed the three revision activities of rationalisation of polling stations, removing duplicate entries and carrying out corrections in the electoral rolls and would start distributing the voter ID cards, said officials. A senior official of the Corporation said arrangements were made to distribute 27,000 new voter ID cards. All the booth-level officers (BLOs), including those put on COVID-19 duty, had been reassigned to complete the summary revision of the electoral rolls for 2020-21. The civic body, as part of the electoral updating exercise, created a progress tracker for the work done by the staff with senior officials getting computer-generated reports. He said the work of inclusion of names, correction and removal of names is being coordinated and checked by the electoral registration officers (EROs) and assistant electoral registration officers (AEROs). Regarding complaints of voters for inclusion or carrying out corrections of any mistakes to be carried out in voters’ list, the civic official said the public could easily update the details by accessing the portalwww.nsvp.inwithout the need to visit the corporation offices. Although the summary revision of electoral rolls is a continuous process, a few residents had complaints of voter identification cards having errors and wrong photographs. Complaints galore V. Rama Rao, social activist of Nanganallur, one of the added areas to the corporation, complained that in the new EPIC issued recently some other person’s photo was affixed instead of his photo though he had not made any complaint. He rued several mistakes in the voter identification cards in the locality and charged that the revenue officials of Kancheepuram district were not taking any steps to rectify them. Regarding the complaint raised by residents in the newly-added areas, the senior civic official said the city should be having 22 revenue districts after expansion by including portions from the neighbouring three districts but was demarcated with 16 revenue districts for electoral work. Only the Election Commission had the power to carry out delimitation of revenue districts, he said. The proposal to link Aadhaar with EPIC was under serious consideration but a decision had not been taken by the EC till now, he added.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Despite COVID-19, startups in T.N. manage to attract funding||Startups in Tamil Nadu raised $439 million in the first nine months of 2020 across 22 deals. During the same period last year, State-based startups attracted Private Equity (PE) and Venture Capital (VC) investments to the tune of $1,331 million across 39 deals, according to data provided by Venture Intelligence, a research service focused on private company financials, transactions and their valuations. Despite uncertainty in the market due to the COVID-19 pandemic, this quarter (Q3) witnessed six deals amounting to $108 million. “While the PE-VC investment figures are down on a year-on-year basis, recent weeks have shown that both foreign PE-VC investors (notably, U.S.-headquartered investors like Falcon Edge Capital – which led the $4.5-million investment in Hippo Video) as well as well-established India-dedicated funds are keen to make new investment bets. This general ‘loosening of purse strings’ is likely to improve funding access for Chennai/Tamil Nadu-based companies as well,” said Arun Natarajan, founder of Venture Intelligence. For the first nine months of this year, Tamil Nadu managed to get 17 angel investments. In 2019, the State had 11 angel investments for the same period. During this third quarter, the State saw seven angel investments while there were only 3 that came in during the same time last year. Mr. Natarajan explained that right now, owing to the impact of the pandemic, digitally native companies in edtech, fintech, entertainment and e-commerce sectors are attracting a lion’s share of PE-VC investments. “Tamil Nadu-based companies in the financial services and fintech space are likely to attract more attention in the current environment. As investor confidence improves, startups in this region which are especially strong in the enterprise software and deep tech segment are likely to witness more investments flowing their way,” he added. According to Mr. Natarajan, the vibrancy of the capital markets (including the very successful IPOs of Chennai-based CAMS and Bangalore-based IT Services firm Happiest Minds), should also encourage more mature companies from the region to look at the IPO route to raise capital. The analysis done by the Venture Intelligence team shows that at the national level PE-VC firms invested $26.3 billion across 547 deals in the first nine months of 2020.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally breaches six lakh-mark||Tamil Nadu’s overall COVID-19 case tally breached the six lakh-mark on Thursday as 5,688 more persons tested positive. In less than a month of surpassing the five lakh-mark (September 13), the State added another one lakh cases, taking its overall count to 6,03,290. Tamil Nadu reported its first case on March 7. Another 5,516 persons were discharged after treatment across the State. These included 1,000 in Chennai, 511 in Coimbatore and 474 in Chengalpattu. So far, 5,47,335 persons have been discharged in the State. Tamil Nadu’s toll climbed to 9,586 as 66 more persons succumbed to the infection (39 at government hospitals and 27 at private hospitals). Eighteen of them died in Chennai and eight in Coimbatore. Of the nine persons who died without co-morbidities, two were in their 30s. A 35-year-old man from Tiruvallur was admitted to a private medical college hospital in Kancheepuram with complaints of cough for three days and difficulty in breathing for a day on September 17. He died on September 30 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 37-year-old man from Krishnagiri was admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital, Krishnagiri, with complaints of fever and difficulty in breathing for three days on September 23. He died on September 29 owing due to COVID-19 pneumonia. New cases Chennai continued to report over 1,000 cases a day. With 1,289 persons testing positive, the city’s tally rose to 1,68,689. Coimbatore, with 550 fresh cases, accounted for a total of 32,620 cases. There were 356 cases in Chengalpattu, while 341 persons tested positive in Salem. Tiruvallur added 260 cases, taking its tally to 32,622. Thanjavur continued to report a high number of cases at 232, while Tiruppur recorded 192 cases. There were 180 cases in Cuddalore, 148 in Kancheepuram, and 145 in Erode. The State now has 46,369 active cases, including 11,615 in Chennai, 5,060 in Coimbatore, 2,753 in Salem and 2,046 in Chengalpattu. A total of 87,647 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The total number of samples tested has gone up to 74,41,697. One more private laboratory — SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre, Chengalpattu — was approved for testing. There are 187 testing facilities in the State: 66 government and 121 private institutes. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, along with Alby John, Regional Deputy Commissioner-South, Greater Chennai Corporation, conducted an inspection at Alandur. They visited streets that had COVID-19 cases and commercial establishments. “The purpose of the inspection was to improve containment area management, ensure and check compliance with wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing,” the Health Secretary said. He also visited labour settlements on construction sites at Mugalivakkam.  Chennai continued to report over 1,000 cases a day. With 1,289 persons testing positive, the city’s tally rose to 1,68,689
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State witnesses shortfall in realisation of Cauvery water share||After two successive years of excess realisation of its share of Cauvery water during the crucial southwest monsoon (June-September), Tamil Nadu has ended this year’s season with a deficit. Against a prescribed quantity of 123.14 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) for the period, the State got 120.24 tmc ft, marking a shortfall of 2.895 tmc ft. What is significant is that at the beginning of September, the cumulative shortfall for the season was around 11.3 tmc ft, which has come down since. Of the total quantity received this year, about 103 tmc ft was realised by the State in August and September. A significant pattern A perusal of data on the inflow of Cauvery river water in the last 10 years reveals a striking feature, which has been a pattern for the last 30 years. In six of the last 10 years, the State got less than its share of Cauvery water. Since 1991, there have been 19 such years when Tamil Nadu realised less than its share of water during June-September, as stipulated by the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal in its interim (1991) and final (2007) orders and by the Supreme Court in February 2018. According to the tribunal’s interim order, of an overall annual quantity of 205 tmc ft, 137 tmc ft was to be received by Tamil Nadu during June-September. In the tribunal’s final order, the figure was 134 tmc ft and in the Supreme Court’s judgment, 123.14 tmc ft. As on Thursday morning, the water level in the Mettur dam stood at 96.64 ft (full level- 120 ft), with its storage being 60.573 tmc ft (capacity- 93.47 tmc ft). Inflow to the dam was 8,343 cubic feet per second (cusecs) and the discharge 6,850 cusecs, including 6,000 cusecs through the river. What is of additional comfort to the State is that the Bhavanisagar dam, also in the Cauvery basin, is close to the brim with a storage of around 30 tmc ft.  Since 1991, there have been a total of 19 years when Tamil Nadu realised less than its due share of water during June-September
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A meal for Rs. 10 in Chennai||Mukesh Khubchandani, a Chennai businessman, has replicated the budget canteen that was run by S. Ramu, fondly called Ramu Thatha, in Madurai and is selling meals for Rs. 10. Ramu Thatha, who passed away a few months ago, ran the budget hotel along with his wife R. Pooranathammal near the Anna bus stand in the temple city. “The day I read about the death of Madurai’s Ramu Thatha (meaning grandfather), who served meals for Rs. 10, I was impressed by his life journey. That is when I thought when a poor man can do this for several decades, why not me,” said Mr. Khubchandani, who is president of the All India Electronics Association, Chennai. In the next 30 days, he and his team did the groundwork and set up a small kitchen (345 sq ft) on Ritchie Street. The operations started in August. “The idea behind collecting Rs. 10 is to make the buyer realise that it is not free. This will also ensure that he does not waste food,” Mr. Khubchandani said. The meal parcel contains rice, sambhar, rasam, buttermilk and vegetables (all packed separately). During the initial days, 100 meals a day were sold. As word spread, more people from nearby places started coming in. Currently, over 300 meals are being sold every day, and the number is increasing. Looking at the demand, Mr. Khubchandani has deployed two persons to be in charge of the kitchen and four others to help in the packaging. He is now planning to set up a restaurant and is scouting for a location. “I’m looking for a space where there are more labourers who would walk in. At the restaurant, I will be giving the meals for Rs. 30 (with the best ambience), and takeaways will be priced at Rs. 10,” he said. This restaurant will be operational within the next six months. Asked about the investment, Mr. Khubchandani refused to give details. He said the idea was not to make profits but to ensure that the common man got access to quality food.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGT asks panel to inspect Grizzled Squirrel Sanctuary||No one is entitled to encroach upon forest land for non-foresting activities without getting necessary permission from the Forest Department, especially in a declared Wild Life Sanctuary, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) said. The Southern Bench of the NGT took suo moto cognisance of a report in The Hindu that a road was being laid within the eco-sensitive zone of the Grizzled Squirrel Wildlife Sanctuary in Srivilliputtur, without permission from the Forest Department. “Even if the alleged road is being constructed within the eco-sensitive zone or within the regulated zones, such activities will have to be controlled and regulated by the Forest Department for which permission will have to be obtained from them including the National Board of Wild Life,” the bench said. To ascertain the genuineness of the allegations made by the activists in the report, and the impact of the alleged road construction within the sanctuary, the NGT appointed a joint committee comprising a senior officer from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, a senior officer not below the rank of Chief Conservator of Forests, the Wild Life Warden of the Sanctuary, and District Collector, Virudhunagar, to inspect the area and submit a factual as well as action-taken report, if any violation is found. Report The Committee has been directed to submit its report to the Tribunal on or before November 5.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amid lockdown, KMC registers a rise in births||Since the beginning of the pandemic, the number of deliveries performed at the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital has been on the rise. On September 29 alone, a total of 40 babies were delivered at the hospital, as against a daily average of 20-25. COVID-19 and its subsequent lockdown has led to an increased inflow of pregnant women to government hospitals. KMC, a government hospital in Chennai offering maternity services, has seen more deliveries amid the pandemic. “Usually, we conduct 450-500 deliveries a month at the hospital, and at times, the number goes up to 700-750. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the number of deliveries has been on the rise. This is because many patients opted for deliveries at government hospitals. Our obstetrics-gynaecology team has been working throughout, handling pregnant women, including those who have tested positive for COVID-19,” P. Vasanthamani, dean of KMC, said. According to data available at the hospital, 432 deliveries were conducted in March. The number of deliveries increased to 601 in April and 649 in May. There were 684 deliveries in June, 642 in July and 659 in August. In September, 800 deliveries were conducted at the hospital. Critical patients Till date, a total of 513 antenatal women, who tested positive for COVID-19, were admitted to the hospital for treatment. Of this, 306 women delivered, while the remaining were discharged after treatment. “We had two pregnant women — aged 28 and 30 — who were critical. Both had central placenta previa, in which the placenta covers the internal os of the cervix, and had tested positive for COVID-19. The condition could lead to complications. Doctors performed caesarean sections and both the patients recovered well and were discharged,” she said. The dean added that they had set up separate facilities for handling antenatal women who test positive for COVID-19.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Student visas are high priority, says U.S. Consul General||Student visas are high priority, and the U.S. Consulate in Chennai had started processing them in the middle of August, Judith Ravin, Consul General of the United States of America in Chennai, said on Wednesday. Ms. Ravin, who took charge as the Consul General recently, said the pandemic had curtailed operations at the consulate. As part of the U.S. Department of State’s ‘Diplomacy Strong’ initiative, a phased approach on which services could be offered while keeping the staff and the public safe was being adopted. “Student visas are really high priority… In the middle of August, we started processing student visas, cognisant of our priority of handling the workload that was possible to keep people safe. That continues, and we would like to see more than two lakh Indian students because international students internationalise our campuses. The diversity Indian students bring is very important,” Ms. Ravin said in an interview to The Hindu.  When asked if there was interest among students to apply to U.S. universities, considering that there had been confusion over student visas of late, she replied in the affirmative. “Yes. That’s why we are organising an education fair. We are having a very large virtual university graduate fair coming Friday and Saturday and a week later, we are having the undergraduate fair,” she added. Renovation process The Consul General said the consulate was set to undergo renovation to modernise facilities and create a more functional environment. When asked how the consulate was planning to hold events like it used to before the pandemic disrupted normal life, Ms. Ravin said it was creating more virtual programmes and using virtual platforms for events on intellectual property rights, arts and sciences, and an upcoming series in November-December for those curating museums.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Green tribunal orders demolition of illegal oil tanks||The National Green Tribunal has ordered KTV Oil Mills Pvt Ltd to demolish illegal structures constructed at its storage facility on the Ennore Express High Road within three months, failing which the Tamil Nadu Coastal Zone Management Authority has been authorised to carry out their demolition. The bench of Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta also set aside the CRZ clearance granted to the facility by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change’s expert committee as it found the clearance to be illegal. The case relates to an appeal against the grant of CRZ clearance to the company’s facility. The applicant said the company had constructed seven tanks for storing edible oil at its facility and laid a pipeline from the Chennai Port to its storage terminal without obtaining CRZ clearance from the MoEF. CRZ clearance was issued in July 2017 for this purpose. It was challenged by the applicant, who said that there was no provision for granting ex-post facto clearance and that the practice was deprecated by the Supreme Court and the Principal bench of the NGT in several cases. ‘No illegality’ Counsel for the MoEF argued that the project was recommended for CRZ clearance with specific and general conditions to be followed and there was no illegality. The company said the storage of non-hazardous oil was a permitted activity and Chennai Port was a notified port. It said the diameter of the pipeline was 10 inches, as provided under the CRZ clearance, while the NHAI had given approval to lay a 12 inch diameter pipeline. Making a slew of observations, the bench said the CRZ clearance was issued post facto, but was treated as a fresh proposal “which in itself is not a legal procedure”. “The Coastal Regulation Zone clearance granted to KTV Oil Mills is not permissible and liable to be set aside,” the bench ordered.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Researchers collaborate to use industrial, agri byproducts||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) are collaborating with their counterparts at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to find ways to use industrial and agricultural by-products. A major byproduct, biomass ash, is not put to full use due to its complex physio-chemical characteristics. One of the aims of the project is to develop novel building materials that cost less and have a low impact on the environment, compared to the existing materials. Piyush Chaunsali and Ravindra Gettu, professors from the Department of Civil Engineering, along with Elsa A. Olivetti, Atlantic Richfield associate professor of energy studies at MIT, are conducting the research. The project has been taken up under the SPARC initiative of the Union Ministry of Education. According to Mr. Chaunsali, the unique aspect of the project is its aim to develop a novel framework for high-volume use of industrial by-products in alternative cementitious binders. Byproducts, such as biomass ash, coal ash, red mud and copper slag, generated in large volumes, could have applications in the construction of roads, buildings and bridges. Ms. Olivetti said cement concretes were among the most widely used materials, and, hence, have a big impact on the environment. The researchers are looking at how waste materials available in various regions of India can be reused to reduce their environmental footprint.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘In 10 years, joint families may return’||Everything comes full circle, they say. It is the same for the joint family system, according to geriatrician V.S. Natarajan. In the last 40 years since he set up geriatrics specialty in the Madras Medical College, he has seen many changes — from people dying of infectious diseases to the elderly becoming dependent on their families because of the disability caused by non-communicable diseases. Dr. Natarajan says, “When I started the geriatric ward in GH in the 1980s, people suffered from chest infection, scabies and leprosy that were easy to treat. Now, we see people with diabetes, stroke and dementia. At that time, physicians used to go to the patients’ house.” With no family planning and a robust joint family system, the elderly received care from other family members. Medical advancement in the last 40 years has meant the death rate, which was over 25% in 1950, will be reduced to 7.5% in 2023. Longevity may have increased but the elders have to face three Ds — disease, disability and dependence. A diabetic becomes dependent owing to retinopathy; mild Parkinson’s disease progresses, leading to dependence five years later. The next decade spells a better future for geriatricians as the lifespan of the population increases. The government must gear up to provide services to the elders. “We started the Institute of Geriatrics with two postgraduate students. Now, we have nine PGs. The government can use these specialists in district headquarters hospitals and for house call programmes for the elderly. This would help to treat chronic diseases,” he says. Dr. Natarajan has been organising awareness programmes in schools on elder abuse. More homes for the aged in rural areas and offering free vaccination to the elders at primary health centres are the way forward because in the next 25 years every fifth person would be elderly. The demographic change could also bring about some changes, such as elderly marriages. More elderly women and widows would be working. Men are prone to vascular diseases such as heart attack and stroke, besides accidents, unlike women, who are protected by their hormones. Another welcome change could be the return of the joint family due to work compulsions. “When that happens, disease may not be a burden,” he says. Thursday was observed as the International Day of Older Persons.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Post-COVID-19 care clinic inaugurated at government hospital in Chennai||A post-COVID-19 care clinic has been launched at the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate. As part of this, a 16-slice CT scan too has been installed at the hospital, at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar inaugurated the facilities at the hospital on Thursday. The clinic will comprise the following facilities: automatic Body Mass Index machine; spirometry to assess lung function; a six-minute walk test to detect SPO2 (oxygen saturation) levels; a CT scan; an automated cell counter for blood test; physiotherapy; static cycle and step test to assess the impact of COVID-19 on the heart; ECG; psychiatric counselling; medication and advice for yoga, according to a press release. The hospital presently has 750 beds, of which 500 have oxygen support. There are 110 ventilators and 60 high-flow nasal oxygen devices. Till date, over 30,000 persons have been treated as outpatients at the hospital. A total of 19,767 have been admitted for treatment. Of this, 17,988 have been discharged after treatment, accounting for 91% of patients. In the last six months, 14,178 CT scans were done at the hospital. A total of 5,420 persons were diagnosed with co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and cardiac diseases. To ensure an uninterrupted supply of oxygen, work to install a new 24-KLD liquid oxygen tank is in progress. A 10-KLD oxygen tank has already been installed at the hospital. Exhibition held An exhibition was organised at the hospital, featuring COVID-19 prevention and treatment measures, models of RT-PCR test facilities, 108 ambulance service, CT scan and ventilators at the hospital. It also showcased the right way to wear masks, good hand washing techniques and the importance of following physical distancing norms and various other facilities in government hospitals. P. Umanath, managing director of the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation; R. Narayana Babu, director of medical education; R. Jayanthi, dean of the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate; and M. Ramesh, nodal officer of the hospital, were present.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||250 sovereigns gold jewellery stolen from house in T. Nagar||A Dubai-based businessman has complained to the city police that burglars took away 250 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs. 60,000 cash and other valuables from his house in T. Nagar after tying him and his family members. The police said the complainant, Noorul Yakub, 71, lives on Saradambal Street in T. Nagar and is into the construction business in Dubai. Mr. Yakub said that he, his wife, her nephew and their domestic help were under home quarantine as they had tested positive for COVID-19. One of their relatives, Moideen from Thoothukudi district, had been staying with them for the past two weeks. Around 4.30 p.m. on Wednesday, the suspects covered their faces and reached the house. They threatened the family at knifepoint and gagged them with tape and ropes. They escaped in an autorickshaw and car parked in the house after looting 250 sovereigns of gold, cash and other valuables, he said in the complaint. Mr. Moideen had been missing since the incident and his mobile phone was found to be switched off, the police said.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNCC cadres protest Rahul’s arrest||Cadres of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee, led by its president K.S. Alagiri, protested in various parts of the State against the Uttar Pradesh police using force to prevent Congress MP Rahul Gandhi from proceeding to Hathras and for detaining him and his sister Priyanka Gandhi. Cadres of the party registered their protest at the party headquarters, Satyamurthy Bhavan, raising slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. In some places, police detained and later released the Congress cadre. Protest in Karur In Karur, Congress workers, led by S. Jothimani, Member of Parliament, and a few others were taken into custody when they resorted to a road roko near the bus stand. The workers including women, who assembled at the roundabout in the evening, blocked traffic and raised slogans against Utter Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and the UP police for their “high-handedness” in preventing the march of the Gandhis. DMK president, M.K. Stalin condemned the police action against Rahul Gandhi. In a tweet, he said: “I strongly condemn #Hathras & #Balrampur rape cases which show the extent of atrocities & injustices faced by citizens under such a ruthless & cruel govt. If @RahulGandhi can be manhandled for seeking #JusticeForIndiasDaughters what protects the common man from @myogiadityanath?.” MDMK leader Vaiko and leaders of the TNCC too condemned the Uttar Pradesh government.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. GST collections up 15% in Sept.||Tamil Nadu’s Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections rose by 15% to Rs. 6,454 crore in September 2020, from Rs. 5,616 crore in September 2019, data released by the Union Finance Ministry on Thursday showed. The GST collections showed a positive growth for the first time after the COVID-19 lockdown was imposed in March. Amid the lockdown, the State’s GST collections had declined 24% to Rs. 4,635 crore in July 2020 when compared to Rs. 6,084 crore in July 2019. In June 2020, the collections declined 15% to Rs. 4,976 crore from Rs. 5,881 crore in June 2019. In August 2020, it had declined 12% to Rs. 5,243 crore from Rs. 5,943 crore in August 2019.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||91 fake NOCs were used to establish fuel outlets in T.N., High Court told||The Madras High Court was on Thursday startled to hear from the Director General of Police (DGP) that as many as 91 retail outlets of petrol, diesel and auto gas had been established across the State on the strength of fake No Objection Certificates (NOCs), reportedly issued by Collectors and Commissioners of Police.   Habeas corpus petitions Justices N. Kirubakaran and P. Velmurugan had called for the information after coming across a couple of habeas corpus petitions filed against the preventive detention of two individuals K.L. Sivakumar and C. Jayaprakash accused of having issued fake NOCs with the seal of the Commissioner of Police, Greater Chennai. Suspecting that the crime could not have been be limited to Chennai, the judges directed the DGP to verify the records in all districts and submit a detailed report. Accordingly, Additional Public Prosecutor R. Prathap Kumar submitted a list before the court and said the inquiry revealed the issuance of 91 fake NOCs. The court was informed that submission of a NOC from the Commissioner of Police, if a retail outlet was to be established within city limits, or from the Collector, if it was to be established in other places, was a prerequisite to obtain licence for the outlet from the Petroleum and Safety Explosive Organisation (PESO). The onus of obtaining such NOCs was on the individual dealers and so Sivakumar, who was a consultant for a petroleum company, had collected huge sums of money from them and issued fake NOCs. Shocked to hear such allegations, the judges directed Assistant Solicitor General G. Karthikeyan to look into the issue. Directive to APP They directed the APP to furnish a copy of the DGP’s report to Abdul Saleem, counsel for Indian Oil Corporation Limited, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited and Nayara Energy Limited (formerly Essar Oil), so that he could find out if any of the 91 outlets had been established by the dealers of these three companies, and initiate appropriate action. The judges called for a report from PESO too on the issue of fake NOCs.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thanga Tamilselvan appointed DMK’s Theni-north secretary||The DMK on Thursday bifurcated the Theni district unit of the party and appointed former MLA Thanga Tamilselvan as in-charge-of the Theni (north) district. Mr.Tamilselvan, who had switched over from the AMMK, was earlier holding the post of propaganda secretary. Former MLA Cumbum N. Ramakrishnan will be in-charge of Theni (south) district. Party general secretary Duraimurugan said the district had been bifurcated for the purpose of administrative reasons and to ensure effective functioning. The north district will cover Bodinayakanur and Periyakulam (reserved) Assembly constituencies while the south will include Cumbum and Andipatti constituencies. “District secretary in the DMK is an important post and I deem it as an honour,” said Mr. Tamilselvan, who was one of the prominent figures of the AIADMK in the district. He had difference of opinion with Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and when T.T.V. Dhinakaran formed the AMMK he had joined him. He had also functioned as the district secretary of the AIADMK. “It is my responsibility to win the Assembly polls and dedicate the two constituencies to party leadership,” said Mr.Tamilselvan. In the meantime, the party has appointed platform speaker Dindigul I. Leoni and former vice-chancellor Sabapathy Mohan as propaganda secretaries. Mr. Duraimurugan said they had replaced former Union Minister A. Raja, who had been appointed deputy general secretary of the party and Mr. Tamilselvan. Senior leader Tiruchi Siva is the other propaganda secretary.
02 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||MDMK resolves to continue protest against farm laws, NEET||The Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) on Thursday has decided to continue its protest against the three Central farm legislations, National Education Policy 2020, NEET and a few other issues. The high-level committee of the party which met on Thursday passed resolutions in this regard. The party’s presidium chairman, S. Duraisamy, chaired the meeting held through video conference and general secretary Vaiko also participated, according to a statement.  ‘Reject farm laws’ The farm legislations would destroy agriculture, so they should be rejected and the farmers and all democratic forces should unite against them, read the resolution. Another resolution urged the Centre to firmly announce that it would not allow Karnataka to construct the Mekedatu dam. A separate resolution also urged the re-constitution of a panel to study the origin and evolution of India’s ancient culture, with representatives from all parts of India and historians. Draft EIA notification The meeting also passed a resolution urging the Tamil Nadu government to oppose the Centre’s draft Environment Impact Assessment Notification 2020. It also urged district secretaries and other party representatives to finish the process of appointing teams and agents for polling stations in each assembly constituency and hold meetings from November 1 to December 31, and share details with the headquarters.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC laments increasing incidents of rape being reported in the country||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Inspector General of Police (West Zone) to monitor the investigation into allegations of a 22-year-old migrant labourer having been gang raped at Palladam in Tiruppur district. Justices N. Kirubakaran and P. Velmurugam issued the direction following an application moved by advocate A.P. Suryaprakasam who also sought provision of food, shelter, medical aid and monetary compensation to the survivor. Referring to the recent Hathras gang rape incident in Uttar Pradesh and other similar crimes, the senior judge in the Division Bench expressed anguish over many incidents of rape and gang-rape being reported in the “spiritual land.” The judge referred to a study, which claimed that the statistics were so alarming that it accounted to one woman or girl getting raped in the country for every 15 minutes, and said: “It is very unfortunate. There’s no security for women.” The sub-application seeking assistance to the Palladam rape survivor was filed in a habeas corpus petition that was already pending in the court. In the HCP, the court had sought for details regarding the protection provided to migrant labourers by the Centre and the State government. After Justice Velmurugan insisted that the State government should ensure that migrant labourers do not get exploited by their employers, the Bench passed an order directing the government to disclose steps taken in that direction. Mr. Suryaprakasam told the court that, apart from numerous problems such as meagre pay and lack of access to even basic amenities, women migrant labourers also end up being easy targets for “sexual predators” who indulge in brutal acts. Finding force in his submission, the judges directed the police to ensure that the culprits in the Palladam rape case were brought to book. They also ordered payment of compensation to her under the Victim Compensation Scheme.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Indian Bank CMD M. Gopalakrishnan dies||Former chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) of Indian Bank M. Gopalakrishnan died owing to ill health at a private hospital here on Wednesday night. In the 1990s, he was a popular figure and was in the news often. Gopalakrishnan, 86, is survived by his wife Rajalakshmi and daughter Sakila. He was born in 1935 into a traditional family with an agricultural background at Koladi near Thiruverkadu. His father M. Radhakrishna Pillai had served as Mayor of Madras during 1944-45 and introduced several reforms. Gopalakrishnan joined Indian Bank as an unpaid officer in 1958. He went on to become its CMD in 1988 and continued in the post till December 1995. Bank officials and his colleagues said he was a visionary and proactive. Under him, agriculture, education and healthcare and services became priority areas for the bank. He was a pioneer in supporting start-ups, many of which became a major success. The bank supported many philanthropic causes during his tenure. Gopalakrishnan’s career was also marked by controversies as he got seven extensions — unprecedented in the banking history — when P.V. Narasimha Rao was the Prime Minister and Manmohan Singh was the Union Finance Minister. When he was CMD, Indian Bank extended loans to several people, including those who were close to politicians. After Gopalakrishnan demitted office in 1995, Indian Bank reported a loss of Rs. 1,336 crore during the financial year 1995-96. He was arrested by the CBI on October 25, 1996, on the charge of sanctioning huge amounts to individuals and their companies without sufficient securities and by flouting the bank rules. The CBI filed 18 cases against him and his subordinates in 1998. So far, he had been convicted in 5 cases from 2009 and acquitted in one. He was given a 14-year jail term and a one-year term. Appeals have been pending against the convictions in higher courts. The rest of the cases are still under trial in lower courts.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. move a setback for senior students: schools||The State government’s decision to put on hold a government order permitting students of Classes 10 to 12 to visit their schools for guidance sessions will be a setback for senior students preparing to take board exams next year, private school administrators said. “Even if not regularly, students of Classes 10 and 12 would have greatly benefited from at least being able to visit their schools, in small batches, twice a week. With schools remaining shut since March, we are particularly concerned about Class 12 students losing touch with their subjects,” said K.R. Nandhakumar, State general secretary, Tamil Nadu Nursery Primary Matriculation and Higher Secondary Schools’ Association. Several schools that had originally scheduled online exams for October, before their term break, will now go ahead with them. Syllabus reduction “When the announcement was initially made and we spoke to the parents, many whose children study in Class 12 were ready to send the students for guidance sessions, every week. We are mainly concerned about how the academic calender of Class 12 students will shape up, since they have competitive exams as well to prepare for, and there is no clarity yet on syllabus reduction,” said N. Vijayan, patron, Kancheepuram district Self-Financing Schools’ Association. For its affiliated schools, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), back in July, announced a 30% reduction in syllabus for Classes 9 to 12. The board released the revised syllabus for each subject, and the schools then analysed the same and framed academic plans accordingly. However, in Tamil Nadu, while School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan announced that there would be a 40% reduction in syllabus, there has been no clarity on its specifics. Schools that started online classes as early as June are still waiting for details regarding this to plan academic calenders better, particularly for Classes 10 and 12.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TMMK holds demonstration against Babri Masjid verdict||The Tamilnadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) held a demonstration on Thursday near the Chepauk Guest House in the light of the special CBI court verdict acquitting senior BJP leader L.K. Advani and 31 others in the Babri Masjid demolition case, for lack of credible evidence. Professor J. Haja Gani, general secretary of TMMK, led the demonstration with with the slogan “Let us save judiciary”. In a statement, the TMMK said it was shocking that the CBI was not able to gather evidence, and the verdict had shaken the trust the public has on judiciary.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online soft skill training for people with disabilities||Ability Foundation and Cognizant will organise LinkABILITY, an online soft skills training programme for graduates with disabilities from October 9 to November 6. Designed by Cognizant as part of its employee volunteering initiative Outreach, the intensive 20-hour, 5-days-a-week programme will help strengthen candidates’ aptitude and communication skills, apart from teaching them resume-building and interview techniques. The programme includes mock interviews with senior hiring panelists, said a press release here. Graduates who have passed out after 2017 and have studied math till Class XII and experienced professionals who have passed out in 2013 or after can apply for this programme. Participants should have a desktop/laptop/tablet with good internet connectivity. The last date for registering is October 4. For details, call 8939675544 or mail atjobs@abilityfoundation.orgor visitwww. abilityfoundation.in.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fisheries varsity invites applications||Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University has started issuing applications for admission to Bachelor of Fisheries Science (B.F. Sc.) degree programmes for the current academic year. Details are available atwww.tnjfu.ac.in. Applications must be submitted before October 26. There are 120 seats in the three constituent colleges in Thoothukudi, Ponneri and Thalainayeru. For more details, contact the Fisheries College and Research Institute, Thoothukudi, from 9.15 a.m. to 5 p.m. or emaildeanfcrituty@tnjfu.ac.in.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Grama Sabha meetings cancelled||The State government on Thursday decided to call off the grama sabha meetings scheduled for Friday (Gandhi Jayanti) across the State. A senior official told The Hindu that the meetings were cancelled, but did not give any reason. In several districts, the public relations officers announced the cancellation “in view of the COVID-19 pandemic”. Incidentally, on Wednesday and Thursday, DMK president M.K. Stalin urged all panchayat presidents to pass resolutions at the meetings against the three pieces of legislation on agriculture reforms, which were passed in Parliament and received President’s assent recently. Mr. Stalin said the government cancelled the meetings, fearing that the grama sabhas would pass resolutions against the laws. However, the panchayat presidents belonging to the DMK would meet the people and explain the dangers posed by the laws.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Paramedical applications portal opened||The Directorate of Medical Education has started issuing application forms for paramedical courses from Thursday. The admission process for paramedical courses is usually taken up after the counselling for MBBS/BDS courses. Selection secretary G. Selvarajan said the process was initiated to enable students to apply for the courses. No decision has been taken on whether counselling for the paramedical courses would be held ahead of medical counselling.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNRERA rejects plea that only association can resolve dispute with builder||The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) has rejected the plea that individual home buyers do not have locus standi to file a complaint against the developer after forming an association, which alone can resolve the disputes with the promoter. In his complaint, K. Balasubramaniyan said he, along with his wife, had jointly purchased an apartment in “Tulive Viha” at Anna Nagar East from G.K.S. Technology Park Pvt. Ltd in 2019. He objected to the sale of a part of the alleged common area to two other home buyers Devendra Bhatia and Anjula Bhatia. The complainant named the builder and the other home buyers as respondents. Mr. Bhatia and Ms. Bhatia challenged the maintainability of the complaint on the grounds that he had no locus standi since the association of the buyers (Tulive Viha Apartment Owners Association) had been formed and it was the association which had to resolve the disputes with the promoter. The TNRERA rejected the plea, noting that the respondents had misconstrued the explanation to Section 31(1) of the RERA Act. As per the section, any aggrieved person may file a complaint for any violation or contravention of the provisions of the Act, it said. The definition of person includes the association members in addition to the individual buyers, it said. The authority reiterated that once the Act was in place, recourse could be taken through arbitration and rejected the plea on that ground as well and ruled that the complaint was maintainable.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC wants to know steps taken against drug abuse||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State government to spell out steps it had taken against drug abuse by preventing pharmacies from selling pain killers and other drugs to minor children without a valid prescription. Justices N. Kirubakaran and P. Velmurugan wanted to know what was the percentage of juvenile drug addiction in the State. The Division Bench posed the questions while passing interim orders on a habeas corpus petition filed against the preventive detention of a person accused of abusing common psychoactive drugs available freely in local pharmacies.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AMMK rejigs Theni district unit||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) has restructured its Theni district unit into two. Announcing this in a release, T.T.V. Dhinakaran, parth general secretary, stated that in respect of the Theni (north) unit, R. Jayakumar and M. Muthusamy would be secretaries. Likewise, the party re-organised three district units in Tiruvannamalai and shuffled the allocation of assembly constituencies to each of the units. M.K. Varadarajan, A.G. Panchatcharam and Chengam A. Paranthaman had been posted as secretaries of the Tiruvannamalai (north, central and south) district units respectively. R.C.M. Manjula Chandramohan had been appointed secretary of the Nagapattinam (south) unit of the AMMK. In Puducherry, the party would have B. Vimalashree as joint secretary in the place of M. Lavanya. J. Tamilarasi had been made deputy secretary of the unit there.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin demands apology from U.P. CM||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday demanded an apology from Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for the “manhandling” of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi when he went to meet the family of the Hathras gang-rape victim. “Preventing a Member of Parliament from performing his duty and manhandling him is inhuman and condemnable,” he said in a statement.  He said the way Mr. Gandhi was treated was proof that there was no rule of law in the State. “The rape cases testify to the existence of heartless, cruel people in the country,” the DMK leader said.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Feedback sought on video lessons||The School Education Department is seeking the feedback of students, parents and teachers of Class 12 on the video lessons offered earlier this year. Along with the textbooks distributed in July, Class 12 students of government and government-aided schools were given video lessons on their laptops. As many as 414 lessons across 39 subjects were given. “To understand better how the students have been utilising these lessons, the quality of the content as well as improvements that can be made, schools need to reach out to students and parents for suggestions,” School Education Director S. Kannappan said in a circular to all Chief Educational Officers. In the second phase, students will soon receive 1,029 video lessons. The lessons have been prepared by the State Council of Educational Research and Technology (SCERT) and the faculty members of the District Institutes of Education and Training. For all other classes, lessons are being telecast on Kalvi TV and a few private channels. QR codes The SCERT has also asked schools to encourage students to use the QR codes given in their textbooks, which are linked to video and audio content hosted on the DIKSHA platform. This content, an official said, would help supplement their understanding of the lessons.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat to be held on October 28||The Department of Posts will hold a circle-level Dak Adalat at the office of the Chief Postmaster General, Anna Salai, at 11.30 a.m. on October 28. Citizens can send details of their grievances by post or through email onpg.tn@indiapost.gov.inbefore October 15, according to a release.
02 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four held on robbery charge||The Tambaram police on Thursday arrested four persons who allegedly committed a robbery at a massage centre in Tambaram. The police said K. Lavanya, 22, of Tindivanam runs an ayurvedic massage centre on Gandhi Road, Tambaram. On September 24, the suspects barged into the premises and posed as policemen. They snatched mobile phones, a gold chain weighing 7 g from her and fled the spot. Based on her complaint, the police arrested Saravana Kumar, 26, Chandru, 22, Jaisathish, 22, and Velmurugan, 20, of Thiruverkadu, and recovered the chain and cellphones.
02 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Karamadai temple to remain closed on ‘Puratasi’ Saturdays||District Collector K. Rajamani has announced that the Aranganathaswamy Temple in Karamadai will remain closed on the ‘Puratasi’ Saturdays to prevent overcrowding as part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures. In a release on Thursday, Mr. Rajamani said that the temple will remain closed for devotees on October 3, 10 and 17. Citing the possibility of “being unable to completely adhere to the standard operating procedures” as the reason for closing on the three Saturdays, Mr. Rajamani requested the public to not visit the temple in large numbers in the other days of the week, too. Official sources said that one of the police personnel who were deployed at the Aranganathaswamy Temple for the previous ‘Puratasi’ Saturday (September 26) tested positive for the disease. Rising cases The decision was taken bearing in mind the rising COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore district despite the number of devotees visiting the temple for ‘Puratasi’ Saturdays being significantly lesser than last year, the sources said.
02 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Civil services exam to be held on Sunday||Civil services preliminary examination will be conducted in 21 centres in Coimbatore district on October 4. According to a release from the district administration, the examination will be held in the morning and afternoon. Candidates should report at the centres one hour before the scheduled time with their e-admit cards. If the photo in the admit card is not clear, they should bring a photo and identity card. They should not bring mobile phones or digital watches to the centres and should follow all the safety protocols to be protected from COVID-19. The candidates should use only black ball point pens. Bus service has been arranged from Ukkadam, Koundampalayam and Pollachi. Government officials would supervise the arrangements at the centres, the release said.
02 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Breast cancer awareness month activities launched||Sri Ramakrishna Institute of Oncology and Research (SRIOR), Coimbatore, on Thursday launched various activities as part of breast cancer awareness month programmes. SRIOR launched pink colour N95 masks with a QR code, scanning of which enables smartphone users to access awareness materials on breast cancer and other types of cancers. Close to 5,000 such masks were distributed along with The Hindu newspaper in select areas in Coimbatore city on Thursday. At the launch of the month-long activities, SRIOR director P. Guhan said breast cancer was by far the most common cancer in women both, in developing and developed countries, and it could be cured if detected in very early stages. He said SRIOR conducted free breast cancer screening for 2.88 lakh rural and urban women in six districts in the region under a project named ‘DEEPAM’. D. Lakshminarayanaswamy, Managing Trustee, SNR Sons Charitable Trust, C.V. Ramkumar, Chief Executive Officer, Poornima Raja, Head Operations, Sri Ramakrishna Hospital, hospital Dean P. Sukumaran and K. Karthikesh, Consultant Surgical Oncologist with SRIOR were present at the launch of the pink masks. SRIOR will offer free breast cancer screening for women at the institute throughout this month from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. For details, contact: 94428 44775, 0422 4389797.
02 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Elderly woman found murdered in city||A 62-year-old woman was found murdered with her throat slit in her house at Kempatty Colony in the city late on Wednesday. The police suspect that it could have been a case of murder for gain as the gold chain she wore was reported missing. S. Dhanalakshmi of fourth street at Kempatty Colony was found murdered when her son Manikandan returned home after work on Wednesday. The police said Dhanalakshmi’s husband had passed away and a daughter and two sons elder to Manikandan were married. She used to be alone at the house when Manikandan went to work. According to the police, Manikandan returned home around 8.30 p.m. on Wednesday and found his mother lying in a pool of blood. Her throat was slit apart from stab injuries on chest and abdomen. Scientific team of the police and the dog squad were employed at the scene of crime. As per the complaint lodged by Manikandan with the Bazaar Street police, a 10 sovereign gold chain worn by his mother was missing. A senior police officer said that two special teams were investigating the case. The police added that the woman owned several properties, including the three-storey house where more than 10 tenants were staying on two floors. The woman also had property disputes with family members, they added.
02 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Protests planned in front of NTC mills||The joint action council of textile mill trade unions of Coimbatore district has decided to organise protests in front of NTC mills on October 8, 9 and 10 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Members of all the trade unions will go on fast in front of the mills demanding re-opening of all the units and payment of full wages to the workers for the period the mills remained closed. On October 13, the trade union leaders will lead a demonstration in front of the NTC southern region office here. Outreach vehicle The Field Outreach Bureau organised COVID-19 awareness campaign through autorickshaws for the second day in Coimbatore city on Thursday. The vehicles went to educational institutions and public places and announcements were made through speakers on the precautionary measures that the public should take. Withdrawal of medical seats condemned Coimbatore MP PR Natarajan has condemned the withdrawal of seats reserved at the ESI medical and dental colleges for children of ESI insured workers. The MP said, in a press release, that the seats were filled based on merit and this provided an opportunity for children of the workers to pursue medical studies. According to a communication dated September 28, the seats filled under the IP quota at ESIC medical and dental colleges will now be filled by Directorate General of Health Services as All India quota seats.
02 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||FSSAI issues instructions to sweet manufacturers on milk-based products||The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has instructed manufacturers of milk-based sweets to follow good practices while making and selling the products. Violations found K. Tamilselvan, Designated Officer of FSSAI for Coimbatore district, said the instructions to sweet manufacturers on the making of milk-based products were issued after noticing various violations. The violations included non-compliance to packaging and label norms, use of colourants beyond the permissible limit, use of reheated oil, vanaspati and ghee among others. The food regulatory body also noticed that sweet manufacturers were lacking awareness and skill training in the making and sale of milk-based sweets, said the official. The FSSAI instructed the manufacturers to strictly follow label norms which mandated to mention details such as manufacturing date, expiry date or use by date. Dr. Tamilselvan added that the Food Safety Training and Certification programme of the FSSAI would improve the skills of workers who were into sweet manufacturing. He added that several programmes were planned in this direction in Coimbatore district.
02 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Grama sabha postponed||Coimbatore Collector K. Rajamani and Tiruppur Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan announced on Thursday that the grama sabha scheduled for Friday (October 2) is postponed due to the rising COVID-19 cases in the districts. The date will be announced later.
02 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested in land fraud case||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the Coimbatore City Police arrested a man in a land fraud case on Wednesday. The CCB officials said M. Balraj (58), who was working as a permanent mazdoor at Tamil Nadu Agriculture University in Coimbatore city, was arrested based on a complaint lodged by K. Venkatesh of Bharathiar Road. According to the CCB officials, the accused sold nearly 29 cents belonging to Venkatesh to a person named Anil using forged documents. Balraj was produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday. Four held with marijuana The Sulur police arrested four persons on charges of possessing 1.25 kg of marijuana here on Wednesday. S. Mugesh (18) from Panthalur in the Nilgiris, M. Karthikeyan (23) from Venkitapuram, B. Kishore (18) and S. Sudheesh (23) from Karaiyampalayam near Sulur were arrested. They were remanded in judicial custody, the police said.
02 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Onion prices to go up further||Onion prices in Coimbatore district is expected to increase in the coming days as damage is high in the new arrivals. M. Rajendran, president of Thyagi Kumaran market vegetable merchants association, said the wholesale price of onions coming from Pune was Rs. 45. There were arrivals from Karnataka. While the wholesale price of good quality onions was Rs. 32 a kg, there were supplies that were priced at Rs. 15 to Rs. 20 a kg too. But, these would not last long and the damage was high. Private traders in the north had started importing onions and these were expected to arrive in a couple of weeks. Yet, prices might increase in the coming days. Currently, there was no shortage in availability as supplies to Kerala from the markets in Coimbatore city had reduced. “If we used to supply 400 tonnes a day to Kerala, it has reduced to nearly 150 tonnes now,” he said. The problem was quality of the onions that arrived here. The wholesale price of small onion was Rs. 60 a kg. Supplies were mainly from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Prices of many vegetables had crossed Rs. 100 a kg, he pointed out.
02 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||479 tribal families in ATR get solar rooftop home lighting system||As many as 479 tribal families attached to 17 settlements in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) have got solar rooftop home lighting system. The Forest Department and Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) speeded up distribution of solar rooftop home lighting system after several media, including The Hindu, highlighted the plight of the tribal people. Sources with the district administration and ATR said that the Forest Department had recommended distribution of solar rooftop home lighting system for 479 tribal families. Tangedco accepted the recommendation and expedited the distribution process, they said.  V.S. Paramasivam, Coimbatore district president of Tamil Nadu Tribal Association, welcomed the distribution of the system. The beneficiaries were from settlements in Sarkarapthy, Chinnarpathy and two settlements at Nagaroothu of Pollachi forest range, Kozhikamuthi, Erumapparai and Koomatti of Ulandi range, Vellimud, Kavarkal, Nedungundra and Keezhpoonachi of Valparai range, Cinchona, Sankarankudi, Udumanparai, Palakinar, Kallarkudi and Paramankadavu of Manombolly range.
02 October 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||NLCIL decommissions South Asia’s first lignite power station||The boilers, turbines, and generators at the iconic Thermal Power Station-I, South Asia’s first and only lignite-fired power station of NLC India Ltd. (NLCIL), have fallen silent with the plant being retired from service on September 30. According to an NLCIL official, TPS-I was set up following the discovery of lignite deposits in Neyveli in Cuddalore district in 1962. The unit I was dedicated to the nation on August 5, 1962 by former President Dr. S. Radhakrishnan. “TPS-I with 600 MW, the epitome of Indo-Soviet collaboration had nine units, including six units of 50 MW each and three units of 100 MW each. The plant was set up between 1962 and 1970 in three stages with an initial capital of Rs. 77.81 crore,” he said. The unit I was synchronised with the grid on May 23, 1962 while the last unit was synchronised with the grid on February 21, 1970. Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) was the sole beneficiary of the plant, the official said. Consequent to the declaring of commercial operation of unit I of Neyveli New Thermal Power Station (NNTPS), NLCIL had scheduled to decommission the units of TPS-I in phases from March to September 2020. Accordingly, all the units of TPS-I have been decommissioned and the unit VI, the last one, was decommissioned at 4.04 p.m. on September 30. Since inception, the plant had generated a total of 1,85,390 million units and the units of TPS-I have clocked a total service of 32,66,140 hours. “TPS-I was the mother plant of NLCIL that showcased the productivity and efficiency of this power conglomerate,” the official added.
02 October 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||College teachers observe fast||Teachers of Kandaswami Naidu College for Women on Thursday observed a day’s fast on the campus to register their protest against the interim administrator of the Pachaiyappa’s Trust Board. The teachershave been protestingagainst the show-cause notice served on 152 faculty members of the six colleges run by the trust in Chennai, Kancheepuram and Cuddalore districts. A spokesperson of the Association of University Teachers (AUT) said the termination order issued to 102 teachers by the interim administrator P. Shanmugam was in violation of the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges Regulation Act, 1976. The State government should intervene and cancel the termination order, they said. The AUT accused Mr. Shanmugam of interfering in the activities of the colleges functioning under the Trust.
02 October 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||180 cases reported in Cuddalore||As many as 180 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Thursday. The total number of cases stands at 20,276. The toll touched 227. According to a Health Department bulletin, three persons died of the disease on Thursday. Sixty-two persons tested positive in Villupuram, taking the total to 11,836. Kallakurichi reported 50 cases.
02 October 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Finally, Siruvaatukadu tribals experience joy of ‘power’||The tribals of Siruvaatukadu village near Oddanchatram had a reason to celebrate on Thursday. For the first time, they saw the glow of electric lights in their colony.  The tribal elders were in an upbeat mood, when Forests Minister Dindigul C. Srinivasan inaugurated the facility in the presence of Collector M. Vijayalakshmi, District Forest Officer S. Vidya, TANGEDCO Superintending Engineer Vinodan and Project Director (District Rural Development Agency) K. Kavitha at a function here on Thursday. The Minister said the State government under the leadership of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had kept its promises, especially on the welfare aspects related to the poor and needy, over the last four years. By providing electricity, the basic need in people’s lives, the tribal population had joined the mainstream. The district administration would continue to render all possible assistance for the people at the hamlet, Mr. Srinivasan said. The tribal representatives recalled their representations to the then Collector, T.G. Vinay, who visited the villages and held coordination meetings with TANGEDCO, Forest and Rural Development officials in the hilly region. Dr. Vinay was instrumental in getting the required funds to the tune of Rs. 1.17 crore under the State Balanced Growth Fund (SBGF). He wrote to the State Planning Commission and the Special Area Development Program (SADP). As soon as the Chief Minister sanctioned the proposal, the district administration swung into action. A TANGEDCO team laid cables for four km in the reserve forest area and installed two transformers at Pethelpuram and Siruvaatukadu, officials said. The power connection would now facilitate them in getting potable water pumped from overhead tanks, the tribal villagers pointed out. Further they said the facility would help in getting power supply to interior habitations including Chettikaadu, Puliankajam, Maatupattikaadu, Thazhayuthukaadu. A total of 60 families with 220 population in Siruvaatukadu were so immersed in jubilation that they thanked the officials and the government with folded hands.
02 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Device designed to drive away wild animals||A research group at Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, Sathyamangalam, has designed a device “anti crop raiding acoustic gun” that helps in driving away wild elephants along forest areas at Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve. Developed by ‘Technology for Wildlife’, comprising faculties, Sanjoy Deb, R. Ramkumar, R. Saravana Kumar and Project Assistant M. Gunasekaran, the device that creates 350 decibels was operated successfully at Iggalur village in Talavadi recently. The fully automated system creates safe ear splitting sound which drives away elephants. “The pocket-friendly system is capable of driving away elephants and other crop-raiding wild animals”, said the members. The system can be operated by placing it on the ground with a remote and also by holding it with hands. “On seeing the animals, the farmer has to switch on the system that generates sound”, they added. Since human-elephant conflict has increased over the years, efforts are being taken to prevent loss of lives and also to reduce the conflicts. “The conflict management issue needs to be addressed from conservation, societal as well as from a technological point of view. Technology plays a role in generation of early elephant intrusion warning and driving away intruding elephants”, they added. The high intelligence level and adaptive learning capability of elephants makes it highly difficult to configure a long lasting drive away technology and hence human intervention-based traditional drive away techniques such as beating drums, making a loud human noise, bursting firecrackers are widely accepted and applied till date. Since ear splitting sound is the common tool to drive away elephants, technology is used here to create sound. “Creating a loud sound by humans to drive away elephants, particularly during night hours, is very difficult as well as risky”, they said and added that the new system is effective as farmers in the village had successfully chased away wild elephants.
02 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode Corporation expedites desilting of canals, waterways||The Erode Corporation has commenced desilting canals and waterways in the city ahead of the northeast monsoon that is expected to set in the first week of October. The Stoney Bridge area and Periyar Nagar area, located on the northern bank of Perumpallam Odai, has been identified as a highly vulnerable areas during monsoon. Apart from this low-lying areas, many spots were prone to flooding during the monsoon. Most of the drains, canals and other waterways were filled with plastics and other waste as it prevents movement of water resulting in logging. Hence, the civic body initiated works on war-footing to desilt the waterways and canals to ensure free flow of water during monsoon. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said that 25 conservancy workers were deployed in each of the four zones to carry out desilting. He said that work would be completed in a few days. “Most of the major drains in busy market areas, R.K.V. Road, Eswaran Kovil Street were desilted in May when shops were closed during COVID-19 pandemic”, he said and added that 1,000 lorry loads of desilted waste were so far taken to the compost yard at Vendipalayam.
02 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Gram sabha meetings postponed in Erode||The gram sabha meetings that was scheduled to be held in all the village panchayats on October 2 (Gandhi Jayanti) in the district, was postponed. Collector C. Kathiravan in a press release said that the date for conduct of the meeting would be announced later.
02 October 2020||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Gomukhi dam for irrigation||Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam on Thursday opened the sluice gates of the Gomukhi dam located at the foot of Kalvarayan Hills, to release water for irrigation. According to official sources, the present level in the dam is 44 feet as against its capacity of 46 feet. Around 110 cusecs would be released through two irrigation channels. While 60 cusecs of water would be released through the old canal, 50 cusecs would be released through the new one, catering to around 10,860 acres in 40 villages. Depending upon the water flow into the dam, the quantum of discharge would be stepped up. Collector Kiran Gurrala was present on the occasion.
02 October 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||Relaxation sought in timing||The Karaikal Chamber of Commerce has approached the Puducherry government seeking a few relaxations for the business community under Unlock Phase-V. In a representation to Puducherry Chief Minister, president of Karaikal Chamber of Commerce A. Muthaiya sought consent for opening of shops and establishments till 9 pm. Only by opening of cinema halls, hotels, guest houses and bars can the economy be revived and revenue generated for the government, Mr. Muthaiah said in the letter. With the festival season ahead, the relaxations were necessary in the interests of the general public as well, he said. Businesses in Karaikal town depend on the people living in a radius of 15 to 20 km for sustenance. Since Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai towns are distant, the residents depend on shopping establishments in Karaikal to make their festival purchases. Operation of bus services has enabled them to visit Karaikal town without difficulty. “At present, business in textile shops in particular has risen to the extent of 75% than usual. The extension of timing will take up the business transactions close to 90 %,” the letter said. Acknowledging that spurt in COVID positive cases over the last week was a cause for concern, Mr. Muthaiah sought to assure that the business establishments were quite serious about following the Standard Operating Procedures for safety. While stipulations for wearing of masks and sanitising hands were being followed with care, social distancing continues to be a grey area, he said.
02 October 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Fingerprint verification to avail ration under PDS begins in Krishnagiri dist.||The process of biometric finger print scanning to avail rations at the fair price shops under the Public Distribution System has commenced here on Thursday. Until now, essential commodities through the fair price shops is being distributed through SMART cards. From October 1, 2020, upon orders from the government, essential commodities will be distributed only upon biometric finger print scanning of the SMART card holders, said an administration release. This entails biometric scanning of finger prints of the smart card (family card) holder for availing essential commodities supplied through fair price shops. Aadhaar number According to an administration release, where the finger print scanning through biometric scanner is not being captured, a text message will be sent to the registered Aadhaar mobile number. If the mobile number does not work, then the number linked to the smart card will be used for sending a text message. Based on that, essential commodities shall be availed, the release said. There are over 1,094 fair price shops functioning as part of the public distribution system here in the district. Over 5 lakh cards Of these, 1,058 shops are operating under the cooperatives, and 36 outlets under the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation. The district has 5,08,482 family card holders.
02 October 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Recruitment on to fill up vacancies in noon meal centres||Women thronged panchayat union and municipal offices to apply for noon meal coordinators, cooks and noon meal assistants in the district. The applications have been called for the vacancies here in the district. The applicants for the post of noon-meal coordinators should have a minimum eligibility of 10th standard pass. The candidate should be above 21 years of age, and 40 years of age. Scheduled Tribe candidates should have a minimum eligibility of 8th standard pass. Applicants for the post of noon meal cooks should have an educational qualification of 8th standard pass, while scheduled tribe candidates should be able to read and write. Applicants for the post of noon meal assistants should be a minimum of 5th standard pass. The applicants for the post of noon meal assistants should be between 21 years and 40 years of age. The applicants should apply with passport size photograph, school transfer certificate and education certificate along with proof of residents along with the applications. The last date for submission of applications at the panchayat union and municipal offices is October 9.
02 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Picking of lots for school seats under RTE held||The picking of lots for admission of students under Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009, was held in 368 private matriculation and elementary schools in the district on Thursday where the number of applicants received was more than the quota allowed for each school. The RTE Act mandates private schools to set aside 25% of their entry-level seats for students from economically weaker sections of the society. According to officials from the School Education department, the district has 5,752 seats reserved under RTE Act in 159 matriculation and 284 nursery and primary schools. Through the online system of application that was held from August 27 to September 25, 5,953 applications were received for these seats. Out of them, 4,984 applications were deemed eligible. Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan said separate monitoring teams were formed to ensure that admissions were done as per stipulated procedures. A separate list of candidates for the waiting list were also selected. Though the process was largely complaint-free, a section of parents and activists raised their grievance of many schools rejecting applications of candidates whose residences were outside one-km radius from the school. P. Muthulakshmi, a resident of Bharathiyar Nagar near Pillar Salai, said a private school in Nagamalai Pudukottai had rejected her application as her residence was located around 1.5 km away from the school. R. Charles, a volunteer who assisted parents in the online application for RTE Act seats, said there were complaints across the district of schools rejecting applications due to the violation of the one-km norm. “But all these parents faced no issues when they filed the online applications they entered their address on Google Maps and chose schools that were near home. This contradiction of the one-km norm between the Google Maps and the management of schools is a major point of concern,” he said.
02 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC issues directions for swift disposal of patta applications||Taking serious note of thousands of cases arising over pendency of issuance of pattas, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday issued a series of directions for the authorities for swift disposal of the applications. Justice D. Krishnakumar observed that the failure on the part of the officials concerned without considering the applications for transfer of pattas made innocent people to run from pillar to post and seek justice before the court. Patta is a crucial documentary evidence for claiming ownership of the property. It can be used to establish the right of ownership in the court of law. In cases where lands were acquired by the government, compensation has been awarded based on pattas, the judge said. Further, the judge said that farmers who hold pattas could avail several subsidy schemes announced by the government. But, to obtain these pattas, lakhs of applications were pending before the authorities for months and sometimes years together. Issuing a series of directions, the court directed the pendency of applications - both involving sub-division and those not involving sub-division - shall be disposed of by the authorities within a period of six months on or before March 2021. The Commissioner of Land Administration shall strictly instruct all Collectors to conduct review meetings periodically on guidelines issued by the government. The Director of Survey and Settlement shall also conduct a review meeting. The Commissioner of Land Administration or the Collector shall assign Zonal Deputy Tahsildars exclusively for dealing with disposal of applications for granting online pattas. Any delay in disposal shall be communicated to the Collector. Based on the report submitted, the Collector shall call for an explanation for the delay from the official concerned and if the explanation is not found to be satisfactory, disciplinary action can be initiated for the delay. The Commissioner of Land Administration is directed to issue the instructions to all Collectors and revenue officials concerned to strictly comply with the order of the court and dispose of the applications within the specified time limit, the judge said.
02 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai breaches 16,000-mark||Madurai recorded 82 new COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 16,706. Eighty persons were discharged and there was no death. The number of active cases stands at 722. Virudhunagar recorded 31 cases taking the total number of cases till date to 14,446. However, with the discharge of 61 patients, the number of discharged patients is inching towards 14,000-mark and stands at 13,984. With the death toll in the district remaining at 211, the number of active cases stands at 251. Theni had 65 cases, taking the tally to 14,959. Dindigul had 41 cases with which the tally moved to 8,885. There were 45 discharges. Ramanathapuram district had nine fresh cases and the tally stood at 5,551. The hospitals had discharged 19 patients. Sivaganga district had 32 new cases, pushing the tally to 5,204, and 38 patients were discharged. The number of COVID-19 cases is on the rise again in Kanniyakumari district that added 118 new patients on Thursday. With this, the district’s tally rose to 12,825. The tally of Tirunelveli district increased to 12,809 with the addition of 86 fresh cases. In Thoothukudi, 75 cases were reported that jacked up the tally to 13,524 and the number of active cases to 548 while 113 patients were discharged. Tenkasi recorded the lowest number of fresh cases among the southern districts as it added 49 new patients to have the tally of 7,375 and 399 active cases. Even as 69 patients were discharged, the district lost one more patient to the viral infection to take the fatality to 139.
02 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bail petitions of policemen dismissed||Taking into account the materials available on record that said the suspended Sattankulam policemen - Murugan, Muthuraj and Thomas Francis - had played an active role in the custodial torture of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks leading to their deaths, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday dismissed their bail petitions. Justice V. Bharathidasan observed that the statements of the witnesses reveal that the father-son duo were asked to clean the blood that had oozed from their wounds and scattered on the floor of the police station, with their own vests. The torture continued throughout the night, the court said. The policemen also managed to obtain a certificate from the doctor as ‘both of them were fit for remand.’ Thereafter, they were produced before the Judicial Magistrate, Sattankulam, who remanded them in judicial custody. The postmortem reports also clearly reveal that both of them died due to complications of blunt injuries sustained by them. Two women Head Constables working in the same police station were eyewitnesses to the occurrence and one of them has given a statement before the Judicial Magistrate concerned, the judge said. Further, the court observed that the CBI investigation had revealed that the accused were involved in registering a false complaint against the traders and the suspended Inspector of Police Sridhar had instigated the accused policemen to teach them a lesson on ‘how to behave with police.’ The judge said that the materials available on record prima facie disclose that the petitioners have committed the offence. That apart, it is a case of custodial death, in which two innocent persons have lost their precious lives. Furthermore, the petitioners are police personnel and there is reasonable apprehension that witnesses can be influenced. Considering the circumstances involved and the gravity of the offence, the court said that it was not inclined to grant bail to the petitioners and dismissed their petitions.
02 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Blood donation camp inaugurated||Collector T.G. Vinay inaugurated a blood donation camp at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) here on Thursday, on the occasion of National Voluntary Blood Donation Day. With the GRH being a tertiary hospital, the blood requirement is usually higher at the hospital to attend to pregnant women, cancer patients and road accident cases, said Mr.Vinay. “There is still fear among the public regarding blood donation, which is completely unwarranted. More people must come forward to donate their blood as it is one of the greatest services to humankind,” he added. Mr. Vinay also felicitated blood donors and social workers who organised blood donation camps during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Collector and Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar donated blood during the event. Dean J. Sangumani said donors were asked to wear face masks, wash their hands and maintain adequate distance to ensure their safety while donating blood. Following relaxation of lockdown norms, there has been a steady increase in number of people donating blood, said M. Sintha, Head of the Department of Blood Transfusion at Madurai Medical College. “Blood donation must become a social movement and more people must come forward to donate blood,” she added.
02 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Aravind hospital model helped in eradicating cataract blindness’||The Aravind Eye Care System’s model helped in eradicating cataract blindness, said David F Chang, a renowned cataract surgeon and clinical professor at University of California, San Francisco, on Thursday. Oration He was delivering the Dr. G. Venkataswamy Memorial Oration on ‘Lessons learnt from the world’s greatest team of cataract surgeons’ on the birth anniversary of the founder of Aravind Eye Care Hospital during an online event. Dr. Chang cited various scientific publications which indicated that the Aravind Eye Care System’s model maximised surgeon productivity, had low complication rate and cost effective too. Comparing the phaco surgery with manual - Small Incision Cataract Surgery, he said there was no difference in rates of surgical complications when performed by experienced surgeons. R.D. Ravindran, Chairman of Arvind Eye Care System, delivered the welcome address. GOVEL Trust president G. Srinivasan and Arvind Medical Research Foundation president P.Namperumalsamy conferred Dr. G. Venkataswamy Memorial Award on Dr. Chang who received it in person from Geoff Tabin, a senior opthomologist from Stanford University. R. Venkatesh, Chief Medical Officer of Arvind Eye Hospital, Puducherry, proposed the vote of thanks.
02 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea in HC to maintain playground of college||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday sought a response from the authorities in a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to maintain the playground of Periyar EVR College in Tiruchi. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam was hearing the petition filed by R. Senthil Rajan, secretary of the Old Students Association of the autonomous college. Mr. Senthil Rajan said that social reformer Periyar had donated 9.65 acres of land and Rs. 3.5 lakh for starting the college and it was inaugurated by the then Chief Minister M. Bhaktavatsalam in 1965. The college excelled not only in education, but also in sports, Mr. Senthil Rajan said. He complained that the playground was being planned to be used for new construction to house offices, including that of the Controller of Examinations. He sought a direction to restrain the authorities from doing so and to maintain the playground. In his impleading petition, DMK Rajya Sabha MP Tiruchi Siva, an alumnus of the college, sought a direction to restrain the authorities from putting up construction on the playground. The court sought a report and adjourned the case.
02 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Woman kidnapped||The police are on the lookout for V. Sangeetha, 21, of Periya Oorsery, who was reportedly kidnapped by a seven-member gang in a car on Wednesday. The police said the woman, who was working in a hospital in Alanganallur, was returning home on a two-wheeler as a pillion rider with her younger brother. When they were about to enter their village, a gang intercepted the two-wheeler near a school at around 9 p.m. Within a few seconds, the woman was taken into a “white” car. “The boy was not injured as the gang had not used any force. The boy is not able to give any specific information about the kidnappers and the car,” Deputy Superintendent of Police (Samayanallur) Anantha Arokkiya Raj said. The woman had told her colleagues that Wednesday was her last working day at the hospital where she was a lab technician. She had been engaged to one of her relatives few days back. The Alanganallur police have registered a case of kidnap and for wrongful restraint.
02 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Thursday stood at 130.60 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 864 cusecs and a discharge of 1,400 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 62.01 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,127 cusecs and a discharge of 2,022 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,217 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Thursday was (in mm): Melur 27.5, Andipatti 22.4, Kallandhiri 22, Mettupatti 12, Chittampatti 3, Periyar dam 2 and Thekkadi 0.8.
02 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Inspector suspended||Deputy Inspector General of Police (Madurai Range) S. Rajendiran on Wednesday ordered suspension of Parameswari, an Inspector in Madurai rural district, for alleged connivance with those involved in sand smuggling. Parameswari, who was Inspector of Police, Tirumangalam Town, was asked to report to the District Police Office for enquiry in the last three days, a source said.
02 October 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Kerala couple picked up||The police have picked up a couple from Kerala for allegedly kidnapping a two-and-a-half year-old girl from Bengaluru. Sources said the couple, along with their five-year-old son, was picked up at Kaliyakkavilai bus stand on Wednesday as the girl was crying inconsolably. The police found the couple, identified as John and Sheeba from Thiruvananthapuram, had abducted the girl at Bengaluru 15 days ago and were on their way after staying in Thiruvananthapuram for 10 days. After rescuing the girl and sending it to a home in Nagercoil, the police informed Superintendent of Police Badri Narayanan, who contacted Bengaluru police to identify the girl’s parents. The Bengaluru police informed Mr. Badri Narayanan that they had registered a complaint in this connection based on a complaint from the girl’s mother 15 days ago.
02 October 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Man held for rape||A 28-year-old man has been arrested on the charge of raping a married woman in the district a few days ago. The Perambalur All Women Police arrested the accused J. Arun on Wednesday on a complaint lodged by the victim who was a labourer. The 27-year old victim has three children. Police said the woman knew the accused and sought some financial assistance from him. The accused had taken the woman to a desolate spot and committed the crime. A case under IPC section 376 (rape) has been booked against the accused .
02 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Farming unaffected by lockdown: Minister||Unlike the industrial sector and others, agricultural activity did not suffer much during the lockdown restrictions in the Union Territory. Interventions by the Agriculture Department led to procurement of paddy by the Food Corporation of India (FCI), movement of harvested sugarcane to crushing mills in Tamil Nadu and availability of locally-produced vegetables at the Uzhavar Sandhai Regulated Market Yards in the Puducherry and Karaikal regions. The FCI procured 3,994 quintals of paddy from the procurement regions of Karaikal Market Committee, Nedungadu, Thennangudi, Kunichampattu, Madagadipet, Kannikoil and Kariampathur in Puducherry and Karaikal regions during the lockdown period. Around 56,340 tonnes of sugarcane were harvested in the Puducherry region and transported to crushing units in the neighbouring districts of Tamil Nadu. The department issued 1,202 e-passes for transportation of agricultural produce from both regions to other places during the lockdown, according to data available with the department. One of the biggest achievements was the constant flow of locally-grown vegetables to the yards of Uzhavar Sandhais. Around 15 to 20 tonnes of vegetables were sold in the six yards in Puducherry alone, data revealed. “Farming activity did not see much of an impact when compared to the industrial or commercial sectors. Apart from procurement of paddy by the FCI, market committees and traders, the department was able to actively intervene in the form of helping farmers to procure seeds and fertilisers and to transplant paddy grown on 2,723 hectares during the lockdown,” Minister for Agriculture R. Kamalakannan told The Hindu.   Slow turnaround In fact, he said, the agriculture sector had witnessed a slow turnaround during the last few years in the Union Territory. He said the index of yield recorded an increase from 80.45 during 2007-08 to 129.52 in 2018-19. Also, the index of agriculture production rose from 79.75 to 86.1 during the same time. The index of productivity per hectare rose from 82.84 to 119.26 during the period, the Minister said. The department was facilitating the supply of farm equipment under various government-sponsored programmes and settling claims for yield losses so that farmers could sustain their activity, he added.
02 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Aided school teachers continue their protest||As part of the ongoing agitation demanding pending salary, teachers of the government-aided schools on Thursday staged a protest in front of the Education Department. Around 400 teachers belonging to 35 government-aided schools and pensioners have been protesting for several months, urging the government to act on their demands. They were yet to receive salary and pension for the last 10 months due to differences of opinion between the Lt. Governor and the elected government on procedures related to non-adherance of rules by some of the aided-schools. Director of School Education P.T. Rudra Goud told The Hindu that the Department on Thursday put up yet another file for early disbursement of salary. “The government will have to decide on the payment of salary,” he said.
02 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry’s tally crosses 28,000||Puducherry’s COVID-19 case tally crossed 28,000, as 489 more persons tested positive for the infection on Thursday, even as four more fatalities took the Union Territory’s toll to 525. All deaths were recorded in the capital, and included that of former Director of Medical Services D. Carounanidy. The deceased, including a woman, had co-morbidities and were in the 53-83 age group. The case fatality rate stood at 1.87% and recovery rate at 80.31%. “A further relaxation in restrictions by the Government of India makes it all the more imperative that people wear masks and comply with physical distancing norms,” Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said. He has also asked the Education Department to supply a pair of masks to each government school student. The new cases were reported after testing 5,153 samples, indicating a positivity rate of 9.48%. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said a key challenge going forward would be resource replacement, especially with teachers returning to schools, and creating reserve manpower.
02 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Panel inspects medical college construction works||A three-member team on Thursday conducted inspection at the upcoming Ramanathapuram Government Medical College and Hospital. The team comprising Dr. Shantaram, Dr. Rajavel and Dr. Nirmal Kumar visited the college for on-the-spot inspection as per the requirements of Dr. MGR Medical University, government hospital Dean Alli told reporters. The committee, which represented Dr. MGR Medical University, would submit its report to the university authorities for grant of affiliation to the new medical college. Based on the affiliation, the State government would approach the National Medical Council for approval after which admissions to the medical college would begin. It was a mandatory procedure to be followed as per university guidelines, she said. The committee members expressed satisfaction over the pace at which the civil works were progressing as per schedule. There were no fund constraints and workers had been advised to follow safety norms, she added. The Chief Minister laid the foundation for the college in the presence of Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan a few months ago after the Centre gave its approval for establishing 11 medical colleges in Tamil Nadu. The government earmarked Rs. 345 crore for the project, which was coming up near the Collectorate complex. In all probability, the government might start admitting students in the medical college next year, a district official said. By then a major portion of the infrastructure would be ready. The recruitment of faculty for various departments and allocation of laboratories and classrooms would be completed simultaneously, he added.
02 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Four accomplices of gold smuggler held||The police arrested four accomplice of a gold smuggler on charges of kidnap, rioting, wrongful confinement and criminal intimidation here on Thursday. Following a complaint from Rahman Khan, 38, of Pudukottai, the police registered a case against K. Sivakumar, 42, of Nagapattinam district and arrested four of his accomplices identified as Mohamed Azarudeen, 30, Ismail Shabeer, 30, Yasin, 30, of Ramanathapuram and Marudhupandi, 49, of Pudukottai. Devipattinam police registered cases against them under IPC Sections 147, 294b, 342, 323, 365 and 506 (2). Initial probe showed that Rahman and Sivakumar were involved in smuggling gold from Sri Lanka. On September 24, Sivakumar asked Rahman to collect a consignment from his ‘contact’ in the island nation. Following this, Rahman and his men set off into the sea and received the consignment and handed it over to Sivakumar. However, it was found to be ‘adulterated’. Annoyed by this, Sivakumar and his accomplice kidnapped Rahman and his men identified as Ravuthar Kani, 36, and Ayub Khan, 33, in a car and threatened them with dire consequences. They were illegally confined in a place and assaulted, the complaint stated. An internal feud between two persons, who were allegedly engaged in smuggling gold from Sri Lanka, snowballed into kidnap and criminal intimidation. Police were unaware of the exact quantity of gold smuggled, but it was suspected that close to six to seven kg that was sent to Sivakumar by his contact person in Sri Lanka, who was identified as Dinesh. A senior officer, who quizzed Sivakumar, said they were likely to inform the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence and Customs officials for further investigation on the complaint.
02 October 2020||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Recovered cellphones handed over to owners||The Ranipet police recovered and handed over 50 missing phones, worth over Rs. 6.5 lakh to its respective owners in Ranipet district on Thursday. According to the police, all these phones were reported missing in January 2020. “These phones are not stolen but those that people had lost while travelling in buses or bikes," said A. Saravanan, sub-inspector, cyber team. Once the person gives a complaint, the cyber team keeps tracking the phone using the International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI)number. “We get an alert if someone inserts a SIM Card and starts using it. Most often people who find the abandoned phones sell them for a cheap price,” he said. A. Myilvaganan, SP, Ranipet, handed over the phones to their owners.
02 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Forest dept. to distribute over nine lakh saplings to farmers||The Salem circle under Forest department has readied over nine lakh seedlings for distribution to farmers and to encourage tree cultivation on private lands. The Salem circle including the Salem, Namakkal and Social forestry divisions under the Tamil Nadu Biodiversity Conservation and Greening Project has been readied for tree cultivation. According to forest department officials, about 2.72 lakh seedlings have been readied in Salem division, around 4 lakh seedlings by Social Forestry division and close to three lakh seedlings have been readied by Namakkal division here. A. Periasamy, Conservator of Forests, Salem Circle said, “the seedlings have been readied and distribution to farmers have begun. The scheme has been primarily launched to support small and micro farmers here by encouraging tree cultivation of varieties desired by them. The seedlings will be given freely to the farmers. Varieties like jack fruit, cashew, silver oaks would be distributed to farmers in hilly terrains. In plains, varieties like neem, teak, mahogany, red sanders and other fruit varieties are available. There is significant demand for teak variety.” According to District Forest Officer R. Murugan 25,000 seedlings are available at each of the nurseries under eight forest ranges and 72,000 seedlings have been readied at the Forest extension centre in Siddhar Kovil. According to forest department officials, farmers can approach respective range officers with their land and other documents and procure the seedlings. Range officers would offer necessary inputs for farmers on maintaining these seedlings, officials said.
02 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘Scholarships meant for minority students fully utilised in Tamil Nadu’||The State Minorities Commission that visited Salem recently reviewed the implementation of various minority welfare schemes and also distributed welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 10.10 lakh to 78 beneficiaries. Commission Chairman T. John Mahendran urged the officials to ensure employment for members from minority community according to government’s reservation norms. He advised Cooperative banks to support the community members through loans under various schemes as most members are into small scale businesses and have been severely affected due to the COVID-19 crisis. Mr. Mahendran requested representatives of the minority organisations to make their members aware of the welfare schemes available. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Mahendran said, “Tamil Nadu is a State where the scholarship amount meant for students from minority communities has been fully utilised and we have requested for additional funds from the Centre and State.” He added that in 2019-20 financial year under Tamil Nadu Minorities Economic Development Corporation, loans to the tune of Rs. 1.23 crore were provided to 245 beneficiaries. In the current year, Rs. 63.22 lakh has been provided as loans to 86 beneficiaries. Representatives from Jain, Christian and Muslim communities submitted petitions to the Commission.
02 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Flight services from Salem airport resume||Following relaxations in lockdown restrictions in State, flight operators here has resumed regular flight operations from the Salem airport. According to sources in Trujet, flights would be operated between Salem and Chennai. The flight would depart from Chennai at 7.25 a.m. and arrive at Salem airport at 8.25 a.m. The flight would depart to Chennai from here at 8.45 a.m. and expected to arrive at Chennai by 9.45 a.m. According to flight operators, on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday from Chennai, the flight would further connect to Cuddapah, Vijayawada, Hyderabad. On Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday flight would be connecting to Mysore and Belgaum.
02 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Native fish species released into Cauvery||The Fisheries Department recently released one lakh fish fingerlings of native varieties into Cauvery. According to officials, as part of replenishing population of native species, the Department released four lakh fish fingerlings of varieties like Kendai and Kalpasu into Cauvery.
02 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Periyar University professor honoured||Periyar University honoured R. Balagurunathan, a professor from Microbiology department, for having received Tamil Nadu Scientist Award in environment science category for 2018. According to release, Mr. Balagurunathan has published 132 research papers and has received funds to the tune of Rs. 1.67 crore from various organisations under Centre for conducting researches here. University Vice-Chancellor P. Kolandaivel and Registrar T. Thangavel honoured him for the achievement.
02 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ grievances meet held online||The district administration on Wednesday conducted farmers’ grievance meet via online. According to a release, District Collector S.A. Raman, K. Ganeshan, Joint Director, Agriculture, R. Dhivakar, District Revenue Officer, and other senior officials took part in the grievance meet. According to release, farmers and officials connected through Google Meet from the 20 Panchayat Union offices and officials heard their grievances.
02 October 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Sivaganga district gears up for northeast monsoon||Ahead of the northeast monsoon, the district administration held a meeting here on Wednesday and directed all department heads to be on the alert and stressed the need to work swiftly and with coordination so that there was no loss of lives. Presiding over the meeting, Collector J. Jayakanthan said officials of Revenue, PWD and Rural Development departments had been told to monitor rainfall on a daily basis. From past experience, the departments had identified 84 locations as “low-lying" or “critical” areas. Similarly, TANGEDCO and Fire and Rescue Services departments were also told to conduct campaigns in urban and rural pockets about the need to stay safe during rain and not to venture out. In case of emergency, the officials suggested snapping of power supply until rescue operations were over. For instance, in the event of a tree fall leading to collapse of electric poles, it would be ideal to suspend power supply until restoration work was completed. Officials of Disaster Management Cell said public could contact 1077 and, on receipt of the call, it would be shared with the officers concerned. The emergency ambulance service in the district was also told to be on alert. The district, which received 904 mm as annual average rainfall, had so far recorded about 400 mm rainfall. In the next 100 days, it would get the balance during the northeast monsoon. The officials also said that first respondents, who had been identified, were given training at taluk levels. The mobile numbers of the volunteers would be shared with the officers concerned at block levels. Highways department officials were told to be prepared to face road damage and breaches from tank and carry out their operations in a smooth manner. They responded that sand bags were kept as a standby at vantage locations. An official said that after 2005, there had been no major issues in the district during the NE monsoon as problems such as inundation were addressed over the years. The Vaigai stretch up to Tirupuvanam side would be closely monitored as any heavy discharge into the river could lead to panic among residents. The District Supply Officials said essential commodities were stocked adequately and could be moved to any point in the district at the earliest given time. Rescue teams were told to share about the shelters and community centres with the revenue and police teams.
02 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Underground drainage scheme to be commissioned at long last||The drainage project, initiated in 2007, with the objective of providing this facility to houses in the areas under the then Thoothukudi Municipality, is all set to be commissioned before this month-end, much to the relief of residents. Even before it was upgraded into a Corporation, the underground drainage works were started in Thoothukudi in 2007 by the TWAD Board on an outlay of Rs. 95 crore. However, the works got dragged all these years owing to poor planning. Since groundwater table in this coastal town is closer to the surface, water would collect in pits dug for laying pipes and hampered the work for months. The situation would become worse whenever it rained in the project area. While constantly pumping out the water getting collected in the pits, the pipes had to be laid. After the Corporation exerted pressure on the TWAD Board, the work has reached the final stage and the trial run is going on. The project will benefit residents of 25,000 houses in 30 wards. Pipes have been laid for about 112.35 km with 4,149 manholes and two pumping stations – one behind the medicines godown on Tiruchendur Road and the primary pumping station at Karikkalam Colony on Beach Road. After sewage collected from the houses in 13 work zones, it will be pumped by the primary pumping station to the pond created 8 km away between Ayyanarpuram and Tharuvaikulam on East Coast Road. Since a 28 Million Litres a Day sewage treatment plant has been set up at this place on an outlay of Rs. 35.84 crore, the sewerage water will be treated and used for gardening. “Now, the manholes are being opened to clear the blocks, if any, during the trial run. The Corporation has allocated Rs. 12 crore for connecting the sewerage pipes from the houses to the underground drainage system. The final trial is going on in the primary pumping station at Karikkalam Colony,” said Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan. The Corporation has also forwarded a proposal to the government to extend the scheme to 10 more wards on an outlay of Rs. 143.22 crore for which the administrative sanction is expected. “Since we’ve annexed a few village panchayats, we’ve prepared another plan on an outlay of Rs. 600 crore to cover the entire Corporation area under the underground drainage scheme. Work on this integrated will start once the government sanctions the project,” Mr. Jayaseelan said.
02 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||ASI’s Tiruchi Circle comes into being||A new administrative circle of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), with jurisdiction over 20 central and southern districts of the State, came into existence in Tiruchi on Thursday. The Tiruchi Circle, created on bifurcation of the ASI’s Chennai Circle, will have 162 monuments and sites under its control. It was one of the seven new circles of the ASI created across the country to improve management of monuments by the Union Ministry of Culture. The erstwhile office of the Tiruchi Sub-Circle, situated right behind the Mainguard Gate, a heritage monument, would function as the Circle office temporarily. T.Arun Raj, who took charge as the first Superintending Archaeologist of the circle, said a more spacious building for the circle would be identified soon in consultation with the district administration. Speaking to The Hindu , Dr.Raj said the circle would get more officers, including technical staff, in the near future in proportion to the number of monuments and sites under its control. “While preserving world heritage monuments such as the Brihadeesvara temples at Thanjavur will be the priority, importance will also given to protect lesser known monuments, especially in Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Tirunelveli districts. Loose sculptures would be strengthened, fenced and documented,” he said. Dr. Raj said that he would soon write to the Collectors and police officers in the districts under his jurisdiction on the importance of protecting heritage structures and preventing encroachments. He would strive to revive district-level heritage committees, with heritage enthusiasts and district officials as members, to take up initiatives to safeguard unprotected monuments. He also plans to develop an app wherein local residents can upload pictures of sculptures and idols of lesser known sites and temples so that they serve as a repository of digital records. It could help prevent theft of idols and in easy identification/tracing in case of thefts. Earlier, speaking at a brief ceremony after taking charge, Dr. Raj underlined the need to protect monuments and heritage structures by involving local communities. “We will try to raise awareness on the importance of protecting heritage structures and sites through various programmes,” he said. The scope for roping in local industries in conservation efforts under public-private partnership mode would also be explored,he added. S. Rajavelu, Adjunct Faculty, Department of History, Alagappa University, said the creation of the new circle was a dream come true as the Chola belt has a large number of temples and heritage sites, many of which were not properly maintained. There is also scope for carrying out excavations along the Cauvery banks, he said. Arockiasamy Xavier, Principal, St. Joseph’s College, said the institution would soon sign MoUs to work in close coordination with the ASI. Responding to a suggestion from A. Manikandan, a heritage enthusiast from Pudukottai, Dr.Raj agreed to explore the feasibility of organising heritage tours in the region. V. P. Yathees Kumar and V. Muthukumar, Assistant Archaeologists, S. Sankar, Conservation Assistant, ASI, and P. Vasudevan, former Assistant Superintending Engineer, ASI, also spoke.
02 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mobile ration shops become operational||Mobile ration shops aimed at distributing commodities at the doorsteps of ration cardholders became operational on Thursday. With sacks of rice, dhal and sachets of edible oil, and sales personnel to man them, the mobile vans spanned out to distribute the commodities to cardholders. Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan and Backward Classes and Minority Welfare Minister S. Valarmathi flagged off the mobile vans at a function held at Thiruvanaikoil on Thursday. Mr. Natarajan said 105 mobile ration shops have been allotted to Tiruchi district and they would distribute the commodities on select dates to cardholders. This would enable people to buy ration items at their doorsteps and would save time and energy for the cardholders. He said that the mobile shops would serve 15,444 cardholders as of now. More mobile ration shops would be opened in future, he indicated. The Ministers also inaugurated distribution of fortified rice to the family cardholders in the district on Thursday. Mr. Natarajan said that the rice mixed with fortified rice had been moved to all 1244 ration shops in the district. There were about 8 lakh ration cards in the district. Each cardholder could get 20 kg of rice a month. The content of the fortified rice would be 250 grams for every 20 kg. The pilot project was aimed at combating malnutrition among the people. The government would bear the expenditure for procuring, processing and transporting the fortified rice. Earlier, the Ministers inaugurated the new ration shops constructed at Periyar Nagar and on Nelson Road near Srimad Andavan College. Collector S. Sivarasu and senior officials of various departments participated in the functions. Perambalur In Perambalur district, Collector V. Santha inaugurated 20 mobile ration shops on Thursday. She said that the mobile shops would serve about 3,502 family card holders covering areas such as Thuraimanagalam, Arumbavur, Puduviralipatti, Melamathur, Agaramsigur, Thondamandurai, Poolambadi, V. Kalathur, Esanai, D. Keeranur, Thaenur, Irur, Arasalur, Adaikkampatti and Puduvettakudi.
02 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Faulty equipment charge: CBI probe sought||Referring to media reports stating that faulty equipment supplied by ordnance factories has caused deaths of a sizeable number of Indian Army personnel, unions of defence civilian employees have approached the President of India seeking a CBI probe into leakage of information in violation of Official Secrets Act 1923 and Army Rules 1954. In a petition addressed to the President and the Union Defence Minister, the All India Defence Employees’ Federation, Indian National Defence Workers’ Federation and Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh have expressed anguish over what they described as the ‘systematic campaign unleashed by vested interests on ordnance factories and its employees to deliberately tarnish their image after the Central Government's decision to corporatise the defence production units’. “We are afraid that this will affect national security and also the faith and the reliability of Indian Armed Forces on the arms and ammunitions manufactured and supplied by the Indian Ordnance Factories,” C. Srikumar, general secretary, AIDEF, said. The arms and ammunitions are inspected and certified by representatives of the Army at all stages of production, he said and added that never such complaints have risen. “All types of ammunitions have got shelf life. The inquiry must be done to know whether these ammunitions had crossed their shelf life and if accountability had been fixed on erring officials of Ordnance Factory Board, Directorate General of Quality Assurance and Army,” the petition said. On its part, the OFB has termed the media reports on faulty equipment as ‘alarmist and defamatory’. In a press release, Gagan Chaturvedi, Deputy Director General - Corporate Communication Division, OFB, said that out of the total number of accidents where defect investigation has been completed, only 2% of the cases where casualties had been reported were attributable to the OFB.
02 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Concern over sharp rise in prices of vegetables||A sharp rise in prices of vegetables has caused concern among consumers in Tiruchi. The Tiruchi market usually sees heavy arrival of vegetables mainly from hill areas and the districts situated along the Western Ghats in the State including Dindigul, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode and Ooty. Since, people in general avoid conducting marriages in the Tamil month of Puratasi, the sale of vegetables is also limited. With educational institutions being closed for more than six months, there were no bulk purchase of vegetables for hostels too. However, prices of most vegetables, except for tomatoes, have gone up in the market. A kg of shallots was being sold at Rs. 80 in the retail grocery stores on Thursday, while it was being sold at Rs. 60 -70 a kg in the temporary vegetable markets and the Uzhavar Sandhai at Anna Nagar. Carrot and beans were quoted at Rs. 70 and Rs. 60 a kg, respectively. Ladies fingers, beetroot, big onion and ‘nookal’ were being sold at Rs. 40 a kg. A bunch of coriander leaves was selling at Rs. 25. “Vegetable prices are abnormally high in the wholesale market in Tiruchi. We sell small onions at Rs. 80 a kg with a margin of Rs. 10 a kg. Customers, who are well versed with the price dynamics of vegetables in different seasons question us for high cost of vegetables,” says Manikandan, a grocery trader in Cantonment. Enquiries with the Gandhi market traders, who operate from G. Corner and temporary markets after the closure of Gandhi market in view of the spread of COVID-19, revealed that the high rates were limited only to markets in Tiruchi. There was no problem on the supply side as yield of vegetables was near normal in production centres. Logistic issues in storing vegetables at the temporary markets was said to have prevented traders to receive the actual load from the supply side. “We do not have space to store vegetables at the temporary markets. Many traders suffered huge loss as the unsold stock kept in open places got drenched in the recent rain and subsequently rotten. Hence, the traders have restricted the arrival, thereby causing spurt in prices of vegetables in the current month,” says M. K. Kamalakannan, a trader in Tiruchi.
02 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees slight rise in positive cases||A total of 689 patients tested positive for COVID-19 in the central districts on Thursday, marking a slight increase over Wednesday's tally of 656. Seven deaths- three in Tiruchi, two in Thanjavur, and one each in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam -- were reported in the region as per the bulletin issued by the State Health Department. The three dead in Tiruchi were men aged 65, 56 and 38-years-old. The 38-year-old man suffered from diabetic ketoacidosis, acute kidney injury and pulmonary tuberculosis. In Thanjavur, two men aged 55 and 65 both suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome succumbed to the infection. A 50-year-old man from Tiruvarur and an 82-year-old woman from Nagapattinam, both suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome died of the viral infection. Thanjavur continued to record the highest number of COVID-19 cases among the central districts with 232 fresh cases. Among the 232 were 49 beneficiaries of the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, a staff nurse and a hospital worker of the Alathur primary healthcare centre and employees of a private hospital. Tiruvarur recorded 123 new cases for the viral infection, while Pudukottai recorded 87 new cases. Patients in both districts were local contacts with no contact or travel history and patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses. In Tiruchi, 89 new COVID-19 cases were recorded, a drop since Wednesday’s 97. Among the patients who tested positive were primary contacts and patients with existing respiratory illnesses. Meanwhile, 18 patients from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and 14 from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. A total of 54 new cases were reported in Nagapattinam, many of who were primary contacts, inter-district travellers and patients with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses and Influenza-Like Illnesses. In Karur, 47 patients, including residents from Puliyur, Thanthonrimalai and Vengamedu tested positive for the viral infection. Ariyalur recorded 34 new cases for COVID-19 among which 18 hailed from Ariyalur block, six from Thirumanur, four from Sendurai, one from T. Palur, two from Andimadam, three from Jayankondam blocks. Meanwhile, 518 new throat swabs have been lifted from primary contacts and patients with symptoms of COVID-19. Of the 23 who tested positive in Perambalur, nine from Perambalur block, six from Veppanthattai, five from Veppur and three from Alathur blocks.
02 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Operations in five shops at railway workshop suspended||Operations in five shops functioning inside the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here have been suspended until further orders consequent to the death of a Junior Engineer who dies after falling from an electric post inside the workshop premises last month. Activities at the Tool Room Shop, Boiler Shop, Heavy Electrical Repair Shop, Coil Manufacturing Shop and Engine Block Reclamation shop were suspended on Thursday following a recent order from the Joint Director of Industrial Safety and Health, Tiruchi, in the wake of the accidental death of the junior engineer. Following the death of the Junior Engineer P. Vairam who was attached to the Power House, the authorities intimated the matter to the Industrial Safety and Health department as the workshop was a factory. Workshop authorities said industry officials inspected the workshop for two days in the wake of the accidental death following which the Joint Director of Industrial Safety and Health, Tiruchi, issued orders prohibiting production in the five shops. The authorities said consequent to the order the operation in the five shops have been suspended until further orders. The officials during the course of their inspection have suggested some measures to be taken which would be carried out at the workshop and a compliance report submitted. Alternate arrangements and activities would be made for the employees of the five shops until then. The over 80-year-old Golden Rock Railway Workshop is engaged in periodic overhaul of broad gauge diesel locomotives and passenger coaches besides overhauling locomotives being operated in the hilly Nilgiri Mountain Railway and manufacture of container wagons.
02 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rama Gopalan laid to rest||The body of Hindu Munnani founder Rama Gopalan was laid to rest at the ‘Bharathiya Panpattu Payirchi Kalloori’ run by the organisation at Seerathoppu on the outskirts of Tiruchi on Thursday. The 94-year-old leader, who was hailed as ‘Veera Thuravi’ by his supporters, had tested positive for COVID-19 and died in a private hospital in Chennai on Wednesday. Homage paid His body was brought to Tiruchi on Thursday morning. Senior BJP leaders H. Raja, Pon Radhakrishnan and ‘Karuppu’ Muruganandhan, Hindu Munnani State president Kadeswara Subramaniam and general public were among those who paid homage to the Hindu Munnani founder. Thereafter he was laid to rest within the premises of the institution. A heavy posse of police personnel were deployed in and around Seerathoppu with the Inspector General of Police, Central Zone H.M. Jayaram, supervising the security arrangements.
02 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Aged woman dies in wall collapse||An 80-year-old woman died in a wall collapse at Serukudi Madhanam village in Mayiladuthurai district on Thursday night. Police identified the deceased as G. Lakshmi. The woman had been staying with her daughter S. Kasthuri at Serukudi Madhanam. The wall of the thatched house in which the aged woman was staying collapsed apparently due to rain and fell on her. Lakshmi died on the way to Sirkazhi Government hospital.
02 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Railway man goes missing||An Assistant Loco Pilot hailing from Bihar and serving in Tiruchi Railway Division has been reported missing for the past few days. Police gave the name of the missing person as A. Akash Kumar (29) who was staying with his wife at Mannarpuram area. The Assistant Loco Pilot's 21-year-old wife preferred a complaint with the Cantonment Police on Thursday stating that her husband who left for duty on September 25 did not return home thereafter. Police sources said there was a domestic quarrel between the couple which may have prompted the railway man to leave his home.
02 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Solar power plant commissioned at IIM-Tiruchi||A 2 mega watt solar power plant was commissioned in the Indian Institute of Management-Tiruchi campus on Thursday. The project was sponsored by the Rural Electrification Corporation Limited (RECL) as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility initiative and had provided Rs. 14.20 crore for the project. The plant was inaugurated on a virtual platform by Sanjeev Kumar Gupta, Chairman and Managing Director, Rural Electrification Corporation Limited, with Ajoy Choudhury, Director (Finance), Rural Electrification Corporation Limited, and Srinivas Shroff Nagesha Rao, CEO, REC Foundation, and Bhimaraya Metri, Director, IIM, Tiruchi, participating in the event. Dr. Metri, said IIM-Tiruchi was the first among 20 IIMs to have received such a funding from Rural Electrification Corporation Limited (RECL) and shared his vision for an entire green campus.
02 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||11 more projects cleared||The 11th meeting of Board of Directors of Tirunelveli Smart City Limited has cleared 11 more projects to be implemented here on an outlay of Rs. 89.59 crore. The meeting, chaired recently by its Chairman and Commissioner for Municipal Administration K. Bhaskaran, cleared the proposals including installation of two solar power plants with the cumulative capacity of 5 MW. One of the major proposals cleared was deepening and beautification of NGO Colony Periyakulam, which was desilted by locals with a contribution of Rs. 12 lakh a year ago on an outlay of Rs. 6.70 crore, and construction of washermen ghat at Vannarpet and Karuppanthurai at a cost of Rs. 4.20 crore. 31 spots identified “We have identified 31 spots in the Palayamkottai and Melapalayam zones for erecting modern bus shelters, where digital boards providing information to commuters about buses passing through these points, destinations, timing, distance, duration of travel would be fitted. So it will be of great help for newcomers to the city. We’ve earmarked Rs. 4.98 crore for the work,” said V. Narayanan Nair, Chief Executive Officer, Tirunelveli Smart City Limited. Besides, these two zones will get glowing traffic signals on an outlay of Rs. 4.35 crore. As there is a plan to create a techno-park, similar to a mini science centre, at the entrance of Vaeinthaankulam new bus stand to teach scientific principles to children, the latest meeting has allotted Rs. 5.60 crore more to add interesting scientific working models in it. Moreover, Rs. 11.50 crore would be spent for creating passenger-friendly amenities at the entrance of the bus terminus. There is also a plan to install 2 solar power plants with a capacity of 3 MW and 2 MW at Ramaiyanpatti garbage dump yard at a cost of Rs. 25 crore as the civic body has got unused land in adequate extent in the area. As the power to be generated by these solar power plants would meet requirements of the civic body, these plants will ensure huge savings for the corporation. Another Rs. 5.20 crore would be spent to buy specialized vehicles and machineries for the corporation’s solid waste management programme. Wards 18, 19 and 20 would get 7 parks at a cost of Rs. 9.76 crore as per the clearance accorded by the board. While admitting that the lockdown did have adverse impact on projects being implemented, Dr. Bhaskaran said officials concerned, led by Dr. Narayanan Nair and Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan, should expedite the ongoing works in the wake of the lockdown relaxation. Though Tirunelveli Smart City Limited had been ranked second in Tamil Nadu, the early completion of works and its quality would elevate it to enviable ranking in the all-India-level ranking from its present 56th position, Dr. Bhaskaran said. Director and Executive Engineer of the Corporation L.K. Bhaskar also participated in the meeting.
02 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested for murder||The police have arrested four persons for allegedly murdering their friend. They found the body of S. Sathish Kumar, 25, of Nallur near Alangulam at Therkku Kulam near Naduvaikurichi under Palayamkottai Taluk police station limits on Thursday. He was found beaten to death. Satish Kumar, who was working with a private firm in Mumbai, came to his native place following the lockdown. When he went to Naduvaikurichi to meet his friends on Tuesday, they consumed liquor. When an altercation broke out among them, they had beaten Sathish Kumar to death and escaped. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thaazhaiyooththu, Archana, visited the spot and sent the body to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for a post mortem. Meanwhile, C. Sudalai Muthu and S. Sudalai from Naduvaikurichi, E. Muthukumar and V. Chinnadurai from Naanalkaadu, all friends of Sathish Kumar, surrendered before DSP, Nanguneri, Teres on Thursday.
02 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||CCTV cameras commissioned||The police have installed 85 CCTV cameras in the Thaazhaiyooththu police sub-division, got from traders, farmers and autorickshaw drivers. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu, inaugurated them at Maanur on Wednesday. The cameras have been installed in Maanur, Rastha, Ukkirankottai and Kuppanaapuram villages, under the jurisdiction of Maanur police station. Besides, 20 barricades have been purchased with public contribution to be installed on the Tirunelveli – Sankarankovil Highway traversing Maanur. Superintendent of Police, N. Manivannan, inaugurated a police outpost at Mela Paalaamadai, a sensitive village under the Seevalaperi police station limits, where CCTV cameras have been installed. Additional Superintendent of Police Subburaju and Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thaazhaiyooththu, Archana were present. In Thoothukudi, Superintendent of Police, S. Jayakumar inaugurated 16 CCTV cameras installed in old bus-stand area. Mr. Jayakumar said that 5,500 cameras had been installed in and around Thoothukudi.
02 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Woman from Assam raped near Palladam, 3 arrested||The Tiruppur district police arrested three men, who were part of a five-member gang that raped a 22-year-old woman from Assam near Palladam, on Wednesday. The police said the woman, who hailed from Darrang district in Assam and was currently staying in Coimbatore, approached Rajeshkumar from Palladam seeking a job. Assuring her of employment in Tiruppur, he asked her to meet him, following which she travelled to Palladam on September 28 and met him at his residence. After the meeting ended in the evening, he asked his younger brother Raju, 21, to drop her on his two-wheeler at the bus stop. However, Raju took her to a deserted plot, where his acquaintances Kavinkumar, 23, Anbu, 21, and two others were waiting. The five men raped the woman and left her at the spot, according to the police. Based on her complaint, which was registered with the help of a translator, the Palladam All Women Police registered a case on Tuesday against the six men and arrested Raju, Kavinkumar and Anbu on Wednesday and remanded them in judicial custody. Special teams formed Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal said two special teams had been formed to locate and arrest the remaining three accused.
02 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Couple hit by train dies||An elderly couple were killed when a train hit them in an alleged bid to die by suicide near Vanjipalayam here on Thursday. According to the Government Railway Police (Tiruppur), Thangavel (68) and his wife Radhamani (53) were from Dharapuram and were at a railway track near Vanjipalayam at around 8 a.m. when the Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai Janshatabdi Special train hit them, leading to their death on the spot. Upon receiving information from residents, the Government Railway Police personnel visited the spot. The bodies were sent to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital for autopsy. Preliminary investigations revealed that Thangavel was running a lodge in Dharapuram. Although some of the relatives and eyewitnesses claimed that the death was by suicide, the police said the cause of death could be ascertained only after investigation.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
02 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||MP condemns Tiruppur hospital deaths||Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan led a demonstration in front of Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Thursday condemning the deaths of two COVID-19 patients on September 22 allegedly due to power disruption. Evidence “There is enough evidence for the State government to take action,” he told mediapersons. He demanded that Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan and hospital Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy must be held responsible for the deaths. Accusing the Collector to be “inactive,” Mr. Natarajan demanded that the government should transfer “such inactive Collectors.” ‘Increase testing’ Amid the rise in COVID-19 cases, the State government must increase testing and conduct fever surveillance camps every day in five locations in each corporation ward across the State, the MP said.
02 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||TMMK stages protest||Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) members on Thursday attempted to burn in effigy Special CBI Judge S.K. Yadav during a demonstration against his verdict that acquitted all the accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case. Tiruppur South police said the attempt was prevented and that around 150 members participated in the protest. A case was registered for violation of the prohibitory orders.  Closure of shops alleged District Secretary of Dravidar Kazhagam Yaazh Aruchamy alleged that members of Hindu Munnani were forcing shop owners to close shops in Tiruppur on Thursday. They threatened the shop owners following the death of the organisation’s founder Rama Gopalan, he alleged in his complaint petition.
02 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||RTE lottery admissions held||The lottery admissions for the Right to Education (RTE) Act quota was conducted in 113 private schools across Coimbatore district for the academic year 2020-21 on Thursday. Officials from the Department of School Education said of the 2,732 applications received online, 416 unqualified applications were rejected. The lottery admissions were conducted for kindergarten classes in the nursery and primary and matriculation schools. As these 113 schools received applications more than the allocated 25% of the seats, lottery admissions were held.
02 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Mart for tribal people opens in Gudalur to market their produce||A space for tribals to market and sell their produce has been opened by the Nilgiri Adivasi Welfare Association (NAWA) in Gudalur. Known as the “Tribal Mart,” the initiative by NAWA, a tribal rights and welfare NGO, aims at providing a platform for the tribal communities to market and sell their produce directly to the public. R. Vijaya, project coordinator of the NAWA Child Fund (India), said tribal communities living in Gudalur and Pandalur grew a variety of crops such as ginger, pepper and coffee. They also collected minor forest produce such as honey and koova leaves. “However, due to the cost associated with running a shop, most of them sell their produce for throwaway prices to merchants,” she added. M. Alwas, secretary of NAWA, said most tribals got extremely unfair, low prices for their produce from merchants. “We wanted to give them not only the means to sell their vegetables and other products for a fair price, but also be able to buy essential items for a cheaper price from the store,” said Mr. Alwas. “For instance, we are selling vegetables at a much lower price than in other shops, as we know that tribals were suffering from anaemia and malnutrition due to not having access to nutritious food,” he added. The tribals, who wish to use the shop in Gudalur to sell their produce, could either sell it at competitive rates to NAWA or sell the products directly at the store and take home the profits, said Ms. Vijaya. The Tribal Mart, which has been set up in the heart of Gudalur town, eventually hopes to expand to help hundreds of members of tribal communities. The building has been provided to NAWA by the Revenue Department. “We are looking at opening small shops at 20 remote villages by identifying entrepreneurs within the communities and establishing shops where they can sell the produce to local residents,” said Mr. Alwas.
02 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Bid to promote organic farming in the Nilgiris||In a bid to promote organic farming in the district, the Horticulture Department is trying to encourage more than 4,800 farmers belonging to 48 Farmers Producers Groups (FPGs) to take up organic farming and get their eco-friendly farming methods certified by the Tamil Nadu Organic Certification Department. The district administration said that since 2018, the department was working with agriculturalists and farmers across the district to reduce and eventually eliminate the use of chemical insecticides, pesticides and fungicides in growing crops in the district. “We foresee an increase in demand for organic produce both from abroad and from other parts of the country in the coming years, and are trying to encourage more farmers to shift to organic farming practices,” a release said. Each of the 48 Farmers Producers Groups have applied for certification to the Tamil Nadu Organic Certification Department. The farmers, who comprise the groups, are being given training about the methods they can employ to grow their crops organically and without the use of chemical pesticides, insecticides or fertilizers. The release said that officials from the Tamil Nadu Organic Certification Department had recently visited the farms of agriculturalists, who comprise four of the Farmers Producers Groups in the region. Other farms in Udhagamandalam, Kotagiri and Gudalur will also be inspected by the officials before granting them the certificates that attest to the farmers conforming to norms regulating organic farming practices. The farmers, who pass the rigorous inspections by the officials would be given “Scope Certificates” for the first year. Application fee Farmers in the district who wish to apply for the certification have been asked to approach the office of the Deputy Director of Horticulture in Coonoor, Udhagamandalam, Kotagiri or Gudalur, with the cost of the applications ranging from Rs. 2,700 to Rs. 9,400, depending on whether the applicants were small farmers, farming collectives or major agricultural businesses.
02 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Murals painted to highlight effects of plastics on wildlife in Coonoor||Volunteers, who have been working on cleaning up Coonoor town since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, are also beautifying the town and its surroundings and spreading the message about how litter affects birds and other wildlife. The volunteers, most of whom returned to the Nilgiris from other cities during the pandemic, have been part of a number of clean-up drives in Coonoor. Recently, they also started working on murals around the town with an aim to sensitising residents and tourists to the biodiversity of the Nilgiris as well as the pressures faced by the wildlife due to littering. Mukund Ravishankar, who painted one of the murals near Bedford in Coonoor, said that around 15-25 volunteers usually turned up to help paint the murals. “We have had volunteers as young as a two-year-old as well as people over 70,” said Mr. Ravishankar. The mural being painted near Bedford showcases a few of the endemic species of birds seen around Coonoor, said Divya Menon, another volunteer who has been working with activists and NGOs in Coonoor over the last few months on various clean-up drives. “Through this mural as well as others coming up across the town, we hope to bring attention to the fact that littering also affects wildlife, including birds,” said Ms. Menon. She expressed the hope that by involving many volunteers, the message to reduce the usage of plastic waste would spread among residents throughout the town.
02 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Two Vellore youth train farmers in organic cultivation||In a move to help organic farmers and promote healthy eating, two youngsters have started an organisation called EPPO — to purchase organic produce from farmers at their farm and sell them to residents of Vellore and Ranipet districts in e-vehicles. B. Arun Kishore and P. Karthikeyan have tied up with the Certified Organic Farmers’ Association to provide free training to farmers and make them switch to organic methods of agriculture from conventional farming methods, which use chemical fertilisers. Every morning, members of the organisation procure the products from the farmers at their respective farms itself and distribute them at the doorstep of the people using two e-vehicles. “Each vehicle has 22 racks having packed organic vegetables. They go through the streets of Vellore and Ranipet playing audio announcement about the benefits of such produce,” said Mr. Kishore. He said people had been consuming chemicals in the name of vegetables. “The organic farmers, on the other hand, are unaware about marketing strategies. Hence, we directly procure vegetables from farmers at a price that brings them profit, grade them and sell the good quality produce to the residents,” said G.S. Purushoththaman, director, Organic Farming Organization and president of Certified Organic Farmers Association. He said that across Tamil Nadu, there were one lakh organic farmers and around 10,000 in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Tirupathur and Ranipet. “The Government of India has authorised the Organic Farming Organization, Vellore, as the regional council for participatory guarantee system to certify the organic products produced by farmers since 2011," he said. Mr. Kishore said that farmers did not have time to come to the towns and sell their produce. “We sell them to the public and the amount is used to pay our staff and maintain the e-vehicles. We are trying to introduce this system in Chennai too,” he said. “Earlier, we were not able to sell the produce daily. We used to sell them once a week and sometimes send them to Chennai. These youngsters are purchasing it daily from us and we are able to earn good income,” said M. Ramesh, an organic farmer from Elavambadi, Anaicut taluk.
02 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||graVITas fest goes online this year||The 12th edition of graVITas, the annual techno-management fest at Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Vellore, was inaugurated virtually on Thursday. For the first time, it will be a fully virtual fest, with over 100 online events in different categories. The event was inaugurated virtually by A.K. Viswanathan, Additional Director-General of Police, Operations. He said technology should transform the lives of people and touch everyone. “Technology should be available to everybody at an affordable cost. Technology has transformed the way we live,” he said. He said that in the last four years, the police department had used various technologies to improve service delivery and the feeling of safety, and to enhance law and order in Chennai city and Tamil Nadu. He encouraged students to bring about innovation and create a product that would transform the lives of people and make life more comfortable and make all services available to everyone. VIT Chancellor G. Viswanathan said more than 8,000 participants, representing over 500 institutions from 20 countries — including Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the U.K. and the U.S. — would take part at graVITas’20. “Following the Prime Minister’s vision we have to make in India, whatever students do should be innovative and useful for society and the country. There are many areas where we have to progress; for example, we are importing all our aircraft from Europe and the U.S. We need to make aircraft in India itself,” he said, urging the youngsters to make products, wherever possible, not only for domestic consumption but also for exports. Kadhambari S. Viswanathan, assistant vice-president, VIT; Ivan Elisabeth Purba, rector, Sari Mutiara University, Indonesia; Sankar Viswanathan, vice-president, VIT; Rambabu Kodali, vice-chancellor; and S. Narayanan, pro-vice-chancellor; and others took part in the inauguration.
02 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Grama sabha cancelled in four districts||Even as the State government allowed the authorities to conduct grama sabha meetings across the State on October 2 during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown, it has been cancelled in Tiruvannamalai, Vellore, Ranipet, and Tirupathur districts. “In view of the pandemic, the decision has been taken to cancel the meetings. It has been cancelled across the State,” said an official.
02 October 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||PM Kisan scam: Rs. 74.28 lakh recovered so far||The Department of Agriculture in Virudhunagar district has so far recovered Rs. 74.28 lakh from 2,950 ineligible persons who were enrolled under the PM Kisan scheme. Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan, said that a total of 3,884 beneficiaries under the scheme had been found ineligible to receive Rs. 6,000 annual assistance meant for farmers. While the total amount of money involved in the scam was Rs. 115.80 lakh, officials had recovered Rs. 74.28 lakh so far. An official said bank accounts of ineligible beneficiaries were frozen and the money deposited into their accounts recovered. Efforts were on to recover the balance amount from other ineligible persons. Officials in the Department of Agriculture had identified that 2,149 persons, who were living within the district limits, and another 1,735, who were living outside Virudhunagar district but had mentioned that they had their land located in Virudhunagar district too, managed to enroll themselves under the scheme.
02 October 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||MP for reduction in shipping charges for fireworks||Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore has sought the intervention of Union Minister of State for Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya in reducing the shipping charges for fireworks to facilitate export. In a letter submitted to to the Minister, Mr. Tagore said Sivakasi was the hub for fireworks manufacturing in the country and the town was catering to a vast majority of the domestic requirement of crackers. The industry was providing direct and indirect employment to around 10 lakh people. Despite the extraordinary situation due to the COVID-19, there were good business opportunities for the Sivakasi products in foreign countries, especially as an alternative to Chinese-made crackers. However, the shipping charges were more than the cost of manufacturing. Hence, the shipping charges must be reduced on a par with other goods.
02 October 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Congress cadre protest ‘attack’ on Rahul Gandhi||Congress party cadre on Thursday staged demonstrations in Virudhunagar and Sivakasi in the district to protest against the alleged attack on party leader Rahul Gandhi by Uttar Pradesh police. The protesters, led by party Virudhunagar Town president Vaeyilumuthu and former municipal vice-chairman Balakrishnan, condemned the Modi Government at the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government for the attack. Mr. Gandhi, along with his sister and AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, was marching towards Hathras to meet the family of a 19-year-old Dalit woman , who was raped and murdered by a gang. The victim succumbed to injuries on September 29. In Virudhunagar, the Congress cadre took out a procession from Madurai Road to old bus stand.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 550 new cases, eight deaths||Coimbatore district on Thursday reported 550 new COVID-19 cases. The district’s tally reached 32,620 and 5,060 patients were undergoing treatment in different hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres as on Thursday. According to the Health Department, eight more patients from Coimbatore district died of COVID-19, taking the death toll to 444. As many as 511 persons, who recovered from the disease got discharged from different treatment facilities on Thursday. Tiruppur district reported 192 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 8,373 cases. No deaths were reported in the district and 169 patients were discharged after recovery on Thursday, according to the media bulletin. Tiruppur district reported 137 COVID-19 deaths in total. A total of 341 cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous, including 94 in the corporation limits. Four patients affected with COVID-19 died at private and government hospitals in Salem. According to health officials, a 54-year-old woman died at a private hospital on Wednesday. Three men, aged 58, 45 and 75 died at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. In Namakkal, 111 COVID-19 cases were reported in Namakkal. Health officials said, 13 patients have returned from other districts like Salem, Erode, Karur, Coimbatore and Tirunelveli. Erode district reported 145 new cases taking the district’s tally to 6,921. While 150 persons were discharged, 1,110 continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll in the district to 91. Krishnagiri recorded 87 positive cases while Dharmapuri recorded 79 cases. In the Nilgiris, 72 people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases stands at 4,245. The death toll in the district stands at 25 in the district with 850 people undergoing treatment.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||BG line ready for commissioning||With electrification work on the Mayiladuthurai - Thanjavur broad gauge stretch having been completed, the 70-km section would soon be ready for introduction of electric traction. Pre-commissioning checks of the overhead electrical equipment were currently under way in full swing along the stretch. The Mayiladuthurai - Thanjavur section via Kumbakonam is the final leg of the railway electrification project executed on the 228 km mainline section from Villupuram Junction to Thanjavur Junction via Cuddalore, Chidambaram, Mayiladuthurai and Kumbakonam. The overhead electrification project on the mainline section was entrusted to the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), a Government of India enterprise under the Ministry of Railway. The stretch from Villupuram to Mayiladuthurai was already energised and commissioned in phases and mandatory clearances obtained from the Commissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Circle, Bengaluru earlier for operation of electric loco hauled passenger and freight trains on that portion. A senior RVNL official told The Hindu that works connected with overhead electrification have been completed on the Mayiladuthurai - Thanjavur broad gauge stretch and pre-commissioning checks were currently in progress by deploying a tower wagon. The stretch would soon be ready for commissioning, the official said.  Ahead of the inspection by the Commissioner of Railway Safety, a trial run of an electric loco was expected to be conducted.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Toda||RELIGION  St.Teresa’s Church, Therasalpuram: Annual Parish festival, 6.30 p.m. GENERAL  Khadi Kraft: Gandhi Jayanthi celebrations and inauguration of Deepavali special sale by Ministers Vellamandi N.Natarajan and S.Valarmathi, 10 a.m.
02 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Gram Seva Sangha to showcase, sell products of handloom weavers from North Karnataka||Gram Seva Sangha, a federation of handloom weavers and workers, will set up a showroom in Bengaluru to showcase and sell products of handloom weavers from North Karnataka. This showroom will store and sell saris, clothing and other material made by handloom weavers and handicrafts persons from North Karnataka. This was decided in a meeting of various handloom workers and NGOs in Guledagudda village in Bagalkot district recently. The meeting discussed various issues haunting the handloom sector and tried to explore solutions to them. One of the major decisions taken in the meeting was to convert consumers into hand-made activists by exposing them to the problems faced by workers and craftsmen. “Saving the hand-made is a sacred movement and we want to tell them to be part of this,” Prasanna, theatre personality and hand-made activist who was among those who spoke at the meeting, said.  “In the Guledgudda meeting, we decided to raise 10 questions before all our elected representatives about rural development and condition of artisans,” Mr. Prasanna said.
02 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||CRPF school trainees, teachers take part in Fit India Freedom Run||Trainees and teachers of the CRPF Cobra School of Jungle Warfare and Tactics in Torali of Belagavi district participated in the Fit India Freedom Run organised by the Union government across the country on Thursday. “We participated enthusiastically in this initiative to steer the nation on the path of fitness and wellness. It provides a unique and exciting opportunity to work towards a healthier India,’’ school principal Brigadier S.K. Lama said in his address to the commandos and staff. As many as 200 commandos and staff participated in the event. Cobra school on Monday organised a 500-km Relay Marathon of 12 commandos led by Sandip Sharma, Second-In-Command, from Belagavi to Bengaluru. The four-day event was flagged off by the Principal, Cobra School. The contingent reached Bengaluru on Thursday and participated in the Mega Run organised by the CRPF there.
02 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Save Elephant Corridor’ rally from Belagavi today||The Forest Department has organised a bike rally from Nandagad wild life sanctuary to Muttodi in Chikkamagaluru from October 2-8 on the theme “Save Elephant Corridor”. MLA Anjali Nimbalkar will flag off the rally in Hemmadaga near Belagavi on Friday. A team of 35 bikers will ride through Dandeli, Sirsi, Jog Falls, Sagar, Shivamogga and Sakrebail to cover 450 km to reach Muttodi in Chikkamagaluru. Wildlife enthusiasts and bikers from around the State will participate. A team of youth led by Police Inspector Niranjan Patil will join the rally from Belagavi. A team of 11 bikers led by physician Mahantesh Biradar are joining from Vijayapura. The whole idea is to create awareness about sensitive zones such as elephant corridors. A lot of people don’t know about such issues. Just as we need good roads to move about, elephants need corridors to move freely. Such corridors are spread across the State’s jungles. They need to be preserved,” Conservator of Forests B.V. Patil said.
02 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||KLE Society launches HELP for the elderly||KLE Society launched KLE-HELP (KLE-Health for Elderly Life-Support Programme) at the KLE Prabhakar Kore Hospital in Belagavi on Thursday. Mr. Kore, who launched the programme, said that this would include free health checks and vaccinations for the elderly. A team of specialists will supervise geriatric care.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cycling lanes for CBD||The community of cyclists in the core city area will soon have reason to cheer. Around 30 km of roads in the Central Business District, which have been taken up for upgradation under the Smart Cities Mission, will have dedicated cycle lanes by the year-end. In addition, several stretches in and around Cubbon Park – totalling 15 km – will have also cycle lanes. The width of the cycle lanes in the CBD will be around two metres. They will be part of Cycling District 2. The Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT), in collaboration with WRI India, has prepared a detailed design drawing for the stretch from Minsk Square and Raj Bhavan Road to Chalukya Circle. Bengaluru Smart City Limited has already begun the work, said officials. Cycling District 1 – work on which is under way – is spread across 25 wards in and around the Outer Ring Road (ORR) stretch between Silk Board Junction and Lowry Memorial College junction near K.R. Puram, Old Madras Road. It is being undertaken by the BBMP in collaboration with DULT. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, Managing Director, Bengaluru Smart City Limited, said that most of the stretches in the CBD that had been taken up for redevelopment had now been integrated with the cycling infrastructure. “Along with cycling lanes, proper lighting facilities, footpaths and resting spots are being executed keeping in mind optimal utilisation of space,” she said. She added that inputs from cycling enthusiasts and the Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) personnel have been taken while identifying ‘pain points’. “Pain points include huge junctions, long and wide crossings, discontinuation of stretches,” she said. This year has seen important developments that will give a much-needed boost to the city’s cycling community. On June 24, the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) announced that the Kempegowda International Airport will be open for cyclists every Sunday from 6 a.m. to 9.30 a.m. Work on the cycle lane along the bus priority lane on Outer Ring Road (ORR) is set to begin next week. “This is just the beginning,” said Bengaluru’s bicycle mayor Sathya Sankaran. The cycling community is planning more initiatives to increase its presence in the city. Sankaran and his team are awaiting applicants for its Bicycle Councillor program, which was launched in March. The program intends to have a ‘bicycle councillor’ for each of the 198 wards in the city. “We had to put it on hold due to the pandemic, but will be accepting the first round of the applications till the end of October,” said Mr. Sankaran. “Each ward has a different socio-economic setup. The plan is to work with people from these wards on setting up cycling clubs and identifying unsafe junctions, among other things” he added. To apply for the Bicycle Councillor program, visit https://bit.ly/33pjIMa.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Several CLAT candidates allege discrepancies||Hundreds of UG Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) candidates, who saw their answer papers — assessed based on the provisional answer key — on Wednesday, have alleged that there are discrepancies. CLAT-2020, which is the entrance test for admissions into 22 National Law Universities across the country, was held on September 28. Candidates that The Hindu spoke to claimed that the answers they had chosen and submitted while writing the online test were different from what had been finally marked. For instance, if a candidate had chosen option ‘c’ in the test, in the answer sheet, he or she has been graded for option ‘b’. They also alleged that they were not allotted marks even though they had attempted certain questions. Many candidates have taken up the matter with the Consortium of National Law Universities. “I have emailed them stating that I have been awarded a lower score than what I should have got. I have been marked negatively for questions I skipped, which is not the format of the paper,” said a candidate. Another candidate who has also written to the consortium pointed out that she was supposed to get 86 marks based on the provisional answer key, but was shocked to see that her score was just 48. “My friends have reported the same discrepancy,” she said. ‘No errors found’ Balraj Chauhan, convener, CLAT-2020, told The Hindu that they had received around 400 grievances, all of which would be reviewed. He said he had looked into 150 grievances so far and no errors had been found. “Students probably do not remember which answer they had clicked. In our investigation nothing has been found wrong so far,” he said, adding that the system was transparent. The consortium has also said that they have audit trail reports of every click. However, candidates are unconvinced. They have urged the consortium to republish their answer sheets after verification, while some have also demanded a re-examination. They have tagged the Union Minister for Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in tweets airing their grievances. CLAT has responded to candidates stating that their concerns have been noted and their grievances will be forwarded to the examination audit department for further verification. The consortium has formed a grievance redressal committee headed by S. Rajendra Babu, former Chief Justice of India. Final answer key Candidates have also raised objections to the provisional answer key. The final answer key is expected to be published on October 3.   Testing time for law aspirants  May 10: Original date of Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) - 2020. The test was later rescheduled four times September 3: National Law School of India University, Bengaluru, announces that it will conduct a separate entrance test – National Law Aptitude Test - 2020 September 12: 94% of the total 24,603 candidates who registered for UG-NLAT and 97% of the 2,935 registered candidates appeared for PG-NLAT. Technical glitches reported September 14: A re-exam is conducted for candidates who claimed to have faced technical glitches September 21: Supreme Court quashes NLAT-2020, says admissions to NLSIU, Bengaluru, will be based on CLAT scores September 28: 78% of the 75,183 candidates who had registered give CLAT-2020 October 1: Candidates allege discrepancies in their answer papers published on September 30
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC stays construction work by BBMP in Tagore park||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday restrained the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike from putting up any further constructions inside Tagore park in R.T. Nagar. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the interim order on a PIL petition filed by retired KAS officer S.R. Varambally and another resident of R.T. Nagar. The petitioners pointed out that the BBMP recently started earthwork by destroying the existing children’s play area in the park, having total extent of 2,387 sq m, for constructing a anganwadi centre. Stating that the existing anganwadi centre was merely 50 m away from the park, the petitioners said that construction work had commenced hurriedly despite representation given to the BBMP against use of park for construction. The area within the park where the play area was formed was utilised for construction, the petitioners alleged while contending that construction was a violation of the provisions of the Karnataka Parks, Playfields, and Open Spaces Act, 1985. Garbage tender In another case, the Bench ordered issue of notice to the State government and the BBMP on a PIL petition complaining that no tender for primary door-to-door waste collection and transportation works has been reserved for the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribe as per the provisions of the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement Act. The petitioner, BBMP (Pourakarmikara and Arogya Gangmangala Sangha), has alleged that the BBMP had in August has issued work order for 45 wards based on the tender process initiated by way back in January 2019 despite a resolution passed by the BBMP council in June for inviting a fresh tender. Also, the petitioner organisation has sought directions from the court to quash the tender process initiated in January 2019 and to direct the BBMP to initiate a fresh tender process incorporating reservation for contractors belonging to SC/ST communities.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka sees over 10,000 cases again||After a day’s gap, the State again reported over 10,000 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday. A record 10,453 cases was reported on Tuesday, the highest single-day surge. Thursday saw 10,070 persons testing positive taking the total number of cases to 6,11,837. With 130 new deaths, the toll rose to 8,994. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. Bengaluru Urban reported 4,853 cases, taking the total number to 2,37,516. On Tuesday, this district had recorded the highest increase with 4,868 cases. With 41 of the 130 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 2,977. At 49,475, Bengaluru’s active cases are now higher than Tamil Nadu’s active cases of 46,369. As many as 7,144 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total number of recoveries to 4,92,412. Active cases continued to remain over a lakh with 1,10,412 persons under treatment in various hospitals. Of these, 815 patients are being monitored in the ICUs. The number of tests also increased with 96,588, the highest so far, conducted in the last 24 hours, including 46,960 rapid antigen tests. The total number of tests rose to 49,97,671.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress leaders hold flash protest||Congress leaders in the State held a flash protest at Freedom Park on Thursday evening, against the alleged manhandling of party leader Rahul Gandhi by the Uttar Pradesh police while he was going to Hathras to meet the family of gang-rape victim. Hundreds of Congress workers, led by Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, held a torchlight protest. The two leaders and hundreds of other Congress workers were detained by the police and later released. Mr. Shivakumar tweeted condemning the police action and termed it an “assault”. Mr. Siddaramaiah also tweeted that the police action only showed the panic of Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government in U.P.  Meanwhile, in a series of tweet, JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy condemned the U.P. police action. “This behaviour of UP police on the eve of birth anniversary of advocate of non-violence Mahatma Gandhi is an effort to suppress the weapon of protest in a democracy,” he said in a tweet.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||R.R. Nagar: Name of D.K. Ravi’s wife among those doing rounds in Cong.||Names of H. Kusuma, daughter of Hanumantharayappa and wife late IAS officer D.K. Ravi, former Magadi MLA H.C. Balakrishna, and Bengaluru North Congress unit president Rajkumar M. are doing the rounds in the Congress for the party’s candidate for the byelection to Rajarajeshwarinagar constituency. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar and his brother and Bengaluru Rural MP D.K. Suresh on Thursday huddled with leaders of a cross-section of society in the constituency to select the “winnable” candidate. The bypolls in Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar constituencies are the first elections being held after Mr. Shivakumar assumed charge and are being seen as a matter of prestige for him. The former Minister T.B. Jayachandra is the party’s candidate in Sira. With Vokkaliga community members being a major chunk of the vote bank in Rajarajeshwarinagar, the party is certain to field a candidate belonging to that community. The constituency comes under the Bengaluru Rural parliamentary constituency, represented by Mr. Suresh. Sources in the Congress said the party would announce its candidate after the BJP makes public its nominee for the seat. In the 2018, Congress candidate Munirathna won the seat. But he quit the party in 2019 and joined the BJP along with 13 other party legislators. Congress leaders have ruled out any alliance with the JD(S) to retain its seat. Mr. Hanumantharayappa told mediapersons that he had appealed to Mr. Shivakumar to hold talks withJD(S) leaders to field a common candidate in Rajarajeshwarinagar. Mr. Hanumantharayappa along with Ms. Kusuma visited Adichunchanagiri Mutt and sought the blessings of the seer.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP proposes more than one name for byelection ticket||Playing it safe, the Bharatiya Janata Party State core committee is learnt to have recommended to its Central Election Committee more than one name for the two Assembly constituencies where bypolls will be held. Briefing reporters after the core committee meeting on Thursday, BJP MLA Arvind Limbavali only said that the core committee recommended names of candidates for the Assembly constituencies that are going for the bypolls and for the Council seats for which elections are scheduled. But he desisted from disclosing the names and said it was the prerogative of the central election committee to take a final call. According to sources, the State core committee has recommended the names of Munirathna, who quit his Assembly membership won on the Congress ticket and joined the BJP, and its own leader Tulasi Muniraju Gowda, who had unsuccessfully contested the previous Assembly polls in Rajarajeshwarinagar constituency. BJP circles are curious if the party high command would consider Mr. Munirathna or give importance to leader from its own cadre. The party has recommended the names of three candidates — S.R. Gowda, B.K. Manujunath, and Rajesh Gowda — for the bypolls to Sira constituency, sources said. However, the core committee is learnt to have recommended the names of single candidates for the biennial elections to four Council seats. They are — Puttanna (Bengaluru Teachers), Chidananda (South-east Graduates), S.V. Sankanuru (West Graduates), and Sashil Namoshi (North-east Teachers).
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Suspend passport of developer: Tejasvi Surya||In response to a letter by Tejasvi Surya, Bengaluru South MP, the MHA has written to the Passport Seva Programme of the Ministry of External Affairs for “appropriate action urgently” against a well-known developer. Mr. Surya had written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah seeking suspension of passports of the promoters of Mantri Developers as homebuyers had expressed concerns that they may leave the country. Plaint filed The letter from Mr. Surya, available with The Hindu, said homebuyers of Mantri Serenity, a project started in 2012 and stalled for many years now, had lodged a complaint against the promoters on August 30.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tata Technologies to aid upgrade of 150 govt. ITIs||The State Cabinet on Thursday cleared a Rs. 4,636.5-crore project for modernisation of 150 government Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) in collaboration with Tata Technologies for developing the institutes as vocational technology centres. A sum of Rs. 30.91 crore would be spent on each ITI. Tata Technologies would manage the project for next five years by spending 88% (Rs. 4,080 crore) of the cost. The rest would be spent by the State government. It would create 300 trained personnel every two years. The Karnataka Skill Development Corporation would spend Rs. 105 crore on providing electricity network, repair work of buildings, networking, and other related works. It was decided to raise a loan of Rs. 657 crore for the project, sources in the government said. There are 270 government ITIs in the State. In the first phase, 150 institutes would be developed, sources said. It is understood that the Cabinet decided to establish a Maulana Azad Scientific Education Trust at an estimated cost of Rs. 25 crore for the benefit of educationally backward Muslim community.It also approved the Karnataka State Police Services (Special) Rules for direct recruitment of meritorious sportspersons to the posts of constable, sub-inspector, and deputy superintendent of police.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Midterm holidays cancelled||Students will not have midterm holidays for the 2020-21 academic year. The midterm holidays scheduled from October 3 to 26 stands cancelled and private schools will continue to have online classes during this period. The Department of Public Instruction on Thursday issued an order which stated that the Vidyagama programme for students of government schools would also continue during this period. Officials said the holidays have been cut to make up for the academic days lost because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Basavaraj Gurikar, president, Karnataka State Primary School Teachers’ Association, objected to this decision and said teachers were already overburdened as they were involved in COVID-19 relief activities during the summer holidays before the Vidyagama scheme was launched.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rally against road rage||Under the India Cycles4Change Challenge, Smart Cities Limited has initiated #RideforSafety campaign against road violence. As part of the campaign, cyclists from different parts of the city will participate in a rally ‘Ride for Peace’ on October 2. They will ride from East Gate of Vidhana Soudha via Cubbon Park to M.G. Road. The latest Road Accidents in India report, published by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways in 2019, shows a 3.2% increase (3,559 to 3,673) in death of cyclists.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ganja ring busted, three arrested||The city police busted a ganja ring on Wednesday evening. Acting on a tip-off that ganja was being transported in an autorickshaw from Yeshwantpur towards Sriramapuram, the police arrested Karthik, 31, Vikki, 23, and Premakumar, 21. 40 kg ganja recovered Around 40 kg of ganja was recovered from them. “Karthik works in a mechanic shop. He is a known ganja peddler. He had been to prison in connection with two ganja peddling cases booked by Rajajinagar police in 2019. He was out on bail and was back to peddling ganja,” the police said. According to sources, he had recently been to Nayagarh district in Odisha, bought ganja on a train and was selling it in the city. Two on the run Vikki earned money as a music player at a bar while Premakumar is a delivery agent with a leading e-commerce firm. “Both were using their jobs as a cover to distribute drugs,” the police added. Two other members of the gang are at large.
02 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Takes charge||S. Anbuvelan took over as Chief Executive Officer of HAL’s Helicopter Complex here on Thursday. Prior to this, he was heading the Helicopter Division as Executive Director, according to a release.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kuruba meet||Shepherds India International, floated in 2015 for organising Kuruba community, is holding its political convention here on Friday. Organisation’s president and former Minister A.H. Vishwanath told reporters on Wednesday that they were keen to hold the annual convention in London as part of their efforts to organise the community. However, COVID-19 situation had come in the way of their plans, he said.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC signs MoU with NIMHANS||BMTC on Thursday entered into an MoU with National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) for enhancing patient care services for its employees. It will also improve transport facility for staff and students of NIMHANS. Nandish Reddy, chairperson, BMTC, said all health-related aspects of BMTC staff will be formulated with NIMHANS.
02 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||JD(S) members stage protest||Members of the Janata Dal (Secular), under the leadership of former Minister H.D. Revanna, staged a protest here on Thursday alleging attempts by an official of Department of Cooperation to delay elections to two cooperative bodies in the district. The term of the elected bodies of the Hassan District Central Cooperative Wholesale Marketing Society and Sanjeevini Cooperative Hospital, Medical Education and Research Institute, has ended, necessitating elections. Following a Karnataka High Court order, in response to a writ petition, the department had announced the dates of the elections. Mr. Revanna told mediapersons that though the dates of the elections had been announced, the officer-in-charge of preparing the revised voters’ list had not completed his work. “The elections for the wholesale marketing society had been scheduled on October 18 and 25. The notification was issued on September 3 itself. However, V. Sunil, the chief manager of the society, had not finalised the voters’ list so far. He is attempting to delay the election process for political reasons”, he alleged. The same officer had been appointed as administrator of Sanjeevini Cooperative Hospital. The elections to the institution had been scheduled on November 7 and 11. However, so far the officer had not begun the process.Mr. Revanna submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner R. Girish.
02 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||CMC ambit||The State government has decided to bring 25 villages around Hassan city under the ambit of Hassan City Municipal Council.
02 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||KSE assurance to hospital employees||The outsourced employees of McGann Hospital in Shivamogga, who had been on a protest, will return to duty from October 2, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa said on Thursday. He spoke to the media after holding a meeting with the officers in Shivamogga. The workers were on the protest alleging irregularities in payment of their salaries and benefits. The Minister said all those hired through outsourcing agencies would get back to work. They had been instructed join hands in the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic. Concerning the workers’ allegations against the outsourcing agencies, the Minister told the officers to book criminal cases against the agencies if they were found to have cut salaries or demanded a bribe to give jobs. “Those who obstruct emergency health services during the COVID-19 pandemic should face legal action”, he said. The hospital has 111 security staff, hired through an outsourcing agency. From now on, they would be hired through the Home Guards in a phased manner. Besides them, 93 nurses, 78 lab assistants, eight pharmacists and 183 cleaning staff would be hired for the services through another agency.
02 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Gate meetings against privatisation of Rlys.||In response to the call for All India Agitation Week given by All Indian United Trade Union Centre (AITUC), members and office-bearers of the organisation held gate meetings at railway divisional offices here on Thursday, distributed pamphlets and submitted a memorandum pertaining to various demands. The All India Agitation Week is being held opposing the BJP-led Union government’s move to privatise public sector companies, including the Railways, the recent amendments to farm bills, anti-labour policies and to press for various demands of workers of the unorganised sector. On Thursday, the protest was against the move to privatise the Railways. During the gate meetings at the divisional railway offices of the Hubballi Division of the South Western Railway (SWR) here on Thursday, Dharwad district unit president Gangadhar Badiger said that during the second tenure of the Modi-led Union government, anti-labour and anti-people policies were being implemented without any hesitation and what was even shocking was that even profit-making public sector undertakings were being offered on a platter to private companies. The move had resulted in the loss of lakhs of job opportunities for the youths of the country, he said. He said that because of the ill-planned and sudden lockdown imposed upon the country crores of construction and migrant workers were thrown to the streets and their life had not improved till date. “At a time when workers were looking at the government for help, the government has, instead, misused the situation to bring in more anti-labour and pro-corporate measures, which is highly condemnable. It is a clear indication that the government is acting at the behest of private companies,” he said. After the gate meetings and distribution of pamphlets, the protestors submitted a memorandum addressed to the Prime Minister to the officials of the Divisional Railway Manager. Their demands included dropping of the project to run 151 private trains on 109 routes, no closure of railway workshops, agencies, hospitals and colonies or sale of railway property, filling vacant posts in railways, no handing over railway production units to corporate houses and others. Along with Mr. Badiger, AITUC office-bearers Ramesh Hoasamani, G.S. Petere, Gangadhar Dalabadi, Goodusab Kaladagi and others led the agitation and the gate meetings. As part of the agitation week, workers of the unorganised sector are scheduled to stage a protest on Friday, scheme workers on Saturday and migrant workers on Sunday. A protest against privatisation of power supply and coal sector is scheduled to take place on October 5, against privatisation of banking and other financial institutions on October 6 and against labour law amendments on October 7.
02 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Hathras horror: KPCC SC dept. condemns U.P. police, CM||F.H. Jakkappanavar, chairman of the Scheduled Caste department of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), has strongly condemned the gang-rape and murder of a young Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh and the police apathy subsequent to it. In a press release issued here on Thursday, Mr. Jakkappanavar termed the gang-rape and murder a heinous act. “What is even more shocking is the manner in which the Uttar Pradesh police behaved. Not only did they delay taking action against the guilty, they tried to even ruin the investigation by conducting the funeral of the victim in a hurried manner,” he said. He called the whole incident a shame to civilised society and said the U.P. police had denied even a decent burial for the victim and prevented the family members from even participating in the funeral. Mr. Jakkappanavar said the U.P. Chief Minister, Yogi Adityanath, had brought disgrace to the saffron cloth he wore and utterly failed in governance. As under him, the State has become a “safe haven for rapists, goons and murderers”, he should immediately order a judicial inquiry into the incident and then tender his resignation from the post, theCongress leader said.
02 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Khandre seeks President’s Rule in U.P.||Condemning the Hathras gang-rape and criticising the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh for its “failure” to maintain law and order in the State, Eshwar Khandre, working president of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), on Thursday demanded imposition of the President’s Rule in that State. “The law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh is completely out of gear. Crimes against women and marginalised communities have become the order of the day. The Hathras gang-rape is the latest example of the lawlessness in the State. The victim, belonging to an oppressed community, was brutally gang-raped and assaulted. When she died after a fortnight-long struggle at the hospital, her body was not handed over to the family. The Yogi Adityanath government, which has failed to maintain the rule of the law, should immediately be dissolved and President’s Rule should be imposed,” he said. Mr. Khandre was speaking to mediapersons at Hosapete in Ballari district. Taking serious exception to the detention of Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, who were on their way to Hathras to meet the family members of the victim, Mr. Khandre said the people in power would neither console the family members of the victim nor allow others to do so. In Belagavi From our Special Correspondent: Members of Karnataka State ST Valmiki Employees’ Federation took out a protest rally in Belagavi and Gokak on Thursday over the Hathras incident. Congress leader Satish Jarkiholi demanded a CBI inquiry into the incident.
02 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Ganja seized in Ballari||Acting on a tip-off, Ballari Police have arrested five people and seized 57 kg ganja worth about Rs. 11,40,000. A. Rasool Khan (45) from Kallur village in Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh, C. Nagaraj (25) from Kondapuram village in Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh, Mohammad Jaffer (42) from Prashanth Nagar in Ballari city, M. Ramu (43) from Prashanth Nagar in Ballari city and Syed Mohammad Azar (29) from Jagriti Nagar in Ballari city are the accused. The police said that two more accused, Venu Naidu from Anantapur and Doula from Ballari, are absconding.
02 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bio-mining proposal awaits govt. approval||A Mangaluru City Corporation proposal for bio-mining of solid waste at its landfill site at Pachchanady to reclaim land for further use is awaiting the approval of the State government, according to Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar. Bio-mining is a process involving digging out previously dumped or disposed of material from landfill sites to recover plastic, metal, glass, combustibles, other fine material and soil. Plastic, metals and other material thus recovered can be sent for re-cycling. The bio-degradable waste in a landfill site gets decomposed. When non-biodegradable material in the same site are recovered and sent for re-cycling, the land under them can be reclaimed for further use. With this, there is no need to scout for more land for dumping municipal solid waste. Municipal solid waste is being dumped at Pachchanady for decades without segregation of waste at source. The need for bio-mining rose after solid waste at the landfill site slipped covering 13.5 acres of private land, including farm land, in the 2019 rainy season. In addition, the civic body is facing the dearth of land for expanding the site. Bio-mining is estimated to cost about Rs. 17 crore, the Commissioner said. The dumped solid waste spread over 25 acres, including the 13.5 acres of private land, in Pachchanady is estimated to be six lakh tonnes. Once bio-mining is taken up, it is expected to come down to 2.4 lakh tonnes as the refuse derived fuel (RDF) material (such as plastic recovered) in the site are estimated at 40 %, he said. An environment engineer in the corporation said that the proposal, revised and sent last month, is now before the Directorate of Municipal Administration. It will have to pass the scrutiny of a State Level Technical Committee. The Rs. 17 crore cost estimated excludes the transportation of the recovered material in bales. Bales of plastic recovered will have to be transported to cement industries which are at least 700 km away from Mangaluru. It required an additional fund, he said. Compensation The Commissioner said that of the 35 families affected due to garbage slipping and that have “pahani”, 19 families have been paid a compensation of nearly Rs. 2 crore for damage to their farm land. Of the remaining 16 families, 13 that have submitted their documents will get Rs. 52 lakh compensation shortly.
02 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||SDPI protest over poor condition of NH-75||Members of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) staged protests at Melkar and Kalladka recently over the poor condition of the Mangaluru-Gundia-Hassan National Highway 75. Addressing the gathering at Melkar, Ilyas Mohammed Thumbay, State president of SDPI, said that the government was not listening to the woes of the people and was attempting to curb their democratic rights. Sahul S.H., Dakshina Kannada unit general secretary of the party, said the SDPI would intensify its agitation and stage rasta rokos if the government did not repair the highway at the earliest. Speaking at Kalladka, Iqbal Bellare, district secretary of the party, said the government was “least bothered” about the people’s plight and the poor condition of the highway stretch between B.C. Road and Hassan reflected this. He said members of the party would block the highway if it was not made motorable at the earliest.
02 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Registration of blood, plasma donors to start today||The district administration will initiate the process of registration of blood and plasma donors with Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) on Friday, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said here on Thursday. Speaking at a function to mark the National Voluntary Blood Donation Day, Dr. Rajendra said that more than 80 % of COVID-19-infected patients have recovered in the district. Among them, there are a good number of youngsters who can come forward to register their names. “Those who qualify will be called to donate plasma (for COVID-19 patients in ICU),” he said. The district administration’s portal (dk.nic.in) will provide the link to the portal of the Dakshina Kannada unit (redcrossdk.org) of Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) where donors can register their names. In addition, there will be a WhatsApp number on dk.nic.in to which plasma donors can send their names and contact number. “We want more donors. IRCS members can take active part in inspiring patients who have recovered from COVID-19 to donate plasma,” he said and asked members to organise more blood donation camps. “You (members) should help us (district administration) in making available blood and plasma to all needy patients,” he added.  Stating that Plasma Therapy will start at the Government Wenlock Hospital shortly, he asked the society members and organisations to make donations towards the treatment cost of needy COVID-19 patients.
02 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Door-to-door campaign on waste segregation today||Members of the Mangaluru City Corporation Council will take up a door-to-door campaign in all the 60 wards of the city on Friday to create awareness among people on the need to segregate waste at source and hand over wet, dry and sanitary wastes separately to the corporation. Mayor Diwakar will launch the campaign near the city corporation office at 8 a.m. and, along with Commissioner of the corporation Akshi Sridhar, visit some houses as part of the campaign. Later, councillors will go on visits to houses in their respective wards till evening. A corporation official said that it will not be possible for councillors to visit all houses in their wards. They will visit the maximum number of houses as they can. They will also distribute handbills to people to create awareness on waste segregation.
02 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Traffic banned as Car Street upgrading work begins||As Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL) has begun replacing old underground drainage (UGD) pipeline on the busy Car Street and upgrading the road into a concrete one, the police have banned traffic movement on the road between the Venkataramana Temple Square and Balaji Junction. MSCL Managing Director Mohammed Nazeer said that the 1.8-km-long old pipeline line will be replaced at a cost of Rs. 3 crore, which includes the cost of constructing manholes. The concrete road will be laid at a cost of Rs. 9 crore. After restoring traffic movement on the stretch, MSCL will take up the work of beautification at a cost of Rs. 4.95 crore, he said. In a notification on Wednesday, Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash said that the movement of heavy vehicles is barred on the New Chitra Junction-Dongarkery-Navabharath Circle stretch. There will be no parking of vehicles on either side of this road. Similarly, there will be no parking of vehicles between Srinivas Hotel Junction and Om Mahal Junction. Buses from State Bank operating on the Car Street-Kudroli-Mannagudda route will have to run on the Clock Tower-K.S. Rao Road-Navabharat Circle-Dongarkery-New Chitra Junction route. While vehicles coming from Bunder will continue to operate on the Azizuddin Road-Lower Car Street-Balaji Juction-New Chitra Junction-Mannagudde route, those coming to Bunder from Lady Hill Circle have to take turn left at the Durgamahal Junction and then take the Ballabagh-PVS-Bunts Hostel-Ambedkar Circle-Hampankatta-Hamilton Circle-Badriya College route.
02 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MoU signed||MAHE and Esco Aster Pte. Ltd., Singapore, have signed a memorandum of understanding to establish a collaborative research unit at MAHE, Manipal.
02 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Train traffic restored||Southern Railway on Saturday restored train traffic through Padil bypass, off Mangaluru Junction railway station, that had witnessed landslips on September 20. A communiqué from Palakkad division of Southern Railway said traffic was allowed only on one of the two lines (road no. 2). Movement of goods trains was permitted at 15 kmph. A goods train passed through the section at 3.45 p.m. on Saturday.
02 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Vas re-elected as KCCI chief||Isaac Vas was re-elected as president of Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) at the 80th annual general meeting, held using videoconference facility, recently. The other office-bearers elected were Shashidhar PaiMaroor (vice-president), Nissar Fakeer Mohammed and Abdur Rahman Musba (secretaries), and M. Ganesh Kamath (treasurer). A large number of new directors were also elected during themeeting.
02 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Abhimanyu, other jumbos arrive for low-key Dasara||The five elephants from the jungle camps shortlisted to participate in what will be a low-key Dasara due to COVID-19, left Veeranahosahalli for Mysuru on Thursday. The symbolic march of the elephants from the jungle camps to the city is a grand event every year and entails a huge gathering. But given the imperatives of maintaining social distancing and the need to discourage people from congregating in large numbers, Gajapayana – as the event is called - was a simple affair devoid of any paraphernalia. But the elephants were given a traditional send-off complete with prayers for their collective safety during their short sojourn in the city and completion of the festival. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, Deputy Conservator of Forests of Nagarahole Mahesh Kumar and other officials from the district administration were present. Normally, the elephants stay on for nearly 45 days in Mysuru to get acclimatised to the din and noise of the crowd and familiarise themselves with the procession route. But as the festivities have been curtailed this year due to the pandemic, the elephants will not be subjected to the rigours of marching along the procession route daily. Abhimanyu (54), known for his formidable courage and who tends to be the team leader in operations to capture tigers or elephant herds straying into human landscape, led the herd of five elephants to Mysuru. The other elephants accompanying him were Vikrama, Gopi, Vijaya and Kaveri. Normally, 11 to 12 elephants take part in Dasara but their numbers have been reduced to 5 as the procession will be confined to the palace premises and will be a symbolic affair. Abhimanyu has taken over the mantle of carrying the golden howdah and the idol of Goddess Chamundeshwari – during Jamboo Savari - from Arjuna who has been rested due to his advancing age. Training The elephants reached Mysuru by 3 p.m. and rested overnight at the Aranya Bhavan campus from where they will be taken to the palace premises on Friday. Over the next 3 weeks till the completion of the procession within the palace to be held on October 27, the elephants will train and carry sand bags matching the weight of the golden howdah. But the length of the procession route this year is hardly 500 metres against 5 km which used to be the distance from palace premises to Bannimantap, every year.
02 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Sudha Murty donates Rs. 20 lakh to Mysuru zoo||For the second time within a short span of time, Infosys Foundation Chairperson Sudha Murty has donated a sum of Rs. 20 lakh to the Mysuru zoo for its upkeep. Zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni said she made the donation on September 25 and added that her gesture in this difficult time for the zoo over the COVID-19 pandemic was an inspiration for others. The Infosys Foundation chairperson had donated Rs. 20 lakh on May 11 this year. The zoo had been shut down for over three months because of the lockdown over the pandemic scare and its revenue was badly hit over zero visitors. Even after it was reopened, the footfall is not like the pre-COVID-19 era. With falling revenues not just in Mysuru zoo but across zoos in the State, the Zoo Authority of Karnataka launched a mobile app for donations and adoption of animals for improving their income towards the maintenance of animals and meeting other expenditures besides paying the staff salaries.
02 October 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Database on butterfly species at Nagarahole||An exercise to identify the number of species of butterflies present at Nagarahole Tiger Reserve will be conducted as part of the 66th Wildlife Week celebrations. Mahesh Kumar, Deputy Conservator of Forests and Director, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, said this is the first such exerciseand will add to the database of the flora and fauna of the protected national park. Support The exercise will be conducted from October 8 to 11 in association with College of Forests, Ponnampet, National Centre for Biological Science, Bengaluru, and Bangalore Butterfly Club. A similar exercise on preparing the checklist of butterflies was conducted at Kali Tiger Reserve last year, said Mr. Mahesh Kumar. As part of the week-long celebrations, the authorities have planned a slew of events including talks on AIR on vultures, pangolin, mouse deer, four-horned antelope, otters and flying squirrels from 7.45 a.m. to 8 a.m daily from October 2 to 8, he added. There will be painting contest for children, slogan writing contest, wildlife quiz etc., to mark the week. Cycle jatha A cycle jatha will be taken out on October 7 to create awareness on wildlife and it will commence from the Aranya Bhavan complex in Mysuru and the route will cover Srirampura, Jayapura, Handpost at H.D. Kote, and Antharsanthe and terminate at Dammanakatte. The authorities will also conduct a survey of the flora and fauna of Nagarahole for a week from October 8 and revise the database.
02 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Staff nurse dies of COVID-19||A staff nurse, who was serving infected patients at a primary health centre in Kouluru village in Yadgir taluk, died of COVID-19 on Thursday. She was identified as Geetha Mahesh (32), a native of Basavakalyan taluk in Bidar district.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Theatres gearing up to reopen amidst worries||After over six months of inactivity, the cinema trade circle – comprising producers, distributors and exhibitors – is abuzz following the Central government’s decision to allow cinemas to resume operations with 50% seating from October 15. D.R. Jairaj, chairman, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, said that they will be approaching the State government with request that the new guidelines be regularised. The Multiplex Association of India has also urged the State government for “urgent permission to reopen cinemas.” Managements of single screen theatres and multiplexes, such as INOX and PVR, said they will ensure a “a safe and hygienic cinema experience for movie goers”. However, many expressed worry over whether citizens will visit theatres given that a majority of people are not patronising restaurants and avoiding public transport as far as possible. A film distributor said, “On the one hand, there is a cap of 50% on seating. This will impact a producer’s decision to release films that are complete and ready.” Veteran producer K.C.N. Chandrashekar said that producers, distributors and exhibitors should sit and sort out issues regarding releasing of films and theatre charges. “Producers may not be willing to release films right away, and not all theatre owners might be willing to resume operations. Many such issues need to be sorted out,” he said. N.S. Srinivasa Murthy, partner of Menaka theatre and former president of FKCCI, said that they are initially planning to run old films or those that were released in February-March. “Based on the response and also the COVID-19 situation, producers will take a decision on releasing new films,” he said. According to the manager of a theatre in Bengaluru ,instilling confidence in people to visit a theatre will be a challenge. “We will incur more expenditure to put in place anti-COVID-19 safety measures with less revenue,” he said. A representative of INOX said that most of their screens will resume operations on October 15. Initially, they will screen re-runs and library content. “There are quite a few big movies in various languages getting ready to be released soon,” he said.  Mall owners happy Mall owners are happy that cinema halls will resume operations in the hope that they will see more customers. Uday Garudachar, owner of Garuda Mall chain, said that cinema halls are ‘footfall drivers’ in malls. “There are over 15 screens in Garuda Mall chain. I am sure all of them will resume screening films from October 15 so that business picks up by Dasara and Deepavali,” he said.
02 October 2020||A.S. JayanthKozhikode,KERALA||New courses: teachers allege unwanted rush||A section of the academic community has accused the Higher Education Department and universities of rushing through with the introduction of new-generation courses in affiliated colleges. There are apprehensions about the job prospects as well. They claim that the department on September 9 asked the universities in the State to call for applications from accredited aided and government colleges and unaccredited aided colleges started by Scheduled Tribes trusts for starting new undergraduate and postgraduate courses as suggested by the Sabu Thomas commission. Notification The University of Calicut issued a notification dated September 22 on its website. The last date for filing applications was September 23. The university released a list of recommended courses on September 25. Kannur University issued a similar notification on September 18 and the last date for submitting applications was September 21, which was later extended to September 23. Details about the list of recommended courses in the university were not known. There was reportedly a similar rush in the case of the University of Kerala and Mahatma Gandhi University as well. In some instances, the colleges were not allotted courses of their choice. Syllabus “Normally, the syllabus for a course is prepared by the Board of Studies of the university, taking enough time. Autonomous colleges have their own system for the purpose. But how is it possible to do it in such a short time and what is the need for the hurry,” an assistant professor in a prominent aided college in Kozhikode asks. There is an issue of duplication of courses too. There is plan to introduce MSc Biology. However, subjects such as computational biology and drug designing are already part of postgraduate courses in biotechnology and molecular biology. The existing MSc course in botany has been completely removed from the list of new courses. Teachers say that those who graduated in courses such as molecular biology and biotechnology are already finding it difficult to get jobs and how the renaming would help is not clear. Old courses remain Sources in the board of studies for undergraduate courses in the University of Calicut, however, point out that the new courses are being introduced without altering the existing ones. The concerns raised about MSc (Botany) would be addressed soon, they add.
02 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||New high of 804 cases recorded in Alappuzha||In a massive spike in new COVID-19 cases, 804 people tested positive for the disease in the district on Thursday. It is the biggest single-day surge in cases in Alappuzha so far, surpassing the previous high of 679 cases on Wednesday. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district crossed the 5,000 mark with 5,153 people currently undergoing treatment. The district also logged one death, taking the official toll to 41. The deceased was identified as a 60-year-old man from Alappuzha. He died on September 26. Of the fresh cases, as many as 774 patients contracted the virus through local transmission. While 14 people each who came from abroad and other States, one health staff, and person from Arookutty also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The Arookutty native’s source of infection remains undetected. Among the 774 contact cases, 391 were reported from Ambalappuzha taluk. Cherthala taluk logged 158 locally transmitted cases along with Karthikappally (128), Kuttanad (60), Mavelikara (26), and Chengannur (11). Of the 14 people who reached the district from abroad, two persons each hail from Muttar and Punnapra. The rest are from Payippad, Cheriyanad, Venmony, Alappuzha, Eramallikkara, Pulinkunnu, Thrikkunnappuzha, Kuthiathode, Cherthala and Kadakarappally. Of the 14 who arrived from other States, three persons hail from Kuthiathode, two each from Kumarapuram, Muttar, and Venmony and one each from Kadakkarappally, Alappuzha, Pulinkunnu, Mankombu, and Kanjikuzhy. Meanwhile, 191 people who were undergoing treatment in hospitals in the district tested negative during the day.
02 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Special COVID drive in Alappuzha||In view of a surge in COVID-19 cases, especially locally transmitted ones, the Alappuzha district administration launched a special campaign titled Karutham Alappuzhaye on Thursday. The month-long campaign is aimed at tackling the spread of the disease by creating awareness and taking protective measures against the disease. As part of it, masks were distributed to the elderly in the district under the aegis of the Social Justice Department. It was inaugurated by District Collector A. Alexander at the Civil Station here. According to Mr. Alexander, Karutham Alappuzhaye is an elaborate campaign with a special focus on protecting 3.33 lakh elderly people in the district from contracting COVID-19. Officials said a seven-day cleaning drive would be organised across the district starting October 2. The people have been urged to disinfect their houses and workplaces using liquid bleach. Government offices will also be cleaned. Besides, a host of awareness programmes will be organised in the coming days. The campaign is being organised by coordinating various government departments. To ensure the support of the public, a Facebook page titled Karutham Alappuzhaye was created. People can send reports and photos of various COVID-19 prevention measures to the email id karuthamalappuzhaye@gmail.com. It will be published on the Facebook page.
02 October 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Safety concerns over Gap Road works||As a decision to restart the widening works on the Gap Road stretch of the Kochi-Dhanushkodi National Highway is likely on Friday, the focus is on reports of three Subcollectors that have raised concerns over safety aspects of the works. A series of landslips on the stretch had damaged the road and nearby agriculture land. The report submitted by Devikulam Subcollector S. Prem Krishnan says that irrevocable damage has been done due to large-scale blasting and unscientific road widening works on the ecologically sensitive stretch. Earlier, Subcollectors V.R.Premkumar and Renuraj had also given reports on the unscientific construction on the stretch. The report submitted by the Subcollector to the Revenue Principal Secretary recommends an inquiry into the lapses on the part of the contractor and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials on the ‘unscientific’ road widening work that triggered the landslips. As the road was at an elevation of 5,000 ft, safety aspects taking into consideration the sensitivity of rock formation and soil conditions should have been followed. It should be probed whether soil stability test and environment impact assessment were done prior to the road works. “Earlier, Gap Road was made in an eco-safe manner and no landslips or mudslides had been reported on the stretch. After the road widening work was undertaken by the NHAI, more than 15 landslips had been reported on the single stretch,” it says. Quarrying activities The report also calls for an inquiry into the quarrying activities there. “Unscientific and large-scale mining activities carried out in the region as part of the road work have resulted in environmental destruction in the region with irretrievable loss to the ecology.” The report also demands an inspection of the quarrying works inside the road alignment level. A primary inspection found that the contractor conducted illegal quarrying in porambok e land. It also raises concern on the manner in which inspection was done by NHAI officials. On October 8, 2019 a major landslip caused death of two workers. After the landslip, a report was submitted by experts from the National Institute of Technology (NIT) and the works were resumed. But a series of landslips was again reported in the region. In a landslip on June 17, 2020 nearly 200 metres of the Gap Road stretch was swept away. More than 13 acre of cardamom cultivation also suffered damage. It is estimated that more than two dozen landslips have occurred on the stretch in the past two years. The stretch was closed for traffic considering the chances of landslips in June. The Rs. 268.2-crore road-widening works on the Munnar -Bodimettu stretch was started in 2017.
02 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Bamboo saplings to be planted||The district social forestry department in association with the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation, Munnar, will plant bamboo saplings on the banks of the Muthirapuzha on Gandhi Jayanti on October 2. A webinar on protection of shola forest and its restoration will be held for school and college students on October 7.
02 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad collective to intensify stir against eco-zone draft||The Wayanad Samrakshana Samiti (WSS), a collective of various farmers, traders, religious, and cultural organisations in the district, has decided to intensify agitations raising a slew of demands, including withdrawal of the draft notification of the Ministry of Forest and Environment (MOEF) to declare Eco-Sensitive Zones (ESZ) around Malabar and Aralam Wildlife Sanctuaries, which share borders with many villages in Wayanad district. A meeting of the organisation held at Sulthan Bathery on Wednesday urged Forest officials to stop misleading propaganda regarding the issue. The officials misled the public even in a recent pamphlet which was published to sensitise the public to the issue, Thomas Manakkunnel, chairman of the organisation, said. Similar propaganda was made by the Forest department officials in Tamil Nadu while declaring such zones in the neighbouring Nilgiris district. But the lives of the people in Gudalur and Pandalur taluks of Nilgiris district had become miserable after the declaration of the zones there, Mr. Thomas said. The organisation would stage a dharna at Pozhuthana in the district at 3 p.m. on Friday as a part of the agitation, he said. The meet urged all grama panchayats and municipalities in the district to pass resolutions to declare stray wild animals such as wild boar, monkey, and deer as vermin as per Section 62 of the Wildlife Protection Act to mitigate man-animal conflict in the district. It also raised demands such as stopping all move to declare the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary as a tiger reserve and adopting steps to mitigate accelerating man-animal conflict.  Officials misled the public even in a recent pamphlet which was published to sensitise the public to the issue Thomas Manakkunnel Chairman, Wayanad Samrakshana Samiti
02 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Workshop on COVID-19||The Wayanad district administration is organising an online workshop at 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Saturday to interact between the public and the District Collector, District Police Chief, District Medical Officer, people’s representatives, and senior officials of various departments on the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Up to 85 persons can attend the programme. Those who wish to participate should register themselves through the district website (www.wayanad.gov.in).
02 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad seeks more Plus One seats in humanities||A meeting of the District Development Committee (DDC), chaired by District Collector Adeela Abdulla here on Thursday, urged the government to allot more seats for Plus One humanities stream, especially for tribal students, in the district. A majority of tribal students tend to choose humanities, but the number of seats available in colleges under Scheduled Tribe reservation is very low, C.K. Saseendran, MLA, said. Moreover, many an eligible student will face the risk of dropping out. Hence, the number of seats for the stream should be increased, he added. The Collector said the district administration would adopt steps to utilise funds allocated for various projects, especially those for tribal people. Man-animal conflict The meeting urged the government to grant more funds to mitigate man-animal conflict in the district. It also decided to find a suitable plot for setting up an employability centre with a skill park and a training centre. District Panchayat President K.B. Naseema, vice president A. Prabhakaran, Assistant Collector Balpreet Singh, and other senior officials attended the meeting.
02 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Webinar today||The Wayanad District Library Council, in association with the District Grama Panchayat Presidents’ Association, is organising a webinar on the “Challenges being faced by Indian democracy” to commemorate the centenary visit of Mahatma Gandhi to Kerala at the madrassa hall at Madakkimala in the district on Friday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the webinar at 11 a.m. A.K. Balan, Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and Backward Classes, and Ramesh Chennithala, Leader of Opposition, will attend the programme. The programme will be held at 26 centres.
02 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Schools to ready disaster management plans||Schools in Wayanad district are gearing up to prepare their own disaster management plans. District Collector Adeela Abdulla, who is also the chairman of the Disaster Management Authority, has issued a directive to all schools to prepare the plans. A data collection would be made in all schools from upper primary to higher secondary level with the help of students and PTAs for the purpose. According to the directive, each school should appoint a nodal officer for the purpose. Schools should complete the plan by October 5 and submit it to the DDMA on or before October 20.
02 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Mobile app to identify snakes to be launched||Now, identifying snakes could be just a touch away. A new mobile app called “Snake Lens” has been developed, which would help to identify snakes and obtain various other information related to them. The app was developed by MVR Snake Park and Zoo, Parassinikkadavu, in association with a start-up Larus AL and a co-operative IT company. Developed as part of World Wildlife Week celebrations, the new app would be inaugurated by Forest Minister K. Raju and Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran on Friday. The artificial intelligence enabled in the app can identify various snakes found in Kerala. This mobile app contains information about first aid and the nearest hospital for treatment, such as what to do if you are bitten by a snake. MVR Snake Park director E. Kunhiraman claimed that the app would help change many of our doubts and misconceptions about snakes. The unnecessary killing of snakes could also be reduced with this, he said.
02 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Development projects at Brennen College||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said that the government’s focus was to brighten the future of students through intervention in the higher education sector even in the time of COVID-19. He was speaking after inaugurating various projects at Brennan College, Thalassery, through videoconferencing. He said Rs. 21.5-crore academic block funded by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board, a women’s hostel, a college road using the MLA’s local development fund, central library, chemistry lab, and acquisition of furniture were schemes that would help the college.
02 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Akshaya to crack whip on unauthorised centres||The Akshaya District Project Office is set to crack the whip on unrecognised citizen service centres, which are posing existential threats to authorised Akshaya centres by eating into their business. The mushrooming of such centres has for long been a grouse of Akshaya entrepreneurs with many of them coming up right next to Akshaya centres in myriad names that exuded an air of official recognition, misleading the public. Though a government order was circulated among local bodies not to allow such centres, it was of little use. “We are now planning to collect individual petitions from all our 256 Akshaya entrepreneurs complete with the number of such unauthorised centres in their neighbourhood and put up a file before the District Collector seeking action. This is the only feasible course of action since we cannot conduct any inspection on our own while petitioning the police is not practical either,” said Vishnu K. Mohan, District Project Manager (Akshaya), Kerala State IT Mission. Open portal These centres thrive by illegally tapping into the open portal on which members of the public are allowed five logins a month for availing online citizen services on their own without depending on Akshaya centres. “Though that provision is not supposed to be used commercially, these centres do precisely that. There is the greater risk of data privacy breach as they resort to unauthorised use of credentials like Aadhaar card of customers for multiple logins without their knowledge,” said M.P. Chackochan, an entrepreneur of 15 years’ standing from Pattimattom. There had even been instances in which operators of such illegal centres approached Akshaya entrepreneurs seeking unauthorised sharing of customer credentials for Rs. 50 to Rs. 100 per customer data. “Having built trust over the years, Akshaya centres will often have some rush at any point, prompting many to approach these illegal centres to save time. But these centres charge fees arbitrarily and neither are they accountable for their service. Only recently, one customer came to me pleading to rectify the faulty application for a scholarship made by one of these centres while another centre at Chakkaraparambu vanished overnight after collecting money from people by offering to facilitate encumbrance,” said Sini George, a woman entrepreneur near Palarivattom. No screening While Akshaya entrepreneurs are cleared after a written exam and interview, no such qualification screening exists for opening such illegal centres. They have added to the woes of Akshaya centres already hit by the proliferation of the Central government-approved Common Service Centres predominantly meant for various Central schemes but which invariably strays into other services in due course. Delayed receipt of payments for services, unreasonably low service charges and incurrence of extra expenses for complying with COVID protocol have all exacerbated the survival challenges of Akshaya centres.
02 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Rural police flooded with complaints of fake FB accounts||The Ernakulam Rural police are being flooded with complaints about fake Facebook accounts. Nearly 250 such plaints were received in the last eight months alone. Stolen pictures from real accounts are being used for setting up fake accounts in most cases. The accounts rival the original ones in their make and government servants and women often fall prey to them. It starts with fake account holders striking friendships with their gullible victims, the police said. The seemingly innocuous and friendly chat then descends into a torrential flow of vulgar messages. “By the time, the victims realise their folly, it would be too late. We have received too many complaints and in most cases we have been able to find some solutions,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). Fake charity Similar frauds are also being conducted in the guise of charity. A trend of forging Facebook accounts of government servants in seeking donations for charity has caught up. The ploy is to trap victims by selling them the trust worthiness of government servants. Many such accounts have been forged, including that of senior officers. Many have fallen for the trap and lost money, the police said. The hacking of accounts of government employees is also rife. “Often the accounts of those who use their mobile numbers as passwords are being hacked into. It is imperative to use stronger and safe passwords,” said Mr. Karthik.
02 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||934 test positive as COVID-19 spurt continues in Ernakulam||Ernakulam continued to register a high number of patients, as 934 tested positive for SARS-CoV2 virus on Thursday, taking the total number of patients in the district to 8,590. A total of 740 of the new patients acquired the infection locally, with the source of infection of 150 untraced. Sixteen health workers were among the infected. While 226 patients recovered, a fresh lot of 1,410 people were brought under disease surveillance on Thursday and 2,006 were taken off the list following completion of the mandatory quarantine. As on Thursday, there were 23,429 people under disease surveillance. New admissions in hospitals and COVID-19 First Line Treatment Centres (CFLTCs) stood at 237 while 129 were discharged. While 4,815 patients were in isolation at their homes, 1,775 were in CFLTCs, 697 in private hospitals, 110 at the naval hospital Sanjeevani, 27 at the COVID-19 special PVS Hospital and 232 at the Government Medical College in Ernakulam.
02 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||With seats reserved for women, male politicians scramble for safe areas||Prominent male politicians in the city are scrambling for safe seats to contest in the upcoming civic polls as their sitting seats have been reserved for women. The 50% women reservation system followed in the local bodies of the State would earmark 37 seats for women to contest in Kochi Corporation. In the process, the seats that were open in the general category during the last election have become reserved seats. The sitting seats of prominent councillors, including Deputy Mayor K.R. Premakumar; Standing Committee chairpersons P.M. Harris, P.D. Martin and Johnson Master; and LDF leaders K.J. Antony, V.P. Chandran, Benedict Fernandez; former Standing Committee chairpersons A.B. Sabu and K.V.P. Krishnakumar, have been reserved for women in the upcoming elections. Mr. Premakumar, who now represents the Konam division in the council, may move to Perumbadappu, from where he won the 2010 election. It was Mr. Premakumar who first recorded a UDF victory in the division, which was once considered as the stronghold of LDF. Mr. Harris, the representative of Kaloor North, may try his luck from the nearby Pottakuzhi division, which was represented by CPI leader Shakkeer in 2010. As the division was reserved for women in 2015, CPI fielded Jamini, who won the division for the front. This time, Mr. Shakkeer may return to the division to contest. Congress councillor M.B. Muralidharan may shift to Padivattom division, which is located close to the Vennala division, which he is representing in the council. Mr. Muralidharan had won the Padivattom seat too, earlier for the Congress. LDF leader K.J. Antony may have to look for new seats if the party decides to field its veteran leader one more time to the council. He had earlier represented the Fort Kochi-Veli division. It would be a tough call for the CPI(M) if it decides to field Mr. Chandran to seek mandate again as almost all the seats in the Champakkara area have become reserved seats. It’s also the case with Mr. Sabu as no general seats are available for him to contest from his home turf. Mr. Sabu and Mr. Chandran may have to leave their home grounds and move to the central city areas in search of seats. The availability of seats for these senior councillors outside their domain would depend upon on a host of social and political factors. It is to be seen how many senior men would succeed to get a seat to contest in the election, which may be held by the year-end.
02 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Mayor lists out corpn’s relief initiatives||Mayor Soumini Jain denied allegations that the local body had failed to set up sufficient number of First Line Treatment Centres in the city. A left legislator had alleged that the civic administration had failed to provide the required facilities for the patients. According to Ms. Jain, the civic body had set up the COVID-19 treatment and management facilities as instructed by the authorities. Handwash facilities were set up and masks and sanitisers distributed. Fumigation and cleaning drives were also carried out besides setting up food distribution points, she said. Five community kitchens were set up in the city and 1,000 food packets were distributed each day from these centres. The civic administration also set up 17 community kitchens as instructed by the State government, she said. The local body would open more centres before October 7. The centres would be set up at A. J. Hall, Kaloor; St. Francis Church Hall, Kaloor; community hall, Palluruthy; and Pandit Karuppan Hall, Eda Kochi. A formal communication would be send to the district collector in this regard shortly, she said. Ms. Jain said the local body had not violated any rules regarding the refunding of the security deposit to the contractor of the corporation for the the housing project under Rajiv Gandhi Avas Yojana.
02 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Film chamber plea for bailout package||The Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce on Thursday said the reopening of cinemas would not be possible till the government declared a bailout package for the industry hit hard by the pandemic crisis. Though the Union government has permitted reopening cinema halls with 50% occupancy from October 15, cinema theatres in Kerala would not be able to resume operations with the present rate of entertainment tax and GST (Goods and Services Tax) slabs on ticket collections, it said. K. Vijayakumar, president of the chamber, requested the government to issue a direction to local bodies to stop collecting the entertainment tax on movie tickets. The present slab of 12% GST on tickets that cost less than Rs. 100 and 18% on tickets above Rs. 100 should be reviewed in view of the financial uncertainties triggered by the COVID-19 crisis, he said. Power bills The film chamber said that the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) had imposed fixed power charges on theatre owners despite the cinema halls remaining closed for nearly 210 days since March. The fixed charge was around Rs. 45,000 for a single-screen facility. The reopening would incur additional expenses on the owners as an estimated Rs. 3 lakh to Rs. 4 lakh was required to carry out maintenance and cleaning work.
02 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Online art show in Gandhi’s honour||“They are afraid of the spectre of Gandhi because they shot him or Gandhi did not commit suicide” is the theme of an online exhibition being inaugurated after midnight on Thursday on the occasion of the 150th birth anniversary of the Mahatma on Friday. A total of 200 works by 120 artists will be part of the exhibition being curated by T. A. Satyapal. Artists whose works will be on display include Riyaz Komu, Hem Jyotika, Shyamili Chaliha, Bharvi Trivedi, and Shyam Sharma, said Mr. Satyapal. He said that the online exhibition in the times of the pandemic was a memorial for the Mahatma by the White Rose Movement against violence and war. Those who killed the Mahatama were not only afraid of his ghost but also of anyone who thought and dreamt. The exhibition was an expression of anger against Gandhi’s killing, he said. The exhibition was inaugurated by the well-known scholar, Dr. G. N. Devy, and Dr. Kalankumar Chakrabarty presided. The exhibition can be viewed on the White Rose Facebook page as well as on its website.
02 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fugitive accused of thefts nabbed||A theft accused who had jumped custody while being kept at the detention centre of the jail department at Karukutty was nabbed from Palarivattom bypass with an allegedly stolen motorcycle in the early hours on Thursday. The arrested was identified as Mishal, 23, of Kathiroor in Kannur district. He had allegedly stolen the motorcycle from within the Infopark station limits. He had managed to escape from the detention centre along with another notorious accused, Suresh aka Dracula Suresh, in the early hours of September 26. Suresh, who has 20-odd theft and robbery cases against his name across the State, was since then arrested by the Perumbavoor police during another theft attempt. The accused arrested by the police and excise were kept at the detention centre during the interim period after their production in court. They will be sent to the prison only if their test for SARS-CoV-2 returns a negative result. If it turns positive, they are sent to the First Line Treatment Centre at the convention centre of the Kochi airport.
02 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Remains of demolition debris still lying at site: SLMC||The State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on Solid Waste Management appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has found that the remains of the demolition debris scooped out from the nearby Vembanad lake were still lying at the demolition site of the Alfa Serene apartment. The committee will soon issue a directive to the Maradu municipality to remove the soil and bricks without delay. “I had visited the site on Wednesday to take stock of the situation and it was found that the remains of the debris from the lake removed through dredging were remaining at the site. The chances of the soil and other waste flowing into the waterbody owing to the rain were high,” said A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai, Chairman of the SLMC. The Southern Bench of the NGT had directed the SLMC chairman to monitor the removal of debris and submit an independent report before October 28. In its order issued on August 11, the bench comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta had asked the committee constituted to monitor the removal of the debris as per the provisions of the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016 to file its report within two months. The Maradu Municipality was also told to produce documents on the action taken to remove the demolition debris that fell into the lake before the State Pollution Control Board and the technical committee. The municipality had used dredgers to remove the debris that fell into the Vembanad waters, following the tribunal’s order. Fishermen in the region had lodged a complaint before the SLMC that their fishing nets were damaged owing to the presence of the concrete debris. Investigations by the board revealed that the debris had fallen at a stretch of approximately 15 metres towards the middle of the backwaters. The SLMC chairman has received complaints from nearby residents that the open access to the Alfa Serene demolition site has resulted in the entry of miscreants, especially during the night hours. The entry to the site was restricted using an entrance gate. But residents pointed out that the gate was now remaining open after the debris from the lake was removed.
02 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Compassion, not cash, is what this mess is run on||Walking into a small mess at the Gandhi Square in Poonithura, the first thing that draws attention is an old red postbox at a location where a conventional eatery would have had its cash counter. Soon it emerges that the place has no cashier and that the postbox on the wall doubles up as the cash box or a donation box as one perceives it. The postbox displays the nominal fares for breakfast, lunch, and tea and snack, with a message on the side assuring that every extra coin will go to the deserving. But that exhibition of fares is more of a formality as the mess being run on the licence of a now-defunct canteen of an Ayurveda centre that makes such a display mandatory. Customers are free to pay those exact fares, more, less, or even pay nothing if they cannot afford it.  “The underlying concept is one of sharing and compassion and even the postbox, which is associated with our nostalgic memories, was chosen to evoke those soft sentiments. That we are able to run consistently means that those who can afford are paying more, thus feeding the ones who cannot. This is a model that can be emulated by anyone, especially youngsters with a drive, as it can be run even from one’s house or a portion of a shop,” said Fr. Bobby Jose, who came up with the idea and runs the mess with support of fellow Franciscan priests under the aegis of the Capuchin Shanthi Ashram. Sure enough, people are getting inspired as a hotelier in Kaloor is planning to implement it partially. Service-oriented The mess is being run for fixed hours in the morning (7.30 a.m. to 9 a.m.), afternoon (12.30 p.m. to 2 p.m.) and evening (4 p.m. to 5 p.m.). The self-service mess has no plan to compete with conventional eateries as it remains service-oriented. “We offer a frugal and nutrient vegetarian lunch in hygienic surroundings for around 60 people. Already, we have regulars who want to support the cause and gradually their number will increase once the flow of the curious lot subsides, which for sure will,” said Fr. Jose. And this he believes will build camaraderie and kinship among regulars, which is also among one of the objectives of the initiative. Sujith, a private company employee, is among the committed lot and recently he brought his boss, originally from a north Indian State but settled here for long, to the mess. The boss was impressed and Sujith was buoyed. And thus a message is passed on — of compassion, kindness, and humanity.
02 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Flying squads register 44 cases||Two flying squads led by Kanayannur tahsildar Beena P. Anand and tahsildar (LR) Rani P. Eldho conducted searches to spot COVID-19 protocol violations and 44 cases were registered against violators on Thursday. The searches, conducted along with police officers, were held in areas under the Ernakulam Central police station. Thirty-three of the cases were for not maintaining social distancing, 10 for not wearing masks and a case against a shop for not adhering to the restrictions. The searches were held between 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. District Collector S. Suhas said the searches would be intensified in the coming days.
02 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||GIFT City: concern over takeover of residential areas||Ayampuzha panchayat representatives, who met State government officials here on Thursday, expressed concern over takeover of residential areas for the proposed GIFT City project in the panchayat. They also conveyed their anxiety over the impact of the project on the environment as well as loss of cultivable land. Industries Additional Chief Secretary Alkeshkumar Sharma and District Collector S. Suhas assured the Ayampuzha panchayat representatives, led by president Neethu Anu, that people’s concerns would be addressed. Mr. Sharma said that the project involved building a cosmopolitan city, which would be implemented taking the views of people into consideration. The District Collector assured the meeting that it would be a non-polluting venture and that the upcoming social impact study would address the concerns expressed by people. He told residents of the panchayat not to be fooled by land brokers or middlemen and to approach the government directly for any clarification. Protest staged At the same time, a group of panchayat residents under the banner of Janakeeya Munnetta Samiti staged a protest against the project before the meeting venue in Kaloor. Bijoy Cherian of the Samiti said it was not justifiable to evict farmers and poor people for a venture that would serve the richer sections of society. Shaju Parappally, member of the panchayat, said that around 95 families would have to be evicted from ward 9, which he represented.
02 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Make HIL part of FACT, demand trade unions||Trade unions at the HIL unit at Udyogamandal have suggested that the government consider making the unit a part of the public sector Fertilisers and Chemicals Travancore Limited (FACT) to prevent HIL’s winding up operations in Kerala. The suggestion has come even as NITI Aayog is reported to have recommended the closure of HIL, formerly Hindustan Insecticides Limited. Trade union sources said that the Central planning establishment suggested in early September that HIL operations be wound up as it was not viable to disinvest a part of the 100% government holdings and list the company.  A meeting of trade unions (TUs) cutting across party affiliations here on October 6 will chalk out a plan of action and discuss the future. A total of 107 employees on the rolls of the company and about 60 contract workers are a worried lot as the future looks bleak for them. The HIL unit near Kalamassery is one of the oldest public sector undertakings in the State. Established in 1957, the HIL was on the forefront of efforts to contain diseases such as malaria and kala azar. Later, the company turned to producing agro pesticides. DDT, BHC and later endosulfan were produced at the unit here. Of late it has been producing Mancozeb, glyphocete and pendimethalin. K. N. Rupesh, general secretary of the HIL Employees’ Organisation, BMS, said all trade unions would participate in the meeting being held on October 6. He said the unions wanted the State government to step in to prevent a closure. He said the employees were ready to accept the suggestions by the Union government to make the unit viable. The salaries of the employees and officers have been delayed of late and there has been no revision of wages over the last five years, he added. The employees’ unions planned to approach the Union Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers and to make suggestions on turning the unit into a viable one, he said.
02 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Hi-tech app to mitigate waterlogging||For a city notorious for inundation in a single spell of strong showers, an app to map the flood-prone areas and undertake targeted mitigation measures with technological aid cannot have come a day earlier. The Flood Free Kochi App, which was launched by Mayor Soumini Jain, does precisely that. The app has been jointly developed by the Kochi Corporation in association with German International Co-operation Agency (GIZ). It is part of a global program “ICT-based Adaptation to Climate Change in Cities” (ICT-A) being implemented by GIZ. The app is designed to collect data from multiple locations in the city limits experiencing waterlogging and runs on both Android and iOS platforms. It can be a technological tool for both residents and visitors to the city to report waterlogging to the authorities. It envisages both the general public and officials as volunteers for efficient intervention. The app will accurately drainages, and man-made or natural obstructions to the flow of water, enabling timely maintenance ahead of rainfall to prevent urban flooding. Additional services will be bundled into the app in due course. The crowd reporting application empowers any citizen to report flood-affected areas and volunteers assisted by Global Positioning System can intervene to address the problem. The Geographic Information System also offers an insight into the affected area’s uniqueness, population, and topography.
02 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Police foil bid to smuggle out ganja through courier||The Central police on Thursday arrested a person on the charge of attempting to smuggle out 3.5 kg of ganja out to Dubai concealed in a courier of clothes. The arrested man was identified as Ajeesh Sasidharan, 25, of Wagamon in Idukki. According to police, the accused had brought the contraband to the courier service company hidden in a consignment of track suits and t-shirts. Ganja was hidden in hard-to-detect small packets attached to each piece of cloth. The police claimed that the accused had successfully smuggled out ganja in this manner before. More people are suspected to be involved in the deal while the address in Dubai to which the consignment was to be dispatched was being looked into. The police suspect the involvement of more persons in the case. A team of inspector S. Vijaysanker, sub inspectors Thomas K.X. and Sunilkumar, assistant sub inspectors Mani, Gopi, and Pradeep and civil police officers Ranjith, Ignasius, Isahak, and Reji made the arrest.
02 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Periye case diary cannot be given: govt.||The State government on Thursday informed the Kerala High Court that the case diary relating to the Periye double murder case could not be handed over to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) as an appeal is pending before the Supreme Court against the High Court order upholding the CBI probe. The government made the submission when a bail petition filed by Subeesh, an accused in the case, came up for hearing. The case relates to the murder of Youth Congress workers Kripesh, 21, and Sarath Lal, 24, at Kallyot, near Periye, in Kasaragod on February 17, 2019. The CBI had earlier submitted that it was not able to go ahead with the investigation as it had not been given the case diary. Senior public prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy submitted that the Supreme Court had sought the response of the parties. The High Court reserved its order on the bail petition.
02 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CBSE schools’ fee: HC seeks explanation||The Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the CBSE school managements’ association to file a statement explaining under what heads they are allowing their member schools to charge fee for 2020-2021 academic year. Justice Devan Ramachandran also asked the association to state the concessions that they can offer to students in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Plea by schools The directives were passed on a petition filed by various school managements alleging that the parents of the students were unfairly taking advantage of the COVID-19 pandemic and refusing to pay the fee for the 2020-2021 academic year. The petitioners sought a directive to the State Police Chief to ensure that no disruption was caused to the functioning of their school by parents or any others. They said they were entitled to charge the same fee which they had charged for the year 2019-2020.
02 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||C-HED bags national award||The Centre for Heritage, Environment and Development (C-HED) of the Kochi Corporation has been adjudged winner of the innovative model for urban governance instituted by the Union government’s Housing and Urban Development Corporation for recognising best practices to improve living environment. The award for the 2019-20 fiscal was declared at a function held in New Delhi on Thursday. Mayor Soumini Jain, who is also the chairperson of C-HED, termed the award as a recognition for Kochi city. In the urban design and regional planning, inner city revitalisation and conservation category, the taxi stand-cum-laddies retiring room project of the Perinthalmanna Municipality bagged the prize. C-HED has been associating with the Corporation in the planning and designing of various modern city development projects. The organisation founded with the approval of the State government in 2002 has since then been instrumental in establishing contacts between the city and various global institutions and agencies.
02 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC seeks Customs response||The Kerala High Court on Thursday asked the Customs to file a statement in response to a plea by Swapna Suresh, the prime accused in the diplomatic gold smuggling case, for a copy of her recorded statement. Her plea for a copy of the statement was earlier turned down by the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Court (Economic Offences). Her statement was recorded under Section 108 of the Customs Act.
02 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Actors agree to pay cut||Actors Tovino Thomas and Joju George have agreed to a pay cut in their new movies after the Kerala Film Producers Association (KFPA) stuck to its declared stance that artistes need to reduce their salary in view of the crisis. The producers informed KFPA on Thursday that the actors had agreed to reduce their pay. Siyad Kokker, convener of the scrutiny committee, said the pay for Tovino mentioned in the agreement was Rs. 1 crore while the corresponding figure for Joju was Rs. 50 lakh. Joju had now agreed to reduce it to Rs. 30 lakh. Tovino would take a share of the profit earned by the producer.
02 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||633 cases in Kollam||The total number of active cases in the district crossed 6,000 with 633 more persons, including one health worker, testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. Among the patients are 620 contact cases, five persons who had travelled from various Indian States, and seven others with no known source. While the number of recoveries is 213, the caseload in Kollam Corporation continues to peak with nearly 250 persons testing positive on Thursday. No known source The health worker who contracted the infection is a 54-year-old Pattazhy resident who has been working at Government General Hospital, Adoor. The patients with no known source are from Kalluvathukkal, Kottamukku, Vaddy, Vedormukku, Thazhava, Thrikkovialvattam, and Pathanapuram. The Health Department has been promoting home care in the district and setting up COVID-19 corners at all taluk hospitals. A 90-year-old Ummaur resident put in home care had recovered on Wednesday along with her 55-year-old son and two grandchildren. Though the department wanted to shift her to a hospital, the family opted for home care and the woman, also a diabetes patient, was closely monitored by the doctors of Nedumankavau Community Health Centre.
02 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||340 in Kottayam||The number of COVID-19 positive cases continued to surge in Kottayam with 340 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. Among the infected, 324 persons, including eight health-care workers and six persons from other districts, contracted the disease through local contact. Meanwhile, 16 persons came from other States. Kottayam municipality led the tally with 40 cases, followed by Ramapuram grama panchayat and Erattupetta municipality with 16 and 14 new cases respectively. Cases were also reported from Panachikadu (12 cases), Aymanam and Erumeli (11 each), Changanassery municipality, Kanjirapally and Vazhappally panchayats (10 each), Mundakkayam (9) and Vakathanam (8), etc. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day was 7.6% with the Health Department releasing he results of 4,499 medical samples on the day. The infected persons included 184 men, 122 women, and 34 children. Among them, 39 persons were aged above 60 years. With 150 recoveries, the district currently has 4,434 active cases. Meanwhile, the total number of infected persons in Kottayam has crossed the 11,000-mark. Of these, 6,597 have recovered while 15 deaths have been recorded officially.
02 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Church to take lead in fi ghting COVID-19||A three-day episcopal conference of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, which concluded here on Thursday, decided to take up an unprecedented programme that will enable them to take up a pivotal role in tackling COVID-19 and its impact. The synod, chaired by Catholicos of the East and Malankara Metropolitan Baselios Marthoma Paul II, decided to expend all its resources and extend all possible help to the government in mitigating the impact of the global pandemic. As part of the initiative, the Church decided to hand over all available institutions under it and buildings attached to its parishes to be used as quarantine centres. Call to faithful Calling upon the faithful to leave their unoccupied homes for COVID-19 treatment, it also entrusted the Malankara Orthodox Christian Youth Movement with the task of providing all possible assistance to those suffering due to the pandemic, irrespective of caste and religion. “Expatriates who have lost their jobs will be given training in various fields of work under the auspices of the Church’s human empowerment division. Free counselling and other health services will be provided to those living in fear of the disease under the aegis of the Orthodox Medical Forum and Vipasana. The activities of the Medical Forum will be strengthened at the parish level,” synod authorities said. Simple life The synod suggested that the Church and the community practice a simple life in harmony with nature in the face of recurring natural disasters and contagious diseases. Taking a serious note on the upsurge in fake news and character assassination through social media, it would request the government to bring in periodic changes in cyberlaws. The synod also provided guidelines for coordinating the activities of the Church's visual media committee.
02 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Police to probe alleged job fraud||The Kottayam district police launched a probe into an alleged job fraud involving a person claiming to be an office-bearer of the INTUC. Officials said complaints had been received against one Raju Antony, a native of Changanassery, for allegedly duping about Rs. 1 crore from five persons by offering them recruitment at various public sector units. The cheating had taken place two years ago. As the fraud came to light, the accused had agreed to repay the amount but gave them fake cheques. Following this, the victims lodged a complaint with the District Police Chief.
02 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode records highest number of cases in State||Kozhikode registered the highest number of fresh COVID-19 cases in the State on Thursday when 1,072 people were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. As many as 1,005 of them were infected through local transmission, including 388 from within the Kozhikode corporation alone, said a release from the District Medical Officer. The other areas in the district with a high incidence of infection are Thiruvalloor (48), Villiappally (46), Koduvally (39), Olavanna (36), Kottur (33), Koyilandy (31), and Feroke (30). The source of infection in 45 persons is not known. There are 16 health workers among the newly infected. Four deaths were reported at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Wednesday and Thursday. While a 68-year-old man from Tirur in Malappuram and a 73-year-old man from Kuttiyal Thazham in Kozhikode died on Thursday, a 75-year-old woman from Kuttiadi and a 70-year-old woman from Puthiyakadavu in Kozhikode died on Wednesday. The district administration has made COVID Jagrata ID mandatory for those testing positive. According to sources, this is part of efforts to coordinate COVID-19 treatment procedures and route them through the portal. As soon as anyone is reported infected, details will be uploaded on to the portal, and an SMS with the ID number will be sent to the person’s registered mobile number. This number can be used for further treatment. The respective local bodies will get details about the surveillance steps. Health workers will contact the infected person to figure out the admission process. The portal has facilities for daily monitoring and tele-consultation. If there are symptoms, a reference letter will be automatically sent from the portal to the hospital. The ID is mandatory for insurance claims.
02 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Gold smuggling thrives at Calicut airport||Despite strict enforcement, smuggling of gold from GCC cities, especially Dubai, is continuing unabated at the Calicut International Airport. Sources said the gangs based at Bhatkal, a coastal Karnataka town, are using the airport for shifting staggering amounts of contraband in the Vande Bharat Mission flights. “Numerous cases of smuggling of gold, either in ornaments or in compounds, have emerged at the airport. Incidentally, gangs try to smuggle gold in small amounts and later pool for selling,” an official said. Dubai-based smuggling syndicates have been operating at Mangaluru, Kannur and Calicut airports for smuggling high-valued contraband. Smuggling gold in small quantities has been detected earlier also when the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence seized 2.5 kg of the yellow metal from 10 passengers at Mangaluru,” he added. The changing modus operandi, the official said, was that seizure of small quantities of gold did not attract huge penalties and was also considered a non-bailable offence. “On Wednesday, three persons from Bhatkal attempted to smuggle gold in small quantities of 200 gm each. However, gold concealed in any form will be confiscated. Usually, the contraband is detected in powdered form and mixed with gum or chemical paste. Many cases include concealing gold inside undergarments and also in private parts and body cavities,” he said. The lockdown has prompted smugglers to adopt new concealment tactics. “One of the passengers flying down from Dubai was arrested for concealing gold behind the exhalation valve of his (KN-95) face mask. He was also a native of Bhatkal,” the official said. Recent cases also revealed that gold is smuggled from Saudi Arabia and Qatar as well.
02 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||CM opens renovated Koyilandy harbour||Promising better service to over 19,000 fishers, the renovated Koyilandy fishing harbour was thrown open on Thursday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the completed project through videoconferencing. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Vijayan said, “Though the project was approved in 2005, it was completed by the LDF government crossing all technical hurdles.” According to him, the project, which was completed at a cost of Rs. 66.7 crore, will offer more safety to fishing boats, besides improving local fishers’ trade. “Even during adverse climates, they will be able to function safely,” he observed. Presiding over the function, Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma said the construction of the wharf and the parking area was the most complicated part of the project. “We had to fill a waterlogged area for realising the parking facility,” she recalled. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran who unveiled a plaque said the project would help local fishers operate more boats safely, thus increasing their income. “We executed this project with farsightedness, and it will be visible in the days to come,” he noted. Koyilandy MLA K. Dasan, Municipal Chairman K. Sathian, and heads of various local self-government bodies were present. Meanwhile, BJP and Bharatiya Yuva Morcha activists staged a protest at the harbour, alleging that Union Minister V. Muraleedharan was not invited to the function. They claimed the project became a reality with the Centre’s assistance. Some of them waved black flags during the inaugural ceremony.
02 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||QR code-based registration service a non-starter||The QR code-based visitor registration service jointly introduced by the National Informatics Centre and IT Mission on the official COVID-19 Jagratha portal was launched to end manual registration using pen and paper at shops and other commercial establishments. But the service, originally an initiative of the Kozhikode district administration, appears to be a non-starter. While the service is under implementation in some districts, it is yet to be explored by a majority of traders here. Despite a steady spike in the number of COVID-19 cases, large-scale shopping centres and supermarkets in the city have been ignoring the e-based monitoring process, which can effectively help the authorities track the primary contacts of patients and put them in quarantine. Though the QR code generation feature has been available for download for over a month, only 3,361 registrations have been completed so far owing to the absence of follow-up measures or legal action by the authorities. There has also not been any noticeable progress in the number of new registrations. According to officials monitoring the website, shop owners or event managers can easily generate QR codes using their mobile numbers and display them at shops or event venues. Customers or event participants can easily scan the code using their mobile phones and enter their details on the portal without any technical hurdles, they said. The sole purpose of introducing the e-platform was to replace a comparatively insecure manual method with a safer option. Accurate recording of data too was another objective, as particulars entered in several registers were found illegible during examination. Despite directives to local self-government bodies, rapid response teams, health squads, and the police to monitor its proper implementation at the time of the launch, they have failed to do it along with other routine tasks. Also, some shop owners openly opposed it, claiming that it posed hurdles to those without smartphones. According to them, reduced staff strength too is a reason for not trying such options. IT Mission officials said that accurate entry of visitor details, preferably through the new platform, was crucial for COVID-19 related data analytics and information management for better preparation for the days to come. The Chief Minister too had called for its effective use by traders, they added.
02 October 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Active cases inching towards 6,000 in Malappuram||The fight against COVID-19 continued with zest, with officials led by District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan donating plasma on Thursday. Mr. Gopalakrishnan and his colleagues joined the National Voluntary Blood Donation Day observance at Government Medical College, Manjeri. Assistant Collector Vishnu Raj, Collector’s gunman T. Vinu, and driver K.M. Prasad joined Mr. Gopalakrishnan by donating plasma to help patients in critical condition. Mr. Gopalakrishnan called upon those who survived the disease to donate plasma. He had tested positive for the virus on August 14 and recovered in less than 10 days. Meanwhile, 968 people tested positive for the virus in the district on Thursday. There were 602 recoveries. As many as 879 cases were found to have contracted the infection through local contact. There were 77 cases whose source of infection could not be traced. Meanwhile, the number of active cases rose to 5,997. In Kasaragod As many as 471 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod district on Thursday. Of them, 453 contracted the virus through local contact, while 10 came from other States and eight from abroad. As many as 4,431 people are under observation. They include 3,161 at home and 1,270 in institutional quarantine. Meanwhile, the disease has so far been confirmed in 11,258 people in the district. Of them, 739 came from abroad and 569 from other States. As many as 9,950 case were through local transmission. In Kannur In Kannur district, a total of 435 people tested positive for the virus on Thursday. Of them, 386 contracted the infection through local contact, while two came from abroad and 19 returned from other States. Twenty-eight of the infected persons are health workers. This brings the total number of positive cases in the district to 11,918. As many as 6,858 have been cured of the disease. Of the existing cases, 3,389 are being treated at home, and the remaining 1,135 are at various hospitals and first-line treatment centres. In Wayanad A total of 143 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Thursday, taking the total number of active cases in the district to 1,060. Of them, 140 persons, including five health workers, were infected through local contact, while three persons returned from other States. The district has so far reported 3,785 cases. Of them, 2,705 recovered, including 56 persons, on Thursday. There are now 3,917 people under observation.  (With inputs from Kasaragod, Kannur and Wayanad bureaus)
02 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Farm produce collection centre opened||T. Ahamed Kabeer, MLA, inaugurated a farm produce collection centre at Kuruva near here on Thursday. The centre was set up with Rs. 30 lakh aid from NABARD. The centre will collect produce from farmers of Kuruva panchayat in the district and find apt markets. Efforts are on to process various items by way of making fruit juice, pickles, and dry chips. The 3,000-sq ft two-storey collection centre has a conference hall and facilities for processing. Kuruva grama panchayat president Yusuf Mullappalli presided.
02 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Elephant tramples man to death||A man from Thandamkallu tribal hamlet at Pothukallu, near Nilambur, was trampled to death by a wild elephant on Wednesday night. Jayan, 50, was on his way home when he reportedly got in front of the elephant at Thalappalipotty. His body was shifted to Government District Hospital, Nilambur.
02 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Block-level FLTCs in Palakkad||The district is set to open first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) at the block-level by October 5 as the spurt in COVID-19 cases continues unabated. Minister for Welfare of SC, ST and OBC A.K. Balan said here on Thursday that all COVID-19 cases without health complications would be treated at block-level FLTCs. The Minister said more attention could be given to category ‘B’ and ‘C’ cases. Briefing the media after a COVID-19 review meeting, Mr. Balan said the General Hospital, the designated COVID-19 hospital of Palakkad, had reached its full capacity. He said arrangements were being made for treatment of COVID-19 patients in private hospitals if the spurt continued in the coming months. A special ward with 24 ICU beds was kept aside for COVID-19 treatment at General Hospital. Similarly, 14 rooms were kept aside for pregnant women who test positive for COVID-19 at Government Women and Children Hospital. “Besides, Government Medical College here and FLTCs at Pattambi, Peringottukurissi, Government Victoria College, KINFRA and Agali are also offering treatment,” he said. Collector D. Balamurali said that plans were afoot to increase the number of daily tests in the district. Mr. Balan said arrangements were made at Kerala Medical College at Mangod for treating category-B patients. Two ventilators and 100 beds with an oxygen facility were arranged there. Several private hospitals in the district too began COVID-19 treatment facilities. Valluvanad Hospital has kept aside 60 beds for COVID-19 patients. Thankam Hospital has arranged 32 oxygen kits as part of gearing up for COVID-19 . PK Das Medical College has 100 beds and two ventilators for COVID-19 treatment. Palana and Welcare Hospitals have kept aside 20 beds each, Avitis Hospital has readied 15 beds and Lakshmi Hospital has kept aside eight beds for COVID-19. According to Mr. Balan, 2,007 asymptomatic patients were currently isolated at home in the district.
02 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Mega food park comes into being||The State’s first mega food park began functioning here on Thursday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Union Minister for Agriculture and Food Processing Industries Narendra Singh Tomar jointly inaugurated the Kinfra Mega Food Park. The Chief Minister said that the project would speed up the State’s development in the food processing sector. He said it would bring about a renewed verve to the agriculture sector in the State. The food park would provide several concessions to entrepreneurs. Apart from a Central grant and National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) loan, 35% of the investment would be given as grant. Around 50 units are expected to operate in the food park. Land was allotted for 30 units already, and two units have begun functioning. Eleven units are under construction.  Farmers to benefit  Minister for Industries E.P. Jayarajan presided. District panchayat members Nitin Kanichery and K. Chinna Swamy and several local body heads took part in the programme held at Kinfra here. Officials said more than two lakh farmers would benefit from the mega food park, which would strengthen the agriculture and industrial sectors. The park had begun its work in June 2017 and could complete the construction within the stipulated time. The park in 79.42 acres of land costs Rs. 102.13 crore. The Centre gave Rs. 40 crore in grant, and the rest was met by the State government. Officials said more than 4,000 people would get jobs directly and nearly 10,000 people indirectly at the food park.
02 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Mundur-Thootha road to be renovated in 18 months||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday inaugurated the renovation work of the 37-km road from Mundur to Thootha. The road connecting Perinthalmanna with Palakkad is expected to ease transportation between the two towns. Mr. Vijayan said that durable roads would be constructed by adopting modern technology in the wake of the damage suffered in the 2018-2019 floods. The road with World Bank aid will be a key component of the Rebuild Kerala Initiative. The road renovation work is envisaged to be completed in 18 months. KMC Constructions has been given the contract, and it will be responsible for immediate repair work for the next five years, said the Chief Minister. He said the work on Attappady-Thavalam road too would begin soon.  Rs. 1,783 crore The Chief Minister said that 11,000-km road and more than 100 bridges damaged in the floods were repaired by spending Rs. 1,783 crore. About 5,000 roads are being repaired under the rural road development scheme. Road repair is being done to the tune of Rs. 950 crore with the help of NABARD. Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) is funding Rs. 14,700 crore for road and infrastructure development in the State. Presiding over the function, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran said that most modern technology was being adopted in road repairs in the State. About Rs. 1 crore is spent for a km length of road, he said. He said the PWD would press the contracting companies to complete the work in time. K.V. Vijayadas, MLA, P.K. Sasi, MLA, District Panchayat president K. Santhakumari, Palakkad block panchayat president M.P. Bindu and several civil body heads attended the online programme.
02 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||513 new cases in district||As many as 513 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Thursday. While 300 of them were found to have contracted the virus through local contact, the source of infection could not be traced in 169 cases. District authorities warned the people to exercise extra caution against the pandemic. Among the fresh cases, 26 had come from other States and 18 from abroad. District Collector D. Balamurali said 113 people recovered from the disease on Thursday. The number of cases under treatment in hospitals has risen to 4,437.
02 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Road restoration works to begin soon at Sabarimala||With the annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku festival season in Sabarimala fast approaching, the Public Works Department (PWD) is set to begin restoration of the Mannarakulanji-Pampa road. According to PWD officials, the State government has accorded sanction for works worth Rs. 1.70 crore for repairing the road. Tenders have been invited and the work is expected to begin next week. “The scope of the work will include stabilisation of the slopes at Planthodu, besides relaying about 100-150 metres of the road that developed fissures,’’ said Sheena Rajan, executive engineer, PWD (Roads) Pathanamthitta. Taking into consideration the possibility of further slope failures, gabion structures will be constructed where signs of weakness are visible, while coir-geo textile will be laid on the slopes on either side of the road. The work is expected to be completed by October end. Traffic along the 18-km road has been banned ever since it developed cracks and fissures between Attathodu and Pampa during the rain. While examining these fissures, the National Centre for Earth Science Studies (NCESS) has cautioned that the whole stretch is likely to fail in the northeast monsoon season. Curbs on traffic along the road has affected the preparations at Pampa and at the Sannidhanam. In a report to the Kerala High Court, Sabarimala Special Commissioner M. Manoj had sought to expedite the road works as vehicles carrying pilgrims and essential commodities took this route. The delay in restoring the road has also cast a shadow over a proposal by the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) to permit devotees to the temple on a trial basis during the monthly puja starting on October 16. Meanwhile, the PWD will also carry out repair works on six more routes, including the Thiruvalla-Kumbazha Road and the Chethonkara-Athikkayam roads, at Rs. 59 crore ahead of the season. Tender proceedings are expected soon. Official sources pointed to the possibility of a delay in the works due to the cold response in tender proceedings.
02 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Gavi to reopen today for tourists||After a six-month hiatus owing to the COVID-19 outbreak, the popular ecotourism centre of Gavi in Pathanamthitta has finally opened its gates for tourists. According to the Forest Range Officer at Goodrickal, visitors will be permitted entry to the hill station through the Angamoozhi-Kochandi check-post from Friday. The entry of tourists will be strictly regulated through online booking and also in line with the COVID-19 guidelines. For bookings, visit www.gavikakkionline.com. Massive blow The destination, nestled in the lush green forests of the Western Ghats, used to receive about 200 visitors a day until it was closed down in March. The village, having tourism as one of its mainstays, suffered a massive blow to business owing to the pandemic-induced lockdown. The Kerala Forest Development Corporation (KFDC), which manages the activities in the destination with active involvement of the local populace, offers different tour packages that facilitate maximum exposure to wildlife.
02 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||223 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 223 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Thursday Of the fresh cases, 164 contracted the virus through local transmission while eight had landed from abroad. With 18 cases, Thiruvalla municipality led the tally, followed by Adoor municipality and Ezhankulam panchayat with 14 cases apiece. Meanwhile, two more persons were tested positive for the virus infection posthumously taking the total number of COVID-19 deaths in the district to 49. They were a 64 year old Thiruvalla native who had died at two days ago and an 82-year-old Chalappally native, who died on Thursday.
02 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital’s tally goes up by 856||Thiruvananthapuram’s COVID-19 case graph went up by 856 graph on Thursday, pushing the number of active cases in the district to 11,487. The death toll jumped to 227 with nine more deaths in the district being attributed to the disease by the National Institute of Virology, Alappuzha. The deceased included natives of Pallithura (62-year-old), Pulluvila (52), Nedumangad (92), Muringavilakom (75), Neyyattinkara (61), Parassala (73), Chala (45), Attingal (61), and Kottoor (82). While 708 people contracted the infection through local transmission, the source of infection of 109 other people was unknown. Twenty-nine health workers also were among those infected. There were five imported cases, among which four had come from other States while one person had come from abroad recently. A total of 363 people recovered from the disease on Thursday. The pandemic continued to affect vulnerable sections in large numbers. While 130 people of those infected were aged above 60 years, 72 children aged below 15 years also tested positive. Perhaps for the first time in several months, Thiruvananthapuram dropped to the fourth position among districts in daily caseload tally. However, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said during his customary briefing that the gravity of the situation remained unchanged here. He said that while all efforts were taken to propagate awareness and contain the COVID-19 spread, large sections remained unwilling to adhere to the guidelines. Crowded malls “The district has begun to witness large crowds in shopping malls during the evenings and holidays. Many people have been bringing children to places that witness heavy rush. More worryingly, the same scenario prevailed near hospitals. There has also been instances of pregnant women visiting shops in the vicinity of hospitals. All such factors have been contributing to the mounting caseload in the district,” he said. Mr. Vijayan also flagged the growing number of COVID-19 cases among those aged below 40 years. “Notably, people belonging to the same age group have been found to gather in large numbers. Considering a majority of deaths being reported in the State were of senior citizens aged above 60 years, the youth should exercise greater caution while returning to their houses from outside,” he said. Caution in these areas District Collector Navjot Khosa appealed to the public for restraint in areas that had an average of over 50 active COVID-19 cases, especially within the Corporation limits. These included places coming under Vattiyurkavu urban primary health centre (UPHC) (259 cases), Attukal UPHC (238), Vettucaud UPHC (236), Nemom zone (233), Kalippankulam UPHC (207) and Chala UPHC (204).
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Attingal Palace to get its grandeur back||A witness to the first organised revolt against the British in 1721, the Attingal Palace is set to get a fresh lease of life. The sprawling complex is crumbling and in need of urgent conservation. Attingal was historically the residence of women rulers of the royal family of erstwhile Travancore. The son of the senior matriarch of Attingal was crowned the king of Travancore. Now, the State government has sanctioned Rs. 1.05 crore for the conservation of the dilapidated structure. Archaeology Director E. Dinesh said priority would be given to structural conservation. Seepage issues The entrance to the complex through a two-storey Padippura is in ruins. With massive pillars carved out from stone and wood, the Padippura is in bad shape – the wood has decayed and the roof tiles are broken, causing seepage and structural damage. Some of the columns are missing and the handrails will require rebuilding. The floor, once paved with terracotta tiles, has a cemented finish, a report prepared by the department on the palace said. Changes abound The complex comprises Naalukettu, Nadapanthal, Kothalam, and Oottupura, none of which fare much better. The original structure has undergone many changes. The Naalukettu has been altered on three sides. It has been connected to the Oottupura using iron girder and asbestos sheet. To the south, reinforced cement concrete roof slabs are also visible.  A number of materials such as wood, stone, lime work, different types of tiles, and so on have been used from the basement to the superstructure of the complex. Outside, the courtyard is covered with interlocking pavement tiles but the water collected under them is harming the palace structure. Banyan trees grow rampant and thick creepers cover the retaining wall, while the lime plastering of the compound wall is coming apart. Mr. Dinesh said attempts were on to remove as many of these changes as possible and the restore the structure to the original form in line with conservation principles. Budgetary allocation He said the government had earmarked Rs. 3 crore in the State Budget for the conservation of the palace. Immediate conservation was imperative, and the sanction of Rs. 1.05 crore would help launch the work. After e-tendering the work, the department expected to move to conservation aspects soon, he said.  Recent changes will be discarded to the maximum extent possible and the structure will be restored to the original form E. Dinesh Archaeology Director
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tally crosses 2 lakh as 8,135 test positive||COVID-19 continues to surge in Kerala, with 8,135 new cases being added on to the State’s tally on Thursday when 59,157 samples were tested in 24 hours. The cumulative case burden of the State thus crossed the two lakh mark to reach 2,04,241 cases. Test positivity rate remains steady at 13.7%. The number of recoveries reported on Thursday was 2,828. 72,339 under treatment With total recoveries reported till date reaching 1,31,052 cases, the number of patients currently undergoing treatment in various hospitals across districts is 72,339. Of these, 481 persons are critically ill and are being treated in ICUs, with another 115 patients put on ventilator support. Thiruvananthapuram district has the highest number of active cases in the State at 11,487, followed by Ernakulam with 8,583 cases, Kozhikode 7,723, Malappuram 6,279, Kollam 6,242 and Alappuzha 5,105. Idukki and Wayanad, which used to have fewer than 600 active cases a week ago, now have 1,063 and 1,043 cases each respectively. 29 more deaths The State’s COVID-19 toll reached 771, as another 29 deaths which occurred between September 1 and September 30 were added on to the official list of COVID-19 deaths on Thursday. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for nine of these deaths, Ernakulam seven, Thrissur six, Kasaragod three, Kollam three and one death in Alappuzha. Of the new cases reported on Thursday, 7,850 cases (96.4%) are locally acquired infections, which include 730 cases wherein the source of infection remained untraceable. The cases also included the infections reported in 105 health-care workers — 29 cases in Thiruvananthapuram, 26 in Kannur and 16 in Ernakulam. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram, which had remained on top for over two months, recording the maximum number of COVID-19 cases, has fallen to the fourth place as the case graph has begun to rise in other districts. District-wise numbers On Thursday, Kozhikode reported the maximum number of cases at 1,072, Malappuram 968, Ernakulam 934, Thiruvananthapuram 856, Alapuzha 804, Kollam 633, Thrissur 613, Palakkad 513, Kasaragod 471, Kannur 435, Kottayam 340, Pathanamthitta 223, Wayanad 143 and Idukki 130 cases. The number of hotspots in the State at present is 656.
02 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC launches parcel service||In a bid to enhance non-ticket revenue, the ailing Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has launched a logistics division, KSRTC Logistics, for parcel service. Modified buses of the utility will be used for transporting official letters, parcels of departments, public sector units, constitutional institutions, and private entrepreneurs. The division has been set up to mobilise funds to overcome the fall in revenue over the past six months due to poor patronage following the pandemic-induced lockdown and to meet the rising fuel bill and spare parts costs of buses. The courier service launched earlier by the KSRTC had failed to take off.  Supplyco kits The Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) has come forward to utilise the facility. It will move kits to be supplied to ration card holders for the next four months. Supplyco is hiring five buses at a monthly rent of Rs. 1.25 lakh. For every extra km after 2,500 km, Supplyco has to pay an additional Rs. 50 per km to the KSRTC. The KSRTC has plans to ferry question papers and answer sheets of the Public Service Commission, universities, and the Commissioner for Government Examinations with adequate security and GPS tracking of vehicles. Talks are on with the PSC, universities, and Pareeksha Bhavan authorities, says Managing Director Biju Prabhakar. Kerala Logistics can ferry letters from the Secretariat to the High Court, collectorates, and other offices. Similarly, lottery tickets can be shipped through the facility to vendors and agents across the State. Another proposal is to transport medicines of the Kerala Medical Service Corporation to hospitals and official letters of the Kudumbashree Mission and the Department of Information and Public Relations to district-level units. “The aim is to channelise parcels of all departments through the facility and make KSRTC Logistics the official parcel service of the Kerala government,” Mr. Prabhakar said. The formal launch will take place this month.
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||50,000 jobs in 100 days: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said the government would create 50,000 jobs in the next 100 days. The government aims at providing profitable employment for every five in 1,000 persons in the non-agriculture sector. The administration would publish the names and particulars of persons who have gained employment in the public domain. Government, quasi-government and State-owned public sector units would provide temporary and permanent employment to eligible persons. The allotment of new courses has opened up 425 new posts in higher secondary schools. It has also led to the creation of 700 new posts and 300 temporary posts in aided colleges. The government will fill 700 new posts in medical college hospitals and 500 in the public health sector. It will employ 1,000 persons as temporary staff in COVID first-line treatment centre. The Public Service Commission will fill the vacancies. He announced a Rs. 5,000-crore loan package to rejuvenate the industrial sector.  425 new posts in higher secondary schools  700 posts in medical college hospitals
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Leaders condemn ‘assault’ on Rahul||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday condemned the “police assault” on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, MP, in UP. Mr. Vijayan said the police had maltreated Mr. Gandhi when he insisted that he be allowed to visit the family of the victim of gang rape and murder at Hathras. He said Mr. Gandhi was well within his rights as a citizen to visit the family. However, the UP police had violated his fundamental right and shoved him. Mr. Vijayan condemned the incident as an assault on democratic rights. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy joined the chorus of protests against the mistreatment of Mr. Gandhi by the UP police. United Democratic Front leaders also weighed in against the BJP government in UP.
02 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Land for war memorial identified at Akkulam||A decades-old dream of having a war memorial in the State capital for soldiers who fought in wars and military operations in the post-Independence era is expected to be fulfilled soon. After attempts to erect the memorial near the Shanghumughom beach fell flat due to land-related objections, an alternate location has been identified at Akkulam, in the neighbourhood of the tourist village and the Southern Air Command (SAC) headquarters. The Revenue Department has issued orders granting permissive sanction to the Sainik Welfare Department for constructing the memorial on 1.5 acres of ‘sarkar puramboke’ land. Post-Independence Armed forces veterans have been demanding a memorial for soldiers who fought in the 1962 India-China war, the India-Pakistan wars of 1965 and 1971, the 1999 Kargil war and operations over the past decades. The existing war memorial in the city, opposite the College of Fine Arts at Palayam, commemorates soldiers who fought in World War I. The State government had issued the original order transferring 1.15 acres of land at Shanghumughom on June 28, 1999. “The land was encroached upon and converted into a playground by the local community. Due to violent objections from the local residents, this land could not be transferred to the Sainik Welfare Department,” the Revenue Department noted in a September 18 order. On June 20, 2018, the State government constituted a War Memorial Committee to thrash out a solution. This six-member panel had studied the feasibility of identifying an alternative location for the structure. The land at Akkulam was finalised after a joint inspection by the director and joint secretary of the Sainik Welfare Department, officers of the defence forces, and the Deputy Collector (LR), Thiruvananthapuram.
02 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2.71 crore voters for local body elections||An electorate of 2,71,20,823 will decide the fate of candidates contesting the local body elections in the State. Women (1,41,94,775) outnumber men (1,29,25,766) on the final voters’ list published on Thursday by the State Election Commission. The list also has 282 transgender persons. A draft list published on August 12 had 2.62 crore voters. Applications to include names and to rectify complaints were accepted till August 26. State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran said one more opportunity would be given to voters.  Elections are for 15,962 wards in 941 grama panchayats, 2,080 wards in 152 block panchayats, 331 wards in 14 district panchayats, 3,078 wards in 86 municipalities, and 414 wards in the six municipal corporations. Polling stations New polling stations will be set up based on the voters on the final list. The final list of the base voters’ list and the supplementary list will be integrated and the final voters’ list will be provided to parties before October 15. The term of the present panchayats at all levels, municipalities (except Mattannur), and municipal Corporations ends on November 11.
02 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M)’s anti-virus drive today||Bolstering efforts to contain the COVID-19 spread, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] is set to launch a two-week long campaign, ‘Jeevan Venel Jagratha Venam,’ on Friday. The party will organise an intensive sensitisation drive across the district, urging people to be cautions. Briefing mediapersons, CPI (M) district secretary Anavoor Nagappan said party workers would take distribute masks and hand sanitisers, ensure surveillance, and propagate awareness that had been lacking of late. Visits would be made to places frequented by the public including bus stations, taxi stands, banks, cooperative societies, ATM kiosks, hotels, restaurants, canteens, places of worship, shops, public and private offices, and health care institutions, to make people realise the seriousness of the situation. Senior citizens The party would also focus on ensuring the welfare of senior citizens and facilitate reverse quarantine by arranging palliative care and delivery of medicines at doorstep. The public would be urged to restrict gatherings during marriages and funerals. Inauguration Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran will formally launch the campaign at Gandhi Park at 10 a.m. on Friday. Actor Sudheer Karamana will administer pledge during the programme. Kerala State Film Development Corporation (KSFDC) chairman Shaji N. Karun launched the campaign logo during the press conference.  Party cadre will visit places frequented by public to create awareness
02 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. daily wagers likely to be made contingent workers||The city Corporation will be recommending to the State government to give contingent worker status to contract workers who have been working on daily wages for the local body for years. Those being considered include mostly those who have been working with the civic body for more than one or two decades. “We have many who were appointed for the upkeep of the Vilappilsala waste treatment plant. When the plant closed down, they were accommodated as sanitation workers on daily wages. There are others who were hired as data entry operators in the early days of computerisation at the Corporation. Since there was no post for data entry operators at that time, even they were hired on daily wages and continued to be so. Similar is the case of some drivers too,” said a Corporation official. A condition As many as 135 people are estimated to be included on the list. To avoid allegations of favouritism, only those who have been working in the Corporation before the end of the previous council’s term in 2015 are being considered. Some of these temporary sanitation workers are now part of the Corporation's rapid response team, which handles COVID-19 pandemic related activities including burial of dead bodies and disinfection of public spaces and institutions. BJP’s opposition Yet, there has been some opposition from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillors to the proposal. When this matter was presented in the council meeting recently, some of the BJP councillors opposed the move. But, due to technical issues, the council meeting itself did not proceed further. The opposition had demanded that a normal council meeting, rather than an online conference as on Saturday, should be convened to discuss the issues.
02 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Go for groynes, seawalls only if there are no options: study||Structures such as seawalls and groynes should be built as a coastal protection measure only when other options are not feasible, a study on coastal erosion and coastal management in Thiruvananthapuram district conducted by the Kerala Sastra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) has suggested. Capital’s case The experience in Thiruvananthapuram is that, in some instances, such structures have aggravated coastal erosion and caused it to spread to nearby beaches, says the study by V. Harilal, chairperson, Environment Subject Committee, KSSP, and K.V. Thomas, former group head, National Centre for Earth Science Studies. Moreover, many of these structures have not lasted their expected span of 25-30 years. This alone is indicative of their limitations, the study notes. Another shortcoming is that in some locations, the natural protection offered by beaches was lost once these structures were built and they themselves were weakened through processes like scouring. Old ones intact Eighteen groynes were built at Chilakkoor, south of Varkala, 125 years ago. Construction of more seawalls and groynes began by the 1950s. While many of the old structures still remain intact, subsequent ones — such as the ones in Kollengode, Paruthiyoor, Panathura, Poonthura-Shangumugham and Thazhampally-Poothura — have either been destroyed or rebuilt. Few attempts have been made for an authentic assessment of their structural efficiency, the report notes. Moreover, the frontal beach, beyond the seawalls, gradually vanished. ‘Use latest data’ Among other things, the report has also called for a comprehensive revisit of the environmental impact assessment (EIA) performed for the Vizhinjam seaport project using the latest data available to accurately determine the impact of this mega project on the coast. It also noted that the earlier EIA had given rise to complaints that it was riddled with flaws.
02 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State receives normal rainfall||Kerala received 9% excess rainfall during the 2020 southwest monsoon season. The State recorded 2,227.9 mm against 2,049.2 mm which is normal for the June 1-September 30 period. In India Meteorological Department (IMD) parlance, the southwest monsoon was ‘normal’ over Kerala this year since percentage departures between -19 and +19 is considered ‘normal’ rainfall. In 2018 and 2019, Kerala had recorded higher amounts of rainfall. The State recorded 2515.73 mm (23.34% excess) in 2018 and 2309.8 mm (12.72%) in 2019. Copious showers Five districts recorded ‘excess’ rainfall in the 2020 season: Kannur (28%), Kasaragod (21%), Kottayam (24%), Kozhikode (33%), Thiruvananthapuram (33%). The remaining districts reported normal rainfall. The Lakshadweep islands recorded 33% excess rainfall this year, and Mahe, 37% excess rainfall. This year, the southwest monsoon had set in over Kerala on June 1. In August, more than 60 people died in a landslip triggered by torrential rain in Pettimudi in Idukki district. Meanwhile, the IMD has reported that a low-pressure area has taken shape in the Bay of Bengal off the north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts on Tuesday morning. No heavy rainfall warning has been issued for Kerala till October 5. The IMD is monitoring the situation.
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rs. 215-crore projects for dairy sector||Projects valued at Rs. 215 crore will be implemented in the dairy sector as part of the Subhiksha Keralam project, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. NABARD loan will be available for the projects. The government aimed at increasing the number of cattle heads in the State as part of the project. 53 panchayats covered He was inaugurating the extension of the Ksheeragramam, a dairy development project, to 25 more panchayats through videoconference here on Thursday. Fifty-three panchayats are at present the beneficiaries of the Ksheeragramam project. Milk requirement Mr. Vijayan said Rs. 50 lakh was spent for select panchayats. Interventions in the dairy sector had yielded good results. While 87 lakh litres of milk was the daily requirement, 82 lakh litres was being produced within the State. New entrepreneurs Till date, 3,140 milk-yielding cows and 535 heifers had been brought here from other States. Their multiplication had led to an increase in milk production, he said. New entrepreneurs would get two cows and opportunities to set up dairy units of five cows each, besides financial assistance to the existing dairy farmers to increase the number of cattle head, the Chief Minister said.
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Public crematorium opened at Palode||Minister for Devaswom Kadakampally Surendran inaugurated the Santhikudeeram public crematorium at Mukkamthottil in Palode on Thursday. The crematorium, built by the district panchayat, is aimed at addressing the shortage of modern crematoriums in rural areas. Often, bodies have to be brought to the city for cremation. To address the problem, the district panchayat launched a project for building five public crematoriums. One built at Kallara has been inaugurated. Cost of Rs. 3 crore The Santhikudeeram crematorium, built at a cost of Rs. 3 crore on half an acre of land purchased by the district panchayat, is expected to benefit people in the hilly tracts the most. D.K. Murali, MLA, was the chief guest at the function. District panchayat president V.K. Madhu presided.
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vehicle charging station at Gandhi Park||Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated an electronic vehicle charging station at Gandhi Park on Thursday. The vehicle charging station is part of the city Corporation’s Smart City project and aims at making the city more environment-friendly. The civic body had earlier distributed e-autos and e-rickshaws to 15 women each. The charging station is part of the civic body’s attempts to promote electric vehicles. The facility is the first public electronic charging station in the State. Built at a cost of Rs. 1.1 lakh, it can accommodate three electric autorickshaws at a time. It will charge Rs. 15 for an hour.
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SHRC asks police to file report on illegal parking||The State Human Rights Commission has sought a detailed report from the State Police Chief on the action taken to check illegal parking. The direction by commission chairperson Antony Dominic comes against the backdrop of the National Crime Records Bureau finding that vehicle accidents in the city are on the rise owing to illegal parking. In 2019 alone, 37 accidents occurred owing to illegal parking. Thirty-five people were injured in these accidents. The commission’s action comes on a petition from Poojappura resident Vijaykumar Nair. The report has to be submitted within four weeks.
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Health Minister to launch TB elimination campaign||Kerala TB Elimination Mission is launching the third phase of its TB elimination campaign, “Akshaya Keralam” or a people’s movement against TB campaign on Friday. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja will launch the Akshaya Keralam campaign online. Akshaya Keralam is being launched as a “catch-up campaign” to pick up those “missing” cases of TB from the community, which went under the Health Department’s radar during the COVID-19 epidemic in the State. Challenge by COVID-19 COVID-19 has posed great challenges to TB elimination efforts, especially in early detection. Difficult access, stigma to respiratory symptoms and competing priorities have led to a reduction in TB detection. Despite its best efforts to ensure all TB services even during COVID epidemic, the Health Department estimates that approximately 1,500 TB cases might be remaining undiagnosed in the community. Akshaya Keralam, which envisages 10 major action plans for the coming months in various directions, is to remind health-care providers that a case of persistent cough that comes before them during the COVID season could also be TB.  Zero stigma Kerala TB Elimination Mission had been launched in alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals, with objectives to achieve TB Elimination by 2025, zero preventable deaths due to TB, zero catastrophic expenditure for the families of tuberculosis patients and zero stigma and discrimination due to TB. The underlying strategy is to identify TB risk factors (vulnerabilities) of all individuals, search cases among the vulnerable, reduce the vulnerability and manage Latent TB Infection for rapid reduction in caseload.
02 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Varsity inauguration today||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will formally inaugurate Sree Narayana Guru Open University, the 16th university in the State, on Friday. While the ceremony will be held at Kureepuzha in Thrikkadavoor, Kollam, the Chief Minister will deliver the inaugural address through a web-conferencing platform. Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel will preside over the function. Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma and Forest Minister K. Raju will take part.
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Woman in COVID ward at MCH found hanging||A 72-year-old woman who was under treatment in the COVID-19 ward at the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) was found hanging Thursday night. Isolation room The woman who was in an isolation room in the ward was found hanging around 8.30 p.m. She was immediately rushed to the intensive care unit. However, she was declared dead around 11 p.m., hospital employees said. The woman, hailing from Vembayam, had been admitted to the hospital on Thursday night, they added. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA - 1056, 0471-2552056)
02 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vehicle checking transparent: Minister||Inspections by the Motor Vehicle Department (MVD) are transparent and as per laws and the department cannot be a mute spectator to the violations committed by motorists, Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran has said. He said on Thursday that the reports appearing on social media criticising the checking were untrue. Modern technology was being used for detecting violations by motorists. Cases in which penalty is not paid on the spot are referred to virtual court by the Motor Vehicle Inspectors. “No complaint has been received on the checking so far. If instances are given with proof, they will be looked into,” he added.
02 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police officer attempts suicide||A police officer allegedly attempted suicide in the Vilappilsala police station on Thursday. Grade Sub-inspector Radhakrishnan, 53, of Ambalathinkala in Kattakada, purportedly tried to hang himself in the dressing room around 10 a.m. His colleagues rushed him to a hospital nearby from where he was referred to the Government Medical College Hospital, where his situation continues to be critical. The Vilappilsala police have instituted a probe. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA - 1056, 0471-2552056)
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Solar case accused convicted||A court here on Thursday sentenced Biju Radhakrishnan, an accused in the solar investment scam that rocked the Oomen Chandy government in 2014, to six years of rigorous imprisonment on the charge of defrauding the public. He had pleaded guilty in the case. The case against him was that he had forged a letter of the then Chief Minister to convince prospective clients who were later duped by him. The plot came apart when people woke up to the fraud and filed police complaints in droves.
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong. sanctioned Babri Masjid demolition: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday blamed the Congress for “enabling” the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) to destroy the Babri Masjid. He said the RSS had planted an idol of Ram in the Masjid in 1949. The Congress opened the Masjid for Ram worship in 1988, laying the ground for its demolition. When “kar sevaks” stormed the masjid in December 1992, the Congress-led Central government turned a blind eye. It silently sanctioned the demolition. Central agencies under the Congress failed to prosecute the vandals and the conspirators quickly, Mr. Vijayan said  The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in Kerala sacrificed the interest of minorities. It forsook secular principles by hanging on to the seats of power in the United Democratic Front government. The IUML leadership has always prioritised its interest than that of the community it claimed to represent, he added. The demolition had hurt the country profoundly and threatened to sunder its secular fabric, the Chief Minister said.
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||School buildings to be inaugurated||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate 10 school buildings in the district at 9.30 a.m. on Saturday through videoconference. They were completed as part of the State government’s 100-day action plan. Mr. Vijayan will also lay the foundation stone for new buildings being built in three schools at 10.30 a.m.
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sale of tapioca chips||Minister for Industries E.P. Jayarajan on Thursday inaugurated the sale of tapioca masala chips, the first product of the Karakulam-based Harithodhayam Farmer Producer Company Ltd., by handing it over to NABARD district development manager Aneeshkumar G.S. and Nedumangad block panchayat president B. Biju.
02 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Applications invited for NTSE||Applications have been invited from Class 10 students for the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) to be held on December 13. They will be available on the State Council of Educational Research and Training websitewww. scertkerala.gov.infrom October 15. For details, call 0471 2346113 or e-mail ntsescertkerala@gmail.com
02 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KFC gives loans worth Rs. 1,048.63 cr. in 30 days||The Kerala Financial Corporation (KFC) sanctioned a record 447 loans to the tune of Rs. 1,048.63 crore during September. The loans included Rs. 500 crore to the KSEB, 356 loans to the CMEDP (Rs. 44.21 crore), Rs. 410.16 crore to suppliers of the Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation and 89 general loans of Rs. 94.26 crore, KFC CMD Tomin J. Thachanakary said in a statement here.
02 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Preventive steps intensified in Thrissur||The district administration has intensified preventive measures against COVID-19 in the wake of the spurt in cases. The objective is to control the spread in two weeks. A meeting convened by Minister for Local Self Government A.C. Moideen here on Thursday decided to take stringent measures against those violating the pandemic protocol. The measures will be intensified from the ward level itself. The markets in the district will be closed again if they fail to maintain the protocol. As infection through markets has increased, local body institutions have been asked to strengthen monitoring. Illegal sale of fish and vegetables on roadsides will be banned. Weddings should be conducted strictly adhering to the guidelines. The local police station should be informed at least four days ahead of the function. As the spread of the disease is increasing among MGNREGS (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme) workers, they will not be allowed to have food in groups. Special squads Special squads will be formed to check crowding in shops. Shops that fail to adhere to the protocol will be asked to close down. Busy shops should implement a token system. Children under the age of 10 and those above 60 years should remain at home. The Police and Motor Vehicle Departments will strengthen checks for compliance with guidelines. Local bodies have been asked to monitor guest workers. Restrictions at tourist places will continue. Awareness campaigns will be organised. MLAs have been entrusted with the responsibility of formulating strategies at the constituency level to check the spread of the disease. MPs, MLAs, other elected representatives, heads of departments, health officials, police officers, and representatives of traders attended the meeting.
02 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||613 positive cases in district||Thrissur recorded 613 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. A total of 290 people were discharged from hospitals during the day. There are 5,857 active cases in the district. In all, 2,634 patients are under home observation. Of the new cases, 608 people contracted the infection through local contact on Thursday. The source of infection is not known for 10 people. A total of 14,254 cases have been confirmed in the district so far. The district also recorded 8,279 recoveries.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Online adalat for senior citizens organised||On the occasion of International Day of Older Persons on Thursday, the Maintenance Tribunal for Senior Citizens held an online adalat in the district. Assistant Collector G. Priyanka, who is also the presiding officer of the tribunal in Kozhikode, chaired the adalat in which 25 complaints were considered. Officials said a majority of complaints were related to distribution of welfare pensions. There were also senior citizens who submitted complaints with the tribunal about the unsatisfactory service by the Civil Supplies Department. Though the adalat was mainly hosted to consider complaints on maintenance claims, no one turned up with such petitions. Officials said such complaints, if any, would be considered again through the district-level helpline number. Till date, the tribunal received eight complaints related to maintenance, they added. During the lockdown too there were separate sittings to address the grievances of senior citizens. Officials said three such special sittings were arranged in Kozhikode district alone under the Maintenance Tribunal. “In Kozhikode district, there are 2,70,000 senior citizens who currently benefit from various special welfare schemes. Many of them get regular medical check-up support, free medicine, legal aid, and counselling assistance,” said a Social Justice Department official.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Protest laced with caution||
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||When change beckons...||
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Up in the air||
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In one voice||
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Calm after the storm||
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Father of the Nation||
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Footpath turns parking bay||
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Art of survival||
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back in action||
02 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ward volunteer makes vain bid to ‘embezzle’ pension money||A ward volunteer, identified as Eerappa, allegedly tried to embezzle Rs. 45,000 given to him for distribution to pensioners, in Madakasira municipality. As the beneficiaries did not receive their pension on Thursday morning, Eerappa complained to the officials that someone had sprayed chilly powder in his eyes and fled with the cash given to him. Madakasira Municipal Commissioner, after an inquiry, found that ward volunteer played a trick. The District Collector has recommended the removal of the ward volunteer from the service immediately and instructed the Municipal Commissioner to take action.
02 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||11-foot python stoned to death||An 11-foot-long Indian rock python was stoned to death by a group of farmers and shepherds at Kotrepalle village in Baireddipalle mandal, 70 km from the district headquarters, on Thursday. According to information, a farmer while working in his field heard the hissing sounds from the bushes nearby. He found the python stalking a herd of goats. Soon, some shepherds and farmers gathered at the spot. They reportedly stoned the python to death. Some villagers said that the python had been slithering into the fields frequently.  Responding to the incident, a senior forest official said they would inquire about the incident. “Even as reptiles such as Indian rock pythons and king cobras are protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, the laws usually apply to cases involving smuggling activities. It is difficult to establish the circumstances under which these reptiles get killed by people. Many such cases go unnoticed,” he said. The forests spreading from Bangarupalem to V. Kota covering the Koundinya Wildlife Sanctuary is home to many reptile species, which often slither into the fields nearby. Some of them get killed by people, while some others get crushed under the wheels of vehicles on highways.
02 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Accused in mobile phone heist brought from M.P., remanded||The Chittoor police on Thursday brought three accused in the sensational theft of cellphones in a highway robbery reported on Nagari-Tamil Nadu border from Dewas in Madhya Pradesh to the district on transit warrant. The district court sent them to remand. “The gang stalked the container carrying a load of cellphones of Xiaomi brand, which was on it way from the factory outlet to Bhiwandi in Maharashtra on August 26 night. After crossing the Tiruttani checkpost in Tamil Nadu, the gang hijacked the lorry. They assaulted the container driver in the Nagari Police limits and fled with cellphones worth around Rs. 8 crore,” Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar told the media here. Month-long operation Three special teams were formed to trace the accused and the vehicle used by them. After a month-long operation, the key members of the gang were traced at Thaneghati village in Dewas district. The special parties nabbed three members of the gang and recovered the stolen goods on September 29, the SP said. The accused have been identified as Rohit Jalla (22), Ankit Jhanja (25), both natives of Dewas district in Madhya Pradesh, and Ram Gade (25) from Beed district in Maharashtra. The SP congratulated the special teams which cracked the case within a month.
02 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police action on Rahul, Priyanka criticised||Congress Working Committee (CWC) special invitee Chinta Mohan on Thursday criticised the act of police using force to prevent AICC leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi while marching towards Hathra to protest against the alleged killing of a Dalit girl. In a statement, Dr. Mohan said that it was atrocious on the part of Uttar Pradesh police to “manhandle” the Congress leaders. He demanded the resignation of U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, holding him responsible for the act.
02 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rains worsen condition of roads in Guntur||The woes of the people in Guntur may continue at least for some more months. The recent spell of rain worsens the plight of pedestrians and commuters. The residential areas where the Underground Drainage (UGD) works were taken up four and a half years ago, still resemble a cesspool with patches of road in between. The municipal administration draws flak from the people for its ‘apathy’. The situation has turned worse due to incessant rains for over a month. Even after a visit by the Secretary, Municipal Administration, J. Syamala Rao, there is no improvement in the situation. The contractor, who has bagged the works for execution of the UGD project, a fully-funded project by the Central government, Shapoorji and Pallonji, has left and there is no clarity on who would be executing the project. While the local MLAs say that the State government has released Rs. 25 crore to relay roads, there is no clarity on when the works would actually begin. The UGD project, which was launched in January 2017, was itself in a limbo, four years after it was started. With the condition of roads getting worse, the local public representatives got into the act. MLC K.S. Lakshmana Rao rued that his car needed major repairs after the wheels got struck and suspension damaged while returning home at Syamala Nagar. In Vidya Nagar and Vikas Nagar, residents came together to pool up money to carry out repairs. Road network The city has a road network of over 1,800 km, and there are some roads maintained by the Roads and Buildings Department. Some of the major roads maintained by the R&B Department are Ponnur Road, Nandivelugu Road, Amaravathi Road, while GMC maintains most of the roads. The condition of roads is always a cause for concern in the past but what has compounded the problem is the delay in grounding of the Underground Drainage Sewerage scheme. Granted as a one-time financial assistance scheme from the Union Ministry of Urban Development, with a cost of Rs. 903.82 crore, the UGD scheme is one of the biggest-ever grants to any urban local body in the State. By March 2015, the Centre fulfilled its commitment of allocating Rs. 540 crore. The then TDP government finally zeroed in Shapoorji and Pallonji Construction firm, which had already been involved in the construction of Government Interim Complex at Velagapudi. The company has been given the contract in the EPC mode in September 2016 with a timeline to complete the project within 36 months. Five zones The works began in January 2017. The city was divided into five zones and it was estimated that pipelines extending to 1,083 km would be required to be laid covering 1,40,000 households. The Public Health Department, which was entrusted with the task of monitoring the project, failed to monitor the project prompting the intervention of the then Collector and Special Officer. With the deadline ending in August , the UGD works in Guntur still remain in limbo. With just 50% of work getting completed in main components like pipeline, manholes, inspection chambers and road restoration, the project looks far from complete.
02 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Treat a child who violates law as victim, says Chief Justice||Andhra Pradesh High Court Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari has said that childhood is the most precious stage of life and narrated several spiritual quotations on it. He was addressing a webinar on day two of the workshop on Juvenile Justice Act organised by the APCID. Quoting former President of South Africa Nelson Mandela and former President of India Abdul Kalam on children, Justice Maheswari stressed the need for appointing a psychologist in every child care institute. Stating that one should treat children who could have violated laws as victims, he said and added that one should have compassion towards these children and help them to reform. DGP Gautam Sawang said the Police Department would strive to implement the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act and if needed, would make institutional changes. ‘Bala Mitra’ planned “The police are gearing up to implement ‘Bala Mitra’ on the lines of Mahila Mitra to ensure protection to children and raise awareness about the child protection rights from November 14 coinciding with Children’s Day,” said the DGP. Judge of High Court Justice M. Ganga Rao said that 49.3% of children belonged to economically disadvantaged communities. Justice K. Vijaya Lakshmi said that all children’s homes should be registered and stressed the need for reunion with their families. Principal Secretary, Women Development and Child Welfare, A.R Anuradha, Director of Women Development and Child Welfare Kruttika Shukla also spoke.
02 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vignan keen on students’ fitness||With fitness and good health emerging key in the battle against COVID-19, educational institutions are making it mandatory for students to play, exercise or simply walk for at least an hour. Vignan University has become the first deemed to be university to introduce credits to fitness. Vignan Group of Educational Institutions chairman Lavu Rathaiah, who introduced the one hour mandatory fitness programme over an year ago, said students should have basic fitness to keep them in good stead for the mental and physical rigours of life after college. Students of various colleges were given the freedom to either play sports they liked or to walk around the ground for at least 45 minutes. Now, the university is planning to give credits based on fitness. On Thursday, the university organised Fit India Plogging Run, on the eve of Mahatma Gandhi birth anniversary.
02 October 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shepherds trapped in island rescued||Nine shepherds, along with 2,000 sheep, who were trapped on an island in the Hundri River near Gorantla village, were rescued on Thursday afternoon. The fire services personnel responded to a distress call from the shepherds who had been trapped on the island due to flash flood since Wednesday evening. District Fire Officer Sreenivasa Reddy said the fire services personnel reached the victims in inflatable boats and rescued them. They were given food packets, drinking water, medicines, cellphone chargers and etc. However, the shepherds refused to come to the shore and told that they would take care of the sheep on the island. The department personnel, however, brought one of the stranded shepherd to the shore as he was suffering from fever. The water released from the Gajuladinne project inundates several areas if the people downstream are not informed in advance, said Mr. Sreenivasa Reddy. He also urged the officials concerned to release water only after all precautions are taken downstream.
02 October 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Essentials distributed to orphans||Childline (1098) district coordinator D. Sunkanna and Child Welfare Samithi former president Bathula Chinnaiah distributed kits containing essential commodities, sanitisers, and masks to the orphans near the Kurnool railway station on Thursday. Mr. Sunkanna said more than 1,000 children were found working in shops, business establishments in the district recently. Of those children, 300 were rescued and shifted to shelter homes. Employing children in any kind of work is illegal. The shop owners and business establishments flouting this norm are liable to be prosecuted as per law, he said.
02 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,900 COVID patients recovered in Prakasam, Nellore districts||More than 1,900 patients were cured of the coronavirus infection, while six people succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 936 in the south coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours, ending on Thursday night. With five more deaths, the toll in Prakasam district went up to 489, while one patient succumbed to the virus in Nellore district, taking the toll to 447, said a health bulletin released by the state government on Thursday night. As many as 1,602 patients were recovered in Prakasam district which reported 783 new infections during the period. With 472 new cases, the per day infection count was more by 169 patients when compared to the patients discharged from hospital in Nellore district.  Cumulative tally The cumulative tally in Prakasam district went up to 49,032 while same for Nellore district was 54,373. Till date, 50,460 patients have been recovered in Nellore and the count was put at 41,159 in Prakasam.
02 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Farm laws will benefit corporate firms only’||The Prakasam district unit of All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee staged a demonstration in front of the Prakasam Bhavan here on Thursday, alleging that the three farm Acts were ‘unconstitutional’. The members of the committee demanded that the Union government revoke the laws with immediate effect. Participating in the demonstration, AIKSCC district convenor Ch. Ranga Rao said that the three Acts that got the mandate of the President recently had spelt doom for the farming community in the entire country. “The Acts will curry favour with the corporate firms trading in agricultural produce,” said Mr. Ranga Rao. Leaders of opposition parties such as CPI, CPI(M), CPI (ML) and some lawyers also took part in the demonstration. Despite the risks associated with coronavirus pandemic, farmers would continue their protests until the Centre revoked these ‘anti-farmer laws’ which would help the corporate firms fleece the farmers, said CPI district secretary M.L. Narayana while participating in the demonstration. “The provisions entailing farmers to approach the officials in case of any disputes without going to court is against the basic tenets of natural justice,” said lawyer P. Govindaiah. The Bills were passed in the Parliament in ‘unconstitutional manner’, contended CPI(M) district assistant secretary G.V. Konda Reddy. Hoarding of produce “Unregulated market will lead to hoarding of farm produce by traders,” said Organisation for Protection of Democratic Rights (OPDR) leader Ch. Sudhakar. The corporate firms will now dictate prices of farm produce and small and marginal farmers, who constitutes a majority of the community, will lose their bargain power, said CPI(ML) leader D.V.N. Swamy.
02 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Abducted baby girl traced within 24 hours, woman held||The police have rescued a 29-day-old girl allegedly abducted by a woman within 24 hours at Darsi in Prakasam district. A woman was arrested, the police said. “The accused, identified as G. Prameela (30), trapped the baby’s mother K. Mariyakumari on Wednesday, saying that the government was providing financial aid and to avail the benefits she needed to open a savings bank account,” Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal told the media here, after handing over the baby to Mariyakumari. Modus operandi Pramila took Ms. Mariyakumari to a clinic on the pretext of administering vaccine to the baby and later to a studio near the Clock Tower to take a photograph for opening of the bank account. “As Ms. Mariyakumari went inside the studio after handing over the baby to Pramila, the latter fled with the baby,” the SP said. The mother lodged a police complaint and a search was launched for the baby. As the police started searching all the vehicles in Darsi and other places, the accused chose not to move out of the district. The police traced the accused and the baby to Uppalapadu. Pramila was arrested, the SP said. Mr. Kaushal ladued the police team led by Darsi DSP K. Prakasa Rao for cracking the case within 24 hours.
02 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fast-track court sought for AgriGold depositors||AgriGold Customers and Agents Welfare Association state general secretary V. Tirupati Rao on Thursday demanded that a fast-track court be set up to ensure speedy settlement of the claims of the large number of customers. “More than 32 lakh depositors have been waiting for settlement of their claims to the tune of Rs. 4,000 crore, while more than 3 lakh agents have been under pressure from the customers seeking return of their deposits,” Mr. Tirupati Rao told a media here. He urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to fulfil the promise of settlement of the dues of the customers. The prolonged proceedings in the High court is adding to the agony of the depositors, he said and appealed to the High court to settle the long-pending case at the earliest.
02 October 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bridge repair works to begin soon||Rajamahendravaram MP M. Bharat on Thursday said that the repair works of the four-lane bridge across the Godavari in the city would begin soon at a cost of Rs. 25 crore. In 2005, the bridge was constructed providing connectivity between Rajamahendravaram city in East Godavari district and Kovvuru in West Godavari district. It was built by the Gammon Infra Private Limited. Mr. Bharat said that banks had agreed to give a loan of Rs. 25 crore for the repairs targeted to be completed by January. He claimed that the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry had promised to include the city in the list of Smart Cities in 2021.
02 October 2020||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vahana sevas’ in Mada Streets for Navaratri Brahmotsavams||The TTD on Thursday resolved to organise ‘vahana sevas’ around the mada streets during the ensuing Navaratri Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara scheduled to commence on October 16 with restricted number of devotees. During the ‘Salakatla Brahmotsavams’, which concluded last week, the festivities were strictly confined to inner portals of the hill temple. But this time, the TTD has resolved to allow a limited number of devotees, those with valid darshan tickets, into the galleries to witness the two-time daily procession of the deity on various vahanams.  The procession of ‘vahana sevas’ will be organised between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m. and 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. The same timing will be applicable even on the night of Garuda Seva (October 20 ) as only a restricted number of devotees will be allowed into the galleries. The decision was taken at a high-level review meeting chaired by Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy with the district, police and HoDs of various TTD departments. Foot-operated sanitisers will be extensively set up at all the galleries besides mandatory thermal screening. Police and Srivari seva volunteers will be deployed in a limited number as also bhajan and cultural troops that precede the daily processions.
02 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. announces minimum support prices for six crops||Upholding the interests of farmers, the State government on Thursday announced Minimum Support Price (MSP) in the current sowing season for various agricultural produce such as chilli, turmeric, sweet orange, minor-millets, banana and onion. Special Commissioner of Agriculture P.S. Pradyumna said in a press release that the government had adopted an aggressive procurement policy. Last year, the government procured commodities worth Rs. 3,300 crore through MSP operations and in view of the pandemic, it has been planned to set up a procurement centre in each village. Andhra Pradesh is the first State where a farmer need not go out of the village to sell his produce, he claimed. Mr. Pradyumna said procurement would be carried out from the farm gate as well in special cases. In the previous year, 8.10 lakh tonnes of commodities, excluding paddy, were purchased. This year procurement would start from October 15. Small and marginal farmers would get priority. Farmers had to get details of their produce registered on e-Karshak platform and enrol with village agriculture assistants or village horticulture assistants in the Rythu Bharosa Kendras for selling their produce.
02 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bapu Museum gets a new look||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday inaugurated the revamped Bapu Museum which now features a brand new museum building and renovated Victoria Memorial building built in 1887. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy paid floral tributes to the statue of Mahatama Gandhi outside the memorial building, the same place where Gandhi held a meeting in 1921. He later visited the buildings along with officials. ‘Impressive collection of artefacts’, writes Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy in the visitor's book meant for distinguished guests. Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana, Peddireddy Ramachandra Raddy, Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, Perni Venkataramaiah, Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao, K. Kannababu, Sidiri Appalaraju, MLAs, Archaeology and Museums Commissioner G. Vani Mohan, officials and others took part in the programme. Construction of the new building was proposed in 2011 and it began post 2014 and its completion was delayed due to various issues. It was built at a cost of over Rs. 8 crore. The new museum, a two-storey building, will house over 1,500 antiquities including pre, proto and early historical objects, Hindu, Jain and Buddhist sculptures, potteries, plaques and others. Hi-tech facilities The museum also has technology-based facilities like immersive projection theatre, augmented reality, virtual reality, digital books and others to learn about the artefacts. Formerly known as Victoria Jubilee Museum, it was renamed after Bapu, legendary film director, author and cartoonist.
02 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Clap and shower accolades on volunteers at 7 p.m. today’||Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy has exhorted people to encourage the employees of ward and village secretariats and volunteers, who are taking governance to the doorstep of people, by clapping at 7 p.m. on October 2. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said the secretariat and volunteer system had no parallels in the country, and the employees deserved accolades for their work during COVID times. Nearly four lakh youth were provided employment in three months of the YSRCP coming to power in tune with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s commitment. A total of 544 citizen services were being door-delivered devoid of any scope for corruption, he said. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said the village and ward secretariats and the volunteer system won the Union Cabinet Secretary’s appreciation. A total of 1,93,006 village volunteers and 68,913 ward volunteers were appointed. Besides, 1.34 lakh employees were recruited in the ward and village secretariats, he said. Apart from distributing social security benefits such as pensions to the beneficiaries at the doorstep, the volunteers were delivering various other welfare schemes on a mission mode, he added. Meanwhile, according to an official release, the government established 15,004 ward and village secretariats and implemented 20 schemes through them. The secretariats were established in 10,929 buildings. Principal Secretary (village secretariats) Ajay Jain and Commissioner of Panchayat Raj Girija Sankar were present.
02 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSCHE move to groom entrepreneurs||The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has asked universities and professional and autonomous colleges to establish Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Start-Ups Centres (EISCs) to promote the culture of entrepreneurship in the State. “The aim is to ignite creative thinking and nurture entrepreneurial talent in students,” said council Vice-Chairman K. Ramamohan Rao. “By the end of this year, there will be more than 500 such centres in educational institutions,” he said. “We want to encourage young graduates to become ‘job generators’ rather than ‘job seekers’, and create an innovation ecosystem,” said Mr. Rao. The role of these centres will entail organising awareness campaign with focus on promotion of entrepreneurial attitude among youth. Their other activities are to identify potential candidates and initiate programmes to groom them, give the candidates business ideas and convert them into viable business/incubation plans and create new technology ventures, facilitate preparation of feasibility report and Detailed Project Reports (DPR) as per the requirement of the funding agencies, mentoring, networking, providing connectivity with resources and facilitating early stage seed funding. To motivate the students, the centres will conduct workshops, competitions and interactive sessions with eminent personalities and organise other annual events. The EISC will be guided by an advisory committee consisting of representatives from faculty, industry, business houses, District Industry Centres, banks, successful local entrepreneurs and local government. The committee will work under the chairmanship of the Vice-Chancellor in a university and the principal in a college. Each centre will have a director as an overall in-charge, who can be one of the senior professors from the institution or an experienced person from outside the institution, appointed on contract basis. These centres will identify resource persons from different sectors such as manufacturing, service and social sector, or specific business domain and constitute suitable panels, each of which will be represented by persons from the Department of Industries, banking, teaching (preferably commerce and management) and an expert from related business domain. State-level committee A State-level advisory and monitoring committee will be constituted with the Chairman, APSCHE, at its helm, and the members will be from State universities, colleges, Ministry of Industry, Ministry of MSME and Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC). “The committee will periodically review the activities and progress of the centres, which will be required to submit an annual report in a prescribed format duly approved by the Executive Council of the respective university in March every year,” explained Mr. Rao.  We want to encourage young graduates to become ‘job generators’ rather than ‘job seekers’, and create an innovation ecosystem K. Ramamohan Rao APSCHE Vice-Chairman
02 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu lashes out at Narayana for faulting Babri verdict||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has ridiculed CPI national secretary K. Narayana for finding fault with the CBI court verdict in the Babri Masjid demolition case. In a press release, Mr. Veerraju said that Mr. Narayana’s allegation that L.K. Advani and other top BJP leaders were behind the incident was ridiculous as the court said in no uncertain terms that there was no evidence of such a conspiracy. “The Communist parties, which have been anti-Hindu right from the beginning and have always been appeasing other parties for electoral gains, are not expected to accept the verdict,” Mr. Veerraju said, and questioned whether Mr. Narayana had witnessed the BJP leaders provoking the ‘kar sevaks’ to bring down the mosque. BJP-JSP alliance He further said that the CPI leader had no right to criticise the BJP-JSP alliance, pointing out that there was perhaps no party in the country with which the Left parties had not tied up. The CPI had forged alliances with the Congress, the TDP, and even the Jana Sangh in the past, he said.
02 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Give welfare hostels, Gurukul schools a facelift under Nadu-Nedu’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed the officials to improve the standards in welfare hostels and Gurukul schools under the Nadu-Nedu programme, with focus on providing quality food and sanitation and creating other essential infrastructure. Addressing a review meeting on the implementation of Nadu-Nedu in hostels on Thursday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the authorities to own up welfare hostels and treat the inmates as their family members. The Chief Minister ordered the officials to prepare a check-list of the works that were needed to be done in the second phase of Nadu-Nedu, in which all junior, degree and polytechnic colleges, ITIs, Gurukul schools, and welfare hostels would be given a facelift. He told the officials to supply uniforms, books and belts to these students on a par with the regular students. The officials said that nearly 4,84,862 students were enrolled in 4,772 welfare hostels across the State, and almost 4,000 hostels were being operated in own buildings and the remaining in rental spaces. In the second phase of Nadu-Nedu, all these hostels would be renovated. Deputy Chief Minister Amzath Basha, Minister for Social Welfare P. Viswaroop and others were present.
02 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor seizure: temple board member quits||The Jaggaiapeta police booked the son of Kanakadurga Temple Trust Board member Chakka Venkata Naga Varalakshmi in the case of illegal transportation of liquor in her car. After her car was caught at her residence's parking lot at Seetharampuram on Wednesday, Ms. Varalakshmi on Thursday submitted resignation to the board membership. Meanwhile, the police booked her son Surya Prakash (26) as the prime accused. Ms. Varalakshmi's husband was also booked.
02 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID: aid given to kin of deceased RTC staffers||Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah on Thursday handed over cheques of Rs. 5 lakh each to the families of two employees of the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) who died in July and August after they were infected with COVID-19 virus. The Minister, along with Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Venkateswara Rao, party Vijayawada East in-charge Devineni Avinash and RTC Vice-Chairman and Managing Director M. T. Krishna Babu, went to the houses S.K. Lal, who worked as a conductor in Governorpet -1 depot, at Chuttugunta, and G. Subhakar Rao, an assistant engineer (mechanical) in Governorpet-2 depot, at Ashok Nagar, and gave cheques of Rs. 5 lakh to each of their families. The two employees died of COVID-19. Informing that 4,700 RTC employees were infected with the virus and 73 of them had died battling the pandemic, he said it was very unfortunate that these families had lost their bread-winners. The Minister had a word of praise for the corporation employees who offered a day's salary to extend financial assistance to the bereaved families of their colleagues. The Minister said the respective Regional Managers. along with the local MLAs, would hand over similar cheques to the remaining 71 families.
02 October 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Caring for a family of 33 furry members||Wagging its black and white tail, Shiny likes to reach out for a friendly pat from people passing by. Sitting next to her is Chintu, who is not too enamoured of humans. He likes his space, and frequently finds himself in the middle of a fight with his furry friends. Shiny and Chintu are just two of 33 dogs living with Lingala Bhairavi (25), who rescued all of them from the street and now rears them under one roof. For nearly two decades, Bhargavi’s family has been rescuing street dogs, some in a badly bruised state and others as abandoned pups. Some have followed them home and have stayed ever since. Over the years, Bhargavi along with her parents and two sisters have cared for the dogs as their own family, meticulously keeping a record of each dog’s vaccines and other medical issues. Sadly, all is not well for Bhargavi and her family as they have been living without water supply and electricity for the past two months. For the past nine months, they have been looking for a house on rent after Bhargavi’s father Lingala Satyanarayana retired from his job at Visakhapatnam Port Trust. All this while, the family has been staying in the Port quarters provided to Mr. Satyanarayana. However, for the past couple of months, they have been living without power and water supply as they were forced to overstay at the quarters with nobody in the city willing to provide the family a place on rent. Braving the odds “When we tell people that we have 33 dogs with us, they give us a bewildered look and instantly refuse to give their house on rent. Many have suggested us to hand over the dogs to a shelter home. But how can I abandon them? They are like my children and have become a part of lives now and we cannot think of staying without even one of them,” says Bhargavi, an M.Com student of Andhra University. There were days when the sisters had to rush one of the dogs to a veterinary hospital late at night because of an emergency. “They reciprocate our love for them in full, maybe even more,” Bhargavi says. The Lingalas start their day at 4. 30 a.m. daily, when they take the dogs out for a walk. After that, Bhargavi and her sisters spend three hours filling water in large containers from their neighbour’s home. Financial struggle is another part of their lives. Every month, the family bears an expenditure of Rs. 25,000 on caring for the dogs. Bhargavi’s eldest sister works at an electronic store while their father is a pensioner. “We are able to manage somehow,” says Bhargavi. She feels that most people have a negative approach when it comes to stray dogs. “Stray dogs are more loyal to you because they have hardly received any love before. Once you feed them, they’re yours forever.”
02 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s showtime: theatres all set to open after prolonged shutdown||After being closed for over six months due to the pandemic, theatres are gearing up to open up in time for Dasara. Notwithstanding COVID-19 guidelines like filling up only 50% of the total seats, exhibitors are eager to reopen the theatres and get back to business. “It may take a couple of months for things to settle down, but a majority of proprietors who own one or two theatres are ready to screen the movies as it is still better than having to bear huge maintenance expenses without any income,” said K. Vamsi Kishore, president of Vizag Film Distributors Association. “We are facing a shortage of content as most of the films are now being screened on OTT platforms. However, film shootings have already begun and some of them will be ready for release soon. When all other sectors have opened up, and flights are operating at full capacity, there is no reason why opening of cinemas should be delayed further,” he said. “We are spending around Rs. 5 lakh a month on the maintenance of our three theatres, which have 1,400 seats, even during the shutdown. It may take a couple of months for us to draw audiences after the long gap,” said Mr. Vamsi Kishore. “Some producers, who had taken many theatres on lease, are not keen on reopening them. They are trying to mislead the government by claiming that there is a risk of the virus spreading further. They are keen on protecting their agreements with OTT platforms and want the opening of the theatres to be delayed by a few more months,” alleged a theatre owner. “Even without screening films, we are spending Rs. 1.4 lakh a month on power bills alone. The expenditure on screening of each show is around Rs. 20,000, taking into account overheads like salaries and power bills,” said Prasad Reddy, manager of Sarat Theatre. “Apart from leaving seats unoccupied, sanitisation has to be done after each show. Audiences will be willing to buy tickets at a higher cost only if it is a film starring big actors. Many high-budget films are being released on OTT platforms and the small budget films are unlikely to draw many people to the theatres. Though we are getting ready, we plan to wait and watch for some days before deciding to screen films,” Mr. Reddy said.
02 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily COVID count comes down to 277||Visakhapatnam district reported 277 new COVID-19 infections and five deaths in the last 24 hours, according to a COVID-19 bulletin released on Thursday. The new cases take the COVID-19 infection tally to 50,817 and the district’s death toll to 406. As many as 324 persons who were undergoing treatment for the virus were discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of discharges to 46,607. The active cases further dropped to 3,804 on Thursday. Out of 717 clusters in the district, 50 are very active and 25 are active, said Special Officer for COVID-19 and Dr. P.V. Sudhakar.
02 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||KGH gets plasmapheresis machine||Collector V. Vinay Chand inaugurated a plasmapheresis machine, procured at a cost of Rs. 22 lakh, at King George Hospital (KGH) here on Thursday. Mr. Vinay Chand said that the machine would help separate plasma and platelets from the blood collected from donors, and would be utilised in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. The plasma required for COVID-19 patients would be supplied by KGH. “Those who have recovered from COVID-19 can donate their plasma. I appeal to all those who have successfully fought COVID-19 to join the noble cause and come forward to help us in the treatment of COVID-19 patients,” he said. Describing the convalescent plasma therapy as an effective treatment option for COVID-19 patients, the Dstrict Collector said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had announced an incentive of Rs. 5,000 for plasma donors. Donating plasma is totally safe and there is no cause for worry, the Collector said. An additional amount of Rs. 13 lakh was sanctioned for consumables and Rs. 10 lakh for other equipment. KGH Superintendent P.V. Sudhakar and Project Officer S. Venkateswar and other senior officials were present.
02 October 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||When Vizagapatam was at the forefront of astronomy||Very few would know that Vizagapatam (now Visakhapatnam) had forayed into the realm of astronomy way back in 1840. Gode Venkata Jaggarow, who hailed from a zamindari family, had built an observatory on his private estate in 1840. The estate was located in Dabagardens area. Having an aptitude for mathematics, Mr. Jaggarow was drawn towards the science and mysteries of astronomy, and at the age of 17, he left for Madras (now Chennai) to be tutored in the subject by one Thomas Glanville Taylor from Royal Greenwich Observatory, who was then heading the Madras Observatory. Mass of Jupiter While at Madras Observatory, Venkata Jaggarow made many observations and published several papers. One of his papers, in which he arrived at the mass of the planet Jupiter, brought him international fame. In 1835, using instruments then available to him, he deduced that the mass of Jupiter was 302 times the mass of Earth. His discovery has stood the test of time — latest calculations say that the mass of Jupiter is 318 times that of Earth, only slightly off his estimate. Venkata Jaggarow returned to Visakhapatnam in 1838 and set up his observatory in 1840 from his own funds to pursue his interest in the subject, says Edward Paul, who has done considerable research on various historical aspects of the city. He also played an important role in establishing the latitude and longitude of Visakhapatnam. He also built an instrument for measuring rain, the rain gauge (pluviometer). He also procured many scientific instruments for his observatory. He established a flag staff on Dolphin’s Nose to provide timed signals to the ships and to the public. The time flag used to be raised between 8 a.m. and 9 a.m. and would be hauled down precisely at 9 p.m. Unfortunately, Venkata Jaggarow died in 1856 at an early age of 39 years, leaving behind his observatory to his only daughter Ankitham Atchayyamma and son-in-law Ankitham Venkata Narsing Row. Legacy Inspired by his father-in-law, Narasing Row too became a keen observer of astronomy. Apart from adding many instruments to the observatory, he continued to provide accurate time signals from the hill, even after the government stopped the service in 1871. After observing a solar eclipse on August 16, 1868, and the transit of Venus on December 9, 1874 from his observatory, he published his observations. For his work and observations, Narasing Row was elected Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society in 1870 and Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society in 1872, said Mr. Paul. After the death of Narasing Row, his wife Atchayyamma took his work forward by supplying meteorological results to the government. She also erected a Celestial Photographic Observatory with a photographic telescope. It was only in 1898 that the government started its observatory at Waltair. A few instruments from Mr. Rao’s observatory can still be seen at Visakha Museum.
02 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BSNL employees stage hunger strike for ‘4G’||BSNL employees staged a hunger strike in protest against the ‘apathetic attitude’ of the Centre towards allocating 4G spectrum to BSNL, at the General Manager’s Office here on Thursday. The employees sported black badges in heed to a call given by the All Unions and Associations of BSNL (AUAB), and staged a hunger protest. AUAB convener G.S.N. Raju said that the 20th Foundation Day of BSNL was being organised as a ‘protest day’ to oppose the anti-employee policies of the Centre. Describing ‘4G spectrum’ as the lifeline of the telecom sector, he said that its non-allocation by the Centre could spell doom for the public sector telecom giant. The convener warned that if the government does not change its attitude, a strike would be held in November. The other demands include revision of pay scales for employees with effect from January 1, 2007 and for pensioners.
02 October 2020||visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||CRPF organises Fit India rally in city||Officials from the 198 Battalion of the CRPF organised the ‘Fit India Freedom Rally’ at Kailasagiri here on Thursday. The initiative was undertaken as part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s special virtual run campaign for all citizens from August 15 to October 2. During the period, a large number of men and their families of 198 Bn participated on a daily basis. The Battalion conducted a final run of five km for all troops, women, children and officers. In the closing ceremony, Commandant of 198 Bn K.K. Chand gave away appreciation letters to outstanding participants.
02 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five, including juvenile, held for property theft||The Crime Wing of the Visakhapatnam City Police on Thursday arrested four persons and took one juvenile into custody for their alleged involvement in three different property offences. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that in the first case, the IV Town (Crime) police arrested two persons — K. Jagadeesh Babu (20) and K. Durga Prasad (20), both from Old Dairy Farm area and took a 16-year-old into their custody, for an alleged temple theft. On September 19, the accused allegedly entered a temple at Ganesh Nagar and decamped with gold and silver ornaments and articles worth Rs. 80,000. Police said that both the accused and the juvenile were mechanics. The police said they recovered the stolen property from them. In the second case, the New Port police arrested an ex-offender Ch. Anand (19) of Pedagantyada area, who allegedly gained entry into a house at Pedagantyada and snatched a gold chain from an elderly man, in the wee hours of September 28. A stolen gold chain worth Rs. 50,000 was recovered from the accused. In another case, the III Town (Crime) Police arrested a man named P. Krishna Reddy (51) of Pedagantyada area for allegedly breaking into a house at Ram Nagar on September 28. Krishna Reddy is an ex-offender and hails from Hyderabad, police said, adding that he stole valuables worth Rs. 9,000.
02 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Isolated heavy rain likely||A low pressure area has formed over Bay of Bengal off north A.P.-south Odisha coast. Due to this, thunderstorms along with lightning are likely at isolated places in north and south coastal A.P. and Yanam on Oct. 4. Thunderstorms along with lightning and heavy rainfall at isolated places in north coastal A.P. and Yanam on Oct. 5 and thunderstorms along with lightning at isolated places in south coastal A.P.
02 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City zoo to celebrate Wildlife Week from today||On the occasion of the 66th Vanyaprani Saptah, known as wildlife week celebrations, from October 2 to 8, officials from Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) will be organising a series of events throughout the week. According to IGZP Curator Nandani Salaria, on October 2, a cleanliness and plantation drive will be conducted at the zoo. On October 3, an online workshop on urban wildlife will be organised. On October 4, the International Zoo Keepers’ Day will be celebrated with an online session for zoo keepers in collaboration with Central Zoo Authority (CZA). An online workshop on the wildlife of the Vizag zoo will be held on October 5 and online exhibition of photography competition entries and distribution of prizes will be conducted on October 6. On October 7, an online workshop on birds and bird identification will be held. For details, visitwww.vizagzoo.com.
02 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Khadi masks distributed||On the eve of Gandhi Jayanti and Khadi Day, a free Khadi mask distribution programme was organised by Khadi Designer Council and JD Institute of Fashion Technology on Thursday. Khadi Designer Council Joint Secretary Aishwarya Ganguri, said pure Khadi masks were distributed at Vanaprastanam old age home (Madhavadhara), PAPA home for children (Seethammadhara and Dabagardens) and Prema Samajam (Dabagardens). Kattamuri Pradeep, Director, JD Institute of Fashion Technology, was present.
02 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New Registrar takes charge at GITAM||Dr. D. Gunasekaran took charge as the Registrar of GITAM Deemed to be University here on Thursday. The university’s current Registrar Prof. K.V.G.D. Balaji handed over charge to the new Registrar in the presence of GITAM Vice-Chancellor Prof. K. Sivaramakrishna, Pro Vice-Chancellor Prof. C.V. Rao and others. Dr. D. Gunasekaran served at IIT Kharagpur for twenty years. He also worked as Registrar in two central universities and IIT Bhubaneswar. He also served as a member in an administrative reforms committee appointed by the Government of West Bengal to recommend changes in the system of administration. Before joining GITAM, Dr. Gunasekaran worked as a Registrar at a private university for around three years.
02 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties protest against Farm Bills||Protests being organised by Left parties demanding withdrawal of the Farm Bills brought out by the Centre continued for the third day at the Gandhi statue near the GVMC building here on Thursday. Addressing the participants, CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy said that the Bills are detrimental to small and marginal farmers who are solely dependent on agriculture for their livelihood. “The objective of the Centre is to hand over the lands of farmers to big corporates and also to do away with the benefit of Minimum Support Price being extended to farmers,” he alleged. CPI(M) city secretary B. Ganga Rao said that the Bills were approved in Parliament in an undemocratic manner though the BJP did not have the required strength in the Rajya Saba to the detriment of small and marginal farmers and to benefit corporates. CPI-ML leader Ganesh Panda said that the bills would destroy the country’s food security. CPI leader M. Pydiraju and CPI-ML New Democracy leader Kondayya were present.
02 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 10,000 appear for Ed.CET||About 66.18 % attendance was registered for the AP Ed.CET conducted peacefully in 50 centres at 17 places across the State on Thursday, said Convener Prof. R. Siva Prasadh. Out of 15,658 candidates registered, 10,363 attended the online exam conducted from 10 a.m. to 12 noon. Mr. Siva Prasadh said that earlier, the Chairman of APSCHE, Prof. Hemachandra Reddy selected the set code to commence the exam. The candidates appeared in maths, physical sciences, biological sciences, social science and English subjects. The test was conducted in Telugu, English and Urdu media.
02 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to lay stone for medical college at Paderu today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will lay the foundation stone through the virtual mode for the medical college proposed at Paderu in the Agency area of the district on Friday. The medical college, which is expected to bring advanced medical care facilities within the reach of the tribal people, will be set up at an estimated cost of Rs. 450 crore on a 35-acre site. Number of seats  “The district-level hospital at Paderu will serve as the teaching hospital. The government has allotted 100 seats, and admissions are expected to be made from the academic year 2023,” Paderu MLA K. Bhagyalakshmi told The Hindu on Thursday. Ms. Bhagyalakshmi said the college was a long-pending demand of the tribal areas. The college would also do research on diseases rampant in the tribal areas, she said. The ITDA officials are making arrangements for the stone-laying ceremony.
02 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RPF’s awareness programme on masks||Officials of the Railway Protection Force under Waltair Division organised an awareness campaign on mask etiquette for passengers and Railway employees, at the Visakhapatnam Railway Station on Thursday. A man dressed up in the attire of Lord Yamaraj appealed to the public to wear masks. Around 40 RPF staff participated in the event.
02 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||M.R. College ‘privatisation move’ triggers protests||A reported proposal of MANSAS Trust to privatise the historic Maharaja College established here in 1879 met with opposition from all sections of society. Several organisations, including the Pattana Powra Sangham, Students Federation of India and the Akhila Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad staged protests on the college premises. Former Union Minister and former chairperson of the trust P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, Telugu Desam MLC Dwarapureddy Jagadish and others condemned the alleged proposal to privatise the aided college. “The State government’s interference in MANSAS Trust is the root cause of all problems. The trust should not privatise aided colleges, including the M.R. College, since it has been the best educational hub in the State. The college has Rs. 120 crore funds but is prevented from paying salaries to the staff. It is really unfortunate,” he charged. ‘Special bonding’ Mr. Jagadish said that every family had a special bonding with the college and its sanctity should be protected at any cost. “M.R. College is a heritage structure. The State government is using MANSAS Trust for its own political gains. The people of Vizianagaram district will teach a lesson to the government,” said Mr. Jagadish. Powra Samkshema Sangham’s Reddi Sankara Rao, ABVP leaders R. Ramana, Gopala Patrudu, SFI leader Ch. Venkatesh and others protested the move. Heavy police force was deployed at the college to avoid any untoward incident.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||BS-III vehicles: 17 RTA employees face action||The Road Transport Authority (RTA) has framed charges against its 17 employees in the case of registration of BS-III vehicles with fake documents and recommended disciplinary action against all of them. Transport Commissioner P.S.R. Anjaneyulu issued show-cause notices to all these employees including two Road Transport Officers, six inspectors, two A.O.s, and two Motor Vehicle Inspectors on September 2. After getting replies from them, charges have been framed. Among the 17 employees is A.O. (Anantapur) V. Venkateswarlu who has retired from the service and settled in Kurnool, while administrative officer Rama Devi is in service. They have been charged with the alleged illegal registration of 129 BS-III lorries and buses as BS-IV vehicles. “Action will be taken against all these employees,” said Deputy Transport Commissioner N. Sivaram Prasad.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unaware of hazard||
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATC||Joint Collector– II P. Arun Babu has asked the health department and Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) officials to ensure that no maternal deaths occur in the district. Mr. Arun Babu has asked them to provide counselling to pregnant women and explain the steps needed to be taken. At a review meeting, the Joint Collector directed officials to make arrangements so that pregnant women can contact health officials in case of any emergency.
02 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Telangana insists on speedy release of IGST dues||Reiterating the State’s demand for immediate release of Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) dues to the tune of Rs. 2,638 crore, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has requested the GST Council to ensure that the Central government takes steps to pay Rs. 25,058 crore IGST dues to the States with immediate effect. The Minister said there was no objections over the quantum of funds pending release by the Centre and there was clarity on the dues payable to each State. The Group of Ministers (GoM)should raise the issues in the forthcoming meeting of the GST Council slated on October 5 recommending immediate release of dues. Mr. Harish Rao made this requests while participating in a video conference of the GoM on Thursday. Finance Ministers of Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Delhi were present at the video conference which discussed the issues relating to IGST settlement. ‘Violation of norms’ Mr. Harish Rao expressed concern that the Centre had credited the amount due to the States in the Consolidated Fund in violation of norms. The same was pointed out by the Comptroller and Auditor General in its report. CAG report The CAG, in its report tabled in the Parliament, highlighted the issue stating that the violation was observed in the financial year 2017-18 and it was repeated the next fiscal too. Since the CAG, the highest audit body, faulted the government, the GoM should recommend release of dues to the States and ensure that the issue formed part of the agenda of the GST Council meeting. GoM convener and Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi readily accepted the suggestion and directed the officials concerned to forward a recommendation to this effect to the GST Council. Annual returns The Minister recalled that the State was yet to get Rs. 1,000 crore towards settlement based annual returns and steps should be taken to release this amount without any delay. Principal Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao, Commercial Taxes Commissioner Neetu Kumari Prasad and other senior officials were present.
02 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||34% of total COVID cases so far in Sept. alone||It’s been seven months since the first COVID case was detected in Telangana on March 2. One of the questions frequently asked about the pandemic is whether incidence of the infectious disease has come down. The numbers hold the answer. Out of the total 1,93,600 cases recorded in the State till the end of September, 65,903 were recorded in September alone, which is 34% of the total. This is the highest number of cases recorded in a month. Apart from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), around 100-200 cases a day are recorded in other districts, including Warangal Urban, Nalgonda, Karimnagar, Bhadradri Kothagudem and Khammam. Officials of the State Health department said that they were focusing on these districts to bring down the incidence. In GHMC, 300 to 350 cases are recorded every day. But, according to senior officials, when the one crore population in the municipal limits is considered, the case load is low. Of the total 30,50,444 tests, 53% samples were checked in the last month. Everyday, barring Sunday, around 50,000 to 55,000 people undergo tests across the State. Of them, around 10,000 are in the city. Till date, 1,63,407 people have recovered from the infectious disease. The recovery rate in the State is 84.04%. In September, 299 COVID-19 patients have died. The toll standa at 1,135. According to the media bulletin issued by the Health department, 44.96% of the total have died of COVID-19, and 55.04% due to co-morbidities.
02 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Pass resolution against farm bills in Assembly’||Questioning the TRS government’s sincerity on their opposition to the three farmers bills, the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy asked Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to convene a special session of the Assembly and pass a unanimous resolution against the bills. Speaking to reporters through online platform Zoom, he asked the Chief Minister to pass new laws in the State Legislature under Article 254(2) of the Constitution to override the Central laws. He said Mr. Rao should emulate the Congress-ruled States in opposing the new Central laws. “The Chief Minister is still backing Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the bills, and his opposition to the bills is just a lip service,” he alleged. Mr. Reddy announced that the Congress would organise massive protests before the statues of Mahatma Gandhi and district Collectorates on Friday as part of nationwide agitation demanding withdrawal of controversial agricultural laws. Besides holding protests at all district headquarters on October 2 (Gandhi Jayanti), he said that the Congress would also launch a signature campaign against the new laws. He said that the party plans to collect nearly two crore signatures from across the country and they would be submitted to President Ramnath Kovind by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on November 14. The TPCC chief said that all the three new laws do not favour farmers but were brought in for corporate houses like Adanis, Ambanis, Walmart, Amazon, among others. Recalling the crop loan waiver from the Congress-led UPA government, he said the party always stood for farmers. He also reminded the crop loan waiver by the Congress government in the united Andhra Pradesh. Further, he said farmers were also given interest-free loans, quality and free power, besides ensuring Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their produce. ‘Will win bypoll’ Mr. Reddy said the Congress party is all set to win Dubbak by-election as there is resentment among people towards the TRS government. The press conference was also addressed by All India Kisan & Mazdoor Congress vice president M. Kodanda Reddy.  New laws brought in for corporate houses like Adanis, Ambanis, Walmart, Amazon, among others. N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, TPCC chief.
02 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR freight loading improves||The South Central Railway (SCR) combined freight loading has surpassed the loading during the same period last year with an overall loading of 7.56 MT in September when compared to 7.51 MT in September last year despite the pandemic continuing to rage across the country. Growth rebound in loading has been across the spectrum with all commodities witnessing higher loading levels except coal. The policy initiatives for cement sector like relaxations in the mini rake loading, tariff concession for long-lead traffic and relaxing train load benefits norms among others – combined with the active canvassing by oficial teams has contributed to an increase by 29% to 2.2 MT in September 2020 compared to 1.7 MT last year. Foodgrains loading witnessed a growth of 15% and loading of fertilizers increased by 23.5% to 0.68 MT compared to 0.55 MT last year. Similar growth trends were also witnessed in other commodities with 26% growth in loading of raw material commodities for steel plants - 0.24 MT this year and 0.19 MT earlier, 14% growth in loading of petroleum products (0.032 MT & 0.028 MT), 22% growth in containers loading (0.11 MT & 0.09 MT) and 9% growth in loading of other commodities (0.36 MT & 0.33 MT), said general manager Gajanan Mallya on Thursday. Average speed of freight trains was drastically improved by 97%, from 26 kmph to 51 kmph. In fact, the SCR recorded the third best average speed in the freight train movements across the Indian Railways, said chief public relations officer Ch. Rakesh. The general manager appreciated the efforts put in by various teams of operating and commercial departments.
02 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||47% COVID cured at Gandhi Hospital are above 50 years||Detection of COVID-19 raises concerns among patients and their family members, especially if the patient is old. But, the number of old people admitted at Gandhi Hospital who have recovered from the infectious disease gives a ray of hope. Out of the 4,869 patients who were discharged from the hospital between July and September fourth week, 47% are above 50 years. Most of them had co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. While 1,042 belong to the age group of 51 to 60 years, 802 were 61 to 70 years old, and 328 were 71 to 80 years old. Those who have recovered from COVID-19 includes 10 people above 90 years also. Significant number of children too have won over the infectious disease: 106 of the recoveries were recorded in the age group of 1 to 10 years. Nodal officer for COVID-19 at Gandhi Hospital T. Prabhakar Reddy said that patient care providers attend to the aged. “Some of them do not have the energy to take a tablet out of a strip, or open the cap of packaged food. Our patient care-givers help them out,” he said. Video calls are arranged for patients to speak with their family members. The hospital administration continues to encounter issues with some people who are not ready to take back their old family member post recovery. Sometimes, members request the hospital authorities to let such old people be there for some more days citing lack of space or care-givers at home.
02 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Twitter files counter affidavit in PIL plea over objectionable content||Micro-blogging system and social networking platform, Twitter Incorporation, said that a PIL petition over Islamophobic posts was not maintainable against it as it was not amenable to the jurisdiction of Telangana High Court. In a counter affidavit filed in Telangana HC hearing the PIL plea, the social networking platform company said that it was incorporated under the laws of the United States of America. With a registered office at San Francisco, California, USA, the company operates Twitter social media platform for ‘self-expression of its users to communicate and stay connected through small messages of 280 characters or less (Tweet). Sometimes, the posts may contain pictures or videos’. It said the company would not author or post the tweets/hashtags about which objections were raised by the petitioner in the PIL plea. “It is the user of the platform (twitter) who is the author and publisher of the tweet/hashtag,” the company said. Before availing Twitter services, every user contractually agrees to the ‘terms of service’ which are publicly available atwww.twitter.com/en/tos, the company said. Under this, the user assumes responsibility for the content posted by them. Describing the PIL petition as ‘premature’, it said the petitioner failed to approach the authorities concerned established by law to investigate into the objectionable posts and content. The petitioner did not lodge any complaint against the company in any police station. No First Information Report too was issued. The petitioner failed to avail such alternate and more efficacious remedy, the company stated. The counter affidavit said the company was an ‘intermediary’ as per Information Technology (IT) Act-2020. The act of posting tweets, including ones with hashtags, is under the control of the authors and originators of the tweets, it said. The company claimed that legal liability for electronic documents, content or information commonly exchanged over Internet is governed by IT Act. Under this Act, attribution of liability for any electronic record is on the ‘originator’. The liability cannot be shifted onto an intermediary like the company, it said.
02 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Key L&T Metro official retires||L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad (L&TMRH) official M.P. Naidu, who has been instrumental in the development of Hyderabad Metro Rail, superannuated after a remarkable career of 47 years on Thursday. Feats galore He had achieved many feats in his professional journey Mr. Naidu started his career with Hindustan Steel Limited, where he worked for about 20 years and after joining L&T in 1995, he contributed to the successful completion of several prestigious projects, including Bengaluru Airport and Delhi Airport Terminal-3. He supervised the designing and construction of Hyderabad Metro Rail from L&T side from the very beginning in 2011. ‘Infrastructure man’ He was conferred with the title of ‘The Infrastructure Man of the Year-2018’ by a prestigious infrastructure magazine and had received many professional awards of excellence during his long career. He was given a warm farewell by L&T group through video conference, where the Group MD S.N. Subrahmanian described him as an ‘invaluable asset’. HMR MD N.V.S. Reddy said that Mr. Naidu was his main technical support in executing the most challenging and mega Hyderabad Metro project. L&TMRH MD and Chief Executive Officer K.V.B. Reddy said, “Mr. Naidu has always been a mentor to us. I feel fortunate to have worked with him in the HMR project”.
02 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Criminal case lodged against Hanamkonda inspector||A criminal case has been registered against inspector of Hanamkonda police station in Warangal Police Commissionerate, Dayakar, who was accused of aiding and abetting the accused in an extortion case. The inspector was transferred and attached to the headquarters to ensure he did not interfere or attempt to influence the ongoing investigation, sources in police said. A 58-year-old person, Ravinder, approached top officials of the Warangal police recently alleging that a person called Kiran and his associates detained and had beaten him up after confining him in a room in Hanamkonda. Ravinder, reported to be sarpanch of a village in Mulugu district, had sold a piece of land to Kiran. Accusing Ravinder of selling him a disputed land, Kiran and his associates detained Ravinder and beat him up before forcing him to sign on some documents. The complainant charged that the inspector too was present when he was beaten up. “An internal inquiry was ordered and prima facie evidence was found against the inspector,” an officer supervising the probe seeking anonymity said. Ravinder also alleged that he was later taken to Hanamkonda police station and there the inspector had beaten him up. He was allegedly forced to sign some papers in the police station mortgaging a property to Kiran and others. Some bank cheque leaves were forcibly taken from him. His thumb impressions were obtained on bond papers. “Evidence of video records of Ravinder being taken to police station and phone conversations were secured. The inspector beating up the complainant is being further probed,” the officer said. The case was assigned to Narsampet ACP for investigation. The inspector is likely to be arrested after gathering further evidence.  An internal inquiry was ordered and prima facie evidence was found against the inspector. Investigating officer.
02 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Actor Prakash Raj takes green challenge, nominates others||Actor Prakash Raj planted a sapling as part of the Green India Challenge, a green campaign started by TRS Rajya Sabha member Joginapally Santosh. He said that it was the duty of every individual to protect the greenery of mother earth with all humbleness and leave the arrogance in its destruction. The versatile actor nominated and requested Malayalam superstar Mohan Lal, Tamil actor Surya, Kannada actor Rakshit Shetty, and actresses Ramya Krishnan and Trisha to carry forward the challenge.
02 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Enrolment begins for MLC poll, voters asked to register afresh||As per the instructions by the Election Commission of India (ECI), the Electoral Registration Officer (ERO) for the Mahabubnagar-Ranga Reddy-Hyderabad Graduates Constituency has issued a public notice appealing all eligible graduates to enrol their names in the electoral rolls afresh. The qualifying date for enrolment is November 1 this year. Applicants for enrolment should be ordinary residents of the Graduates’ constituency, and in possession of the required educational qualifications for at least three years prior to the qualifying date. The applicant should apply in Form-18 along with latest passport size photo duly filling up all columns for enrolment and enclosing a copy of his or her degree/diploma certificate/mark sheet or other requisite document, duly authenticated by the designated officer or gazetted officer or notary. The applicant has the option of applying online in the CEO’s website ‘www.ceotelangana.nic.in’. As the roll is being prepared afresh, the entries in the existing roll will not be considered, and they will need to apply afresh in Form-18, ERO Pankaja informed in a statement here. RDOs, tahsildars and deputy commissioners have been appointed as assistant EROs, and deputy tahsildars and assistant municipal commissioners have been appointed as designated officers covering nine districts to receive the applications in Form-18. Deadline for submission of applications is November 6, and draft electoral rolls will be published on December 1. Claims and objections will be received from December 1 to 31. The deadline for disposal of the claims and objections is January 12, while final electoral rolls will be published on January 18, the statement said.
02 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC election will be fought on ‘truth and lies’: BJP||The forthcoming GHMC elections would be between “ truth and lies” as the ruling TRS had totally failed, at the State and GHMC levels, to improve basic amenities to people, forgetting the promises made during elections, said Telangana BJP Hyderabad president and MLC N. Ramchander Rao on Thursday. “The TRS leaders led by KCR and KTR had made tall promises before the municipal elections last time and they are repeating the same false assurances like providing free two-bedroom houses for all. The loss of three lives in recent rains, water-logged roads and submerged colonies were a stark proof of the administration failure,” he said. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Rao urged people to “liberate and save Hyderabad city” from the clutches of the TRS and MIM “which had utterly neglected overall development of the capital”. He was of the opinion that people, particularly those in the capital, had realised the folly of continuously supporting TRS and were now determined to “teach a lesson to the ruling party and its ally, Majlis”. The BJP was for building civic infrastructure like new flyovers and bridges. However, laying foundation stone for proposed projects alone did not constitute “development”. The MLC was confident of his party putting up a good show this time and capturing the mayor post as “people no longer want to be deceived by TRS leaders”. He accused ruling party corporators of having become “notorious for their brazen acts” over the last few years.
02 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth Reddy stages protest at BJP office||The ‘high-handness’ of the Uttar Pradesh police on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi led to protests here with senior Congress leaders taking to the streets seeking action against the UP police. A group of leaders staged protest at the State BJP office while others led a candle rally. Tension prevailed at the State BJP office here after the Congress workers led by the TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy staged protest. Police caught offguard The police were caught unawares with the sudden protests but later arrested him along with Youth Congress president Anil Kumar Yadav and others. Mr. Revanth Reddy said it is unfortunate that Mr. Rahul Gandhi was attacked by the police when he went there to console the family members of the rape victim in Hathras. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy led a candle rally at the Ambedkar statue seeking justice to the girl’s family and protesting the misbehaviour of the UP police with Mr. Gandhi. They raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the UP administration for protecting the rape accused. Mr. Uttam Reddy said the police had crossed all limits in their behaviour with Mr. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra Gandhi. AICC secretary Bose Raju and senior leaders Ponnala Lakshmaiah, Ponnam Prabhakar, Marri Shashidhar Reddy, Anjan Kumar Yadav, Vamshichand Reddy, Dasoju Sravan, Banda Chandra Reddy, Feroz Khan, Manavata Roy among others were present. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka said the incident reflects the prevailing scary situation in the country ever since the BJP came to power.
02 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Include Narayanpet-Kodangal project in Apex Council agenda’||Malkajgiri Member of Parliament A. Revanth Reddy has urged Chief Minister K. Chadrasekhar Rao to include the Narayanpet-Kodangal Lift Irrigation scheme in the agenda of the Apex Council meeting to be held on October 6. In a letter to the Chief Minister, he said the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) had responded favourably to his letter on August 20 and suggested that the State government take it up and that they had no objection. “In its reply on September 24, the KRMB has said let the State government provide them with all the details for further action,” he said. The letter from KRMB is a clear indication that the ball was in the State government’s court. ‘Money released’ Since the KRMB was favourable, the State government should include it in the Apex Council meeting agenda, he demanded. He reminded that the project was sanctioned in the combined Andhra Pradesh and money was also released for a survey of the project that would irrigate a lakh acres in the backward Mahabubnagar district apart from providing drinking water to the villages. ‘Personal vengeance’ The Congress leader alleged that the Chief Minister had dumped the project with personal vengeance against him as he was the Kodangal legislator till 2018. The project is Telangana’s right and it should not be shelved just for personal reasons, the Congress Member of Parliament said.
02 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,176-km road stretch in Hyderabad up for pvt. sanitation||The GHMC standing committee has, during its meeting on Thursday, approved a proposal to be sent to the government, towards handing over the sanitation responsibilities on commercial stretches in the city to private agencies on contract basis. However, tenders have been called for the proposal already, even before it received stamp of approval from the standing committee and government. As per the proposal, a total of 1,176 km of commercial stretches in 30 circles will be handed over for private sanitation, with an estimated expenditure of Rs. 215 crore per annum. A provision has been included for raising the cost by five per cent every year, for three years, subjective to the condition that administrative sanction shall be obtained every year. The expenditure will be chargeable to GHMC budget. Commercial stretches in each zone have been identified by the zonal commissioners. Once the private sanitation begins, all the commercial complexes and shops should have two garbage bins for dry and wet trash. For public use, two bins of 50 to 60 litres capacity should be placed every 100 metres by the contractor. The contract agency should sweep the roads at least once every day, besides ensuring door-to-door collection. The waste thus collected should be transported in a closed container vehicle with partition for wet and dry trash. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan has instructed the officials to ensure that the charges presently being collected by the Swachh Auto Trolley drivers are deposited in the GHMC’s account. Littering of the roads under contract will attract penalty from the Enforcement department. The GHMC sanitation workers presently on these stretches will be transferred to other areas. The standing committee meeting has also cleared proposal to press into service 650 more Swachh autos on driver-cum-owner to streamline garbage collection. One more proposal receiving stamp of approval was to deposit Rs. 5.23 crore with the South Central Railway for construction of a limited height sub-way between Sitaphal Mandi and Arts College stations near Manikeshwari Nagar. The committee has cleared proposals to appoint dependants in place of the deceased outsourcing workers in the Sanitation department, and to replace the old and infirm workers. Besides, it has sanctioned the removal of the workers who have been in absence without leave for over a month. Two more proposals are for property acquisition to lay 30-metre road between Uppal bus stop and HMDA layout, and for drafting guidelines to hand over management of medians and traffic islands to private organisations under Corporate Social Responsibility.
02 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Goldman Sachs to spread wings in Hyderabad||Goldman Sachs has identified Hyderabad as its new location for global shared services footprint in India and will set up an office in city with about 500 employees. The move is a part of its India location strategy to diversify geographic presence and enhance talent reach, to support the growing global businesses and enhance long-term competitiveness. The office here will be the second location for Goldman Sachs Services in India. The facility will complement its Bengaluru office footprint in terms of both the execution and support that it will provide to the investment and financial services major’s businesses globally. The Hyderabad office is expected to commence in the second half of 2021 with about 500 employees. It has potential for future growth and leverage the expertise of the existing leadership in Bengaluru office, while investing in a strong pool of competitive world class local talent, a Goldman Sachs statement shared by IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s office said. The statement followed a video conference the Goldman Sachs India leadership led by its India Chairman Sanjoy Chatterjee had with the Minister.
02 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Coaching for PG medical admissions||Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TSWREIS) has called for online applications from medical students of third and fourth year, house surgeons and those who have passed MBBS from among SC candidates for coaching for admission to post-graduate medical courses. The last date has been extended up to October 8 and candidates can check website:www.tswreis.infor details.
02 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘TRS has no right to seek votes in Graduate MLC polls’||AICC secretary and former MLA Ch. Vamshichand Reddy said that the TRS has no right to seek votes of graduates and teachers and appealed to those sections to be aware of another round of empty promises to be made to them. He said the TRS cannot ask votes in the Graduate MLC elections given its insensitivity towards the students, graduates, employees and teachers for ‘deceiving’ them throughout these six years. “They all played a vital role in Telangana agitation and the TRS government just ignored them after making huge promises once it came to power,” he said. How can the TRS leaders now visit the districts for voter enrolment of graduates, he asked and said the educated sections should question the government’s unfulfilled promises when the TRS leaders visit them for enrolment. “On behalf of the Congress party, I request all the graduates of Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda, Warangal and Khammam to get enrolled in the membership programme to teach a lesson to the TRS government,” he said. ‘Silent government’ Mr. Vamshichand accused the government of remaining silent for years on PRC, IR, DA, transfers and promotions, and cutting the salaries and pensions of the employees during the lockdown. He alleged that 7,000 field assistants, 27,000 sweepers in schools and colleges, engineers of Mission Bhagheeratha, contract and outsourcing employees in GHMC and universities were fired by the government. On the other hand, notifications for Group 1, Group 2 and Group 3 were not issued during the last six years. More than 30,000 teacher posts have been lying vacant and not a single recruitment has taken place in colleges and universities, he said. He demanded the government to recruit 1.5 lakhs vacant posts and an additional 1.2 lakh posts created through retirements. He also wanted to keep its election promise of Rs. 3,016 unemployment allowance for the graduates.
02 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held in bitcoin fraud||A man was arrested by Hyderabad police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) for allegedly cheating people to the tune of crores by luring them to invest in online business involving bitcoin for higher returns. Sirimalla Nagaraju created four websites – Rosnefthedgefund.ru, rhfcoin.com, rhfgold.com, and eurescoin.com – for collecting money for bitcoin business and duped over 500 people, Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. “During his tenure, he successfully lured nearly 500 members to join the scheme and collected crores of rupees as per company binary concept,” he said. The accused had appointed several people as regional heads and agents in different states and induced victims to deposit huge amounts for a term of 18 weeks and promised that every week, the returns would be sent online to their accounts, Mr. Avinash Mohanty said. “Nagaraju collected approximately Rs. 52 crore from about 1,200 depositors from all over the country and about 250 depositors from Telangana and other southern states who deposited around Rs. 10 crore,” Mr. Mohanty added. Based on the complaint lodged by the victims, a case under sections 66 C, and D, Income Tax Act, and sections 419, 420, and 120 (B) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 5 of the Telangana State Protection of Depositors of Financial Establishments Act was filed. He was also booked under sections 3, 4, and 5 of Prize Chit and Money Circulation (Banning) Act.
02 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Video calls organised for the elderly at Gandhi Hospital||Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad is the main facility in the State capital that attends to COVID patients. The hospital arranges video calls for its old patients so that they can speak with their family members. Issues remain But, the hospital administration continues to encounter issues when it comes to such elderly patients, with some people not even ready to take back their old family members post recovery from COVID. Sometimes, members request the hospital authorities to let such old people stay there for some more days citing lack of space or care-givers at home.
02 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS seeks Rs. 500 cr. to improve NH-65 stretch||Telangana government wants the Centre to sanction Rs. 500 crore to resolve the infrastructure problems on the Hyderabad-Vijayawada section of National Highway-65. In a letter to Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari, the State Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao said the NH segment of about 25 kms on Hyderabad-Vijayawada section of NH-65 has several problems like at-level junctions, inadequate land capacity and absence of service roads for local traffic. The State Public Works Department (PWD) prepared a detailed project report (DPR).
02 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Honour for CSIR-IICT research team||CSIR-IICT research team from the ‘Process Engineering and Technology Transfer Department’ led by senior principal scientist S. Sridhar was bestowed with the prestigious CSIR Award for S&T Innovations for Rural Development (CAIRD) for 2017. The award was announced during the 79th CSIR Foundation Day celebrations held recently. Reverse osmosis The award is given for design and deployment of highly compact, low cost ‘Nanofiltration and Reverse osmosis membrane systems’ of 100-1,000 litre/hour capacities, for ground and surface water purification to provide safe drinking water in several villages of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, with special appreciation for the work done in the mitigation of fluorosis in rural India. Team leader Dr. Sridhar initiated drinking water purification in rural India through the installation of the first model defluoridation plant in 2005 and has continued to promote societal welfare with many such installations, including ultra filtration-based systems for flood water purification during the recent Amphan cyclone in 2020. He has also developed innovative technologies, including an import substitute for production of ultrapure medical grade water for haemodialysis patients as well as biochemical applications to replace expensive systems from MNCs, design of indigenous atmospheric water generator for water scarce regions and a low cost device for healthy alkaline ionized water. Multi-layered masks The scientist is also involved in the design of multi-layered masks and face shields for the common man and was previously honoured with 42 awards, including CSIR Young Scientist 2007.
02 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Efforts to protect rape accused’||Telangana Congress has demanded that the police punish the accused in the rape and murder of a minor in the limits of Moinabad police station. “Reports emerge that the ruling party leaders have been trying to protect the accused in the case by hiding the facts and Cyberabad Police Commissioner V. C. Sajjanar should deal with the case sincerely,” said TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy in a statement here. The girl was raped and murdered under limits of Moinabad police station, allegedly, by a ruling party leader. The girl apparently worked as a maid in the house of the TRS leader.
02 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC notifies enlistment on Dharani portal||In a notification, GHMC asked property owners to enlist their non-agricultural properties for inclusion in Dharani portal by visiting Mee Seva Centres or https://ts.meeseva.telangana.gov.in/TSPortaleef/UserInterface/Citizen/RevenueServices/SMSSendOTP.aspx
02 October 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Huge demand pushes up price of Teja variety red chilli||The burgeoning domestic and export demand for the Teja variety of red chilli, famous for its culinary, medicinal and other wide-ranging uses, pushed up the price of the pungent fruit at Khammam Agriculture Market, housing Telangana's second largest chilli market yard, here. According to the market sources, the Teja variety of red chilli commanded a price of Rs. 16,500 - Rs. 17,000 per quintal in the market on Thursday, fetching a relatively better price for the sellers, mostly comprising the traders and big farmers those, who stocked the commodity in cold storage units in Khammam division. Last week, the red chilli commanded a high price in the range of Rs. 20,000 per quintal when the demand for the commodity in the domestic and international market suddenly surged owing to a combination of factors, mainly the short supply of red chillies from Madhya Pradesh due to heavy rains. The upswing in the prices of red chillies, driven by the spurt in demand for the commodity from various south Asian countries including China, failed to benefit small and medium chilli growers as they had sold their produce to traders during the last harvesting season that coincided with the coronavirus lockdown earlier this year, sources said. The traders and a handful of big and affluent armers, who stocked the commodity in cold storages, are now reaping the benefits of the surge in demand for red chilli, sources added. Largest producer Red chilli was cultivated in about 52,000 acres in the last crop season (rabi) in the district, known as the largest producer of chilli in the State. So far in the current kharif season, chilli seedlings were transplanted in about 53,000 acres across the district. Officials of the Horticulture Department expect the area under chilli cultivation to increase by another 7,000 acres this season considering the suitable agro-climatic conditions and the prevailing remunerative prices.
02 October 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||2BHK only an electoral issue for TRS: Bhatti||Launching a scathing attack on the TRS dispensation for allegedly failing to deliver on its “oft repeated promise” of constructing 2,000 two bedroom (2BHK) houses each year in Khammam, the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka alleged that only 417 two-bedroom houses were constructed in the town so far in the past seven years. “The persons at the helm have made the same promise of providing housing to all eligible homeless poor people repeatedly in all the previous elections including Assembly, Lok Sabha, Gram Panchayat and the civic polls, but failed to fulfil their much-touted promises till date,” he charged. Around 14,000 two-bedroom houses should have been constructed by now as per their promise, but the ground reality speaks volumes about the “hollowness” of the claims of the ruling dispensation, Mr Vikramarka flayed. He was speaking to reporters after visiting the ‘2BHK houses’ under construction at Dwamsalapuram and Allipuram near here on Thursday. The TRS has made a promise in its 2018 election manifesto to provide financial assistance to poor people for construction of houses in their own plots. This still remains on paper, he alleged. He charged the TRS local leaders with “hoodwinking” people by repeating “false promises” for electoral gains. With the elections for Khammam Municipal Corporation slated to be held next year, the ruling party leaders are trying to repeat the “publicity gimmicks” to “sway” electors with the same old unfulfilled promise, he criticised. Prior to the last civic polls, Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had promised alternative houses to the poor people living in the areas along the Gollapadu channel in the town, he said, alleging that it still remained unimplemented. “The local leaders of the ruling party should seek votes only after fulfilling their earlier promises and this time denizens of Khammam will teach them a fitting lesson at the hustings,” he said.
02 October 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Nama Nageswara Rao bereaved||Khammam MP and the TRS floor leader in the Lok Sabha Nama Nageswara Rao's mother Nama Varalakshmamma passed away in Hyderabad on Thursday. She was 91. Varalakshmamma, who suffered a brain stroke, was admitted to a private hospital in Hyderabad around 15 days ago. She died while undergoing treatment at the hospital on Thursday afternoon, sources said. Her last rites will be performed at Madhucon granite factory in Gollagudem village of Khammam rural mandal at 3 p.m. on Friday. Condolences poured in over the death of Varalakshmammam, who actively spearheaded the Nama Muttaiah Trust's philanthropic activities in the district and elsewhere in the State.
02 October 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||3 killed as car hits auto-rickshaw||Three persons were killed and three more were injured in a road accident that took place at Kulcharam in Medak district on Thursday night. Police said that a car coming from Hyderabad hit an auto-rickshaw coming from Appajiapally. Three persons, including a minor girl, were killed on the spot while three were injured and were shifted to hospital for treatment. It was stated that their condition was serious. Those who died on the spot were identified as Chakali Srivarshini (2) of Kishtapur, Mutyala Nirmala (46) of Variguntam and A Sumalatha (25) of Appajipally. It was stated that one more person reportedly died at the hospital but yet to be confirmed by the police. According to sources, nine persons were travelling in the auto-rickshaw.
02 October 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Three children drown||Three children drowned in a tank at Dandupally village in Manoharabad mandal on Thursday. According to sub-inspector L Raju, five children went to the tank. Out of them – Ravi, Naveen and Ahkila (all below 10 years) — drowned in the tank while trying to swim. The remaining children informed the parents. Locals who rushed to the tank were unable to save them. The bodies were retrieved. The police registered a case.
02 October 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Phishing gang busted||The phishing gang that allegedly created the duplicate Facebook account of Nalgonda SP A.V. Ranganath last month, with a view to making a fast buck, was busted at a village near Bharatpur of Rajasthan, police sources said on Thursday. Not only the social media account of the SP, but as many as 230 officers’ accounts from south Indian States were targeted. At least, a hundred police officers from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh were among them, officials said. An investigation team that had gone to Rajasthan, reportedly following a cyber trail, was believed to have crucial evidence to pin down the miscreants. Four key persons of the total 15 suspects, including a minor, were being brought to Nalgonda. “About 20 SIM cards were found with them. They were also able to manipulate the tower location of their SIM card, and used each card for not more than five mobile payment transactions,” an official said. They were not educated beyond the 10th grade, but created a database of photographs and related credentials to make money. On September 18, Mr. Ranganath was alerted by a friend to a mobile payment request to be done in favour of his wife. The cyber team soon confirmed that a duplicate account had been created, and as per information, the miscreants’ location was Odisha. The location was later found to be false. The accused would be produced before media soon.
02 October 2020||R. Avadhani,TELANGANA||Youth does his bit for Kondapochammasagar oustees||Kinnelli Chamanti had new guests on Sunday morning at her doorstep. She was handed over a packet consisting of one litre oil, one kilogram of red gram, one kilo sugar, one kilogram salt, 200 grams chilly powder, 100 grams turmeric powder, 100 grams pickle, one washing soap, one bath soap and one dishwash soap. Her family migrated to the city for a living and were not extended the double bedroom house or package. This was great relief for Chamanti and others residing in the double bedroom houses at Mulugu. All of them are from Bahilampur and Mamidyala — two villages that submerged in Kondapochammasagar reservoir. They were forcibly shifted to these double bedroom houses on a temporary basis as the villages got submerged in Kondapochammasagar reservoir. Some of them are single women, while some others had migrated to urban areas to make a living. Their lands and houses were acquired by the government for the project with a promise to rehabilitate and resettle them. After being forced out of the village they are facing plenty of problems and most important, they are unable to find work. At this juncture, a team of eight members led by Mangavelli Sai Aditya reached them and handed over the kit. But Aditya is not an employee, he is a student! Except Bilu and Praveen in the team, all others — Sindhu, Dimple, Aishwarya, Aayushi, Nikhil and Gaurav — are students. Recently, Aditya visited the Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) Colony at Tunkibollaram and the double bedroom houses at Mulugu where the oustees have been provided accommodation by the government. Their plight moved him and so he decided to help them. He raised funds on Instagram platform with the tag: ‘Fund raising campaign to support Kondapochamma oustees: September 21 – Septmber 25.’ The response from the public was encouraging and he was able to generate a fund of Rs. 1.5 lakh. Aditya and his team extended assistance to the needy, including about 30 families residing in sheds at R&R Colony. “I felt bad about their plight and decided to help them,” Aditya told The Hindu . “Our entire time is spent moving around revenue offices and courts to get justice and we are unable to do any work. The aid extended by Adtiya and his team is timely and helpful,” D. Raju, one of the oustees said.
02 October 2020||R. AvadhaniSIDDIPET,TELANGANA||The exodus continues as submergence looms||Nagulapally Venkatesh, a married man is in late 20s with three children lives with his father Nagulapally Lingam (55) and his septuagenarian grandfather Anjaiah in Etigaddakishtapur of Toguta mandal. Etigaddakishtapur is one of the villages submerging under Mallannasagar reservoir. On September 4, the families of Venkatesh and 10 others vacated the village and shifted to double bedroom houses constructed at Lakshmapur. They were given temporary accommodation there with a promise that they would be allotted houses/ house sites at Sangapur. After Rampur and Laxmapur under Mallannasagar, this was the first major shift of oustees from the native village. “Our houses are almost on the bund and it was not possible to construct the bund without demolishing our houses. Hence, the officials asked us to vacate and we were shown temporary accommodation here. However, registration papers of our houses were not yet handed over to us,” Venkatesh told The Hindu . As the construction of Kondapochammasagar was already completed and oustees got accommodated at Tunkibollaram, the administration of Siddipet has been focusing on getting the villages under Mallannasagar vacated. As part of that, some families from Etigaddakishtapur got vacated and now the focus is on Erravalli and Singaram in Kondapaka mandal. Both these submerging villages fall under the limits of Gajwel Assembly constituency while other villages are under Dubbak Assembly constituency where by-elections are scheduled on November 3. “Tahasildars – Rameswar and Bal Reddy – have been entrusted with the responsibility of getting both Erravalli and Singaram vacated. Commence the process within one week,” Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy said.
02 October 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Tagore to participate in protest||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee State affairs in-charge Manickam Tagore will be participating in the protest being organised by the party on Friday at the district headquarters against the Central government’s new laws on agriculture, recently passed by Parliament. The programme will be held at Ganj Maidan. All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary N.S. Bose Raju, former deputy chief minister C. Damodar Rajanarasimha, MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy and others inspected the arrangements at the venue here on Thursday. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Bose Raju said that farmers are opposing the new laws related to farming activity and the Congress party has been organising a nation-wide protest against them. He said that Mr. Tagore and TPCC president Uttam Kumar Reddy are scheduled to participate in the programme on Friday. Mr. Damodar has alleged that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi-led government in the State has indirectly been extending support to these Bills.   The protest programme of the Congress party will continue till October 31st, he added.
02 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Project oustees join TRS||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that the Opposition parties have been trying to play politics between the land oustees and the government. Asserting that the government was concerned about the fate of the oustees, the Minister claimed that the Telangana government was offering the best compensation package in the country. Some oustees of Vemulaghat and Pallepahad joined the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the presence of Mr. Harish Rao at his residence on Thursday. Addressing the gathering the Minister pointed out that the government was able to complete the irrigation projects and extend irrigation to lakhs of acres and proved wrong the comments of the Opposition parties that the projects would never be completed. “We have shown our commitment to the people by completing Kaleswaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP). We are in power for another three years in this term. The same assistance offered to Kondapochamma oustees will be extended to the oustees of Mallannasagar. The cost of 2BHK houses constructed by the government will be around Rs. 20 lakh in open market. We will do justice to oustees,” he said.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Theatres await govt. nod to resume shows||Welcoming the Centre’s decision to permit cinema halls to function with 50% capacity from October 15, associations and management of the theatres urged State governments to take a decision on the same. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), however, said in the Capital, “status-quo” would be maintained on cinema halls till October 31 or until further orders. The Multiplex Association of India (MAI) said permissions on an urgent basis from the State governments to reopen cinemas would go a substantial distance in ensuring that the cinema exhibition sector is able to quickly recover from the economic impact. Most of the theaters in Delhi are run by large multiplex chains that have a presence across the county and are planning for a pan India opening. However, a few remaining single-screen theaters like Delite Cinema said they were ready to open but they do not know about the “status-quo”. “We have reburshied our halls during the lockdown. We have upgraded our air conditioning unit and installed a UV chamber for sanitising the air that is being circulated,” said the manager of Delite. Managing Director, Carnival Cinemas, P.V. Sunil said this was the right time to open halls with Diwali around the corner but a couple of State governments are yet to give the nod. “As of now, our software is being modified in accordance with 50% seating so that the audience have a seamless experience while booking tickets online. Two weeks is sufficient time for our preparations,” Mr. Sunil said. Alok Tandon, CEO, INOX Leisure, said preparations on the hygiene and disinfection front will set new benchmarks for any public premises, whether inside the auditorium or in our lobbies and F&B counters. “We are positively hopeful that the State governments will now give us the green signal,” Mr. Tandon said.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Capital ranks first in crimes against women’||Delhi is ranked first among 19 metropolitan cities in India in recording the highest number of crimes against women, according to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau. The data further reveals that the Capital accounted for nearly a third of the total number of such crimes. The data states that Delhi accounted for 28% of the total figure, followed by Mumbai at 14.3% and Bengaluru at 7.7%. It says 1,231 cases of rape were reported in the Capital in 2019 followed by 517 in Jaipur and 344 cases in Mumbai. Molestation cases stood at 2,311 in Delhi followed by 2,069 in Mumbai and 748 in Jaipur. Delhi also recorded five cases of murder with rape, 115 dowry deaths, 3,697 cases of cruelty by husband or relatives and 3,398 cases of kidnapping and abduction. Some of the few areas where the Capital didn’t record the highest number of cases were kidnapping and abduction to compel for marriage, where Patna took the lead. Delhi recorded seven such cases. The Capital was also not at the forefront of cybercrimes against women. According to the data, Delhi accounted for nearly half the total number of crimes reported in cities, recording 48.7% followed by Mumbai at 6.7%. The maximum number of theft cases recorded across metro cities was reported in Delhi (2,42,642 cases). The Capital saw a 30.39% increase in reported crimes in 2019 with 2,94,653 cases as compared to 2,25,977 in 2018.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. using NCPCR to defame me: Harsh Mander||Activist and former IAS officer Harsh Mander said on Thursday that the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had raided two children’s homes in Delhi that he had been associated with in the past with the main aim of finding out if any of the residents had participated in the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Mr. Mander said the NCPCR raid on Thursday at Ummeed Aman Ghar and Khushi Rainbow Home was led by the NCPCR chairperson. Anti-CAA protests “I am no longer formally associated with these homes... I visit them [the children] when I can, to assure myself about their welfare,” he said. The raid was also to find out if there was any foreign funding and if any Rohingya children were living at the homes, he alleged. Mr. Mander said the Centre was using its agencies to carry out a campaign against those who participated in the anti-CAA protests from December 2019 till March this year. “It has been made amply clear by the actions of the state machinery that I am one of those targeted,” he said.
02 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Bypoll will be referendum on govt.’s show, says Hooda||Former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday said that Baroda bypoll was no ordinary election, but would be a referendum on the performance of the State government. He added that the result of the bypoll would decide the course of future politics in the State and a win for Congress shake the foundation of the BJP-JJP government in Haryana. Mr. Hooda, flanked by several senior party leaders, was addressing a press conference at Sonipat’s Gohana, a day after the Election Commission announced the schedule for the bypoll necessitated due to the demise of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda. The septuagenarian leader once again challenged Chief Minister Manohar Lal to contest against him in the bypoll. Challenges CM “Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar claims to have done many development works in Baroda during six years. If he is so confident, he should accept the challenge of contesting from Baroda,” he said. Mr. Hooda, referring to the fallout of the Meham bypoll, said that a single election could overthrow the government. “Just as the Chautala government was ousted from power after Meham, the BJP-JJP government would meet a similar fate after Baroda bypoll,” he said. The two-time Chief Minister said that the BJP government had ruined Haryana in six years as it had come crashing down from the number one position in investment and development indicators to being number one in crime and unemployment.. Mr. Hooda said that farmers and youth were the two segments hit hard by the policies of the government. While farmers were out on the streets, the condition of the youth was no different because of high rate of unemployment. He also announced to launch a State-wide tour, after winning the Baroda bypoll, against anti-farmer laws passed by the government.
02 October 2020||Mumbai,||‘Judges today only work for the govt.’||Farooq Mapkar, a survivor of the 1993 riots in Mumbai, on Thursday said the special CBI court’s judgment acquitting all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case shows that the “judges today don’t work for people, they only work for the government”. He was speaking at a virtual conference titled ‘Babri Demolition Judgment – Yet Another Nail in Democracy’s Coffin’. Mr. Mapkar said, “The judiciary has just become silent spectators to what is happening around. The judges have the time to listen to [actor] Kangana Ranaut because her house was demolished, but what about us [Muslims]. We are never heard. The BJP is in [power] at the Centre and the State, that is why cases like the Hathras [gangrape] take place. We need to stand up to this and fight.” Referring to the Liberhan Commission, human rights activist Teesta Setalvad said, “The report has nailed the criminals leading the entire movement, which started in 1986 and led to the demonising of Muslims and gender-targeted violence.” Headed by Justice M.S. Liberhan, the commission was set up on December 16, 1992, to probe the sequence of events that led to the Babri Masjid demolition in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. The commission submitted its report 16 years later to the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on June 30, 2009. Ms. Setalvad said Wednesday’s verdict is a “travesty of justice and goes to show that the judiciary cannot withstand the political might when it comes to the Ram Janambhoomi”. Senior advocate Mihir Desai said those acquitted in the case are cowards and the judgment is “unfortunate but not unexpected”. He said in 2011, when the charge of conspiracy was dropped against the accused and the Supreme Court said they must be charged with conspiracy. However, the judgment says there was no conspiracy. Mr. Desai said, “People were there on the site despite [the imposition of] Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which makes the assembly of more than five people unlawful, so they should have been at least convicted under that. Even if the judgment is written on a philosophy, you [judges] have to at least rely on the evidence.” Senior journalist Meena Menon said despite several incendiary speeches and videos being recorded in the run up to the demolition, the court noted that there was no evidence to prove the hatching of a conspiracy.
02 October 2020||mumbai,||Allow theatres, cinemas to reopen, screen associations urge govt.||Representatives of several screen associations have urged the Maharashtra government to consider allowing theatres to reopen in light of the upcoming festive season when some big banner films are scheduled for release. The State government has showed reluctance to reopen theatres, cinema halls and multiplexes under its Mission Begin Again programme despite the Union government announcing their reopening under Unlock 5. Cultural Affairs Minister Amit Deshmukh, in a meeting with representatives of the industry, said the government is positive about their demands, but will give highest priority to the safety of citizens before taking any decision. The multiplex and single screen owners, theatre owners, and film studio owners’ associations told Mr. Deshmukh that even though hotels, bars and restaurants are now allowed to be open, the upcoming festive season brings maximum business to theaters. “A number of new and big budget films release during Dussehra, Deepavali and Christmas. People come out to watch movies. We discussed how safety measures can be followed while opening cinema halls,” said Mr. Deshmukh. He said he would discuss the matter with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy CM Ajit Pawar and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat. Mr. Deshmukh said that the single screen owners spoke about various issues such as financial losses during lockdown, licenses and process to procure them, electricity bill, property tax. “All these issues will be considered and the State government is positive about solving them,” he added.
02 October 2020||Mumbai,||Man gets interim protection from arrest||The Bombay High Court on Thursday granted interim protection from arrest to a man booked for derogatory tweets against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son and Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik was hearing a petition filed by a Nagpur resident Sameet Thakkar seeking to quash an FIR registered against him by the V.P. Marg police charging him for obscenity and slander over his tweets. Advocate Abhinav Chandrachud appearing for Mr. Thakkar said obscenity under Section 292 of the Indian Penal Code means only sexual obscenity or pornography. That mere abusive language does not amount to obscenity. There are great works of literature that have abusive language within them. The court said, “We ignore the harsh criticism that is often levelled against us, but what if others who are in power are not able to ignore/are more sensitive.”
02 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||After taking shelter, runaway boy flees with bag of gold from caterer’s house||A 17-year-old runaway boy who had been staying with a caterer in Vashi for over six months fled with a bag of gold jewellery worth Rs. 2.49 lakh on Sunday. According to the police, the juvenile who had run away from his home in Uttar Pradesh was noticed by a co-passenger in train. The boy told him that he was an orphan and stayed with his uncle and aunt. The aunt tortured him and hence, he fled from their house. The co-passenger, who was known to the caterer Prakash Bhagwat, called him and asked if he could keep the boy at his place. Mr. Bhagwat agreed to keep him for a few days. On March 10, the boy was brought to Mr. Bhagwat’s house and after a few days, the lockdown was enforced. The boy started helping Mr. Bhagwat in his business and also gave company to his 14-year-old son. “Mr. Bhagwat left for his home town in Rajasthan with his family and also took the boy there. Over there, the boy borrowed Mr. Bhagwat’s mobile phone frequently claiming that he had to make a call to his friend. Mr. Bhagwat also received calls enquiring about the boy. On asking the caller, Mr. Bhagwat learnt that it was the boy’s elder brother,” assistant police inspector Sachin Dhage from Vashi police station said. The elder brother also revealed that the boy was not an orphan and had failed Class X for the second consecutive time and hence, he fled home when he was confronted. Mr. Bhagwat told his brother that he would send him back by October 1, and in the last week of September, he came back from Rajasthan. After the boy ran away with the gold on Sunday, a case of theft was registered at the Vashi police station. The police informed his elder brother and asked him to call them if he contacted him. On realising that the elder brother would not cooperate, the police tracked the call records of the elder brother and found that the juvenile had been constantly calling him from various numbers. The boy was finally traced to a chawl in Jogeshwari (East) where he was hiding. “We recovered all the stolen jewellery from his possession. He was sent to a juvenile home from where he was released on bail and handed over to the custody of his brother,” Mr. Dhage said.
02 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Six held for robbing truck on Mumbai-Goa highway||The Raigad police have arrested a gang of six people for kidnapping and dacoity on the Mumbai-Goa Highway at Pen on September 14. The accused had robbed a truck of plastic raw materials worth Rs. 40 lakh after holding the truck occupants as hostages. The accused had assaulted the occupants and drove them around for three hours in an SUV before dumping them along the highway. Chandrakant Gunge (32) was transporting plastic beads in a 14-wheeler truck to Chennai for a company on September 14. Around 7.30 p.m., a group of nine people travelling in an SUV overtook Mr. Gunge’s truck near Gagode Khind in Pen and forced themselves inside the truck. The nine then beat up Mr. Gunge and his two attendants, and robbed them of their valuables before putting them into their vehicle. “The trio were blindfolded and tied up when the accused put them inside the SUV. For around three hours, the accused drove the vehicle and then abandoned them at Eerwadi which is around 15 km from the place where the incident occurred. We found the empty truck dumped in an area in Nashik under the Malegaon taluka police. We first arrested Sadanand Amritka, one of the accused,” Raigad Superintendent of Police Anil Paraskar said. Five others were arrested from Nashik and Mumbai, and the stolen plastic was recovered in Nashik.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||Footballer moves HC against AIFF decision||A young footballer, who has represented India in the international tournaments, approached the Delhi High Court on Thursday challenging the decision of All India Football Federation (AIFF) to bar him from practising with his club because of a rare heart condition. Twenty-year-old Anwar Ali, in his plea said, he has challenged a September 7 letter written by AIFF to Mohammedan Sporting Club of Kolkata directing it to not allow him to train with the team. This, Mr. Ali, said was in violation of his fundamental right to earn his livelihood and practise his profession due to the diagnosis of a congenital heart condition called apcial hypercardio myopathy. In his plea, Mr. Ali said he is a highly rated footballer, who has represented India at the U-15, U-17 and U-19 level and was part of India’s squad at the FIFA Under 17 World Cup.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi police seek action against 4 Punjab policemen||Delhi Police have written to Punjab Police to take action against four policemen, who were deployed as security of Punjab Youth Congress president, said a senior police officer on Thursday. The officer said that during the investigation, it was found that vehicles of Indian Youth Congress (IYC) members and the truck loaded with tractor that was later set on fire near India Gate, was escorted by a vehicle carrying four Punjab policemen. “Punjab policemen told that they were in the security of Punjab Youth Congress (PYC) president Brinder Dhillon, who brought them to Delhi to attend a political event. They were unaware of the protest at India Gate. The policemen also didn’t follow protocol and never informed Delhi Police about their entry into Delhi,” said the officer. He added that they have enough evidences on the presence of Punjab policemen during the protest.
02 October 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 case tally crosses 14 lakh||Maharashtra’s total case tally breached the 14 lakh mark on Thursday with the State reporting 16,476 new COVID-19 cases. Now the total number of cases in the State stands at 14,00,922 of whom 2,59,006 are active ones. The spike was nearly matched by the recoveries, with 16,104 patients being discharged to take the cumulative recoveries to 11,04,426. The State’s recovery rate has risen to 78.84%. A relatively high fatality surge of 395 deaths saw the State’s death toll climb to 37,056. “Of a total 68,75,451 laboratory samples tested thus far, 14,00,922 (20.38%) have returned positive with around 90,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate currently stood at 2.65%. Pune district reported more than 2,500 cases to take its total case tally to 2,95,689 while 45 deaths saw its fatality toll rise to 5,858. As per the Pune district administration, the recovery rate has significantly improved, touching 81% with the number of active cases standing at just over 39,000. Mumbai reported a surge of 2,352 cases to take its total case tally to 2,07,620. Its active case number has now risen to 27,558. As many as 43 fatalities saw the city’s death toll jump to 8,972. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported nearly 1,000 cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 78,998 of whom 13,575 are active. As many as 60 deaths pushed the fatality toll to 2,095. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported 35 deaths to take its death toll to 972. As many as 602 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 37,418 of whom 8,384 are active. Sangli reported 515 cases to take the district’s total case tally to 38,690 of whom 7,816 are active. With 19 deaths, the fatality count has risen to 1,195. Kolhapur reported 12 deaths as its death toll rose to 1,352. More than 400 cases took its total case tally to 43,779 of whom 7,639 are active. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported nearly 1,300 cases as its total tally reached 77,456 of whom 15,302 are active. With six deaths, the district’s death figure has climbed to 1,306.
02 October 2020||Pune,||Maratha quota: anguished by youth’s suicide, Parth Pawar to approach SC||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Parth Pawar raised political eyebrows yet again with tweets expressing anguish over the alleged suicide of a Maratha youth while apparently rebuking his own Maha Vikas Aghadi government for not striving harder to ensure justice for the Maratha community. Mr. Pawar, the son of Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and grand-nephew of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, also said that he would file an intervention application before the Supreme Court over the Maratha reservation . The Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government on September 21 had already filed an application before the SC seeking to vacate the stay on the implementation of the Maratha quota law in the State. “Devastated to hear of the tragic death of [the youth from Beed] who committed suicide for the cause of Maratha reservations. Before a chain reaction of such unfortunate incident starts, Maratha leaders have to wake up and fight for this cause. Requesting Maharashtra government to step in to solve the crisis,” Mr. Pawar said in a series of tweets late on Wednesday. The deceased youth had allegedly written in his suicide note that as the son of a poor farmer, he had been unable to secure a seat after appearing for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test — an exam for medical college aspirants — because the implementation of the Maratha quota law in Maharashtra had been stayed by the apex court. While senior NCP leader and State Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil said there was no cause to read any ‘anti-government’ sentiment into Mr. Pawar’s tweets, the Pune-based Sambhaji Brigade has lashed out at Mr. Pawar’s sudden solicitousness for the rights of the Maratha community, accusing him of being “politically self-serving.” Santosh Shinde of the Sambhaji Brigade said, “This is not the first time that a Maratha youth has given his life after reservation was denied. Nearly 50 youths have committed suicide since 2018 in the struggle to secure a quota. Mr. Pawar had never tweeted then. Furthermore, he has never participated even once in the hundreds of Maratha quota agitations.” Mr. Patil said, “His [Mr. Pawar’s] stance is not anti-government. Instead, he thought he wished file an additional petition in the matter... This does not imply he is against the government’s line in the matter.” Urging Maratha youth to desist from taking extreme steps and not get disheartened by the SC’s stay, Mr. Patil said that the State government would be strongly presenting its case before the apex court with the best lawyers to serve the Maratha community’s interests. Meanwhile, the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) made capital of the younger Pawar’s statements, saying that it only served to illustrate the inefficiency of Mr. Thackeray’s tripartite government.
02 October 2020||Staff Reporter Mumbai,||NCP condemns police action against Rahul||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and former Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar on Thursday condemned the Uttar Pradesh police for its “reckless” behaviour towards Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. “It is reprehensible that those who are supposed to uphold the law trample upon the democratic values in such a manner,” said Mr. Pawar, extending support to Mr. Gandhi who was reportedly manhandled on Thursday by the police in U.P. while he was on his way to meet the family members of the gang rape victim in Hathras. The entire NCP leadership condemned the U.P. police action. Lok Sabha MP Supriya Sule said she condemns the treatment given to a fellow MP. “Irrespective of politics, the administration must take swift action when a heinous crime like rape takes place. Rahul Gandhi was going to meet the family and I condemn the suppression from the U.P. government,” she said. The Maharashtra State unit Congress organised a protest against the Uttar Pradesh government in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue near Mantralaya. “What happened with Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi today has once again proved there is utter lawlessness in Uttar Pradesh and it is not a State that runs by the book of law, there is jungle raaj there,” said Congress committee president Balasaheb Thorat.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Buses, a big draw||
02 October 2020||Berlin,||Navalny blames Putin for poison attack||Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny accused President Vladimir Putin of being behind his poisoning on Thursday, as he vowed to return to Russia to press on with his opposition campaign. In the first media interview since his poisoning, Mr. Navalny gave harrowing details of his collapse on a flight from Tomsk to Moscow after he was poisoned by what the West identified as the Soviet-era nerve agent Novichok. The 44-year-old anti-corruption campaigner also said he would not be cowed by the experience, pledging to get fit as soon as possible to continue his fight. ‘Not afraid’ “Not returning would mean that Putin has achieved his aim. And my job now is to stay the guy who’s not afraid,” he told the Spiegel weekly. “I will not give Putin the gift of not returning to Russia,” he said, adding that for him “Putin is behind this act, I don’t see any other explanation.” The Kremlin immediately hit back at Mr. Navalny’s statements, calling them “groundless and unacceptable”. Mr. Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov also claimed that Mr. Navalny was working with the CIA, while the head of Russia’s lower house of Parliament, Vyacheslav Volodin, said Mr. Putin had helped save his life. The Kremlin critic was evacuated to Berlin for treatment after he collapsed in August following a campaign trip to support opposition candidates in local elections in Siberia. He was discharged just over a week ago and his first comments to the press came as European leaders were holding a summit during which the question of a response to Russia may be raised over his case. Germany, which holds the presidency of the EU, has said toxicology tests show he was poisoned by the Soviet-era nerve agent Novichok. Laboratories in France and Sweden have independently corroborated Germany’s findings. The Kremlin has firmly denied allegations of involvement and accused Western leaders of launching a disinformation campaign over the opposition leader’s illness. Instead, it pointed to tests carried out by Russian doctors who first treated Mr. Navalny which it says showed no toxic substances. Mr. Navalny had arrived in Berlin in a coma and on mechanical ventilation. He was finally discharged on September 22 after spending 32 days in the Charite hospital in the German capital, including 24 days in intensive care. German pressure In a sign of how seriously Ms. Merkel was taking the case, the German leader paid a visit to Mr. Navalny in the hospital. Ms. Merkel has also stressed repeatedly that “only Russia can and must answer” questions on the case. Putting responsibility for the poisoning squarely on Mr. Putin, Mr. Navalny said the “most important fact is Novichok”. Only the leaders of Russia’s secret services can make the call to deploy the poison, he said. In the interview, Mr. Navalny gave details of the moments when the poison took effect, leaving him breaking out in a cold sweat. He described telling cabin crew that he had been poisoned before he fell on the floor. “Then I heard voices that were getting softer, a woman calling ‘Don’t leave us!’. Then that was it. I knew I was dead. Only later did I realise that I was wrong.” Despite the close call, he said he will press on with his activities when he returns to Russia. “I will keep travelling through Russia’s regions, stay in hotels and drink water that’s in the rooms. What can I do otherwise? One cannot do much to counter Putin’s invisible murderers.”
02 October 2020||Washington,||‘No decision yet on Australia’s participation in Malabar drills’||The inclusion of Australia in the Malabar Exercise — the trilateral naval exercises between India, the U.S. and Japan — was still being discussed, a senior U.S. State Department official told reporters on a briefing call on Wednesday. The official’s remarks also included India-U.S. interactions at multilateral forums, Amnesty International India halting its activities and the India-China border standoff. Regarding the October ministerial-level meeting of the ‘Quad’ — India, Australia, the U.S. and Japan — the countries will discuss a comprehensive set of issues, but the actual agenda is going to be kept “close-hold” [a security classification] among the countries, the official said, so there can be a more “frank and open” discussion of those issues. ‘Strong partnership’ The official, who called the Quad partnership “increasingly strong”, said the agenda would cover defence, economic areas and, especially, COVID-19. India has been reluctant to include Australia in the Malabar naval exercises, which include three of the four Quad members. A militarisation of the Quad could be viewed by China as a strategy to contain it, not something India has wanted to do. The official said discussions were still ongoing on whether or not Australia would join the other three countries in the exercises, to be held in November in the Bay of Bengal. The agenda for the U.S.-India 2+2 ministerial dialogue in October (Defence and Foreign Affairs Ministers of both countries) is currently being worked out and is expected to be “comprehensive, wide-ranging and strategic”, the official said. It will include defence topics, diplomatic cooperation, cooperation at multilateral forums, economic cooperation, space and technology and people to people cooperation, as per the official. Providing an overview of the ‘U.S.-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership’ (the official framework for the relationship between the two countries), the official called the relationship “one of the most important partnerships in the world”. “Perhaps the clearest example of how the U.S.-India partnership has benefited the world is in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic,” the official said. UNSC seat At a meeting held at the UN last week, India and other G4 countries (Brazil, Germany and Japan) declared that they were looking for text-based negotiations and results within specified time frames for UN Security Council reform. The U.S. has supported India’s quest for a permanent seat on the Security Council. This was reiterated on Wednesday. “The United States welcomes India joining the UN Security Council in 2021 for a two-year term, and supports a reformed UN Security Council that includes India as a permanent member,” the official said in response to questions on how the U.S. would support India’s bid for a permanent seat at the Council. Opposed to incursions Responding to a question on whether the U.S. would take a stand on the location of the disputed border between India and China and support India’s position, the official said: “We strongly oppose any unilateral attempts to advance territorial claims by incursions ( by military or civilian incursions) across the border, or across the established line of actual control.” “And the disputed boundaries: all we can say is that we encourage India and China to use their existing bilateral channels to discuss those and not resort to military force.”
02 October 2020||Azerbaijan,||Toll rises to 130 as Armenia-Azerbaijan clashes continue||Armenian and Azerbaijani forces intensified their shelling on Thursday despite fresh calls from world leaders for an end to days of fighting over the disputed Nagorny Karabakh region that have left nearly 130 dead. Police also deployed in large numbers in the streets of Stepanakert, the capital of the breakaway province, after two explosions, as drones buzzed overhead and sirens sounded during the night. The rival Caucasus nations have been locked in a bitter stalemate over the Karabakh region since the collapse of the Soviet Union when the ethnic Armenian region broke away from Azerbaijan. The fiercest clashes between Armenian and Azerbaijani forces in years over the region ignited on Sunday and confirmed deaths neared 130 as fighting raged for a fifth day. The two sides have accused the other of shelling civilian areas. Armenia has recorded the deaths of 104 soldiers and eight civilians. Azerbaijan hasn’t reported any military casualties but said 17 civilians were killed as a result of Armenian shelling. Journalists injured A reporter and photographer working for the French daily Le Monde have been wounded in the fighting. Armenian Defence Ministry spokesman Artsrun Hovhannisyan said fighting had “intensified” in the morning following fewer exchanges at night and that its troops had repelled Azerbaijani attacks. He claimed that Armenian forces inflicted “enormous losses” over the night and into the morning, killing 350-360 Azerbaijani troops, downing three helicopters and destroying 15 armoured vehicles as well as drones. Azerbaijan’s Defence Ministry, in turn, said its forces had carried out “crushing artillery strikes against Armenian forces’ positions in the occupied territories” during the night. It denied claims by Yerevan that one of its helicopters had been downed, crashing in Iran and said that fighters on the Armenian side had been “forced to retreat from previously held positions along the entire stretch of the frontline.” Russian President Vladimir Putin and his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron issued the most recent call for a halt to fighting.
02 October 2020||Washington,||Trump backtracks after racist group row, Biden steps up attack||U.S. President Donald Trump scrambled on Wednesday to quell an uproar over his failure to explicitly denounce White supremacist groups during his debate debacle with Joe Biden, who branded his election rival a “national embarrassment.” The bitter adversaries returned to the campaign trail one day after their off-the-rails showdown in Cleveland made headlines less for the substance than for its unrestrained chaos. The toxic shout fest — with Mr. Trump constantly interrupting and Mr. Biden launching personal attacks — even prompted the overseeing Commission on Presidential Debates to announce it would be imposing new measures to help moderators “maintain order” at the upcoming two debates. After his assertive performance, Mr. Biden launched a train tour on Wednesday through battleground states Ohio and Pennsylvania. He fiercely attacked Mr. Trump’s failure to clearly denounce White supremacist groups. “My message to the Proud Boys and every other white supremacist group is: cease and desist,” Mr. Biden said. “This is not who we are as Americans.” Mr. Trump, in an apparent attempt to tamp down outrage over his comments, called on the group to “stand down.” “I don’t know who Proud Boys are but whoever they are they have to stand down,” Mr. Trump told reporters. “Stand down, let law enforcement do their work.” Mr. Trump’s backpedaling came after multiple Republicans distanced themselves from the President’s debate remark, with Senator Tim Scott, the only black Republican in the U.S. Senate, saying Mr. Trump “needs to correct” his comments.
02 October 2020||BRUSSELS,||EU launches legal action over U.K. Brexit Bill||The European Union took legal action against Britain on Thursday over its plans to pass legislation that would breach parts of the legally binding divorce agreement the two sides reached late last year. The EU move underscored the worsening relations with Britain, which was a member of the bloc until January 31. Both sides are trying to forge a rudimentary free trade agreement before the end of the year, but the fight over the controversial U.K. Internal Market Bill has soured relations this month. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said that the British plan “by its very nature is a breach of the obligation of good faith laid down in the Withdrawal Agreement.” “If adopted as is, it will be in full contradiction to the protocol of Ireland-Northern Ireland” in the withdrawal agreement,” she said. EU leaders fear that if the U.K. Bill becomes law, it could lead to the reimposition of a hard land border between Northern Ireland, which is part of Britain, and EU member Ireland, and erode the stability that has underpinned peace since the 1998 Good Friday accord. British lawmakers voted 340-256 on Tuesday to push the legislation past its last major hurdle in the House of Commons.
02 October 2020||SAN DIEGO,||Trump to cut 2021 refugee admission||President Donald Trump is planning to cut refugee admissions by 3,000 to 15,000 in 2021, submitting his proposal to Congress less than an hour before the deadline for the fiscal year’s figure was to expire, the administration announced late Wednesday. The 40-year-old resettlement programme has been dwindling under his administration and the 2021 figure will continue to shrink it. The 2021 figure is a 16% reduction over 2020’s admissions. The 1980 Refugee Act requires presidents to issue their determination by October 1 for the next fiscal year. The President also must consult with Congress before making his determination, though ultimately it is up to him.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Should online gambling in India be regulated?||A few weeks ago, Google pulled Paytm from the Play Store for violating its gambling policies. The growing popularity of gaming platforms like Dream11 and Paytm First Games raise questions about whether they are proxies for online gambling as they can involve financial transactions but are currently classified as ‘games of skill’. In a conversation moderated by Jayant Sriram , Jay Sayta and Vidushpat Singhania discuss the current legal position in India on games of skill versus games of chance, the size of the gambling industry, and issues of regulation. Edited excerpts : We’ll start the discussion with Paytm First Games and Dream11, both of which, I think, most people are familiar with now. The current legal position is that though they are transaction-based, various courts have held that they are games of skill rather than games of chance. Is this settled law now or is there still some grey area? Jay Sayta:As you said, games of skill are exempt from the ambit of gambling. Gambling and betting are a State subject. Every State has its own legislation on gambling, and most States have an exemption for games of skill. However, these statutes are pretty old, and they do not clearly define or enumerate which games fall within this skill category. Nagaland, for instance, has a separate legislation which details what are games of skill. But for the most part, most States do not have that kind of clarity. So, it falls within the judiciary’s ambit to interpret whether a particular game falls within the ambit of skill or not. Now, with regards to Dream11 and daily fantasy sports, the matter has gone to multiple High Courts starting from 2017. In 2017, the Punjab and Haryana High Court ruled that the format of Dream11, which involves picking 11 players from a real-life match from both sides and allocating points based on their real-life performance, is a game of skill and does not fall within the definition of gambling. Following that, in 2019, the Bombay High Court also passed a similar ruling. The Rajasthan High Court gave a similar ruling earlier this year. However, on March 6 this year, the Supreme Court, while hearing the appeals from the Maharashtra government against the Bombay High Court’s order on Dream11, issued notice to all parties and stayed the operation of the Bombay order, which means that they will go into the merits of the matter in detail and adjudicate finally on whether it is a game of skill or not. Vidushpat Singhania:The State Acts largely don’t define what is a game of skill. What you go by is the interpretation given by the Supreme Court in various judgments starting from Satyanarayana (pertaining to the card game Rummy), where it said skill predominates over chance. It’s still open to interpretation for a range of other games. The Rajasthan High Court, Punjab and Haryana High Court, and then the Bombay High Court all held that in the format being offered currently, Dream11 is a game of skill. There have been several appeals filed and dismissed against these judgments. But earlier this year, in another petition that is pending, the Supreme Court looked at it and stayed the order of the Bombay High Court and is looking to hear the matter afresh. What this means is, if the Supreme Court says that daily fantasy sports are games of chance, then the entire industry shuts down and the issue goes back to the States in a sense. State governments can issue licences for these games. If the Supreme Court says it is a game of skill, then the industry is open all over India. The user base has grown phenomenally for online gaming, especially in this lockdown period. Are most of these transaction-based in some way? What is the size of the industry we are talking about in monetary terms? VS:It’s a very tricky question because the gaming industry has legal as well as illegal components. And not everything is about paid gaming; there is also a lot of free gaming, casual gaming, gaming just for entertainment. Some parts of it are regulated. Betting on horse racing is regulated, casinos in Sikkim and Goa are regulated, certain games of skill are also regulated in States like Nagaland. According to companies like KPMG, the gaming industry in India would be worth about $150 billion. JS:Within that, the category of skill-based games is a complicated one because while these games can involve monetary transactions, they are largely offered for free. These skill-based games themselves could cross a billion dollars in value, the KPMG report states, and are growing at around 30% annually. Now that’s the skill part, but if you’re looking generically at gaming, both skill or chance, it is a very high number. Largely it is unregulated and in the grey space. Let’s get to the issue of regulation and what that might look like within each of these categories. Let’s start first with illegal gambling. JS:Just taking a step back from how to go about regulation or legalisation, the question we need to ask is whether this is desirable or not; whether a ban or more stringent laws are the answer; or whether we need to take a more nuanced perspective and recognise that even if we pass new laws, this would still continue in some manner or shape. In my view, regulation, rather than a ban, has certain benefits. One is the revenue argument. Since it’s happening largely underground, it’s a huge source of black money. So, if it is legalised and taxed in a realistic and reasonable manner, it can be a huge source of revenue for the government. The second is with regard to sports betting where there are a lot of allegations of match-fixing. Now, regulated and licensed betting regimes, as in the U.K. and many European countries, have a strong mechanism to monitor each of the betting websites, track suspicious patterns if there is a sudden spike in betting for certain events, and investigate them. And there are, of course, other ancillary benefits like employment. VS:By way of a legal framework, we have regulations in Goa and Sikkim, where there is a licensing regime to allow certain types of casino games. So, you could expand that kind of legislation itself. Or you could look at international examples like the U.K. which has the Gambling Act of 2005. The Act has four or five categories, and they regulate it based on those categories. So, they have casual gaming, mid-level gaming, serious gaming, high-stake gaming.  They’ve divided the games into four or five categories, and then based on that, they have a licensing regime. This applies across all games, whether skill or chance. That is the closest we could also go, where we divide various games into various categories and have a different licensing fee for each. Now, whether that can be pan-India or State by State is the issue. Games of skill seem to exist in a legal grey area. How is this nascent industry being regulated? VS:Games of skill are largely self-regulated. There are bodies such as the All India Gaming Federation, FIFS [Federation of Indian Fantasy Sports] and The Rummy Federation which have developed self-regulation codes for advertisements, the way of playing, taxation... The only State where gaming or skill gaming has been regulated is Nagaland. Otherwise, games of skill are generally self-regulated by these industry bodies, which is not bad. I don’t think we need the government to step in to regulate everything. Maybe a basic level of licensing regime can come in, but the operational regulation, I think, should always be with the industry. JS:I have a bit of a different opinion because self-regulation, be it in gaming or in broadcasting or anywhere else, has always been less than satisfactory. There are no sanctions or penal measures that can be invoked against any erring operators. While it is great that these guidelines or charters are there, there are various operators out there who don’t follow them and there is nothing that can be done against them apart from naming and shaming them. A lot of people must have also seen advertisements about skill gaming companies. Some of them are misleading and give false assurances. The Consumer Protection Ministry has issued certain guidelines on advertising. Perhaps these real money games can be included in that ambit and certain dos and don’ts [can be specified]. For example, I don’t think it is appropriate to give the message that during the lockdown, you can play day and night on these platforms and use them as instruments to solve your social or financial problems. So, the government should step in. One issue that immediately stands out is whether there should be a cap on the amount of money people can play with. Is there regulation on this aspect? VS:This is an issue that the Law Commission of India has also gone into. It has said we will have to demarcate serious gaming and casual gaming limits. If somebody is putting up Rs. 100 or Rs. 200 a day, you can allow it as a kind of social gaming, because the prizes will also be limited in that sense and you don’t really need a licence. But where the monies are bigger, say you are allowed to put Rs. 5,000 and you can win up to a crore, that goes into the serious gaming or gambling aspect and that will definitely need complete regulation. What is the revenue possibility for the government? And how does that tie into the question of regulation? VS:GST [Goods and Services Tax] and income tax are still applicable to these games. It’s only a licensing fee which may not be applicable at this point of time. Dream11, for instance, is paying GST, and the winners will end up paying income tax as well. So, if it is regulated as a game of skill, and the court allows it, then there will be an exponential growth in this game and the collection of GST will increase. JS:The activity is already being taxed. The only aspect is the category of tax. Right now, the argument is that it has legal basis as a game of skill and so it does not fall within the sin category of, say, gambling and casinos. So they are paying a lower amount of tax. That is one aspect which needs to be thought through — whether there needs to be a slightly higher rate of tax for these kinds of activities. The revenue potential has also been weighed in. If taxed in a rational and reasonable manner, games of skill or chance could lead to tens of thousands of crores in revenue. For instance, the Maharashtra government is already looking at the aspect of regulating sports betting, as per reports.  I don’t think we need the government to step in to regulate everything. Maybe a basic level of licensing regime can come in, but the operational regulation should always be with the industry. Vidushpat Singhania
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The Prime Minister India almost forgot||Sharing his birthday with Gandhi and coming from the province of Jawaharlal Nehru, Lal Bahadur Shastri was the self-effacing layman who became India’s second Prime Minister (1964-66). His climb atop the greasy pole of politics was preceded by nearly 40 years of participation in the freedom movements of the Indian National Congress and independent governments. However, his seemingly unlikely ascent to that office and his untimely demise led him to be overshadowed by his long-serving predecessor and successor. Consequently, in the political game current of historical appropriation from colonial and post-colonial India, both his life and death have found an echo in print and on screen. Thus, first eclipsed and now enlarged, Shastri’s prime ministership and its major preoccupations of the language movement, the lack of food, war and peace and economic crises are easy to either forget or fabricate. Setting the bar Before that, as the Minister who resigned twice, assuming moral responsibility for railway accidents in 1956 (Mahbubnagar, Andhra Pradesh and Ariyalur, Tamil Nadu) and setting an early standard, Shastri was one of six who left their cabinet posts in 1963 to work in the party organisation under the Kamaraj Plan. He was the only one though who was recalled by an ailing Prime Minister in January 1964 in a roving capacity, and, within six months, was unanimously elevated as Nehru’s successor, upon his death. In between, in a poll conducted by the Indian Institute of Public Opinion, he had received almost half the votes to fill the role. These instances make him more and not less likely an answer to that question After Nehru, Who? His matter-of-fact conduct in office was in the face of not just testing circumstances but also the individual challenge of stepping out of the shadow of his predecessor.   Quiet change on many fronts Revisiting Shastri’s premiership repays an attempt to put things in perspective, as arguably his tenure was one of quiet change on most fronts. It began amid a renewed bout of food scarcity and resultant price rise which can be taken back, albeit in a broken line, to the days of the Second World War and placed in a wider frame of similar problems across the decolonised world. More prosaically, it caused a forex crisis from food procurement and a provincial friction between surplus and deficit zones, and saw piecemeal rationing as well as the construction of the Food Corporation of India on the way to an eventual ‘Green Revolution’. Such systemic challenges and the structural response to them require organisational consensus and federal cooperation as much as prime ministerial control. This was more so in the mid-1960s when the monolithising days of the Congress’ clientele ‘system’ were on their last legs, afflicted by a generational churn among its regional satraps. Shastri’s selection as Prime Minister was itself an affirmation of the party’s organisation and self-correcting mechanism, notwithstanding its moral ambiguities and patronage politics. In his own unflashy ways, Shastri would put his imprimatur to weigh down on the corruption-induced departures of stalwarts such as Punjab’s Chief Minister Partap Singh Kairon, Orissa’s Chief Minister Biren Mitra and Union Finance Minister T.T. Krishnamachari. Equally, he also had a mentoring side to him, exhibited in his encouragement of the party’s Bureau of Parliamentary Research, as a former beneficiary. A third domain was the party’s factionalism and its contrasting framing of him as either a leader of too much discussion and indecision, or of too little consultation and consensus. Indeed, clichés abound, when it comes to Shastri’s past and present: small man, stopgap, original accidental premier, cardboard nationalist. Many challenges As a report card of Shastri’s first year of premiership highlighted, the language violence in Tamil Nadu, youth challenges in Orissa, returning President’s rule in Kerala, persisting feuds in Uttar Pradesh, enduring demand for a Punjabi suba and continuing farce in Kashmir, were some of the question marks at the cross-section of nation, region and institution for the Prime Minister. In the international arena too, Shastri had to navigate between a subdued Non-Aligned Movement, the now-nuclear challenge of China, a change in the Soviet leadership, a new leader in Pakistan, President Ayub Khan and an Anglo-American-Commonwealth combine distracted with varied issues such as Vietnam and Southern Rhodesia. Fittingly, for a person whose first foray in foreign affairs had been to Nepal, the first fruit of Shastri’s diplomacy was the agreement with then-Ceylon on persons of Indian origin there — an endorsement of the importance of neighbourhood. Handling Pakistan If this attention to the neighbour nearby than an ally far was a virtue initially, it became a necessity in the year of war(s), i.e., 1965. First, in spring-summer was the Rann of Kutch dispute with Pakistan, where a combination of its remoteness, reciprocal military situation on the ground, a relatively straightforward question of overdue boundary determination, and successful British mediation meant that Shastri was content with a reasonable reference to an international tribunal, which eventually gave India the lion’s share of the demarcated territory. However, it was in August, 18 years from their Independence and Partition, that India and Pakistan came to their first, declared war over that unfinished business from 1947: Jammu and Kashmir. As it followed, familiar tropes of infiltration and mopping up, crossover and confrontation, critical calculations of cooperation from the one side and suspicions of collaboration from the other, failed to materialise. Instead, clashes around the then-Ceasefire Line broadened to battles across the international border in Punjab in the first week of September 1965, for which Shastri was then and now hailed for his resolve. Prepared for a prolonged war, he resisted indiscriminate international intercession, restrained internal war fever especially its potential to deteriorate in communal outbreaks, remained firm through the retreats in one sector and the advances in another in the war’s widening arc, and rallied the country with his call of ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’ to become his epitaph. In the end, he accepted the Soviet offer for mediation and set about the road to Tashkent, where an agreement was signed with his Pakistani counterpart, President Muhammad Ayub Khan in January 1966, more or less restoring the status quo . It was there that he died, within hours of their declared denouement to war. The image of a sombre Ayub carrying the coffin of Shastri was a big symbolic testimony to his short but substantial stature. Among the highlights of Shastri’s heritage is the shift from personalised to institutionalised government; the laying of stress from industry to agriculture, and a move from command to economy, all overtaken by the march of time. His quiet ascent to prime ministership and his loud actions as Prime Minister fell through the cracks between the Nehruvian era and Indira’s India. His motivated resurrection, in an outsized opposition to these narratives, by those whose grandiose rhetoric sits oddly with his dignified reality, is his current fate. His political life has lessons but, unfortunately, it is his sudden death that has caused conspiracies and vitiates his public recall, doing little justice to his history. Like most in his time, he rose humbly from the provinces in national politics, and carried his convictions from his faith in people, their constitution and representation. Crucially, he remained modest in both his personal probity and policy making and was not invested solely in his occupancy of his office. Rakesh Ankit is Lecturer in history at Loughborough University, U.K.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The Mahatma as an intercultural Indian||There is a tendency in today’s world to think and to say that Gandhi’s ideal of non-violence is a noble idea but impractical and unrealistic. The odd thing about this affirmation is that it tends to sanctify Gandhi while rejecting his principles. However, Gandhi was not a saint; nor was he a religious leader. He was, first and foremost, an original thinker and an acute political strategist, who believed profoundly in the possibility of introducing humanity to the principle of non-violence. A realistic hope Gandhi’s idea of non-violence was not a dream; it was a realistic hope, armed with a dose of practical idealism; that of the global welcoming of the law of love. By saying this, he presented himself, at the same time, as an Asian who was influenced by Hinduism, Jainism and Buddhism, and as a person who was deeply influenced by the teachings of Jesus Christ, Socrates, Tolstoy, Ruskin and Thoreau. Thomas Merton once wrote that Mahatma Gandhi was “an alienated Asian”. Maybe so, but it is not because Gandhi learnt many things from the West that he had necessarily become a stranger to his own culture and to the traditions of the East. On the contrary, his proximity to the East and the West proved to be very fruitful and made of him, what we can call, “an intercultural Indian”. Gandhi was endowed with an intellectual openness, which helped him to learn from others, and, as a result, live up to his ideals. As such, he was not only an Indian political and moral leader but also the founding father of modern non-violence as it has been practised for the past 100 years around the globe. Ethical mode of conduct As such, with Gandhi, the philosophy of non-violence turned into an instrument of public dissent and a pragmatic tool of the powerless against the powerful. However, in the eyes of Gandhi, while being an instrument of conflict resolution and universal harmony, non-violence was also an essentially moral exercise. What Gandhi called the “soul force” was actually an ethical mode of conduct. As a matter of fact, he viewed non-violence essentially as an ethical commitment and a constructive political action. For Gandhi, the ethical and the political were the same. Therefore, for him, the struggle against violence and fanaticism was at the same moral level as disobeying unjust laws: it was expressed by the soul force and the pursuit of truth to uplift others. Gandhi had a profoundly ethical view of life: he recognised neither the infallible authority of texts nor the sanctity of religious traditions, but he was also the foremost critic of modern politics and its authoritarian practices. That is why, reading Gandhi today is unavoidably to rethink modern politics as a new relation between power and violence and as a way of transcending the conventional distinction between citizens and the state. It is also a move towards an inter-cultural democracy, where solidarity of differences is not compromised by mere nationalism, and democratic action is not limited by mere constitutionalism and representation. Working in this perspective, the Gandhian philosophy of non-violence finds the conventional meaning of politics as incomplete, while problematising democratic politics as a way of assigning a duty to citizens to be vigilant about the abuses of power by the state and to struggle against the “Sultanization” of political power in our contemporary societies. Establishing a just society On the social level, Gandhi envisioned an ideal society where social justice is done, including for the last person. This is a common world in which institutions aim to get the best out of the individual. The entire Gandhian thought in the realm of citizenship and democracy revolves around the establishment of a just society. As such, Gandhi’s idea of democracy hinges on moral growth in humankind, where an undisciplined and unrestrained individualism gives its place to an empathetic humanism. Moreover, while speaking on non-violence and democracy, Gandhi believed that humanity had to develop certain qualities such as fearlessness, non-possession and humility. The main aim was to restructure humans to suit to an inter-cultural and pluri-dimensional democracy. Gandhi’s repeated emphasis on service to all human beings from all traditions of thought was the essence of his non-violent democratic theory. An approach ahead of its time In this pluralistic approach to the dialogue of cultures and faiths, Gandhi was far ahead of his time. Indeed, his non-violent democratic theory as a philosophy of inter-cultural dialogue is still far ahead of our time, several generations after his death. Gandhi was not a dogmatic nationalist but essentially a pathfinder towards a common ground among different cultures and diverse mentalities. Therefore, his philosophy of democracy remains neither mono-cultural nor essentialist. It is essentially pluralistic and empathetic. More importantly, his attachment to politics is more ethical than religious. Consequently, religion for him is identified with ethics rather than theology. Therefore, his concept of democracy and modes and methods of achieving it, including Satyagraha and Swaraj, are not theological concepts. Gandhi believes that human destiny has constantly been on the move towards a non-theological truth. And he was a person who pursued truth in all aspects of life, not only spirituality, and encouraged others to join him in this pursuit. Gandhi considered democracy as a dynamic element in the ethical becoming of human civilisation. His effort to bridge different views of life was matched in many ways by his approach to the many-sidedness of truth. That is why he did not reject different traditions of social life; he simply affirmed what he considered to be authentic in them and thought of bringing them together in the realisation of an ethical common ground. This enabled him to maintain that it would not be possible to understand the concept of democracy without having some understanding of the philosophical tradition of a critique of violence in which it is nurtured. Gandhi, therefore, speaks of democracy and non-violence as two sides of the same reality. Idea of ‘Indianness’ He defined his mission of promoting non-violence and democracy in India beyond all political and philosophical sources of hatred, exclusion, suspicion and war. He was well aware of the fact that politics is a fragile concept and is vulnerable to nationalist justifications of violence and war. That is the reason why he refused to define India in terms of ethnic purity or linguistic unity or some other unifying religious attribute. More than rallying Indians to combat various “others,” Gandhi’s philosophy of democracy introduced an anti-monistic and pluralistic dimension into a primarily territorial rootedness of Indianness. In this sense, it could be argued that for Gandhi, there was no sentiment of loving one’s country (namely India) without loving the culture of the other. Gandhi’s appeal to planetary companionship was based on an inclusive and dialogical idea of living together which disapproved all forms of national or religious self-centredness. As he pointed out: “The golden way is to be friends with the world and to regard the whole human family as one. He who distinguishes between the votaries of one’s own religion and those of another miss-educates the members of his own and opens the way for discord and irreligion.” Ramin Jahanbegloo is Director of the Mahatma Gandhi Centre for Nonviolence and Peace Studies at O.P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat, Haryana
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A strategic dealing with China||On July 2, an article in The Economist was headlined ‘Hit Them Where It Hurts Us: India has few good ways to punish China for its Himalayan land-grab’. It argued that “most economic sanctions would harm India, too”. Instead of taking knee-jerk, retaliatory decisions against China following border flare-ups, India should consider joining the rest of the world in reining in China and calling it out for its worst excesses. Consider this: Chinese venture capitalists have poured in more than $8 billion into some of India’s most successful startups. China supplies many goods and services that India needs, and will continue to need. While India relies heavily on imports from China, a smaller portion of China’s imports are from India. Further, the timing of the economic decoupling with China that India is attempting could not have come at a worse time. The Indian economy, which was faring badly even before COVID-19 struck, is badly affected by it. The pandemic is showing no signs of abating. The situation is not going to get any better over the next few quarters unless India takes pragmatic steps to overcome these challenges. On the economic front, India must re-engage with China economically even as it confronts it militarily. Lessons from China In fact, China itself provides lessons on this strategy. China claims Taiwan as its own territory and sometimes threatens invasion. In August, a top official from Taiwan said that Taiwan faces an increasingly difficult position as China pressures it to accept conditions that would turn it into the next Hong Kong. But China remains the top destination for Taiwan’s exports and outbound investment. Trade between the China and Taiwan has remained strong over the past four years. The Taiwanese firm Foxconn, for instance, makes almost all the iPhones that the world buys from factories in China. Similarly, tensions simmer between China and the its largest trading partner, the U.S., but that doesn’t stop China from continuing to do business with the U.S. Tesla’s massive car and battery plants are coming up in China and American farmers still sell soya to China, though U.S. soybean exports to China have fallen. The European Union, China’s second largest trading partner, continues to be robustly engaged with China. A recent report by the Norwegian logistics firm Tschudi bared the surprising extent of overland trade facilitated by rail links established with Europe by China as part of its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). On this, a report of the China Railway Corporation, cited by Tschudi, makes a telling point that “in the first half of 2017 more than 3,000 container trains” ran “between the two continents since the start of 2017 exceeding the total for the previous six years combined and serving 35 cities in China, with 34 destinations in Europe”. Unlike India, which has been talking for years about establishing road and rail connectivity with its immediate neighbours and even Southeast Asia but doing little about it, China’s ambitious BRI is a vision that is being realised in quick time. This has now reached India’s doorstep and is bad news for India. No knee-jerk reactions The Brookings Policy Brief of May 2020 titled ‘India’s limited trade connectivity with South Asia 2020’ details how “after 2005, China has consistently increased its trade with South Asia”. It says, “Defying the logic of proximity, most of India’s neighbours are now largely reliant on China for their imports.” India in fact is in danger of becoming a bit player in its own backyard. China under President Xi Jinping is strategic. Mark Leonard, the Director of the European Council on Foreign Relations, elaborated on the depth of debate and discussion that goes into Chinese policymaking in his 2008 book What Does China Think . The Chinese American economist, Yukon Huang, makes the same point in far greater detail in Cracking the China Conundrum . India should listen to these voices and not react in a knee-jerk manner with China. Uday Balakrishnan, a former visiting fellow at NIAS, CEU Budapest and CCS-IISc has taught at IISc Bengaluru
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Constraining critique||The role played by human rights organisations in documenting and questioning state functioning and excesses is a necessary component of civil society activism, which enhances democracy by securing accountability. The fact that Amnesty International, which won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1977, had to halt operations in India because of the freezing of its bank accounts and intrusive scrutiny from state agencies is therefore unfortunate. The government’s response to Amnesty’s decision, that it will not allow “interference in domestic political debates by entities funded by foreign donations”, suggests that this denouement is linked to the group’s critical reporting of decisions such as the abrogation of special status for Jammu and Kashmir in 2019. The group has maintained that it has raised financial resources lawfully. Amnesty has taken up human rights causes such as minority rights, ending torture, abolition of the death penalty and refugee rights, globally. Advocacy of these causes has led to the group being at loggerheads with regimes of various types — from the democratic to the authoritarian — across countries. India now joins the ranks of countries such as Russia where the group has stopped operations. There is no doubt that the pursuit of these objectives, even if it is not uniform across a lopsided world, has only enhanced and furthered the cause of human rights and their awareness for global citizens. Democratic regimes that are bound by constitutionalism should not consider critical activism by groups such as Amnesty as being adversarial, but instead view it as constructive critique of their functioning. If the critique is not reasoned, the state can rebut it through communiqués and responses, but should not restrict freedom of expression through intimidation or restraining actions. Central governments in India have consistently registered discomfort with critical civil society organisations over the years, but the National Democratic Alliance-led government has taken steps to constrain groups even more, especially those that are trans-national in their functioning. This was exemplified in the monsoon session where amendments to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Act drafted without consulting stakeholders were rushed through Parliament with little discussion. For India to aspire to become a developed and a just nation, it must build on its strengths such as its demographic dividend and the procedural institutions that have been built over decades. For it to reap benefits from these advantages, entrepreneurship, governmental actions and other economic tools would be necessary but not sufficient. The country needs to allow for a vibrant civil society that has spearheaded several reforms related to accountability (the Right to Information Act), welfare (the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act), privacy rights, gender equality and rights of sexual minorities, environmental activism among others. Non-governmental organisations will continue to have a role to play in this. It is to be hoped Amnesty’s decision to halt operations is therefore temporary and that it would be able to function within India’s regulatory framework.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Undying embers||The bleak image of a burning pyre illuminating a ghastly night while policemen stood guard will be forever etched in India’s collective memory. A 19-year-old Dalit girl, who had been allegedly raped and assaulted at Hathras village in Uttar Pradesh on September 14, succumbed to her injuries on September 29. She was cremated in the dead of night with the family claiming they had been kept away from her last rites. This was another unconscionable atrocity committed in Uttar Pradesh. The girl was brutally assaulted when she was doing her chores, collecting fodder in the fields along with her mother. Her spinal cord was fractured and tongue slashed. This inhuman act which follows a string of sexual violence cases in Uttar Pradesh and elsewhere in India highlights some grim truths, primarily that the safety of women is not a guarantee despite the stringent laws in place. After the Nirbhaya rape in Delhi in 2012, the government set up a committee led by Justice J.S. Verma. On its recommendations, the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act was amended in 2013, bringing in changes to the Indian Penal Code and other laws. This March, the four convicted of the gangrape of Nirbhaya were hanged to death. The Uttar Pradesh government has set up a Special Investigation Team to look into the allegations levelled by the family; the Chief Minister has promised a compensation of Rs. 25 lakh and “safety”. That the Chief Minister had to pledge protection is a tacit admission that the administration has failed its most vulnerable citizens. Caste tension continues to simmer on the ground with its inevitable cycle of humiliation, violence and inequities. The girl had been forced to drop out of school years ago. The use of sexual violence to oppress lower castes has been on the rise. On the question of protecting women, Uttar Pradesh has slipped terribly. The latest National Crime Records Bureau data show that Uttar Pradesh registered the highest number of crimes against women in 2019, accounting for 14.7% of India’s total. Fast-tracking the investigation and ensuring justice is the least authorities can do. But the challenge is to ensure that these tragedies are not forgotten. Together with increasing gender-sensitivity, the Uttar Pradesh government — and other State governments — must use the law to enhance women’s safety. Else, those embers on a sordid night may not be the last ones.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Being witness to the Babri Masjid demolition||The FIR carefully written out in Hindi at Thana Ramjanambhoomi, Ayodhya on December 11, 1992 mentioned two U-matic tapes, one camera battery, one Hanimex still camera and a still film roll. I was reporting back then on television for a monthly video news magazine, Eyewitness . But writing for FIRs was certainly a first for someone two and a half years into the trade. A photocopy remains with me of the ruled sheet — now Exhibit ‘K’-139 in the ‘AP’ (Ayodhya Prakaran) Lucknow Court.  Reporters like me, rushing to capture the beautiful town of Ayodhya on the banks of the river Sarayu, ended up scrambling between recording the social and political tensions that brewed away from the grandeur of the Sarayu and the story that silent Ayodhya told of living with juxtaposed centuries-old truths. How I landed the assignment was a question I was asked later. I attribute that to my Executive Producer Karan Thapar’s faith in my fluency in Hindi and familiarity with U.P. then. In addition, I was born to a Hindu-Muslim couple, which meant I was familiar with the customs, traditions and prejudices of both sides. What was clear in our monthly news meetings was that something important was bound to occur on December 6, given that thousands had been allowed to gather there by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led State government headed by Chief Minister Kalyan Singh. There was a court order permitting “symbolic construction” outside the Babri Masjid. The State government gave a sworn assurance to the apex court that no harm would be allowed to fall on the 16th century mosque, the epicentre of massive turmoil whipped up by a countrywide rath yatra two years earlier and campaigns for years preceding it, making it a symbol of hate.  The age of the journalist foregrounding herself was still a few decades away. But as the focussed demolition was captured by cameras and pens, reporters and camerapersons did end up as part of the story. After ensuring that their devices stopped recording the demolition that started taking place shortly before noon, reporters were evicted from the site of the “symbolic kar seva”. But notebooks, ballpoints and cameras were still to be able to capture what unfolded. Recorders of the event — photographers like Praveen Jain and reporters like Mark Tully, Ramdutt Tripathi and Rakesh Sinha — managed to gather their notes, pictures and wits to tell the tale. This reporting assignment lasted a long time. Reporters were turned into witnesses in courts and an inquiry commission always managed to bring the assignment back to life. All ‘ground’ stints are excellent teachers; this one more so. Tracking the story of the nation from then on made the reporter’s notebook a really thick and much thumbed one. The one disturbing question after this week’s Central Bureau of Investigation court order is whether vandals attacking journalists to ensure that no evidence survived of the demolition have won this round. But the first draft of history was recorded faithfully then and it will hold good against all attempts to rewrite the events of that fateful day. No court judgment can erase or overturn what a bunch of journalists saw, recorded and wrote from Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. Seema Chishti was reporting from Ayodhya for ‘Eyewitness’, HTV’ s video news magazine on December 6, 1992. She is an independent journalist/writer based in Delhi
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Changes in Catholic worship||Novel practices having a bearing on Indian culture are progressively being adapted in Catholic worship in Bangalore and other parts of the country. The progressive ‘Indianisation’ of Catholic religious practices is said to be in conformity with the new policy blessed by the Vatican Council of adopting the way of worship conforming to the traditional culture of the land. Early this month thousands of people of all communities had gathered at the ancient St. Mary’s Church in Shivajinagar, (Bangalore), for the feast of Our Lady of Health. There was a reverential hush as the Archbishop of Bangalore arrived at the Church. The head of the church garlanded him and an ‘aarti’ was performed. The non-Catholics in the large congregation wore an inquisitive look at the departure from the usual practice in the church. There was nothing amiss and the new style adopted in the feast was said to be another significant step in the adaptation of Roman Catholic worship to the mainstream of Indian culture. Among the new features noticed at the feast were the veneration of the altar by ‘Anjali hasta’ and the offering of sandalwood incense in the Indian style instead of the traditional incense in thuribles.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The Madras Presidency Muslim League||Mir Asad Ali has addressed the following letter to the Honourary Secretary, the Madras Presidency Muslim League, Madras: Dear Sir, The Turkish question with the Khilafat agitation and the Punjab tragedy have produced great disquietude in the minds of the people. The dismemberment of Turkey has touched me to the quick, as in the case of many a Musalman. The humiliating terms of the Turkish Peace Treaty have caused deep resentment to the whole Muslim world. Nor am I less mindful of the scanty justice rendered to the wrong-doers in the lamentable Punjab affairs. The recent disallowance by H.E. Lord Chelmsford of the Hon’ble Mr. V.S. Shastri’s resolution on the Punjab affair, has only added insult to injury. I have given vent to my feelings on more than one occasion. While fully aware of the incompetence of the present bureaucratic administration to cope with the growing political situation in the country, I should certainly hesitate to advise the adoption of any unconstitutional or impracticable programme of public action to mark the deep resentment felt particularly by the educated classes all over India.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Maruti leads jump in auto wholesales||Wholesale sales of passenger vehicles and two-wheelers posted growth for a second straight month in September driven by expectations of higher demand on account of an anticipated improvement in consumer sentiment during Diwali and a growing shift towards personal mobility as a result of COVID-19 .  Market leader Maruti Suzuki’s dispatches to dealers surged 34% year-on-year to more than 1.47 lakh vehicles. “With total sales of 3,93,130 units in Q2, the company registered a growth of 16.2% over the same period previous year, on a lower base,” the automaker said in a statement. “The company closed H1 with total sales of 4,69,729 units, a decline of 36.6%. Sales performance in the first half has to be seen in conjunction with COVID-19 related disruptions,” Maruti Suzuki added. Hyundai India said domestic sales rose 23.6% to 50,313 units. But exports fell 43.5% to 9,600 units. “In the changing business environment, the green shoots of recovery are clearly visible with sales improving on a month-on-month as well as year-on-year basis,” said Hyundai Motor India director (Sales, Marketing & Service) Tarun Garg. Mahindra & Mahindra sold 14,857 passenger vehicles (PVs), a growth of 4%. Domestic tractor sales jumped 18% to 42,361 units. Tata Motors’ domestic PV sales more than doubled to 21,199 units. Shailesh Chandra, president, Passenger Vehicles Business Unit, said, “PV industry witnessed recovery in Q2, supported by festive sales in some regions and continued benefit from pent-up demand across the country. In September, wholesales were higher than retail”. Domestic commercial vehicle sales, however, fell 4% to 23,245 units. Mitul Shah, vice president (Research) at Reliance Securities said monthly volume performance by most automobile companies was encouraging. “Improving sentiment, favourable monsoon, higher agri output, all these factors coupled with increased enquiry levels indicate strong auto sales during upcoming two months of festive season,” he added. Toyota Kirloskar Motor sold 8,116 cars, lower than the 10,203 units it sold locally in September 2019. Hero raises prices Hero MotoCorp’s sales rose 16.9% to more than 7.15 lakh units. The country’s largest two-wheeler maker also raised the ex-showroom prices of its motorcycles and scooters by up to 2% to partly offset rising input costs. Rival Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India said wholesale sales rose 10% to surpass 5 lakh units. Chennai-based TVS Motor said domestic two-wheeler sales at 2.41 lakh units in September 2020, was lower than the about 2.43 lakh units sold in the year-earlier period.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||Manufacturing PMI sees fastest growth in 8 years||India’s manufacturing sector activity improved for the second straight month in September and touched a more than eight-and-a-half-year high supported by accelerated increases in new orders and production, even as firms reduced staff numbers, a monthly survey showed on Thursday. The headline seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) increased from 52.0 in August to 56.8 in September — highest since January 2012. “The Indian manufacturing industry continued to move in the right direction, with PMI data for September highlighting many positives,” said Pollyanna De Lima, Economics Associate Director at IHS Markit. “Due to loosened COVID-19 restrictions, factories went full steam ahead for production, supported by a surge in new work.” In April, the index had slipped into contraction mode, after remaining in the growth territory for 32 consecutive months. In PMI parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below that denotes contraction. Export orders The upturn in total sales was supported by a renewed expansion in new export orders, the first since prior to the escalation of the COVID-19 outbreak. “Exports also bounced back, following six successive months of contraction, while inputs were purchased at a sharper rate and business confidence strengthened,” Ms. Lima said. Despite strong growth of order book volumes, Indian goods producers signalled another reduction in payroll numbers. In many cases, this was attributed to efforts to observe social distancing guidelines. Employment has now decreased for six consecutive months. Social distancing cited “One area that lagged behind, however, was employment. Some companies reported difficulties in hiring workers, while others suggested that staff numbers had been kept to a minimum amid efforts to observe social distancing guidelines,” Ms. Lima noted. On the prices front, output prices rose for the first time in six months, reflecting an uptick in input costs, the survey showed. Optimism strengthens Looking ahead, almost one-third of manufacturers expect output growth in the coming 12 months, against 8% that foresee a contraction, resulting in the strongest degree of overall optimism in over four years. “When we look at the PMI average for the second quarter of fiscal year 2020/21, the result is in stark contrast to that seen in the first quarter: a rise from 35.1 to 51.6. While uncertainty about the COVID-19 pandemic remains, producers can at least for now enjoy the recovery,” Ms. Lima said.
02 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Negative ratings surged on COVID-19 curbs: ICRA||Business disruption caused by COVID-19 has led to a weakening in the credit profile of a large number of entities resulting in a sharp increase in negative rating actions taken by ICRA. In the first half of this fiscal (H1), ICRA took 582 negative rating actions which, on an annualised basis, accounted for 32% of its rated portfolio, compared with 23% in FY20. About half of the negative rating actions were downgrades. Instances of upgrades were unsurprisingly sparse. ICRA upgraded the ratings of just 94 entities in H1 FY21, reflecting an annualised upgrade rate of 5%, compared with the past five-year average of 9%. In H1 FY21, the top five sectors (in terms of the count and the proportion of entities in the sector) that faced a negative rating action included textiles, real estate, hospitality, auto ancillaries and construction. “While credit quality pressures have remained elevated, the situation could have been worse without the interventions seen on the fiscal, monetary and regulatory fronts,” said Jitin Makkar, head, credit policy, ICRA. “The mitigating effects of the measures manifested favourably in the broader financial markets as well as some specific sectors,” he added.  Sectors that topped in the negative ratings include textiles, realty, hospitality and auto ancillaries
02 October 2020||COIMBATORE,||‘Cotton season ends with over 100 lakh bales stock’||The cotton season (October 2019-September 2020) has ended with a closing stock of more than 100 lakh bales of cotton, according to the Committee on Cotton Production and Consumption. Textiles Commissioner Roop Rashi held a virtual meeting of the committee recently to discuss the balance sheet for 2018-2019 and 2019-2020 seasons. It had been estimated that the closing stock for the 2019-2020 season would be 105 lakh bales. The total production in 2019-20 was expected to be 357 lakh bales and imports, 16 lakh bales. Cotton consumption by textile mills was 228 lakh bales as against 274 lakh bales the previous season (2018-2019). Exports were close to 50 lakh bales. “With larger production this season and high carry-over stock, prices will fall and the Cotton Corporation of India will be buying huge quantities,” J. Thulasidharan, president of Indian Cotton Federation, said. It is learnt that the CCI officials were present at the markets in some northern States on Thursday, the first day of the 2020-21 season, to purchase cotton in case the prices had gone below the MSP.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Ads misleading children prevalent’||Almost 75% of respondents in a survey have said that in the past one year, they had come across advertisements for various applications and games that were designed to mislead children into spending money, according to online community social network Local Circles. The firm said that while 51% respondents ‘yes, came across many such ads’, 24% said ‘yes, came across a few such ads’. Only 2% said they did not come across any such ads that they felt were designed to mislead children into spending, while 23% were unsure about it. A recent draft policy on misleading advertisements has said an advertisement should not take advantage of children’s inexperience, credulity or sense of loyalty, or exaggerate the features of goods or service in a way that could lead to children having unrealistic expectations of the goods or service.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Most gig workers lost income during pandemic’||Almost 90% of gig workers in India have lost income during the pandemic, according to a survey by Flourish Ventures, a global fintech venture capital fund. The survey, conducted among 770 ride-sharing drivers, delivery workers and house cleaners in August, found incomes had collapsed since the lockdown with almost nine out of ten gig workers earning less than Rs. 15,000 a month in August compared with more than Rs. 25,000 a month before the pandemic. Government aid The firm said government aid had alleviated some hardship as of those surveyed, 42% received food or financial aid from the government as part of COVID-19 relief measures.  “This research reveals most are concerned for their financial future,” said Tilman Ehrbeck, managing partner, Flourish. “At Flourish, our hope is that the same digital platforms which enabled the gig economy can connect workers to new sources of income and better financial tools for security in this crisis and beyond.”
02 October 2020||Special Correspondent,||‘Credit ratio plunges to a decade low’||Coinciding with India’s sharpest gross domestic product contraction, the credit ratio (upgrades to downgrades) of Crisil-rated firms for the first half plunged to 0.54, the lowest in more than a decade, with 296 downgrades and 161 upgrades. “While the rate of upgrades plunged as expected with the pandemic crushing demand, the rate of downgrades did not surge as feared,” said Crisil. “That’s because credit profiles were cushioned by proactive regulatory measures by RBI and SEBI,” the ratings agency added.
02 October 2020||MUMBAI,||NABARD to refinance Rs. 800-cr. loans||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has announced a special refinance facility of Rs. 800 crore for FY21 to support the Government of India’s Water, Sanitisation and Hygiene (WASH) programme. NABARD will provide concessional refinance to all eligible financial institutions including commercial banks, regional rural banks and cooperative banks with a repayment period of up to 36 months. “The support will be channelised to fund WASH activities, a thrust area eligible for 95% refinance. The bank credit will also be extended to NBFCs-MFIs and other MFIs (Societies, Trusts,), NABARD said in a statement.
02 October 2020||MUMBAI,||RIL’s retail arm gets Rs. 6,248 cr. from Mubadala||Abu Dhabi-based sovereign investor Mubadala Investment Company (Mubadala) has decided to invest Rs. 6,247.5 crore (AED 3.1 billion) into Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd. (RRVL), a subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL). Mubadala’s investment will translate into a 1.4% equity stake in RRVL on a fully diluted basis, RIL said in a filing with the stock exchanges. The investment values Reliance Retail at a pre-money equity value of Rs. 4.29 lakh crore. This marks the second significant investment by Mubadala in a Reliance Industries subsidiary after the $1.2 billion investment in Jio Platforms announced earlier this year.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||Sebi fines NSE Rs 6-cr for acquiring stakes in CAMS, PXIL, 4 others without approval||Markets regulator SEBI imposed Rs. 6 crore penalty on NSE for picking up stakes in six entities, including CAMS and Power Exchange India Ltd. (PXIL), without obtaining the regulator’s approval. Apart from CAMS and PXIL, the NSE had also acquired stakes in NSEIT Ltd., NSDL E-Governance Infrastructure Ltd., Market Simplified India Ltd. and Receivables Exchange of India Ltd.PTI
02 October 2020||Mumbai,||SBI, HUL unveil digital financing for small retailers||State Bank of India (SBI) and Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUL) have unveiled a joint pilot project in Mumbai and Bengaluru to provide digital payment and financing solutions to small retailers. Under this collaboration, the bank will offer an instant, paperless overdraft facility of up to Rs. 50,000 to retailers for their billings with distributors as well as financing facilities to HUL’s distributors, the SBI said.
02 October 2020||Chennai,||U.K’s Triumph eyes 20% bike sales growth||British premium bikemaker Triumph Motorcycles has drawn up plans to achieve 20% sales growth during the current fiscal ending June 2021, said a top official. “While the premium bike market has contracted by 30% to 35%, we have started seeing growth,” said Shoeb Farooq, business head, Triumph Motorcycles India. “Our sales since June 2020 is similar to that of last year,” said Mr. Farooq.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Mumbai Indians showcases its might, crushes Kings to top table||Rohit Sharma celebrated an Indian Premier League milestone by anchoring the Mumbai Indians innings. Big-hitters Kieron Pollard and Hardik Pandya built on it to set Kings XI Punjab a challenging target. Big moment And then the MI bowling unit came to the party to ensure Rohit’s big moment ended with a comprehensive win for the defending champion. After being asked to bat at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi, Rohit started the innings two runs shy of becoming only the third batsman to tally 5,000 IPL runs. Not only did he cross it with an uppish drive off Mohammed Shami, he went from strength to strength. Going berserk Thanks to Rohit’s 45-ball 70 (8x4, 3x6) and a late flourish by the big-hitting duo of Pollard (47 n.o., 20b, 3x4, 4x6) and Hardik (30 n.o., 11b, 3x4, 2x6), the defending champion finished its essay at 191 for four. The all-rounder alliance ensured that Kings XI’s death-over woes continued as MI plundered 89 runs off the last five overs. Exposed early Once Jasprit Bumrah breached Mayank Agarwal’s drive with his fierce pace in the Powerplay, Kings XI’s middle-order was exposed early. When canny leggie Rahul Chahar forced K.L. Rahul into a mistake — he was bowled after an attempted paddle-sweep went wrong — the fizz was all but taken out of the chase. Nicholas Pooran’s cameo did keep Kings XI’s hopes alive but James Pattinson’s variation of pace resulted in Pooran nicking one behind the stumps. Eventually, Kings XI could only trudge along to 143 for eight, handing MI a comfortable 48-run win. Shifting gears Despite Rohit looking in good touch, early setbacks meant the MI captain had to bide his time. When Pollard walked in at 83 for three in the 14th over, the stage was set for Rohit and Pollard to cut loose. Rohit started the leather-hunt by plundering twin fours and successive sixes off all-rounder James Neesham in the 16th over. Relay catch Rohit was brilliantly caught on the straight boundary off the first ball of the 17th over, with an off-balance Glenn Maxwell pouching the ball inches inside the rope at long-off and relaying it to Neesham before crossing the boundary. Pollard and Hardik continued to hammer Kings XI, which miscalculated its bowling changes. As if Neesham bowling the 16th and 18th overs wasn’t surprising enough, K. Gowtham was asked to bowl the last over. Hardik and Pollard made merry by tonking four sixes off it. The target was too steep for Rahul’s men.   Kings XI 72 for three  KXIP was 72 for three in 10 overs, with Pooran (21) and Maxwell (4) at the crease. Mayank (25), Karun (0) and Rahul (17) were the batsmen dismissed   In elite company Rohit becomes the third batsman after Virat Kohli (5,430) and Suresh Raina (5,368) to cross 5,000 runs in the IPL
02 October 2020||ORLANDO,||Lakers douse the Heat in Game 1||Heavy favourite Los Angeles Lakers dismantled the Miami Heat 116-98 in Game 1 of the NBA Finals on Wednesday, as its opponent struggled with injuries after making a fast start. Heat got a 13-point leg up in the first quarter but the lead was short-lived, as Lakers drained 11 three-pointers to complete a 30-point turnaround and close out the first half, while Miami’s defence crumbled inside the NBA’s quarantined campus. Lakers kept the pressure up as two of the Heat’s biggest playmakers — point guard Goran Dragic and forward Bam Adebayo — exited with a foot injury and shoulder strain respectively. 50th Finals game Sixteen-time All-Star LeBron James, competing in his 50th NBA Finals game, scored 25 points with 13 rebounds and nine assists. The Heat’s All-Star forward Jimmy Butler, who fell in the second quarter and was seen limping, scored 23 points.  The result: LA Lakers 116 (Davis 34, James 25) bt Miami Heat 98 (Butler 23). Lakers 1-0 .
02 October 2020||Madrid,||Inter and Atalanta star in a goal glut||Papu Gomez scored twice as Atalanta overpowered Lazio 4-1 in Rome while Serie A title rival Inter Milan crushed promoted Benevento 5-2 on Wednesday. The two scheduled season-opening matches had been pushed back because of Atalanta and Inter’s European campaigns in August. Atalanta and Inter are now both top of the Serie A table alongside Napoli, Hellas Verona and AC Milan with a maximum of six points from two games.   Real Madrid missed the creativity of the injured Eden Hazard as only a fortuitous goal from substitute Vinicius Junior earned it a 1-0 victory over Real Valladolid in LaLiga on Wednesday.   Earlier, Atletico Madrid followed up its 6-1 thrashing of Granada on Saturday with a much less spectacular goalless draw away at Huesca.  The results:   LaLiga: Villarreal 3 (Paco Alcacer 13, 67, Gerard 45+1-pen) bt Alaves 1 (Edgar 36); Huesca 0 drew with Atletico Madrid 0; Real Madrid 1 (Vinicius Junior 65) bt Valladolid 0; Eibar 0 lost to Elche 1 (Boye 37).   Serie A: Benevento 2 (Caprari 34, 76) lost to Inter Milan 5 (Lukaku 1, 28, Gagliardini 25, Hakimi 42, Martinez 71); Udinese 0 lost to Spezia 2 (Galabinov 29, 90+4); Lazio 1 (F. Caicedo 57) lost to Atalanta 4 (Gosens 10, Hateboer 32, Gūmez 41, 61).
02 October 2020||Dubai,||Rayudu and Bravo back to boost Super Kings||The return to fitness of Ambati Rayudu and Dwayne Bravo will boost an under-pressure Chennai Super Kings when it takes on Sunrisers Hyderabad here on Friday. Rayudu, the hero of CSK’s victory against Mumbai Indians in the opening game, missed the next two matches because of a hamstring injury. Dwayne Bravo is yet to play a game, nursing an injury he picked up in the Caribbean Premier League. “Rayudu and Bravo are available for selection,” CSK CEO K.S. Viswanathan said on Thursday. While Rayudu looks set to replace an out-of-form Murali Vijay at the top, Bravo’s availability puts M.S. Dhoni in a dilemma. Sam Curran, the West Indian’s replacement thus far, has been one of CSK’s better performers and it remains to be seen if Dhoni can find a way to play both Bravo and Curran. For Sunrisers’ it will be important to get the middle-order to click. Kashmiri lad Abdul Samad has shown promise, but Priyam Garg and Abhishek Sharma need to up their games. While Deepak Chahar, Josh Hazlewood, Curran, Ravindra Jadeja and Piyush Chawla can prove more than a handful on the slow Dubai track, SRH has found its death-overs specialist in T. Natarajan, who can be the ideal foil for World No. 1 T20 bowler Rashid Khan.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Early signs encouraging: Chahal||Unlike previous seasons, Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) has made a good start to its IPL campaign this time around, with two wins in three matches. For Yuzvendra Chahal, the leader of the RCB bowling attack, the early signs are mighty encouraging. “Our aim is to win the IPL title. Virat (Kohli), ABD (A.B. de Villiers) and everyone else says that there is a different, special feeling in the team this year. There is a positive energy among everyone in the group. My personal goal is to win the trophy for RCB,” legspinner Chahal said, in a media interaction on Thursday. Chahal stated that RCB has a more balanced squad this year. He cited the example of Shivam Dube, who donned the crucial finisher role with an excellent unbeaten 10-ball 27 against Mumbai Indians. “Last year, we didn’t have a hitter who could score a quick 25 off 10 balls the way Shivam did. This year, we have more confidence (in that aspect). I’m also very happy with the performance of Washington (Sundar). He bowled three tight overs in the PowerPlay, and also got the crucial wicket of Rohit Sharma,” Chahal said. The Haryana spinner is happy to play at Dubai International Cricket Stadium, which has longer boundaries compared to RCB’s Indian home venue, M. Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bengaluru. “The side boundaries are longer here, so you can flight it a little more compared to M. Chinnaswamy Stadium. Batsmen have to hit cleanly and really middle it to clear the ropes here. At Chinnaswamy, sometimes even mistimed shots go for six,” he said. In Kohli, Chahal is fortunate to have a skipper who does not feel it necessary to impose his will on bowlers. “Virat always gives us full confidence. He says to bowlers, ‘You are the captain of your bowling. Go with whatever field you want’. You feel confident when the captain gives you what you want. Be it for India or RCB, Virat gives bowlers the liberty to set their own fields,” Chahal said.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||KKR too good for RR||Kolkata Knight Riders brought Rajasthan Royals, who had won both their games in Sharjah, crashing down to earth at the Dubai International Stadium on Wednesday. Responding to Knight Riders’ 174 for six, Royals finished with 137 for nine. After Steve Smith fell early to Pat Cummins, Sanju Samson was snared by Shivam Mavi. The Kerala batsman failed to time his pull and ended up spooning the ball to Sunil Narine at midwicket. In his next over, Mavi sent back Jos Buttler who went for a slash off a wider ball and was taken at short third-man by Varun Chakravarthy. Kamlesh Nagarkoti took over from Mavi, dismissing Robin Uthappa and Riyan Parag cheaply to reduce Royals to 42 for five. Mystery spinner Varun then castled Rahul Tewatia. It was left to Tom Curran (54 not out, 36b, 2x4, 3x6) to bring some respectability to the total.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||Strict action for bio-bubble violation||Players face ouster from the tournament and their teams a hefty fine of Rs. 1 crore, besides deduction in points if they breach the bio-bubble that is in place for the IPL. In a notification sent to all the eight participating franchises by the BCCI, a player will have to undergo a six-day quarantine for an “unauthorised departure” from the bubble. It will be a one-match suspension if it is a second offence and a third violation will lead to his removal from the tournament with no replacement to be provided. The fine The players could be fined as much Rs. 60,000 approximately for not completing their daily health passport, not wearing GPS tracker and missing a scheduled COVID-19 test. The same rules apply for family members and team officials. All players and support staff are being tested every fifth day in the UAE. The team officials too need to be very careful in ensuring that the strict bio-bubble is not breached. If a franchise allows “any person into the bubble to interact with players/support staff”, it will have to pay a fine of Rs. 1 core at the first offence, a point will be deducted at the second offence and two points (equivalent to one win) for the third violation. In an unlikely but possible scenario when a team is unable to field a playing XI as less than 12 players are available, the BCCI will try to reschedule and if that is not possible, the match would be deemed lost. Teams also face a BCCI inquiry in case of repeated violations of health and safety calls put in place for the event taking place amid the pandemic.
02 October 2020||KOLKATA,||Mavi and Nagarkoti thriving in Cummins’ company||Captain Dinesh Karthik is happy that experienced Australia speedster Pat Cummins is taking active interest in guiding the young Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) pacers. While praising Shivam Mavi and Kamlesh Nagarkoti, who took two wickets apiece against Rajasthan Royals in KKR’s second consecutive victory on Wednesday, Karthik spoke about “extraordinary role model” Cummins’ influence on them. “The fact that a player like Cummins is around is a confidence booster. The way he carries himself, his body language, it is a pleasure to have him around,” Karthik said at the post-match press conference. Learning a lot “The boys are learning a lot. He is interacting with all these guys not only on the field, but making a genuine effort off the field,” said Karthik. The KKR skipper was delighted to see Mavi and Nagarkoti, who were part of India’s under-19 World Cup win in 2018, doing well. “Just to see these boys out there playing and representing our franchise….we stuck with them [and] I am happy. I don’t want to put pressure on them by making them feel that they are the ones we are dependent on. If they keep chipping in and doing their bit, there are fabulous cricketers around who will make them look even better,” Karthik said. He was also happy for spinner Varun Chakravarthy, who recovered from injury and has served KKR well so far, bowling his full quota of overs in the last two matches at a fine economy rate of 6.25 and taking three wickets in the process.
02 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru FC players begin training||A majority of Bengaluru FC (BFC) players have begun their pre-season training at the club’s academy facility at Inspire Institute of Sport in Bellary on Thursday. The team and staff underwent three rounds of COVID-19 testing in Bengaluru and one in Bellary, and then quarantined for four days before starting training on Thursday. With the club’s foreign contingent still awaiting their visas, first-team assistant coach Naushad Moosa took charge of the sessions. Moosa is in regular touch with head coach Carles Cuadrat and the rest of the technical staff, who are in Spain. “We would have liked to begin our pre-season with a complete team that includes foreign staff and players. “But given the situation with visas and travel, this was a hurdle we saw coming and had planned for it in advance,” BFC CEO Mandar Tamhane said. The Indian Super League season is set to kick off in November, with BFC playing its 'home' at Nehru Stadium in Fatorda (Goa).
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SAI approves, but NRAI puts off camp||The Sports Authority of India (SAI) has agreed in principle for the coaching camp for core Olympic probables at the Dr. Karni Singh Shooting Range here. However, the camp which was scheduled to start on October 5 for rifle and pistol shooters has been postponed by the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI). Since the shooting range was already in operation, and some of the shooters including the Olympic probables were using it, it was a matter of procedural sanction for the camp. The SAI, national federation and the other stakeholders are reportedly in discussion to work out the details of the camp. The quarantine process for shooters staying in hotels as well as those travelling from homes are also being worked out. The SAI wants a seven-day quarantine for shooters. In such a situation, it has questioned the prudence of having a 10-day camp for the shotgun shooters, originally proposed to be staged from October 20 to 30. The rifle and pistol shooters were scheduled to have their camp from October 5 to November 8. The NRAI in consultation with the SAI is expected to finalise the future dates for the camps, after streamlining the logistics.
02 October 2020||Chennai,||Used this break pretty well, says Fleming||Chennai Super Kings had a tough first week with three matches over six days at three venues. With two consecutive losses, a week’s break came at the right time and coach Stephen Fleming has said it has helped the side regroup. “We’ve used this break pretty well, we got some clarity around what we need to do and have practised very well,” said Fleming speaking to the team’s website ahead of CSK’s match against Sunrisers Hyderabad on Friday. The three-time champion has been struggling on multiple fronts with the batting lacking firepower and the spinners struggling as well. With CSK playing four of its next five matches in Dubai, Fleming hoped his side will have the chance to settle in after struggling to read the conditions in its opening fixtures. “It’s very helpful that we can settle in and try and read the conditions at one ground and not several. “I’m looking forward to putting in a bit of performance,” he added.
02 October 2020||KOLKATA,||Two players test positive as football is set to resume||Two players tested positive of COVID-19 as the city geared up to host the first competitive sports event in the country — the I-League Qualifiers — following the easing of lockdown. A statement from the All India Football Federation (AIFF) said that a player each from FC Bengaluru United and Bhawanipore FC have tested positive.  “All appropriate medical support is being given to the teams, and the players who tested positive are under medical supervision in a quarantined environment as required by the safety measures and COVID-19 protocols put in place for the tournament,” read the AIFF statement, which did not name the players. More than 150 players, support staff and officials are put up at a five-star hotel near Salt Lake stadium which is one of the two venues for the tournament starting on October 8. The other venue is Kalyani which is on the outskirts. This is the first official tournament to happen ever since the government allowed sports activities (under unlock 4.0) from Sept. 21. A total of five teams — Mohammedan Sporting, Bhawanipore FC (both Kolkata outfits), ARA FC (Ahmedabad), FC Bengaluru United and Garhwal FC (Delhi) — will be competing for the lone berth reserved for the tournament proper (I-League). The AIFF has created a bio-bubble, a new mandate in the world of sports since the pandemic began early this year, and the participants have safely made it to the secured atmosphere in the hotel which has been closed to all ‘outsiders’. Three out of the five teams started practising on Thursday to get in shape for the 12-day tournament which will see 10 matches played in a round-robin format. The Kalyani stadium will be hosting six matches and the Salt Lake stadium four.
02 October 2020||Geneva,||Messi vs Ronaldo in Champions League group stage||Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo will come up against each other in this season’s Champions League after Barcelona and Juventus were placed in the same group in Thursday’s draw. The two heavyweights were drawn in Group G along with Dynamo Kiev of Ukraine. Messi and Ronaldo will resume the rivalry they developed when the Portuguese superstar was at Real Madrid. Meanwhile, beaten 2020 finalists Paris Saint-Germain will have a chance for revenge against Manchester United, who ousted the French club in the last 16 two seasons ago. English Premier League champion Liverpool, which won the Champions League in 2019, will face Ajax as well as Atalanta in Group D. Holder Bayern will face Atletico Madrid and will also have a short trip across the border to Austria to take on Salzburg in Group A. The group stage starts on October 20, and all six rounds of games will be crammed into eight weeks in a schedule that is even more packed than usual because of the coronavirus pandemic. Lewandowski awarded Robert Lewandowski was named UEFA Men’s Player of the Year on Thursday following a superb season in which he won the treble with Bayern Munich. The Poland striker scored 55 goals in 47 games as Bayern also the Champions League, Bundesliga and German Cup. He was top scorer in the Champions League with 15 goals.  The groups:   A: Bayern Munich, Atletico Madrid, Salzburg, Lokomotiv Moscow.   B: Real Madrid, Shakhtar Donetsk, Inter Milan, Borussia Monchengladbach.   C: Porto, Manchester City, Olympiakos, Olympique de Marseille.   D: Liverpool, Ajax, Atalanta, FC Midtjylland.   E: Sevilla, Chelsea, Krasnodar, Rennes.   F: Zenit St. Petersburg, Borussia Dortmund, Lazio, Club Brugge.   G: Juventus, Barcelona, Dynamo Kiev, Ferencvaros.   H: Paris St. Germain, Manchester United, RB Leipzig, Istanbul Basaksehir.
02 October 2020||Dubai,||Uthappa spotted applying saliva on ball||In violation of ICC’s COVID-19 protocol, Rajasthan Royals’ Robin Uthappa was seen applying saliva on the ball while fielding against Kolkata Knight Riders here on Wednesday. Uthappa dropped a Sunil Narine skier off the fifth ball of the third over. He was then seen using saliva after collecting the ball. At the time of going to press, the IPL has not issued any statement on the incident. The ICC Standard Operating Procedure allows umpires to show leniency in the initial period of adjustment to the new protocols. Only subsequent instances will result in warnings and penalties.
02 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘We have a plan for every CSK player’||Sunrisers Hyderabad mentor V.V.S. Laxman said his team will look to carry forward the momentum after breaking the duck against Delhi Capitals on Tuesday. Ahead of Friday’s game against Chennai Super Kings, Laxman said the first win would always be special, coming as it did after early setbacks. “We hope to build on that all-round performance. That win showed our character,” he said. “[For CSK], we have plans for each and every player. The bowlers know the strengths and weaknesses of every batsman.” Laxman was all praise for left-armer T. Natarajan. “Along with Bhuvi (Bhuvneshwar Kumar), brings a lot of variety to death-overs bowling. Natarajan’s work ethic is exemplary.” Laxman also expressed confidence in the middle-order, and said it had the potential to win matches.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Desire for moksha||In the Mahabharata, in the course of a conversation between Vyasa and Sanjaya, Vyasa makes a comment on the human situation when people are subject to much anxiety, fear and misery. This is because they have expectations, desires, aims, goals, etc, in life, which are not always attainable. When what is desired is not obtained, one feels hurt and even angry. In a lecture, Asuri Sri Madhavachariar drew attention to the fact that though desire and anger are held to be great enemies to man, desire need not be condemned in toto. For, it is the desire to seek God that instils bhakti. If desire is banished then we are closing the doors of bhakti. A famed verse in Jitante Stotra teaches how to pray for the desire to seek the Lord. The petition here is to be granted the status of a Vishnu Dasa, whatever janma one might have to take in the cycle of birth according to one’s lot. Kulasekhara Azhwar in the Mukunda Mala Stotra evinces a similar sentiment. His prayer is: ‘Wherever I am destined to live, in the skies, or on earth, in naraka or in any other region, let me be granted that my thoughts are always fixed on you.’ Azhwars have such intense bhakti that morphs into Sringara rasa as in the case of Nammazhwar as Parankusa Nayaki and Tirumangai Azhwar as Parakala Nayaki. Andal too does not reject desire, but asks God to convert the desire for worldly aims into intense longing to be with Him and to serve Him. In the Ramayana, Subhahu and Maricha are seen as exemplifying anger and desire respectively. Rama kills Subhahu to show that anger has to be quelled immediately. He allows Maricha to escape to show that desire for God is important. But when desire turns evil, as when Maricha begins to support Ravana’s evil intent, the Lord kills him.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 10:11 IST,||Sudoku - October 2, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||So many flavours of ilish||Hilsa or ilish is an expensive seasonal fish. When it is in season (September to October), hilsa lovers tend to loosen their purse strings at least once. Starting at Rs. 1,200 a kg, the variety, depending on where it is sourced from, can go up to Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 4,000. The price, however, is not a concern for those who love this fish: to them, after all, it is a yearly, special occasion splurge. Full of bones and with a distinctive sweetish flavour, the fish is tricky to eat, which contributes to its allure. In Telugu land, hilsa is called pulasa and served in a delicious pulusu (tangy curry). Pulasa from the Godavari belt in Andhra Pradesh is relished by Telugu fish lovers. The very mention of the fish on the menu, can draw diners, lining up to savour a piece or two. Hyderabad-based restaurateur Kuchipudi Venkat says given the opportunity, he drives from Telangana to Dowleswaram barrage at Rajahmundry, Andhra Pradesh for the best catch. “This is the oldest barrage and the catchment area for pulasa. The price is decided through an auction; it starts at Rs. 1,000 and can go up to Rs. 4,000. The fish from this area is the sweetest. The next thing to do is simmer it in tangy pulusu made of tamarind paste,” he says. Thummala Sampath, who owns Spicy Venue in Hyderabad and Vizag, quotes a popular saying in Telugu: “ Pustelu ammukunaina, pulasa tinnali (One just has to eat pulasa even if it is at the cost of selling the mangalsutra ). The fish is slow-cooked for several hours so that the bone melts in your mouth; nothing is wasted.” Discussing hilsa without mentioning hilsa with sorshe bata (mustard paste) or bhappa hilsa is akin to a food crime. With many people spending more time at home this year, because of the COVID-19 pandemic, traditional dishes are making a comeback. Kolkata-based recipe developer Sayantani Mahapatra Mudi says, “Since our roots lie in coastal Bengal — Midnapore district, to be precise — we prepare a lot of dishes with a souring agent. So every time baba (father) bought ilish, it had to be cooked two ways. Sorshe ilish and ilish macher tawk with aged tamarind paste, pumpkin and ladies’ finger. Unlike other homes where only the head or tail of the fish is cooked that way, ours was cooked with the best gada (back) and peti (stomach) pieces. It’s a slow-cooked dish full of aroma.” Sayantani adds, “ Maa also made Medinipuri amda ilish, another sour curry, made with hog plums that are seasonal with the ilish. I lovedmaa’sdoiilish(ilish with curd), that smooth velvety gravy was her speciality. And the head always ended up in kochur saag (taro stems) with some black chickpeas and fresh coconut.” Sayantani also recollectsilish hara gouri, where the whole fish is cooked, one side in a tamarind gravy and the other side in mustard gravy; so it has two different tastes. “Later, maa learnt to make a spicy and sour curry from my aunt whose roots are in Bangladesh. That curry used hog plum, cumin and mustard,” she says. For the Assamese, ilish season is one of celebration; but for a change, this is one fish that is not put in the masor tenga jul (fish sour curry). Incorporating mustard paste is common practice in the region, but some homes love to make ilish curry with raw banana and generous amounts of freshly pounded pepper. Guwahati-based food blogger Sanjukta Dutta says, “We call the raw banana ilish curry kaskolor jul . Also, the roe of the ilish is a delicacy and is best eaten fried with a little salt.” Bringing something completely different to the table is Chandrima Sarkar. Active on social media as Notoutofthebox, she loves traditional ilish dishes, especially the leaf-wrapped preparations from her childhood. Although she takes great pride in herilish pulao , Chandrima says, “While marinated and steamed ilish in banana leaf is well-known, at home, marinated ilish was wrapped in pumpkin and colocasia leaves as well. The steamed leaves were to be eaten with the rice; a flavour to savour.” Chandrima is not alone in giving the ilish dish a twist. Sayantani says, “Once I started cooking and experimenting, people loved daab ilish(hilsa cooked inside a tender coconut with the coconut flesh).” Irrespective of these variations, one factor remains constant: “The oil in which ilish is fried is special. Most people love rice mixed with this oil, with a green chilli to go on the side,” says Debjani Ghatak. Pro tip Sayantani’s suggestions: “A good ilish for me is the one with roe in it. The taste is somehow not as good without roe. So I always check the belly. If it is bulged and soft, I buy it. “Size matters when buying hilsa. The bigger, the better, she adds. “The natural oils of hilsa fish need to mature for some time after it is cooked; it tastes even better when it is a day old.”  liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The moon dipped in sugar syrup||B.G. Subramani Sharma, managing director of Bombay Sweets, smiles when asked about the time he entered the business in Thanjavur. “I started assisting my father Guru Dayal Sharma when I was in Class XI, mainly with measuring out the ingredients and learning how to knead the dough forsamosa.I was nicknamedmaida maavuby my classmates because I would come to school straight from the kitchen with flour on my hands,” Subramani says. There is a hum of activity at this 10,000 square-feet industrial kitchen complex in Thanjavur, even though lockdown restrictions have mandated a reduced staff strength. Teams of men and women are seen preparing a host of snacks and savouries that will be displayed and sold at the store’s 14 branches in Thanjavur and Pattukottai. Clearly, it has been a long journey, from a small tuck shop opposite Tanjore railway station in 1949 to an e-commerce savvy business today. “My father was a traditional sweet maker in Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, who migrated south in the 1940s, and after working for a short while in Madras, settled down in Thanjavur. He was a master chef who believed in using the best ingredients,” says Subramani. “He loved every step of cooking — he would begin his day listening to Surdas bhajan s while slicing cashew nuts. He remained as enthused about his work in his later years, as when he was starting out.” Bite-sized inspiration Since 1949, Bombay Sweets (named so by Sharma Senior because the city symbolised sophistication and novelty to him, even though he had never actually been there), is a favourite snack food destination for both local residents and tourists in Thanjavur. While the original menu has expanded from north Indian snacks to include southern Indian tiffin items and fast food, its best-sellers are the sweets chandrakala and suryakala , a Guru Dayal innovation that combines the best of north and south festive cuisines. These are little fried pastry parcels filled with khoya or mawa (whole dried milk) mixed with nuts and seasoned delicately with saffron and cardamom powder, then dipped in a light sugar syrup. “For this recipe, my father was inspired by the gujiya , a dry fried pastry that is commonly prepared for festivals like Holi in the north. Chandrakala and suryakala , both of which have the same filling, get a southern Indian twist with a brief dip in hot sugar syrup at the very end,” says Subramani. Around 250 kg ofchandrarkalais made per day during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Assembly line Their name derives from their shape —chandrakalalooks like a crescent moon, while the suryakala is round, like the sun. Due to the lockdown, suryakala is made only during the weekends, while three varieties ofchandrakala— regular, ghee and almond filling — are churned out from Monday to Friday. Where possible, machines help to streamline the production process in Bombay Sweets. For the chandrakala preparation, a heavy-duty mixer kneads maida and water into a silky dough that is then passed through a mechanical cutter, which forms equal-sized portions for rolling out. Workers then sit in assembly-line fashion to break down the task of rolling out, filling, and then delicately folding the edges of the pastry discs by hand. Another team of cooks supervising huge oil-filled pans is on hand to fry the chandrakala. The flame is kept on medium heat, to ensure even cooking of the casing and filling. Once drained of excess oil, the fried pastry is passed on to the next team overseeing the sugar syrup. The chandrakala pockets are removed as soon as the fluted edges look glazed. “If this step gets delayed, you can end up with soggy chandrakala , so the cooks have to be very careful,” says Subramani. We get to sample a chandrakala fresh from the kitchen. The crisp pastry and soft filling get a low sugar kick from the syrup, making it an ideal teatime snack.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Zig not zag||So, we’ve been learning about the Father of our Nation all this week. Our History teacher gave us a ‘challenge’ (which is basically teacher speak for homework). Each of us had to try and live by Gandhiji’s principles of truth, non-violence and simplicity for a week. And then write a 1000-word essay about our experience. (Insert eye roll.) Now, I’ll admit, I was a little cocky at the start of the week. How hard could this be? A+ for sure! And then, I learned that the easier something sounds, the harder it is. Challenge accepted Take ‘truth’ for example. I wouldn’t say I’m a huge liar or anything, but it’s amazing how many ‘white’ lies I tell in a day! ‘Yes, Ma’am I’m paying attention to what you’re saying’. ‘Yeah, I took the dog for a walk’. ‘No, this cake doesn’t taste like a brick.’ Sometimes I didn’t want to get into trouble, sometimes I didn’t want to hurt someone else’s feelings and sometimes I just wanted another 10 minutes of gaming. I learned that the only way to not have to lie is to do what’s expected of you in the first place. Which isn’t always fun. I bet Gandhiji would have scratched non-violence from his list of principles if he lived with the Pesky Brother. Also, I’m not entirely sure about the whole ‘turn the other cheek’ thing. The second the PB knew I wasn’t going to hit or fight back, he went around tripping me up, giving me Chinese burns and even pantsed me on the basketball court. Who needs enemies when you have a brother? It took every cell in my body not to hang him from the basketball hoop by his shorts. But here’s the thing; after the first three days of non-violence on my part, and extreme violence on the PB’s part, he lost interest in baiting me and left me alone. But tell me, now that the challenge is over, should I exact revenge or leave him alone? Simplicity means different things to different people. I decided that I’d only wear one outfit the entire week. My family and building friends didn’t appreciate my efforts though and the PB refused to sleep in the same room as me. After the first three days, I realised the bad smell following me everywhere was me. Eww. So I had to shower and change my underwear. The challenge aka homework did get me thinking about how hard it is to be different and stay the course even when the world is calling you nuts. We all like to look at great people and the things they’ve achieved and say how cool they are, but I don’t think we look at how hard it actually is to do your own thing. To zig when everyone else is zagging. Is it worth it? I guess so. After all, Gandhiji got India independence all those years ago. Thanks for zigging, Bapu!  I learned that the easier something sounds, the harder it is.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Ghosts Use Facebook Alien obsession||The story so far: After Maya opens a Facebook account, she sends Nana a friend request. On seeing many of his friends on Facebook, Rocky feels left out.  Although Rocky was relieved that Nana hadn’t responded, he was intrigued about ghosts using Facebook. “Papa, can ghosts use Facebook?” Rocky shocked his father at dinner. “Why suddenly?” asked Mr. Ghosh. “Just like that.” “This definitely isn’t your idea.” “Why not?” asked Rocky. “Remember the aliens? That, too was my idea.” “Ah, aliens. How can I ever forget that episode, Rocky!” his father scowled. “In fact, every resident of our housing complex too will remember that night. Who else could have imagined that a power cut could actually be an alien invasion to take over our planet?” Destiny But Rocky alone wasn’t entirely to blame for his alien obsession. He was born into a housing complex named Space Housing Complex, with a miniature UFO stationed on top of its community hall, visible from Rocky’s bedroom. His first ride in the children’s park was in a small spaceship. After he was chosen to play Jadoo in their community function, Rocky believed he was destined to do something alien-centric. “So Papa, can ghosts use Facebook?” “There are no ghosts,” grunted his father. “Ghosts are like aliens.” Rocky couldn’t believe that his father echoed Maya’s words. “People also claim that aliens are real, but they have hardly been able to prove it. Same with ghosts.” “But aliens are real!” screamed Rocky. Why didn’t anybody take aliens seriously? He decided he would leave it to Nana to prove himself. Next day, in school, Rocky found Maya had told everyone. He tried to convince his friends that he wasn’t the same Rocky who had helped Maya open a Facebook account. But there was no other boy named Rocky, and none that Maya knew. Worried that some one might go home and tell his parents, Rocky let them eat his chola-batura . He even took orders for next day, and promised he’d request his mother to make their favourite snack. When Rocky ignored Maya as she passed him in the corridor during lunch break, she muttered that she didn’t need a friend like him. But, in the evening, she wanted to check her Facebook account. Her mother always kept the tablet with her. The house computer didn’t have Internet, so she headed over to Rocky’s house. “Rocky,” Maya tapped him from behind. He was busy showing his older cousin Konica, who’d come to spend the weekend with him, his new computer game. Rocky’s face paled.  To be continued...   “Ah, aliens. How can I ever forget that episode, Rocky!” his father scowled.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||When Gandhiji laughed||“Why do I have to be Mahatma Gandhi?” Amit demanded. “Why can’t I be Nehru?” Startled, Amma asked, “What happened?” “Our teachers want a special celebration for Gandhi Jayanti,” Amit said. “And have asked us to dress like different freedom fighters. Guess who I am? I have to be Gandhiji and talk about my experiences!” “That’s great!” Amma exclaimed. “It’s not!” Amit said. “Imagine me dressed like Gandhiji!” “Hmmm...” Amma said, looking critically at him. “We’ll have to do something to make you look bald…and you’ll have to wear a dhoti…” “Can you imagine how much my friends will tease me?” Amit burst out. “But, Amit...” Amma began. “No!” Amit said forcefully. “I don’t want to hear that!” “Hear what?” Amma asked. “I know what you will say,” Amit said. “You’ll tell me what a great man Gandhiji was, how he helped India gain independence, taught us ahimsa and all that.” A new perspective “Listen...” Amma began. “I am grateful to him,” Amit went on. “I admire him. But why must I dress like him and get teased? I bet he was never teased. Then–” He broke off to stare at Amma. “Why did you shake your head when I said Gandhiji had never been teased? Who would tease Gandhiji?” “Many people did,” Amma said. “You are making that up to make me feel better,” Amit declared. “I am not making anything up,” Amma said. “You can read history books and find out for yourself what people said about Gandhiji.” “I will read all the books you want me to,” Amit promised. “But please tell me why Gandhiji was teased.” “He was teased about being small and thin,” Amma said. “Why, he was even teased about the clothes he wore. Others said he had large ears that made him look like Mickey Mouse and…” “Mickey Mouse!” Amit howled. “How could they? What did Gandhiji do?” “Gandhiji laughed with them!” Amma smiled. “But,” Amit said, “laughing at yourself is not easy. In fact, it’s really difficult!” “It is extremely difficult,” Amma nodded. “But it tells the world so many things!” “Like?” “That you don’t care what anyone says or thinks,” Amma said. “That people’s laughter cannot stop you from doing what you want to do!” Amma smiled at Amit’s expression. “Now you know why Gandhiji is called a great man,” she said. “So, are you still worried about your friends teasing you?” “No!” Amit said. “I will dress like Gandhiji and give that speech. I’ll talk about how Gandhiji was teased and how he laughed. I bet everyone will find that interesting!” He grinned at Amma. “And I bet it will a speech no one has heard before!” And it was.  I am grateful to him. I admire him. But why must I dress like him and get teased?
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Powerful voice for peace||Name: Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi  The world knows me as: Mahatma Gandhi, Father of the Nation, Bapu  Achildhood memory: Books were my sole companions as a child. I loved reading in my free time.  Brisk beginnings: My activism started not in India but in South Africa, where I campaigned for the civil rights of Indians there.  Turning point in my life: During a train journey in South Africa, I was thrown out of a first-class railway compartment and beaten up for refusing to give up my seat to a European passenger. This motivated me to devote my life to combat racial inequality.  Causes I believed in: I raised my voice not only for Indian independence but also for causes such as civil rights for women, the abolition of the caste system, and fair treatment of all people regardless of religion.  My biggest strength: My strong adherence to the principles of truth and non-violence  My brainchild: My method of non-violent action was called Satyagraha , and it included civil disobedience and non-cooperation.  An iconic moment: I led a historic march of around 50,000 people covering around 390 km to protest against the salt tax imposed by the British.  On the move: I walked/travelled almost 18 km a day throughout my lifetime; enough to walk around the world twice.  Contribution to the world: I was responsible for the civil rights movement in 12 countries on four continents, and my birthday is observed as International Day of Non-Violence.  Pen pals: I conversed with several distinguished people through letters, including the famous Russian writer Leo Tolstoy, renowned physicist Albert Einstein, and well-known actor Charlie Chaplin.  Fun fact: You can find a road named after me in many Indian cities, as well as in countries such as the Netherlands, the U.S., Germany, Iran, Canada and South Africa.  Lasting legacy: My portrait features on all the currency notes in the country since 1996.  Window to my life: My autobiography is titled The Story of My Experiments with Truth .  Quote for you: “The best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others.”
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Many colours of his success||The bell rang, as the car reached the level crossing and the gate came down. The men in the car had to wait till the train passed. One of them spotted a sugarcane vendor. “Come, let’s have a juice,” he said. It looked tempting; the others did not need a second invitation. He bought everyone a tall glass of the refreshing juice and then they drove off. “Do you know who that was?” asked a passer-by. The sugarcane vendor shook his head. “That was the Union Home Minister, Lal Bahadur Shastri.” The man’s trademark was humility. His leadership style was simple. He chose the right people to do the work. Seeding revolutions “Amul: The Taste of India” is now a familiar slogan. But, let’s rewind. Shastri, continuing with Jawaharlal Nehru’s socialist economic policies and central planning, promoted the White Revolution. He instituted the The National Dairy Development Board, a national campaign to increase the production and supply of milk. India moved from being an importer of milk to an exporter. In the mid-1960s India was in the throes of a major agricultural crisis. Annual imports of wheat from the U.S. amounted to three to four million tonnes. Shastri brought agriculture to the attention of the Planning Commission. This change in direction spearheaded the Green Revolution. The Shastri Formula established that three languages would be in use, with Hindi and English being the official languages. Did you know? * He was the first person to be posthumously awarded the Bharat Ratna. *He had to swim across the Ganges to attend school, as he had no money to pay for a boat ride. *He introduced the slogan “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan”. *As Transport Minister, he introduced a provision for woman drivers and conductors in public transport. *As Home Minister, he introduced the committee on Prevention of Corruption. *He signed the Tashkent Declaration on January 10, 1966 with Pakistan’s President, Muhammad Ayub Khan, to end the 1965 Indo-Pakistani War.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Discover the Mahatma||Chandrashekhar’s world is shaken by events that rock him to the core, forcing him to dig deep and not just find his ‘inner Gandhi’, but become Gandhi. Not for a day or two. May be even, for life. This novel explores not Gandhiji the man or his life as a leader, but the Gandhian way that must remain relevant to us. Connecting Gandhis ideas and his life’s work to contemporary issues such as bullying and conflict resolution, healthful eating from local sources, civil rights and diversity, and more, this useful resource makes Gandhi relevant for kids today. Packed with historic images, the book includes informative sidebars; a time line, glossary, and resource section, along with 21 activities that illuminate Gandhi’s life, environment, and ideas. One thick, hot day, Arun Gandhi travels with his family to Grandfather Gandhi’s village. Silence fills the air but peace seems far away to young Arun. When an older boy pushes him on the soccer field, his anger fills him in a way that surely a true Gandhian could never imagine. Can Arun ever live up to the Mahatma? Will he ever make his grandfather proud? In this remarkable personal story, Arun Gandhi weaves a stunning portrait of the extraordinary man who taught him to live his life as light. Second in a series of illustrated books created for young readers to get to know our world heroes better, this biography, peppered with little-known facts, takes the reader through Gandhiji’s life of purpose, goodwill and resistance. This is the story of the making of the Mahatma, a simple man who taught the world that anything can be achieved through peace.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Gandhi Jayanti||ACROSS  1 Gandhiji’s birthplace (9) 5 “____ based on love is thousand times more effective than that based on fear”: Gandhiji (5) 6 Gandhiji’s first profession (6) 9 ____ Khan Palace: place where Kasturba died (3) 10 Gandhiji’s memorial is located here (7) 12 Young ____: newspaper that Gandhiji published (5) 15 “Even if you are a minority of ___, the truth is the truth”: Gandhiji (3) 16 The Salt March culminated at this place (5) 17 Gandhiji’s birthday: __/10 (3)  DOWN  1 Gandhiji’s mother (8) 2 Baba ____, a close associate of Gandhiji (4) 3 This act of 1919 brought Gandhiji to the forefront of the freedom struggle (7) 4 “India of my _____”: book by Gandhiji (6) 7 “In a gentle way you can shake the ____”: Gandhiji (5) 8 Nonviolence (6) 11 ____ Bondurant, author of “Conquest of Violence: the Gandhian Philosophy of Conflict” (4) 13 Gandhiji’s birth year: Eighteen Sixty ___ (4) 14 Gandhi used to spin the charkha while lodged in this place (4) 16 “__ or Die!”: Gandhiji’s call for the Quit India Movement (2)
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are.||Why is April 1 called April Fools’ Day?  While the reason is still debated among many, the popular theory involves the French calendar reform. Around 1563, France reformed its calendar, moving the start of the year from the end of March to January 1. Some people who were slow to get the news or failed to recognise that the start of the new year had moved to January, and continued to celebrate it during the last week of March through April 1 had jokes played on them and were called “April fools.”  Why dojets leave a trail of smoke?  The white trails we see are actually not smoke but are called contrails, short for ‘condensation trails’. They are formed when the water vapour in the jet exhaust mixes with cold and wet air, making it condense and freeze into ice crystals. They fade away once the ice crystals evaporate back into the air. The time this takes depends on the humidity, temperature, and the chemical composition of the exhaust. How to ask a curious question 1. Pick a question. 2. Visit www.ywc.thehindu.com/curiopedia and submit your question. 3. Watch this space or log on to www.ywc.thehindu.com to read your answer.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A voice for Gen Next||Early April, when the fear of the pandemic was at its worst the world over, classical and contemporary dancer-choreographer-curator Anita R. Ratnam was busy ideating. She consulted Chitra Sundaram, the U.K.-based dance and theatre artiste, and ‘Boxed - Dance Deletes Distancing’ was born. Through Narthaki.com, her e-zine, Anita reached out to young dancers across the globe. “It’s time for my generation to make way for the next. The digital age is so right for them; they are creative and tech-savvy. We should be supporting, encouraging, provoking, just being there for them. That was the impulse for ‘Boxed’,” says Anita. She commissioned recordings of site-specific or prop-inspired works — two minutes of continuous movement — beginning with their chosen dance style and transitioning into free flow movements, along with the dancer’s explanation of the premise and the process. The soundscape was original, provided by Narthaki on request. The videos were shot on phone cameras from two angles. And the dancers did away with the traditional costume and jewellery and performed in lounge wear or street clothes. “I wanted the young dancers to think differently. Many were challenged for the first time. We were surprised by some of the bold choices they made. They danced in bathtubs, on the beach, at doorways, on the stairs, near windows, on couches and chairs. They were prepared to take a risk, and that’s what we wanted. ‘Boxed’ is a tribute to the dancing body that refuses to stay still during this global unrest.” Interesting dimensions The series created a buzz. The pandemic had locked dancers into physical spaces, confused and scared, this was a way to channel creative energy. Many applied, including a tour guide in Venice. The diva-storyteller had turned mentor and thought leader. Her sharp introduction to each episode brought out interesting dimensions of the performances. “I know how hard it is to shift from the classical style, where something is either right or wrong. When we mentored applicants, we told them, if you fall off a cliff, we will be there with the safety net.” The response was overwhelming and the series went into eight editions, each with five dance presentations, followed by expert comments from senior artistes. There was a theatre edition, an American edition, and an Australian edition, with original music created for Narthaki by Vedanth Bharadwaj, Anil Srinivasan and Manjunath P.C. The project was backed by a team of technicians, comprising Masoom Parmar, Raksha Patel, Devansh Gandhi and Keerthi Kumar. Celebrating women Anita is following up ‘Boxed’ with ‘Devi Diaries’ for Navaratri. Through the month-long series, launched yesterday, she wants dancers to sing, dance, paint or tell a story about Devi. “Not just Hindu goddesses, but any woman they idolise. It could be Inanna from Mesopotamia, Rabia of Basra, goddesses from the Native American Inuit people, or your own family member,” explains Anita. Another significant initiative through which she hopes to guide and groom Gen Next artistes is Neo-Narthaki. “The portal, launched recently, is run by a team of youngsters and has a voice of its own. We will have guest editors for every issue, and discussions can be about make-up, lighting, gender, sexuality, anything.” Anita is also concerned about how to monetise artistes’ work. “Artistes need to be paid and in ‘Boxed’ I ensured everyone was. In India, the Goethe Institute, the British Council, the South Zone Cultural Centre, and Sangeet Natak Akademi support dance. The last two are headless, whom do we go to? We have to fend for ourselves. Older gurus are stuck, connectivity is poor in smaller towns. There is sadness and depression. How do we create a sense of continuity? The larger question is, do we have a community?” The Chennai Margazhi Season going virtual is as good as being semi-cancelled, she says, and the line-up doesn’t include dance. “Why have sabhas not reached out for taped productions? They could ask the top 25 artistes to create exclusive content. Some U.S.-based organisations have done that. ABHAI is doing a series for young dancers in collaboration with Sangam Festival, New Jersey, sponsored by Sangam and Bala Devi Chandrasekhar.” Someone who always speaks her mind on issues, especially of the art world, Anita says, “I put art in the centre of political discourse to see if I can change perception. I’ve been trolled, I don’t take anything personally. I am not worried any more.”  The Chennai-based author writes on classical dance.   Neo-Narthaki is run by a team of youngsters and has a voice of its own. We will have guest editors for every issue, and discussions can be about make-up, lighting, gender, sexuality, anything
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||When a musician met the Mahatma||Mahadev Desai, secretary to Mahatma Gandhi from 1917, when he first met Bapu, until his death in 1942, kept a diary of daily happenings in the life of the Mahatma. It is not a simple mention of events but a detailed record of every word spoken and written by Gandhi. One such entry in the diary shows what music meant to the man who led India’s freedom struggle. Well-known musician Dilip Kumar Roy visited Bapu on February 2, 1924 at the Sasoon Hospital, Pune, where he had been shifted from Yerwada jail for an emergency appendix surgery. Desai notes in the diary: “It must have been about 8 p.m. when Sri Dilip Kumar Roy came. He had brought with him his sitar. Sitting on the sofa opposite Gandhi’s bed he sang, ‘Deendayala Gopala Hari.’ Moving rendition The devotion in the bhajan and the soulful voice of the singer lifted the spirits of everyone around. Roy then sang the popular Meera bhajan, ‘Chakar Rakhoji’. Desai writes: “All of us were ‘dancing on Love’s blue rill’ — that was the effect the performance produced. Profound silence prevailed for a while. Dilip Kumar Roy then touched a contentious topic. “I feel Mahatmaji, he said, ‘that our beautiful music has been sadly neglected in our schools and colleges.’” “It has — unfortunately,” Bapu agreed. “I have always said so.” “I am very glad to hear this, Mahatmaji,” said Roy, “because, to be frank, I was under the impression that art has no place in the gospel of your austere life. I had often pictured you as a dread saint who was positively against music.” “Against music! I...!” exclaimed Bapu. “Well, I know,” he added , “there are so many superstitions rife about me that it has now become almost impossible for me to overtake those who have been spreading them.” “I feel so relieved, Mahatmaji,” Roy laughed, “but may not your asceticism be somewhat responsible for such popular misconceptions? People would find it difficult to reconcile asceticism with art.” “But I do maintain that asceticism is the greatest of all arts,” said Bapu. “And to think that I should be dubbed an enemy to an art like music because I favour asceticism! I, who cannot even conceive of the evolution of India’s religious life without her music! But indeed, I fail to see anything that passes much for art in these days. What is needed for art is to have the heart for it, not any intimate knowledge of technique or training. In my ashram we do not have art on the walls. Nature suffices for my inspiration.” Roy agreed: “Yes. What man in his senses will claim that the artist’s handiwork is greater than life’s?” Then Bapu, changing the Gita’s aphorism ‘Yogah Karmasu Kaushalam’ (yoga is skill in action), concluded: “Life must immensely exceed all the arts put together. For what is this hot house art plant of yours without the life, soul and background of a steady worthy life? What after all does that art amount to which all the time stultifies life instead of elevating it? No. Art has a place in life, but art is not life. Life, on the contrary, is art. Art should be subservient to life. It should act as its handmaid. Not master. It should be alive in life and the universe.” Letter to Tagore Art is life, said the Mahatma and earlier, in a letter to Rabindranath Tagore, he had suggested giving both Hindustani and Western classical music a place in Shantiniketan along with Bengali music. When Gandhi was in South Africa, he had started evening prayers in the ashram. That collection of bhajans was published under the name, ‘Nitivam Kavyo.’ His idea of music was also connected to spirituality. In this context, he wrote a letter to Pt. Narayan Moreshwar Khare (music teacher at Satyagraha Ashram, Sabarmati) on October 7, 1924. “I have gradually come to look upon music as a means of spiritual development. Please try your best to see that all of us sing our Bhajans with a correct understanding of the sense.” At Ahmedabad, in his address to Young India, on April 15, 1926 he had stated, “If many more people send their children to the music class it will be part of their contribution to national uplift.” According to the Mahatma: “In true music, there is no place for communal differences and hostility.”  The writer is a cultural activist and Gandhian scholar.   Life must immensely exceed all the arts put together... Art has a place in life, but art is not life. Life, on the contrary, is art.   When Gandhi was in South Africa, he had started evening prayers in the ashram. That collection of bhajans was published under the name, ‘Nitivam Kavyo.’ His idea of music was also connected to spirituality.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||First December season show to go outdoors||Newtone Studio in Kilpauk is an important place in the history of Madras. Kannamba’s dance for M.K. Thyagaraja Bhagavathar’s song ‘Unaikkandu Mayangada’ in the 1941 film Ashok Kumar (music by vocalist Alathur Sivasubramania Iyer; lyrics Papanasam Sivan) was shot in a single night at Newtone. Some scenes of M.S. Subbulakshmi’s Meera were filmed here, and the song ‘Kaatrinile varum geetham’ was also recorded here. Anandan (of Film News) , the chronicler of Tamil film history, learnt photography at this studio. And now this venue is on the verge of creating history again. From studio to school In the place where the studio functioned, we today have a school, Bhavan’s Rajaji Vidyashram. This year, the school campus is going to be the outdoors venue for the Margazhi festival of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan (BVB). This is especially significant because Chennai’s much-awaited December festival has moved online this year because of Covid-19. “Every year we have a programme that runs for eight weeks. This year, we obviously cannot have something on that scale. But we hit upon the idea of an open-air event in the Rajaji Vidyashram campus,” says K.N. Ramaswamy, director, BVB, Chennai. N. Ravi, chairman of the Chennai Kendra, says, “Artistes felt live concerts were better than virtual ones. If the weather permits, the end of November should be fine for the festival. Other things being equal, if at all a gathering is permitted, then our programme will give both artistes and rasikas a feel of the season. The programmes will be open to all. The playground is large, and we can have sufficient space between chairs.” Ramaswamy explains the safety measures that will be put in place. “The playground can hold 3,000 people, but we anticipate an audience of about 800. We will place six screens on the grounds, so that people can even watch from inside their cars. Bhavan’s has an excellent reputation for its audio standards, and we will maintain that. The place will be sanitised everyday. We will check everyone’s temperature at the gate and they will be given a mask and a cap. We will arrange buses to pick up and drop those who want to attend the concerts. There will be three pick-up points — near our Kendra in Mylapore, near Narada Gana Sabha, and near Ice House in Triplicane. If there is a demand from the Adyar area, we could have an additional pick-up point near the Sivaji Ganesan Memorial. We also plan to give the audience a hygienically prepared, packed dinner.” Says Nalli Kuppuswami Chetti, vice-chairman, BVB, Chennai, who is on the board of many sabhas, “None of the sabhas in the city has planned a live programme this year, because no one has so much open space at their disposal. Bhavan’s is a unique attempt.” “The last time we made use of the school ground for a public function was in September 1983, when the school, which used to be called Rajaji Centenary Vidyalaya, was renamed Bhavan’s Rajaji Vidyashram. Chief minister M.G. Ramachandran, President Zail Singh, and a host of other dignitaries attended the event. M.S. Subbulakshmi sang the invocation song and I had the honour of playing the sruti box for her,” recalls Ramaswamy. Artistes on board Singer Pantula Rama, who lives in Visakhapatnam, is one of the artistes participating in BVB’s open-air festival. “Since all precautions are being taken, we should be safe,” she says. “People are depressed being indoors. I think they would like to attend an open-air kutcheri.” O.S. Arun, who is scheduled to perform a bhajan concert, says, “I do miss live concerts. The element of unpredictability is the charm of a live performance. I am looking forward to the Bhavan’s concert.” Bhavan’s initiative is supported by South Zone Cultural Centre, and Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit is expected to inaugurate the fest, which will run from November 28 to December 19 and include religious discourses as well. What happens if the government allows only a small audience? “In that case, we will organise some sort of pre-registration format,” says Ravi.  The Chennai-based author writes on culture and heritage.   We will place six screens on the grounds, so that people can even watch from inside their cars:K.N. Ramaswamy
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||From Saptak’s treasure trove||Forty years ago, a group of classical music connoisseurs, led by tabla exponent Nandan Mehta and his sitarist wife Manju, set up a school for music in Ahmedabad called Saptak. They next began hosting a three-day annual music festival, which grew in both popularity and duration, and is today a 13-day long event. Another significant initiative was the setting up of the Saptak Archives in 2004 to digitise recordings of Saptak concerts and also to acquire rare classical music recordings. In a recent lockdown treat, Saptak introduced podcasts and already, there are 40 podcasts covering Hindustani music, semi-classical and Carnatic-Hindustani jugalbandis. Says vocalist and contributor Srijan Deshpande, “Today the problem is not access to classical music online, it is knowing what to listen to, and what to listen for. Basically, we are trying to create a gateway to classical music.” The music selected for the podcasts is not confined to the Saptak archives (managed by Prafull Anubhai, and comprising more than 20,000 recordings). About 30 minutes long, the podcasts are available on the Saptak YouTube channel and have been put together by a team of about 10 musician-scholars. One of most recent podcasts was on the sitar — Manju Mehta introduced four main styles of playing the instrument — Etawah gharana, Maihar Senia, Vishnupur and Senia Jaipur. Sitar playing techniques Etawah gharana or Imdadkhani gharana was introduced by veteran sitariya Pt. Arvind Parikh. The right hand techniques of Hindustani instrumentalists (as opposed to Carnatic exponents) were highly evolved — the recordings of Ustad Imdad Khan in raga Bihag and of Ustad Inayat Khan in raga Bhairavi exhibited this. Ustad Vilayat Khan, apart from modifying the sitar and eliminating the kharaj wire required for dhrupad-style aalap, focussed more on left-hand movements, which is today called the gayaki ang. However, it would be more precise to call it the khayal/ thumri ang. Ustad Vilayat Khan’s recording of raga Bahar showcases his fantastic tayyari ; raga Sanjh Saravalli, composed by the legendary musician shows his immense creativity. The Maihar Senia ‘beenkar’ gharana, established by Ustad Allaudin Khan, rightly focused on Pt. Ravi Shankar. The maestro’s disciple Shubhendra Rao, who presented the episode, explained the gharana’s link with Tansen through his daughter, who was married into a family of beenkars. Shubhendra spoke of the emphasis of the dhrupad style of aalap and jod, and then chose to focus on Pt. Ravi Shankar’s raga Parameshwari. This recording is one of his best. Episodes on the other two sitar gharanas are awaited. Influences of gharanas Srijan Deshpande’s three-part focus on Ustad Amir Khan (episodes 2, 13 and 30) fascinatingly traces the main musical influences on this trend-setting singer. Part 1 opens with a recording of Ustad Wahid Khan of the Kirana gharana whose ati vilambit aalap style was adopted, and prolonged further, by Ustad Amir Khan. Ustad Wahid Khan etches raga Darbari with masterly, confident strokes within the first minute or so; nowadays some vocalists tend to linger on three to four notes initially, and the contours of the raga remain obscure. Part 2 showcases the influence of sargam (used extensively in the Carnatic vocal tradition) on Ustad Aman Ali Khan of the Bhendi Bazar gharana, which was adopted by Ustad Amir Khan. The raga is Hansadhwani, a Carnatic raga, which admirably lends itself to demonstrate this; sadly the recording quality is not good. Ustad Amir Khan’s recording of the same raga is of a private baithak; inspiring him to render some truly magnificent music. Part 3 is devoted to Ustad Amir Khan’s amazingly intricate taans, which were inspired by Indore-based Ustad Rajab Ali Khan. Sadly, there are no available recordings of this master at his peak, so Srijan plays the recording of his disciple Ganpatrao Dewaskar in raga Adana. Three-part Malhar series Jaipur-Atrauli vocalist Radhika Joshi’s three-part series on Malhars (episodes 8, 19 and 33) unusually divides the Malhars into three periods — Megh, Shudh Malhar and Gaud Malhar pre-15th century; 15th-18th century includes Mian Malhar, Sur, Meera and Nat Malhars (the composition by Pt. Dinkar Kaikini in Nat Malhar is a rare gem); and 19th century till date includes Tilak, Sorath, Chaya and Anand Malhars (all combinations of Malhar with other ragas) In episode 31, vocalist Nilesh Dhakras skilfully shows how a change of tempo in the same composition in raga Sohni sung by Pt. Gajananbua Joshi and his disciple, Pt. Ulhas Kashalkar, brings in virtually a new feeling to the raga. Sarod artiste Sohan Nilkanth brilliantly presents Ustad Ali Akbar Khan’s composed Chandranandan and Gauri Manjari ragas, in three episodes. North-South jugalbandis by dhrupad exponents Gundecha Brothers and Carnatic vocalists Malladi Brothers (raga Kiravani) and the U.S.-based young singers Lalit Subramaniam (disciple of Tiruvarur S. Girish and Neyveli Santhanagopalan) and Jai Sovani (disciple of Aarti Ankalikar) singing ragas Subhapantuvarali and Lalit are other interesting episodes. The podcasts are a true treat for music lovers.  The Delhi-based author writes on Hindustani music   and musicians.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Memories of a loving guru||Rajee Narayan, consummate natyacharya and founder-director of Nritya Geetanjali, was adored by her disciples based across the world and admired by contemporary gurus and senior dancers. “Simple and unassuming, she was active even at the age of 90. I was fortunate to partake in the silver and golden jubilee events of her institution and also her 80th birthday celebration. She was a great inspiration. We lived in close vicinity in Mumbai and interacted closely over the past several decades,” says veteran guru K. Kalyanasundaram. Apart from Bharatanatyam, Rajee Narayan gave classes in Carnatic music and nattuvangam as well as in dance make-up and hairstyling. She has composed and published over 200 songs including varnams. Ready to adapt “She taught us all aspects of the art form. Every moment spent with her was a learning experience. It would be difficult to find another guru like her. She was traditional yet modern in her outlook, willing to adapt to the changing times,” says her senior disciple Jaishree Rao. Jaishree recalls her last interaction with her guru in August. “She was anxious about her ailing son, Shyam Sundar, who was in hospital, but her eyes were alert. I felt that it would be my last performance in her presence.” After her son’s demise on September 1, she moved to Delhi to stay with her foster daughter and grand niece, Mala Murali, where she died 25 days later. “I was 13 when I came to live with amma in Mumbai after the demise of my mother. She was a strict disciplinarian but caring and loving too,” says Mala. “Sometimes she would wake up in the middle of the night to write new compositions. Amma guided every student individually. She was also interested in gaining knowledge about electronics, medicine and learning languages such as Urdu and Persian,” she recalls. Rajee Narayan guided her students beyond music and dance, teaching them social skills and etiquette. She made sure there was food for students who came for class straight from college. And she would take her students to restaurants for a treat after performances. “She had a lovely collection of saris and would happily give them away if any student liked one,” says Mala. “My childhood memories are mostly of this dance class, where my sister and I spent a lot of time,” says student Priya Natesh. Jaya Ramamurthy is proud to have been associated with Rajee Narayan for the past 45 years. “She was my music guru and I used to sing for all her dance programmes. She was adept at writing lyrics, composing music, singing and choreography,” she says. “A musicologist, researcher and scholar, Rajee mami was a compassionate and soft-spoken person,” says Gayatri Subramaniam, recalling the 15 years spent with her guru. Like the perfect guru, Rajee Narayan stays embodied in her students.  The Mumbai-based author writes on classical music and dance.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The wandering singer of Kerala||The compositions of legendary vaggeyakaras were disseminated mainly through their disciples. This was true of the Music Trinity as well as of Swati Tirunal, whose court entertained musicians of all genres. But this is not true of their contemporary, Shatkala Govinda Marar. He was an ascetic and an itinerant musician, who lived a life singing about the glories of god, and he did not have a retinue of disciples following him. The two-storey building adjacent to the Sree Perumthrikkovil temple in Ramamangalam, Ernakulam district, is a fitting memorial to the saint-musician. The recently renovated mansion, which belongs to Shatkala Govinda Marar Smaraka Kala Samithy, will complete four decades on October 8. Born in 1798 at Ramamangalam in a traditional Marar family, it was Govinda Marar’s duty to perform kottippadiseva, singing and beating on the edakka drum at the sopanam , the steps leading to the sanctum of the temple in Ramamangalam. Not only is the Ramamangalam bani of Sopana Sangeetham unique, the percussion ensemble, Parishavadyam, and the rare instrument, Kudukka Vina, also have their origin here. Over the years, it became Marar’s passion to sing in all temples. He visited all the temples in the state of Travancore, armed with his seven-stringed tambura, a ganjira and an edakka. Meeting Swati Tirunal His travels took him to Swati Tirunal, a great patron of music. The king was fascinated by Marar’s devotion and singing style. Swati Tirunal was well-versed in Sopana Sangeetham , since his family had many famous Kathakali playwrights (the libretto in Kathakali is rendered in Sopana ragas). Also, scholars have pointed out that all Manipravala compositions of Swati Tirunal are in the Sopana style. The king asked Marar to sing the Sopana raga Puraneeru. Marar rendered a kirtana, strumming the tambura strings with his right hand and beating the ganjira, held by his toes, with his left hand. Impressed by his flawless singing and dexterity, the king presented Marar with a pennant, which he tied to his tambura. It stayed there till his death. Marar then reached Tyagaraja’s abode as an emissary of King Swati Tirunal, apparently to invite him to the palace, but the composer of ‘Nidhichala sukhama’ gently refused. Marar, however, was allowed to sing before the composer and his disciples — a rare privilege. He sprang a surprise by singing the eighth Ashtapadi, ‘Chandanacharchitha Neela Kale Bharam’, in Pantuvarali raga in six tempos — hitherto unheard of in the history of music. This fetched him the sobriquet ‘Shatkala.’ Impressed by his prowess, Tyagaraja asked his disciples to sing his composition ‘Entharo mahanubhavulu’ in Sri ragam for Marar. Then, Marar continued his musical journey, till he breathed his last at Pandharpur in 1843. There were many attempts to salvage Marar’s compositions, but Trikampuram Krishnankutty Marar’s efforts alone bore fruit, that too towards the end his life. A descendant from the matrilineal side of Govinda Marar’s family, Krishnankutty Marar was an authority on the temple arts of Kerala. It was only a little before his death in 2013 that he could collect the five compositions of Govinda Marar, traditionally known as ‘Shatkala Govinda Pancharatnam,’ the authenticity of which was confirmed by scholars like Kavalam Narayana Panicker. As part of its initiatives to popularise these compositions, Kala Samithy presented them in Mohiniyattom, choreographed by Jayaprabha Menon from the Kavalam School of dance. Composed in Sopana ragas, all but one is set to Chembada. The first one ‘Ksheerasagara vasa,’ in Kedaragowla, is an invocation to Narasimha, the presiding deity of Ramamangalam temple. The second one is a Devi stuti, ‘Balachandra vibhushini’, in Arabhi. Surprisingly, the goddess mentioned in the composition is the one at Kanyakubja in Uttar Pradesh. The third and fourth are in praise of Siva — ‘Palayamam parvatheesa’ in Anandabhairavi and ‘Thungapingajadha’ in Bhupalam. The latter depicts Siva in his tandava mood and has been set to tripuda tala, perhaps to highlight the tandava aspect. The fifth song is ‘Sree Kurumbepaahi’ in Mohanam on the deity at Kuzhuppallikkavu temple near Ramamangalam. The day is not far when Shatkala Govinda Marar’s Pancharatnam will also be heard on the concert stage.  The writer and culture critic   is a trained musician.   Impressed by Govind Marar’s musical prowess, Tyagaraja asked his disciples to ‘Entharo mahanubhavulu’ in Sri ragam for Marar
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||‘To me, the sahitya of a kriti is a prayer’||Despite never having lived in Chennai, violinist Charulatha Ramanujam has made a distinct name for herself among noted Carnatic musicians. Says senior vocalist S. Sowmya , “Exemplary musicianship apart, Charulatha is also soft-spoken and cheerful. I would have had to entirely forget about presenting Ghanta on stage at The Music Academy had she said she could not play.” Well-known vocalist N. Vijay Siva says, “With her complete involvement with the music on stage, she helps the main artiste deliver with natural ease, sending a positive signal ‘I am with you.’ From the late maestro Sripada Pinakapani to today’s finest, Charulatha has accompanied a galaxy of musicians. Charulatha grew up in Tirupati in a large joint family where music was ever present. At home, her grandmother would routinely sing with Charulatha’s aunt accompanying her on the violin. Charulatha’s father K. Rangaswamy was a self-taught singer in a style reminiscent of Dr. S. Ramanathan. “Appa had gleaned a lot on the music and kutcheri paddhathi by attending live concerts,” says Charulatha. Rigorous practice Charulatha began learning the violin at the age of seven from Pudukottai Ramanathan, a student of Kumbakonam Rajamanickam Pillai, and was under his tutelage for 12 years. She would wake up at 3 a.m. daily and practice for 3-4 hours. She did her B.A. in English Literature, was married soon after, and moved to Bengaluru. There, she took lessons from her husband’s teacher, Anoor S. Ramakrishna. Charulatha had hardly been to any live concerts until she began performing herself. In Bengaluru, she got access to a large collection of yesteryear recordings. She began playing alongside those for practice, the home becoming her concert hall. She learned a lot both in terms of musicality and accompaniment. “When someone sings well, I enjoy soaking in that music and being in that moment for just a little while longer.” A year later, the couple moved to Hubli. Charulatha began playing at the local sabha for artistes visiting from Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kerala, including Rajkumar Bharathi, T.R. Subramaniam, Rudrapatnam Brothers and Hyderabad Sisters. Many of these artistes then started calling her for concerts in Chennai and other cities. Hubli being more attuned to Hindustani music, she began learning its rudiments from Shripati Padigar, a direct disciple of Pt. Bhimsen Joshi. She provides sangat for some local artistes. “It made me more aware of sruti suddham and sowkhyam .” After Anoor Ramakrishna’s passing, Charulatha came under the tutelage of veteran R.K. Srikantan. “His was impeccable patantaram . His notation had every minute facet within it.” As she did not have a violin guide after Pudukottai Ramanathan, she also worked on adapting her playing technique for the various styles of music she heard. “I experimented with each finger to see what produced the best possible effect.” She ponders over the meaning of every kriti, taking pains to find the meaning of unknown words. “I think the sahitya helps in our own upliftment. To me, it is a prayer.” Guru Neela Ramgopal, who guides Charulatha currently, says, “Charulatha’s knowledge of Telugu, Sanskrit and Kannada helps her play faithfully to the lyrics. I consult her on the Telugu script.” Charulatha has given vocal performances too — not formally trained, it was an organic extension. Bangalore S. Shankar, whom she has accompanied for years, says, “Being a good vocalist herself, she knows the requirements of a vocalist. She does not overdo or overshadow the main artiste or demand to raise the volume of the microphone.” Unobstrusive accompanist Charulatha’s accompanying etiquette includes patience at the start of an alapana. “Many ragas have similar phrases. I prefer to wait a bit, perhaps on the shadjam, to allow the artiste to collect his/ her thoughts.” Neela Ramgopal says, “Many violinists complete the vocalist’s phrases, Charulatha will not. She is an unobtrusive accompanist.” Charulatha had played for the late Suguna Purushothaman on many occasions. In 2007, Suguna asked Charulatha to accompany her at The Music Academy for a Pallavi in the 128 aksharam simhanandana talam. Asked about her preparation, Charulatha says, “She gave me a CD. With nobody to give talam during practice, I realised that by being attentive to the words, their melody, the spacing and the number of aksharams per word, I could play it.” She has since accompanied other singers for several challenging pallavis. Charulatha teaches vocal music and the violin but looks at herself as a perennial student.  The author writes on classical   music and upcoming musicians.      While accompanying, I prefer to wait a bit, to allow the artiste to collect his/her thoughtsCharulatha
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Musical tribute to Bapu||‘Smriti’, a music programme featuring eminent artistes, will be held today to celebrate the 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The Embassy of India, Washington DC, US, will host the live online event that features musicians such as Bombay Jayashri, Ronu Majumdar, Bickram Ghosh, Praveen D. Rao and Mysore Manjunath, who has also composed the music for this special event. It can be watched on the IndiaInUSA Facebook page and YouTube channel.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Khusrau-Kabir festival goes digital||Banyan Tree will bring the rich works of two saint-poets of India — Hazrat Amir Khusrau and Saint Kabir — for the 12th edition of its Khusrau-Kabir annual festival. It will be streamed on October 3 from 6.30 p.m. and will have recordings of artistes who performed in the previous editions of the festival. Some of the musicians to be featured are Anuraag Dhoundeyal, Parthiv Gohil, Madan Gopal Singh and his ChaarYaar group with Deepak Castelino, Pritam Ghoshal and Amir Salim, and the Warsi Brothers — Nazeer Ahmed Khan Warsi and Naseer Ahmed Khan Warsi. The concert series, as part of the ‘Meri Kala Meri Pehchaan’ project, is in aid of folk artistes across India who have been affected by the lockdown. For tickets (Rs. 200) log onto www.bookmyshow.com
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Kala Pradarshini’s awareness programme||To make people, especially artistes, aware of medical emergencies and how to handle them, senior Bharatanatyam dancer-guru Parvathi Ravi Ghantasala’s dance institution, Kala Pradarshini, in association with Alert NGO, will host a free online programme on First-Aid, CPR and Covid-19. Those interested can register for the session before 4 p.m today. To access the registration form use the QR Code given above. The programme has been organised as a tribute to S.P. Balasubrahmanyam. To also help people stay positive and overcome stress and anxiety, Parvathi and her son Mohinder Ghantasala have been hosting the ‘ARTh’ series, a live online interaction with musicians, every weekend at 8 p.m. It can be seen on Kala Pradarshini’s Facebook page.
02 October 2020||October 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Learn Venkata Kavi’s kritis online||As part of the ‘Learn from the legends’ series hosted by Acharyanet, music aspirants can learn compositions of Oothukkadu Venkata Kavi from veteran musician Madurai T.N. Seshagopalan through live Zoom sessions on October 3 and 4, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. TNS will also share valuable tips to help students improve their singing technique. Register at www.acharyanet.com. Registered students unable to join the session due to a difference in time zones will be sent recordings. The session will be available on Acharyanet’s Facebook page. For more details, Whatsapp +91-72592 40932.
02 October 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab farmers begin indefinite ‘rail roko’ stir||Members of as many as 31 farmer outfits on Thursday blocked rail traffic by squatting on the tracks in many parts of Punjab as part of their indefinite ‘rail roko’ agitation against the Centre’s agriculture sector legislations. Groups of farmers also staged dharnas outside the residences of several BJP leaders. Besides, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) took out a ‘kisan march’ in several parts of the State. Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bhartaiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), said farmer groups have laid siege to 30 different railway tracks in different districts of the State. “Apart from staging protests outside the BJP leaders and boycotting them. We have also started ‘dharnas’ at key toll plazas. We have also started a campaign to boycott products of corporate houses that we believe have a big hand in getting the farm legislations passed by the Central government,” he said. Akali Dal’s “march’’ started from all three Sikh religious Takhts, including Sri Akal Takht at Amritsar, Sri Damdama Sahib at Talwandi Sabo and Sri Keshgarh Sahib at Sri Anandpur Sahib, and culminated in Mohali district on the Chandigarh border. Congress leader and Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa hit out at the Akali Dal, alleging that the march being taken out by SAD was nothing but an unsuccessful attempt by the so called ‘panthic’ party to revive its political fortunes. But now its mask of duplicity has come off and it stands exposed before not only Punjab but the whole world. “Already the Sikh Panth has discarded the Akali Dal in the aftermath of the sacrilege and firing incidents at Bargari and Behbal Kalan and now the farmers have also come to know about the true colours of SAD. These attempts by SAD for regaining the lost political ground would prove futile,” said Mr. Randhawa. ‘SAD drama’ Aam Aadmi Party MLA and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema termed the ‘tractor rallies’ of SAD a mere drama to stay relevant in State politics and its regain its lost political ground by exploiting the religious sentiments of Sikhs.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||Rai seeks action against thermal plants, brick kilns||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said that he has requested Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar to take action against 11 thermal power plants in States close to Delhi and brick kilns in these areas to reduce air pollution during winter. Mr. Rai recommended Environment Department officials of Punjab and Haryana to use “bio-decomposer” developed by the PUSA Institute in Delhi to decompose crop stubble, which can be later used as fertiliser, instead of burning it. “Last year, there was zero stubble burning inside Delhi. However, in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Western U.P., massive stubble burning took place last year which contributed to 45% to Delhi’s air pollution,” the Minister said. Mr. Rai made the recommendations during a meeting Mr. Javadekar held with Environment Ministers and other officials of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan via videoconference on Thursday. Mr. Rai said: “We have also requested the Central government to intervene and make a timeline within which the thermal power plants of the NCR should obtain new technology and stop the old technology. We have also requested the Central government and the States to push for new technology in the brick kilns of the NCR.” Centre to test it Mr. Javadekar said that the Centre will test the technology this year. “This year we will test it in all States, in thousands of hectares, and based on the results we will expand it next year,” he said. “We have given machines worth Rs. 1,700 crore to farmers in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Teams of the Central Pollution Control Board will be closely monitoring instances of violation,” said Javadekar.
02 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi riots: Umar Khalid arrested in second FIR||Former JNU student Umar Khalid has been formally arrested in a second FIR in connection with communal riots that broke out in Delhi in February, his friend Banojyotsna Lahiri said. The arrest was made by the Crime Branch on Wednesday, she said. Crime Branch officials could not be reached for a comment. Ms. Lahiri said the arrest was made in FIR number 101 registered at Khajuri Khas police station under Sections of rioting, mischief by fire, criminal conspiracy, among others, that was being probed by a Crime Branch SIT. Mr. Khalid was interrogated in connection with this case in the first week of September by the Crime Branch. Ms. Lahiri claimed that the lawyers were unaware of the development. “Today, just hours before his legal mulaqat , he was whisked away for an appearance before a ‘duty magistrate’ after the arrest in jail. He was told that they would provide him a ‘legal aid counsel’ when he insisted that his ‘legal mulaqat’ was due in a short while. He even named his lawyers and wanted to talk to them via videoconferencing or over the phone. However, he was not provided the facility and nor was his lawyers informed. His remand hearing was done hurriedly with the aim of denying him access to counsel and his family, friends and lawyers and then presented a fait accompli,” she said. Mr. Khalid was in judicial custody after being arrested by the Special Cell on charges of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.
02 October 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab withdraws night curfew, Sunday lockdown||With COVID-19 cases and deaths falling, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced a slew of relaxations, including lifting of the night curfew and withdrawal of the lockdown on Sundays. The number of people taking part at weddings and funerals has been increased to 100 in line with the Union government’s guidelines under ‘Unlock 5.0’. The limit of three passengers in a car has been eased and buses can take in passengers at 50% of their capacity on condition that the windows be kept open. Captain Amarinder Singh has directed Director-General of Police Dinkar Gupta to ensure strict adherence to the protocol and take immediate action against those violating the mandatory use of face masks. He insisted that there be no laxity in view of the ongoing paddy procurement operations and the coming festival season. As for the reopening of schools and educational institutions, which the Centre has left to the States to decide after October 15, the final decision will be announced after discussions between the Home Secretary and the Education Department.  Review meeting At a virtual meeting to review the COVID-19 situation, the Chief Minister said the restrictions imposed earlier had helped to keep the cases down. However, he voiced concern over the increase in the number of cases in rural areas. In a brief presentation, K.K. Talwar, head of the expert health committee, said the positivity rate had come down from 10.85% on September 14 to 5.12% on September 28. The number of deaths and patients on the ventilator had also declined during this period, he said.
02 October 2020||Guwahati,||Assam BJP leader held in police recruitment scam||A Bharatiya Janata Party leader, who was allegedly involved in an Assam police recruitment scam, was sent to five-day police custody by a local court here on Thursday. The police arrested Diban Deka after he surrendered at the Patacharkuchi police station, about 95 km northwest of Guwahati, in Bajali district on Wednesday night. A police team brought him to Guwahati where the court of the chief judicial magistrate sent him to five-day police custody. The State unit of the BJP also suspended him from the primary membership of the party. Mr. Deka, who claims to have served the BJP for 24 years, was allegedly involved in the leaking of the question paper for a police sub-inspector job test that was scheduled for September 20. Hand-written copies of the leaked questions were used in a “written test” conducted for 50 candidates at a lodge in Guwahati on September 19.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi BJP names new team||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Thursday announced his new team and appointed Kuljeet Chahal, Dinesh Pratap Singh and Harsh Malhotra as general secretaries. Siddharthan has retained the post of general secretary (organisation) of Delhi BJP. The eight vice presidents include Rajiv Babbar, Virendra Sachdeva, Rekha Gupta, Ashok Goel and Sunil Yadav.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||Three held for duping man on pretext of securing debit card||Three men were arrested for allegedly duping a person on the pretext of securing his debit card in north Delhi’s Tri Nagar, the police said on Thursday. The accused — Deepu Kumar Jha (26), Nirmal Raj (26) and Sunil (22) — are all residents of Mohan Garden, they said. Victim told to download app The incident happened when Ankur from Tri Nagar, who runs a travel agency, got a call from a man. Ankur told the police that the accused told him that he can secure his debit card and asked him to download an application — team viewer—, a senior officer said. The accused then asked Ankur for his team viewer ID and his debit card number. Next, the victim gets a message that Rs. 4,656 was debited from his account. A case was registered at Keshav Puram police. “During probe, the details of the alleged bank account were analysed. The account was found registered in the name of Narayan. It was also revealed that one transaction was done from complainant’s bank account to the alleged bank account,” said DCP (North-West) Vijayanta Arya. On the basis of the call detail records and location of the mobile number, a raid was conducted at Uttam Nagar and three persons were arrested in connection with the case, the officer added.
02 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Leopard killed in accident on highway||A male leopard, aged around eight, was killed in a road accident on Gurugram-Faridabad State highway on Wednesday. A first information report has been registered by the Forest Department in connection with the incident. The death of the leopard has again put focus on the lack of safety measures on the three highways, including National Highway-48 and Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway, bisecting the corridor used by the wildlife to traverse from Asola Wildlife Sanctuary in Delhi to Sariska in Rajasthan passing through Gurugram (Mangar-Bandhwari). “A leopard had died in a similar manner at the same spot in January last year, while another lost his life in October,” said Vaishali Rana, a wildlife activist.
02 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi records 3,037 new virus cases||As many as 3,037 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 2,82,752, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Also, 40 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 5,401.There are 26,738 active cases at present. Out of the total 15,843 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 61.2% were vacant, government data stated. However, 61.06% of ICU beds with ventilators are occupied and 69.85% such beds without ventilators are full. The positivity rate was 5.4% – the lowest in a month. The number of containment zones on Thursday jumped to 2,615.
02 October 2020||Guwahati,||Meghalaya govt. to probe alleged misuse of funds||The Meghalaya government has authorised an audit of the Central government funds that two tribal councils are accused of misusing. The decision was taken after Governor Satya Pal Malik sought the government’s response to complaints of embezzlement he had received against the Garo Hills Autonomous District Council (GHADC) and the Jaintia Hills Autonomous District Council (JHADC) under the Special Grant Assistance. Prime among the complainants was Ernest Mawrie, BJP State unit president who had demanded a CBI probe into “misappropriation” of Rs. 264 crore by the councils. Both councils are ruled by the National People’s Party (NPP), the largest constituent of the multi-party alliance government, where the BJP is a minor partner. On Wednesday, District Council Affairs Minister Hamletson Dohling said the Director of Local Fund Audit (DLCA) had been asked to look into the allegations of large-scale corruption in the councils. But no time-frame was given for completing the task. Aldous Mawlong, Commissioner-Secretary in charge of the District Council Affairs department, wrote to the DLCA, noting complaints about non-payment of salaries to the officers and staff of the two councils. “I, therefore, request you to conduct a thorough audit on the expenses made by the GHADC and JHADC during the last five years, from 2015 till 2020 and to submit the report at the earliest,” he wrote.
