02 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||GST inflows cross Rs. 1 lakh cr. in October||Revenues from the Goods and Services Tax surpassed Rs. 1.05 lakh crore in October, up 10% from a year ago, and the highest recorded since February 2020. The government cited the GST inflows that crossed the Rs. 1 lakh crore mark for the first time in this financial year as a ‘clear’ sign of a recovery in the economy after its 23.9% contraction in the first quarter of this year. However, economists and businesses are cautious about the sustainability of this trend. Dues to States might dip Tax experts said the expected shortfall in GST compensation for the States could be lower than the current estimate of Rs. 2.35 lakh crore if this revenue momentum is maintained through the rest of 2020-21. As per data released by the Finance Ministry on Sunday, the gross GST revenue collected in October was Rs. 1,05,155 crore, 10.25% higher than a year ago, and 10.1% more than the indirect tax revenue garnered in September. “The growth in GST revenue as compared to that in the months of July, August and September 2020, of -14%, -8% and 5% respectively, clearly shows the trajectory of recovery of the economy and, correspondingly, of the revenues,” the Ministry said. Terming the surge in the GST kitty in October 2020 as ‘enthusing’, principal economist at rating agency ICRA Aditi Nayar said this was in line with the expectation of a build-up of inventories in anticipation of a robust festive season. However, she added, “We remain as yet unconvinced on the persistence of this trend after the festive season is over, after the pent-up demand is fulfilled.” The uptick in October's GST inflows could be attributed to the festive demand and input tax credits as well as other reconciliations that were due for businesses in September, said Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY. “If this level of revenues is maintained through the rest of 2020-21, we may see a reduction in the shortfall in GST compensation for the States,” Mr. Jain said. GST cess collections, used to compensate the States for switching to the GST regime, rose to Rs. 8,011 crore (including Rs. 932 crore collected on import of goods). This is over 5% more than a year ago and 12.5% higher than the previous month.
02 November 2020||MANGALURU,||CM to inaugurate BJP’s State executive and core committee meetings in city on Thursday||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will inaugurate the monthly State executive and State core committee meetings of the BJP here on November 5, according to president of Dakshina Kannada unit of the party Sudarshan Moodbidri. Addressing presspersons here on Sunday, he said that the two meetings will be held between 10 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. at T.V. Ramana Pai Convention Centre in Kodialbail. About 120 leaders of the party representing different State units are expected to participate in the meetings. The State executive committee meeting of the party is being held in Mangaluru after more than a decade, he said. National organising general secretary of the party B.L. Santosh is expected to attend the valedictory of the meetings, he said. National general secretary of the party C.T. Ravi, Union Ministers D.V. Sadananda Gowda and Pralhad Joshi will participate in the core committee meeting, he said. The two meetings will discuss development issues in the State and organisational matters of the party and how to strengthen the party further. The party has formed 16 committees to ensure that the two meetings went on smoothly in the city. The party workers are decorating the city to welcome the leaders for the meetings, he said. Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath and Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor were present.
02 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State’s case graph seems to plateau||The State’s COVID-19 case graph continued to remain at the plateau it hit a week ago registering 7,025 new cases on Sunday when 50,010 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate is 14.04%. The State also registered more recoveries than new cases on the day, with 8,511 patients getting discharged from hospitals. The cumulative case burden climbed to 4,40,130 cases but the active case pool, which at one point seemed like it would cross a lakh easily, has never quite managed to do that. The number of recoveries being 3,48,835, the active case poll came down to 89,675. However, even when the State is managing to keep the case graph from climbing higher and the active case pool stabilised, with adequate number of daily recoveries, there seems to be no let up in the deaths that seem to be happening on a daily basis. 28 more death The Health Department released the data of 28 persons whose deaths were being added to the official COVID toll. The cumulative toll has gone up to 1,512. Of the 28 deaths, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Kannur reported five deaths each, Alappuzha four, Kozhikode three, Thrissur and Palakkad two each, and Malappuram and Ernakulam reported one death each. According to the Health Department, 766 patients are critically ill and being treated in ICUs, with 214 of them on ventilator support. Of the 7,025 new cases, 6,940 cases are locally acquired infections with 712 cases remaining unlinked to any known source of infection. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection is 65. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the maximum number of cases at 1,042, Thrissur 943, Kozhikode 888, Kollam 711, Alappuzha 616, Thiruvananthapuram 591, Malappuram 522, Palakkad 435, Kottayam 434, Kannur 306, Pathanamthitta 160, Idukki 148, Kasaragod 143 and Wayanad 86.
02 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Schools from today, Minister allays parents’ COVID fears||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Sunday said parents need not worry about sending their children to schools, which were being reopened from Monday (November 2), as adequate safety measures have been taken to keep the campuses free of COVID-19. Ahead of the reopening of schools after a gap of six months, the Minister visited the Nidamanuru Zilla Parishad High School in Vijayawada Rural mandal to see if arrangements were in place for children to attend classes. Mr. Suresh paid tributes to ‘Amarajeevi’ Potti Sriramulu as part of the State Formation Day celebrations by garlanding his portrait. ‘Precious time lost’ “Six academic months were lost due to the pandemic, thus forcing the government to reduce the number of working days in the academic year. The Department of School Education is doing its best to facilitate classroom teaching . Depending on the circumstances, the government will take appropriate steps,” he said. He said that admissions were allowed in the current academic year without the need to produce transfer certificates. The Mana Badi Nadu-Nedu programme was aimed at equipping schools with good infrastructure in three phases, and admitted that works taken up under the first phase of this scheme moved at a slow pace due to shortage of workers during the pandemic. Efforts were on to wind up the first phase and launch the second phase at the earliest, he said. Mr. Suresh said in view of the COVID-19, three masks had been added to each kit given under Jagananna Vidya Kanuka. Adequate seats were available to accommodate the six lakh students who passed out of Class X and besides, 180 new colleges and 35 vocational colleges had been sanctioned.
02 November 2020||Kolkata,||Health infra of WB has collapsed: Governor||The outbreak of COVID-19 has shown that the health infrastructure of West Bengal had collapsed, State’s Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said on Sunday. “COVID-19 has showed us all one thing, our health infrastructure in the State of West Bengal collapsed…And the reason for that is ill-advised, unfortunate confrontational stance of the State government to the well-meaning schemes of Central government,” he said, referring to the non-implementation of Ayushman Bharat scheme in the State. He said if the scheme was implemented it would have meant enhancement of medical and treatment facilities in the State. “Unfortunately, people of State are paying a heavy price,” he said. The State is witnessing about 4,000 new infections and between 55 to 60 deaths on a daily basis due to COVID-19. The case positivity rate of the State has increased to 8.20 %. Darjeeling visit The Governor made these remarks while interacting with journalists in Siliguri in Darjeeling district. Mr. Dhankhar is on a visit to Darjeeling district and is likely to spend few weeks in the picturesque hills. In a 90-minute interaction with journalists, the Governor said that about 70 lakh farmers were denied benefits of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi in West Bengal. The issue of non-implementation of Central schemes has been a subject of debate in the State. The Trinamool Congress government maintains that it has its own health scheme where treatment in State-run hospitals is free. The West Bengal also has a Krishak Bandhu scheme where financial assistance is extended to farmers of the State. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has recently written to Ministry of Health and Agriculture saying that the State was willing to implement the schemes provided it is routed through the State government. The Trinamool Congress leadership said that the Governor was working as a “spokesperson of the BJP”. “The only job which the Governor is doing is to target the State government almost on a regular basis. We have urged him time and again to refrain from such comments,” Saugata Roy, Trinamool Congress MP, said. Mr. Roy said that he did not want to give any importance of Mr. Dhankhar’s comments. “He is acting against Constitution and demeaning his office,” the Trinamool MP said.
02 November 2020||Hyderabad,||BJP plans to instigate violence in city to gain sympathy in Dubbak: K.T. Rama Rao||The TRS working president K. T. Rama Rao has alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is conspiring to instigate violence in the city with an aim to provoke the police to resort to firing during a proposed rally on Monday. Mr. KTR said he had information from reliable sources within the BJP that the party was preparing to take out a rally from BJP office to the Pragati Bhavan, DGP office or the TRS office in Banjara Hills with the purpose of resorting to violence and provoking the police to fire. The BJP president, Bandi Sanjay himself is issuing instructions for creating trouble and the information has come from our sources within the BJP party, Mr. KTR claimed. All this drama is being played to gain sympathy in the Dubbak elections, he alleged. BJP is apparently planning for a protest after an activist immolated himself at the BJP office against the arrest of Mr. Sanjay recently in Siddipet. The youngster Srinivas from Yacharam mandal in Ranga Reddy is now admitted to the hospital with severe burns. The TRS working president said he had requested the DGP M. Mahender Reddy to crush any such plans with an iron hand as the government doesn’t want to compromise on the law and order situation in Telangana. A delegation of the TRS MPs and MLAs met the DGP and also the Chief Electoral Officer and submitted the letter written by the TRS working president. The BJP, Mr. KTR said, was desperate to gain sympathy in Dubbak elections after its failed efforts earlier creating a dram over the illegal money seized in a BJP supporter’s residence in Siddipet. He said police has earlier seized Rs. 30 lakhs allegedly belonging to Raghunandan Rao’s supporters and also Rs. 1 crore on Sunday meant for distribution in Dubbak. “They were exposed every time they were caught but resorted to false propaganda on social media. Now the plan to create violence is their last-ditch effort to gain sympathy,” Mr. KTR alleged. However, the Dubbak voters are clever enough to realise this drama, he said.
02 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Two arrested, drugs seized in raid in Manipal||The Udupi Police arrested two persons, including a medical student, in Manipal and seized narcotic drugs worth Rs. 3.89 lakh on Sunday. The police gave the names of the arrested persons as Aditya Prabhu and Aneesh Rajan, a Non-Resident Indian student. The police seized 32 grams of imported cannabis, nine grams of brown sugar and 25 MDMA tablets. A special team led by Additional Superintendent of Police Kumar Chandra on October 31 raided the apartment in which Aditya Prabhu stayed and seized narcotic drugs stocked in his house. Based on Prabhu’s information, the team apprehended Rajan on Sunday and arrested him. The police have launched a search for other accused said to be associated with the arrested persons. This is the fourth successful raid conducted in the last one month by the special team that comprised Deputy Superintendent of Police Jaishankar, Assistant Superintendent of Police Hariram Shankar, Police Inspector Manjunath Gowda, Assistant Sub Inspector Rajashekar, Assistant Drug Controller Nagaraj, village accountants Girish Gowravagosh and Upendra Kumar and policemen from Manipal Police Station and from the office of the Deputy Superintendent of Police.
02 November 2020||Srinagar,||Hizbul chief killed in encounter in J&K||Hizbul Mujahideen ‘operation chief’ Saif-ul-Islam Mir, who succeeded Reyaz Naikoo, was killed in an encounter in Srinagar on Sunday. “During a search operation in Rangreth area of Srinagar, the presence of a terrorist was ascertained. He was given an opportunity to surrender. However, he fired indiscriminately. In the ensuing encounter, Saif-ul-Islam Mir alias Dr. Saif alias Ghazi Haider, a resident of Malangpora, affiliated with Hizb was killed,” IGP Vijay Kumar told The Hindu . Mir was Hizb’s chief operational commander and had been active since 2014. “He was involved in many terror crimes, besides being instrumental in recruiting innocent youth into the terror fold,” IGP Kumar said. Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh described the killing as a “major success”. ‘Outfit leaderless’ “The Hizb outfit is once again leaderless,” he said. The slain ‘commander’ was nominated after the killing of Naikoo on May 6. “He was involved in the killing of many innocent people, including three policemen and two truck drivers who were attacked after the dilution of Article 370,” the DGP said. Mr. Singh said he was also behind the killing of three BJP workers in a militant attack in Kulgam district this week. Saifullah was the last surviving militant who figured in the group pictures of Hizb ‘commander’ Burhan Wani, killed in an encounter in 2016. “We were tracking his movement for the last two days. I would like to congratulate the Anantnag police for tracking his movements,” he said. According to the police, around 200 militants have been killed this year. The body of the slain militant was sent to Baramulla for burial and the last rites after completion of medico-legal formalities. “The nearest family members of the killed terrorist shall be allowed to participate in the last rites at Baramulla,” the police said. ‘More attacks planned’ There were inputs that Saifullah and his men were planning to attack some security installations and civilian areas in the Valley, the DGP said. “Militancy in north Kashmir is at its last stage. We have the upper hand as militancy is almost under control. I hope Kashmir will be a free region soon. There will be no changes in anti-militancy operations in Kashmir Valley despite the upcoming winter,” Mr. Singh said.
02 November 2020||Patna,||Modi mocks Tejashwi, Rahul||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday slammed leaders of opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Congress — Tejashwi Yadav and Rahul Gandhi — without, as before, naming them as he addressed four rallies across the Bihar ahead of the second phase of voting on November 3. Terming them as “double-double yuvraj (crown princes)” who were contesting the Bihar poll to save their thrones, Mr. Modi said, “Today in Bihar there is a double engine government while, on the other side, there are double-double crown princes.” “Here there is a yuvraj (crown prince) of jungle raj (lawlessness) … and another yuvraj too has come to wave at the people of Bihar… Earlier, this double-double yuvraj were also in elections in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. But what happened in Uttar Pradesh to these double-double yuvraj will happen to them in Bihar as well,” Mr. Modi said at Chhapra in the first of his four public meetings. Mr. Modi also invoked significant deities in Bihar — ‘Chhath’ (sun god) and Ganga — to seek votes for the NDA. He added that some people had been spreading misinformation over construction of the Ram temple, scrapping of Article 370 and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019. The Prime Minister addressed public meetings at Chhapra, Samastipur, Motihari (East Champaran) and Bagaha (West Champaran). At Bagaha in West Champaran,also Mr. Modi raised issues of construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, scrapping of Article 370 in J&K and the CAA. “Today with blessings and help of everyone in the country, construction of a glorious Ram temple is going on Ayodhya but even at this time you all should not forget those people who had questioned even the existence of Lord Ram and putting stumbling block in its construction,” Mr Modi said.Criticising the Opposition, Mr Modi said, “They spread misinformation by telling lies to people and get their work done by frightening them…when CAA came into effect they spread lies that citizenship of several people will be scrapped… One year is going to be over now, has any Indian’s citizenship gone,” Mr Modi asked at his last public meeting in Bagaha. “When Article 370 was scrapped in J&K then some negative people said Kashmir will burn, blood will flow in Kashmir and what not…but, what happened? Today Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh are making progress on development path peacefully,” he added. At Chhapra, Mr Modi again raised the issue of the Pulwama terror attack and said those people “who were not happy with the martyrdom of the brave soldiers in Pulwama, have come to Bihar to seek your vote”. Invoking locally significant deities, Mr. Modi said, “Till Chhath and Diwali no poor people will go hungry…you meri maa (my mother) prepare for Chhath puja as your son is there in Delhi. Chhath is an important four-day religious festival in Bihar which is scheduled in the third week of November.
02 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Andhra Pradesh suffered injustice all through its 64-year history, says Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said Andhra Pradesh had endured gross injustices for the last 64 years and it continued to have obstacles as vested interests were manipulating the system and playing the caste card to achieve their selfish goals, and due to some extraneous factors. “Andhra State would have remained a dream had Potti Sriramulu not sacrificed his life. Subsequently, the unified State of Andhra Prades was formed on November 1, 1956 and Telangana was carved out in 2014. We have since come a long way but the State still has many challenges. Our government has done some remarkable things in one and a half years and it is committed to achieving all-round development through a pragmatic approach to the tasks to be accomplished,” he observed. Hoisting the national flag and paying tributes to ‘Amarajeevi’ Potti Sriramulu at his camp office near here on the occasion of A.P. Formation Day on Sunday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the State had 33% illiteracy and nearly 85% of the population was languishing Below Poverty Line. “One crore acres of agricultural land doesn’t get water even for a single crop, many people were forced to sell their properties to meet their education and health needs, 32 lakh people were looking for a permanent house, government services were not easily available and so on,” he added. Transformation “The YSRCP has brought about a radical transformation since it came to power. The change is visible in the form of village and ward secretariats, village clinics, Rythu Bharosa Kendras, Janata Bazaars, infrastructure being created under the Nadu-Nedu programme and etc. We accorded a top priority to reducing corruption, and took many other initiatives to make A.P. a progressive State,” Mr. Jagan added.
02 November 2020||FARIDABAD,||10 policemen injured in Ballabgarh violence||Ten policemen sustained injuries when a crowd of protesters demanding justice for Nikita Tomar, a college student shot dead by a stalker and his friend a week ago, turned violent in Ballabgarh here on Sunday. Thirty people have been detained following the clash, the police said. More than 200 demonstrators pelted stones at shops and tried to block National Highway-44 (New Delhi-Agra) during the panchayat. They also hurled stones at police personnel and mild force was used to disperse the mob, said a press statement issued by the Faridabad police. A medical examination of the injured policemen was aso conducted. Probe into incident The panchayat was organised by Sarv Biradari Sangathan on Dussehra Ground. Among those detained, three each are from Delhi and Palwal, two each from Nuh, Noida and Ghaziabad. The police said the motive behind the violence is being investigated and those behind the demonstrators are also being identified. Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Kranti Dal national in-charge Rajiv Mittal, present at the meeting, said some “over-enthusiastic” youth became aggressive over the turn of events at the panchayat, but added that it was the responsibility of the police to maintain law and order. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Ballabgarh, Sumer Singh Yadav said anarchy would not be tolerated and the police would deal strictly with those trying to disrupt the law and order situation in the district. He added that action would be initiated against those holding demonstrations without permission.
02 November 2020||Mumbai,||BMC to start free tests at 244 places from today||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will kick-start free COVID-19 tests at 244 locations, including the civic body-run clinics and hospitals, from Monday. This will take the total number of State-run centres in the city to conduct tests to more than 300. The doubling rate of COVID-19 cases in Mumbai increased to 164 days on October 31 from 157 days the day before. “We are ensuring that the citizens get to conduct COVID-19 tests at ease. There are over 300 civic-run centres in the city where testing can be held. This is an important step towards our strategy to fight the virus,” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal corporation, BMC, said. Across 24 wards The newly announced 244 COVID-19 testing centres are distributed across all 24 wards. Their addresses will be available by dialling toll free number 1916 run by the BMC’s main control room, and on the COVID-19 dedicated link http://stopcoronavirus.mcgm.gov.in. Initially, the free testing centres will be operational between 10 a.m. and 12 p.m. every day on a ‘walk-in’ basis. The facilities will undertake RT-PCR tests at some places while at most of the places antigen tests will be conducted. The State government has already brought down the the rates of the tests conducted at private laboratories. A test at a private lab now costs Rs. 1,400 while a sample taken from home is charged Rs. 1,800. “Along with the new 244 centres, people of Mumbai can undertake tests at private labs and at the hospitals run by the State and the Centre. This will help increase the number of tests, which in turn will help us determine the spread of the disease,” Mr. Kakani said. As per the numbers available on Sunday, Mumbai has a total 2,58,405 COVID-19 cases of whom 18,522 are active. The overall growth rate of positive cases in Mumbai from October 24 to October 30 had dropped to 0.42%.
02 November 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s new cases outweigh recoveries||After a near-continual fortnight of recoveries outpacing cases, Maharashtra on Sunday reported 5,369 new COVID-19 cases as opposed to 3,726 patients discharged. The State’s total case tally stands at 16,83,775 while the number of active cases has risen to 1,25,109. With 113 patients succumbing to the virus, the death toll reached 44,024. The cumulative recoveries have climbed to 15,14,079 with the State’s recovery rate rising further to 89.92%. “Of a total 90,24,871 laboratory samples tested thus far, 16,83,775 (18.66%) have returned positive with 57,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the case fatality rate currently stood at 2.61%. Pune district reported more than 700 cases to take its total tally to 3,34,719 while 21 deaths saw its toll touch 6,703. As per the Pune district administration, the recovery rate is currently 93.87% and its active cases, the worst-hit in the country until the start of October, now stand at 12,034. Mumbai reported 908 cases to take its total tally to 2,58,405 of whom 18,522 are active. As many as 25 fatalities saw the city’s death count reach 10,318. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported a relatively low surge of 236 new cases, taking the total tally to 1,02,412 of whom 5,195 are active. Eight deaths saw the toll touch 2,739. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported four deaths, taking its cumulative death toll to 1,411. As many as 221 fresh cases saw the total tally rise to 47,753 of whom 4,484 are active. Sangli reported 137 cases and 11 deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 46,965 of whom 2,866 are active. Its death toll has risen to 1,543. Kolhapur recorded another low spike of 72 cases as its total tally reached 47,300 of whom just 1,207 are active.
02 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Daily positivity rate lowest in months at 3.19||The State reported 2,618 new COVID-19 infections and 16 deaths in the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning, taking the tally to 8,25,966  and the toll to 6,706. In the past week, an average of 17 deaths per day were reported. The death rate remains at 0.81% and the recovery rate increased to 96.32%. So far, 7,95,592 patients have recovered in the State, including 3,509 patients in the past day. This brings the number of active cases down to 23,668. The daily positivity rate of the 82,405 samples tested in the past day was 3.19, the lowest in months, and the overall positivity rate of 81.11 lakh samples tested remains at 10.18%. New cases and deaths Five districts reported no new deaths while Krishna reported four deaths, the highest. Chitoor and Guntur reported three deaths each while West Godavari, East Godavari and Srikakulam reported one death each. Chittoor reported 423 new infections and was the only district to see more than 400 infections. It was followed by Guntur with 387 cases and Krishna with 328 cases. Other districts reported fewer than 300 cases. They include West Godavari (296), East Godavari (291), Prakasam (255), Kadapa (125), Anantapur (123), Nellore (96), Srikakulam (95), Visakhapatnam (85), Vizianagaram (74) and Kurnool (40). The district’s individual tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,16,035), West Godavari (86,023), Chittoor (78,765), Guntur (67,607), Anantapur (64,729), Prakasam (59,656), Nellore (59,592), Kurnool (59,508), Visakhapatnam (55,898), Kadapa (52,205), Srikakulam (44,027), Krishna (39,652) and Vizianagaram (39,374). Nellore has only 135 active cases (0.23%) and a recovery rate of 98.96%. Similarly, Vizianagaram has 324 active cases and a 98.59% recovery rate while Kurnool has 377 active cases and 98.56% recovery rate. Srikakulam and Anantapur have 1.79% and 1.77% active cases respectively while other districts have 2.4% to 5% active cases. Krishna district has the lowest recovery rate at 91.13% .
02 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Rs. 1 crore unaccounted cash seized from BJP candidate’s brother-in-law||The Telangana police continue to register significant seizure of unaccounted cash and other inducements in the run-up to the Dubakka by-election slated on Tuesday. On Sunday, the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force team of north zone seized Rs. 1 crore unaccounted cash from the brother-in-law of BJP candidate Madhavaneni Raghunandan Rao. Acting on a tip-off, a team led by inspector K. Nageswar Rao intercepted Surabhi Srinivas Rao’s car near Begumpet flyover while he was transporting the money to Dubakka for distribution to voters for ‘illegal means’, Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said. Srinivas Rao (47), a businessman from Chandanagar, hails from Prashanth Nagar in Siddipet town. His driver, T. Ravi Kumar (33) was also apprehended by the police. Mr. Kumar said that Srinivas Rao collected the unaccounted cash from Visaka Industries office near Rasoolpura at Begumpet in order to deliver it at Dubbaka for the purpose of distributing to voters at Dubbaka constituency ahead of by-polls. One Praveen, who handles the financial matters of former MP and BJP leader G Vivek Venkatswamy handed over the cash to Srinivas Rao at their office, he said. “The cash belongs to Mr. Vivek,” the officer said. Mr. Kumar said that Srinivas Rao runs a technical manpower supply firm ‘A to Z Solutions Limited’ at Patancheru. The apprehended persons along with the seized cash, an SUV and two mobile phones were handed over to Begumpet for further investigation.
02 November 2020||Idukki,||Idukki dam ‘founder’ gets a proper memorial||Chemban Vellayan Kolumban, the tribal chieftain who was instrumental in Idukki dam’s construction, has got a befitting memorial at Vellapara by the side of the Puliyanmala-Thodupuzha State Highway where his body was buried. The Oorali tribespeople used to light a lamp at the site in his honour. In the 2012-13 State Budget, Rs. 70 lakh was allotted for a memorial for the chieftain there. It materialised after seven years when Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran inaugurated the facility through a videoconference on Saturday. Photos, booklets The tomb of Kolumban is 9.5 feet long and 3.5 feet high, next to which is set the 5.54-foot-tall statue. Kunnuvila Murali, who had made a statue of Kolumban near the Idukki arch dam when it was commissioned in 1975, sculpted a bronze statue this time for the memorial. The facility has a stall with photographs of the dam construction period, booklets depicting the history of Idukki, and spices from the district. A 25-foot-tall tree house where Kolumban is believed to have stayed is also part of the memorial. It was Kolumban who guided Malankara estate superintendent W.J. John and his friend A.C. Thomas on a hunting trip in 1922. While they sat near a waterfall, Kolumban told them stories of the two hills Kuravan and Kurathi between which the Periyar flowed. The idea of constructing a dam was conceived there. A report in this regard was submitted to the erstwhile Travancore government in 1932. A new feasibility study report was submitted to the Central Water Commission in 1956. In 1964, the Central Planning Commission cleared the construction of Idukki dam. Entry to the memorial is free, according to an official of the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC).
02 November 2020||Kolkata,||Man found dead in Nadia; BJP claims political killing||The death of a 34-year-old man at Gayeshpur in Nadia district on Sunday morning once again triggered fresh allegations of political killing by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The body of Bijoy Shil was found in a mango orchard near his residence. Local BJP MP Jaganath Sarkar and Bijpur MLA Subhranshu Roy were among the leaders who visited the residence of the youth and said that Trinamool Congress (TMC) supporters were behind the crime. “Bijoy Shil, only aged 34 and an active BJP worker murdered and found hanging in Nadia. Same pattern in every murder by the goons. Use of terror to stop the working of BJP? We won’t stop and BJP will ensure justice for all the murdered workers! These political ‘Murders’ must stop,” the West Bengal BJP tweeted. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said that killing BJP supporters and then hanging them had been happening almost on a daily basis. The BJP leadership staged a protest outside the local police station and called for a 12-hour bandh in Kalyani on Monday to condemn the incident. This is the third instance in the last seven days when the BJP has called a bandh locally to protest unnatural death. Several BJP leaders took to social media targeting the ruling TMC alleging political killing. A number of such instances have come to fore where bodies of BJP supporters were found hanging in public. Claims and counter claims over the political affiliation of the deceased were made by the BJP and the TMC. Both the BJP MP and the MLA said that Shil was a party supporter. But his wife said that her husband was not associated with any party but it was not a case of suicide and her husband was receiving threats. A family member of the deceased, who is an active member of the youth wing of the BJP, said that the murder was to instil fear among locals. Local TMC leader Mintu De said that Shil was a supporter of the ruling party. “ It is a case of suicide. The BJP is trying to reap political dividends over the issue,” he said. Kolkata suicide prevention helpline : 24637401/24637432
02 November 2020||BENGALURU,||CM: An exercise to strengthen Kannada||In a bid to ensure that celebration of Kannada and its cultural heritage was not confined to just one day in a year, the government is set to celebrate the next one year as “Kannada Kayaka Varsha”. This was announced by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa while addressing the 65th Kannada Rajyotsava celebrations organised by the Department of Education here on Sunday. He said the government was in the process of drawing up programmes to be taken up to support Kannada during the ‘Kannada Kayaka Varsha’. He stressed the need for nurturing and preserving Kannada in the age of technology. He called upon people to encourage their children also to speak in Kannada apart they conversing in Kannada. Meanwhile, a comprehensive volume comprising literary works of Jnanpith awardee Kuvempu, titled ‘Kuvempu Samagra’, was released in both hard copy and digital formats. The books have been published by Prasaranga of Kannada University, Hampi.
02 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagan’s failure has hit Polavaram hard: Naidu||TDP national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Sunday said the failure of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government at multiple-levels had hit the Polavaram project hard. At a media conference here, Mr. Naidu said the multi-purpose project across the Godavari river near Rajamahendravaram, comprising a 194 tmcft reservoir for irrigation and drinking water purposes and a power plant of 960 MW capacity was the lifeline of Andhra Pradesh. “Amaravati and Polavaram are like two eyes of the State. But unfortunately, the Chief Minister’s irresponsible way of handling the key issues will ruin both the projects,” said Mr. Naidu. Talking about how the Chief Miniser had shot a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Union Ministry of Finance capping the project cost at Rs. 20,398 crore when compared to the Rs. 47,725 crore the State wanted, the TDP president said that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy lacked the finesse needed to handle such important issues.
02 November 2020||Belagavi,||Lathi-charge after stones are thrown at van||The police resorted to a mild lathi-charge when miscreants threw stones at a private passenger van in Belagavi on Sunday. A team of police and Home Guards posted at the busy traffic intersection chased away the crowd that had gathered at the Rani Channamma Circle where the bus was damaged. A few windowpanes of the bus were damaged but no one was injured. The youth began running in various directions and hid in the district hospital, irrigation office and a private hotel at the traffic circle. However, the police gave a chase to them and dispersed them away from these establishments. The police had to resort to lathi-charge to disperse a large crowd that threw stones at the passenger van. They were also violating the limits set for a gathering as per COVID-19 protocols, said a senior police officer. Members of the Kannada Yuva Sene, the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike and the action committee for Kannada organisations had gathered in large numbers. They were carrying flags and banners. Some sang songs and danced. Some youth were videographing the event using cameras and drones. An hour earlier, the police and Home Guards urged the large number of young people to go home as the permitted strength for a gathering had been exceeded. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath had allowed, on Saturday, Rajyotsava preparations with a rider that only 100 people could gather at any one place. Karnataka Rakshna Vedike has registered its protest against the police and the district administration. Deepak Gudanatti, vedike district convenor, criticised the police for the lathi-charge. He said that the police were holding Kannada organisations responsible for a stone thrown by a mischief-monger. He also said that the police had foiled attempts by Kannada activists Kasturi Bhavi and Ravi Bovi to unfurl the Kannada flag atop the City Corporation building on Saturday night. District in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that he would not approve of anyone trying to unfurl the flag at night, without permits. It should be done legally, with due permits, he said. At the Maratha Mandir at Tilakwadi. the police took into custody 15 pro-Kannada activists who tried to disrupt the Black Day protest meeting by the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti. Leaders from Maharashtra Mangesh Chivate and Roopali Chakankar spoke at the meeting. Mr. Chivate said that Belagavi would soon be integrated with Maharashtra. Leader S.K. Patil had predicted in the 1950s that Mumbai would never be part of Maharashtra. But that happened. Even here, some leaders are saying Belagavi would remain a part of Karnataka for eternity. But they will soon be proved wrong, he said. Ms. Chakankar, who is the president of the Nationalist Congress Party women’s wing, said that the women of Maharashtra would fight till the end to see that Belagavi and other areas are merged with Maharashtra.
02 November 2020||Kolkata,||WB adds 3,987 new COVID-19 cases, 59 deaths||West Bengal on Sunday reported 3,987 new COVID-19 cases taking its total number of cases to 3,77,651. The State recorded 59 deaths taking the toll to 6,900. As many as 4,053 patients were discharged, thus pushing the recovery rate to 88.44%. The active cases in the State declined to 36,761. The percentage of positive cases out of the samples tested climbed to 8.21%. Of the 59 deaths, Kolkata recorded 22 fatalities taking the toll in the city to 2,222. North 24 Parganas district recorded 14 deaths taking its toll to 1,589. Meanwhile, the Eastern Railway said that its officials would meet State government officials on Monday to discuss the issue of resumption of local trains. “The Railways had advised the State on September 1 and October 13 in this regard. On October 31, the West Bengal government sent a letter requesting us for a discussion. Accordingly, the date of meeting has been scheduled for November 2 to discuss the modalities,” a statement from the Eastern Railway said. The State government had written to the Eastern railway on the issue on Saturday.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Safety warning||
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Car-makers rev up for Deepavali||Anticipating strong demand during Deepavali, most car-makers registered strong growth in dispatches to dealers in October. Market leader Maruti Suzuki on Sunday said it sold over 1.63 lakh passenger vehicles in October, 17.6% up from 1.39 lakh vehicles in the same month in 2019. It said sales of mini segment cars remained almost flat at 28,462 units while those of compact cars were up 26.6% to 95,067 units.
02 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Active cases are falling: Ministry||India has managed to maintain its active COVID-19 caseload below the six-lakh mark for the third consecutive day, a release issued by the Health Ministry said on Sunday. According to the Ministry, the country’s total active caseload stands at 5,70,458 currently. “New confirmed COVID cases stand at 46,963,” said the Ministry adding that Kerala is still reporting a very high number of new cases with more than 7,000 cases, followed by Maharashtra and Delhi with more than 5,000 cases each. At the same time, 76% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 States/Union Territories, including Maharashtra and Kerala.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Birds of a feather||
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Safety warning||
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Birds of a feather...||
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Ready for the new role||
02 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana mulls law against ‘love jihad’||Haryana is contemplating a law against “love jihad”, a term used by fringe groups to describe interfaith relationships. Chief Minister Manohar Lal told reporters on Sunday that the Centre and the State governments were taking the issue very seriously. He was speaking in the backdrop of the murder of Nikita Tomar, who was shot outside her college in Ballabhgarh last week by a stalker. “As the incident is being linked to ‘love jihad’, both the Centre and the State government are looking into the issue,” Mr. Lal said. “Legal provisions are being looked at so that the guilty don’t get away, and no innocent person is punished.” A three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been set up to probe the case. State Home Minister Anil Vij took to Twitter to declare that the State government was mulling a law but did not divulge details. Probe into ‘conversions’ The police have arrested three men so far, including the main accused Tausheef, and his friend Rehan. Mr. Vij said the SIT was also probing whether there was an organised effort to encourage religious conversions. Later Mr. Vij said in a statement that efforts are being made across the country to prevent religious conversion through “love jihad”. ‘Serious matter’ “In the Faridabad incident, too, the victim’s family has alleged that there was pressure for conversion, which is not acceptable,” he said. “This is a very serious matter. And if we have to bring a law to stop it, we will,” he added. On Saturday, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had announced that his government would bring an “effective law” against “love jihad” and warned that offenders would face death.
02 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||MDs of A.P., TS RTCs to meet today||Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) Vice-Chairman and Managing Director M. T. Krishna Babu is scheduled to meet his Telangana counterpart in Hyderabad on Monday (October 2) to hold the final round of talks on resumption of bus services between the two States. In a statement on Sunday, APSRTC Executive Director (Operations) K.S. Brahmananda Reddy said buses would be operated to Telangana right after an agreement was signed between the two sides. A stalemate on the issue has been continuing for the last few months.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||It’s showtime||
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Tejashwi takes on PM on 2014 poll promise||Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav on Sunday took on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and asked him what had happened to his 2014 campaign promise of reopening the sugar mills in the Champaran region of Bihar and have tea made with sugar from those mills. The RJD leader has been addressing over a dozen public meetings every day and drawing huge crowds, especially of young people.Page 9
02 November 2020||KALABURAGI,||Prohibitory orders around Gulbarga University||Deputy Commissioner of Kalaburagi Vijaya Jyothsna has imposed Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cr.PC) around Gulbarga University where ballot boxes of the recent elections in the North East Teachers Constituency of the Legislative Council are kept. Counting of votes which was supposed to have been taken up on Monday has been postponed to November 10 as per the directions of the Election Commission of India. Ms. Jyothsna made it clear in the order that carrying ink pens/ sketch pens, sharp weapons, explosives, mobile phones, cigarettes, gutka and water bottles has been banned in the prohibited area. The sale of liquor is also banned from midnight of November 9 to midnight of November 10.
02 November 2020||BENGALURU,||Next one year Kannada Kayaka Varsha||In a bid to ensure that celebration of Kannada and its cultural heritage was not confined to just one day in a year, the government is set to celebrate the next one year as “Kannada Kayaka Varsha”.
02 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi reports 5,664 new COVID-19 cases||The national capital reported 5,664 new COVID-19 cases, 51 deaths and 4,159 recoveries in the last 24 hours, stated a health bulletin issued by the Delhi government. The spike in cases over the past week has taken the number of active cases in the city to 34,173.
02 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Resolve Punjab goods train suspension issue’||Concerned over the continued suspension of goods trains by the Railways even after easing of the blockade by farmers, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday wrote an open letter to BJP national president J.P. Nadda, calling for collective will and states-manship to resolve the issue.
02 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam allots medical seats to three groups||The BJP-led alliance government in poll-bound Assam has announced reservation in medical seats for students belonging to three communities — Koch-Rajbongshi, Ahom and Chutia — that have been demanding the Scheduled Tribe status.
02 November 2020||Bengaluru,||CM: Celebrate, nurture Kannada all year long||Celebrating Kannada and its rich cultural, literary heritage should not be restricted to just one day or a month. It should be a year-long celebration and part of our daily lives, said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa.
02 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Claims of distribution of money during campaign||The last day of public campaigning for the by polls to Sira and Rajeshwarinagar assembly constituencies saw allegations of money distribution to voters to both entice and keep them away from the election process.
02 November 2020||Hassan,||Ekalavya, Kreeda Ratna awards announced||Minister for Sports and Youth Empowerment C.T. Ravi announced the list of sports personalities chosen for the Ekalavya and Kreeda Ratna awards for 2017, 2018, and 2019 in Chikkamagaluru on Sunday.
02 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Around 100 families will shift for metro||One hundred and one families living in shanties at Lakkasandra slum will be rehabilitated at Kudlu as the government land they are currently occupying will be used for the Namma Metro project. BMRCL will spend Rs. 4.5 lakh per family to provide housing to those displaced.
02 November 2020||New Delhi,||Court rejects bail plea in IB staffer’s murder case||A Delhi court has rejected the anticipatory bail application of a man in connection with the murder of Intelligence Bureau staffer Ankit Sharma during the north-east Delhi riots. The court noted that his phone location was traced at the scene of crime on the day of incident and that it cannot be a mere coincidence.
02 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Resolve Punjab goods train suspension issue’||Concerned over the continued suspension of goods trains by the Railways even after easing of the blockade by farmers, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Sunday wrote an open letter to BJP national president J.P. Nadda, calling for collective will to resolve the issue.
02 November 2020||Jaipur,||Gurjar body starts stir over quota in Rajasthan||A major Gurjar organisation on Sunday started an agitation over reservation, a day after community leaders held talks with the Rajasthan government and reached a consensus on 14 points. The call was given by the Gurjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti.
02 November 2020||Mumbai,||Karnataka Rajyotsava: MVA ministers wear black bands||Maharashtra Cabinet ministers on Sunday sported black bands while carrying out official duties to express solidarity with Belagavi’s Marathi speaking community which observes Karnataka Rajyotsava, the formation day of Karnataka on November 1, as a ‘black day’. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar said the State government’s resolve is to pave the way for a united Maharashtra that includes the territories of Belagavi, Karwar and Nippani.
02 November 2020||Pune,||Army recruitment racket busted; three detained||In a joint operation, the Southern Command Liaison Unit (Military Intelligence) and the Pune Police’s Crime Branch on Sunday busted a fake Army recruitment racket during a written examination, a police official said. The racket was busted during the common entrance exam held at the Army Institute of Physical Training. Three people, including a serving Army jawan, were apprehended, the police said.PTI
02 November 2020||S. Anil Radhakrishnan,||Pollution certificates go online||In a bid to check automobile pollution and ensure transparency, the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) has commenced issuing Pollution Under Control (PUC) certificates online. Rolled out on Sunday to coincide with‘Kerala Piravi Day’, the PUC certificates are issued online once the emission data of motor vehicles tested at any one of the 550-odd testing stations across the State is automatically fed into the MVD server. The certificates would be issued from the approved testing centres that had upgraded the system and the entire testing centres would be covered in the coming weeks, Joint Transport Commissioner Rajeev Puthalath said. For this, the National Informatics Centre (NIC) has linked the emission-related data of 1.44 crore motor vehicles registered in the State with the VAHAN application for vehicle registration.  Testing centres using old machines for detecting the emission level of the motor vehicles have to switch over to digital mode for the new initiative. The MVD had last year approved the demand of the testing centres to increase fees for emission testing of the vehicles. As more manpower is needed for the centres, fee for emission testing will have to be hiked again. With this, the MVD will be able to monitor the emission testing being carried out by the testing centres, check the use of pirated software and curb the complaints of issuing certificates without carrying out testing as per the approved norms. SMS alert An SMS alert will reach the registered mobile number of the vehicle owner well before the expiry of the PUC so that it can be renewed from the centres. As per the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, the information should be made available in electronic form in m-Parivahan and e-Challan platforms. The switchover is also based on the Supreme Court directive. The MoRTH had amended Rule 115 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 to enable linkage.
02 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Anti-govt. protests sweep Kerala||The State witnessed a spate of anti-government protests on the 64th anniversary of its formation on Sunday. The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers took to the streets to spotlight the ongoing money laundering investigations against M. Sivasankar, the former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, and Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of State secretary of the CPI(M) Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition observed the occasion as ‘‘Day of Betrayal.’’ Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said Mr. Vijayan ruled behind an iron curtain in privileged isolation. The Chief Minister remained remote and distant from all except gold smugglers, commission agents and his enablers in the government. Mr. Sivasankar had merely done Mr. Vijayan's bidding. Central law enforcement agencies were knocking at Mr. Vijayan's door. The Chief Minster should resign to avoid further humiliation to himself and the State. The CPI(M) leadership had slipped its moral moorings and allowed its kin to profit from power. The case of Bineesh was a stark example, Mr. Chennithala said. BJP protests Scores of BJP workers lined the State and National Highways in physically distanced groups of five. BJP State president K. Surendran alleged that Mr. Vijayan had used megaprojects, including Life Mission, as avenues for personal corruption. Mr. Sivasankar had accepted an expensive smartphone as bribe from a Life Mission contractor. The gift was just the tip of the iceberg and pointed to larger malfeasance. Mr. Surendran said the Enforcement Directorate's (ED) investigation into the shady money trial would soon extend to Bineesh's family, his associates in business, cinema and also the Kerala Cricket Association. CPI(M) pushes back The CPI(M) held public meetings in the evening to counter the propaganda war unleashed by the Opposition. Mr. Balakrishnan said the media had forsaken its ethics to vilify party leaders and the government. The Congress and the BJP had attempted to whittle down the electoral prospects of the CPI(M) by laying down a barrage of lies against the government. They had recruited their enablers in the media to amplify portions of the statements of the accused to tarnish the government. The Centre leaked cherry-picked portions of the statements given by the accused to federal law enforcement agencies to its enablers in the television, print and online media. The BJP was irked that the CPI(M) had initiated a mustering of secular parties to turn the tide of the battle against the Sangh Parivar forces in the coming elections. The Congress in Kerala was playing second fiddle to the BJP. The people have sensed the deception and rallied behind the government, the CPI(M) said.
02 November 2020||Patna,||Tejashwi confronts PM on 2014 poll promise||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Sunday took on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and asked him what had happened to his 2014 campaign promise to reopen sugar mills in the Champaran region of Bihar and have tea made with sugar from those mills. “Respected Prime Minister had said at a 2014 election meeting in East Champaran that he would reopen the closed sugar mills in Motihari and have the next cup of tea from sugar made in those mills the next time he came here. The Prime Minister today came to Motihari after six years, but did not say anything about those closed sugar mills and tea,” Mr. Yadav said. The RJD leader has been addressing over a dozen public meetings every day and drawing huge crowds, especially of young people. On Sunday Mr. Yadav addressed several public meetings in East Champaran, Samastipur, Nalanda, Vaishali and Patna districts. At his meeting in Nalanda, Mr. Yadav also attacked Chief Minister Nitish Kumar for issuing a decree for the retirement of government employees at the age of 50, while, he himself was 70. “This time people of Bihar are going to retire him (Nitish Kumar)…if our government is formed, we’ll increase the retirement age,” said Mr. Yadav, whose promise of providing 10 lakh government jobs has caught the imagination of the youth in the State. The RJD leader also slammed the NDA government for its performance in improving education and health in the State. “Nitish Kumar should tell why people of Bihar cannot complete their graduation in three years, why does it take them four or five years in completing their graduation,” he asked at another meeting in East Champaran to loud cheers from the crowd. Despite having to rush through his meetings to cover as much ground as possible, Mr. Yadav has been met with cheers and applause at every event. The campaign for the second phase of polling for 94 crucial seats on November 3 ended on Sunday. The third phase is scheduled for on November 7. The counting of votes is on November 10.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Active cases are falling: Ministry||India has managed to maintain its active COVID-19 caseload below the six-lakh mark for the third consecutive day, a release issued by the Health Ministry said on Sunday. According to the Ministry, the country’s total active caseload stands at 5,70,458 currently. “New confirmed COVID cases stand at 46,963,” said the Ministry adding that Kerala is still reporting a very high number of new cases with more than 7,000 cases, followed by Maharashtra and Delhi with more than 5,000 cases each. Recoveries up At the same time, 76% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 States/Union Territories, including Maharashtra and Kerala. “Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra have contributed the maximum to the new recovered cases with each State registering more than 7,000 single-day recoveries. Delhi and West Bengal together has registered more than 8,000 new recoveries,” said the Ministry. “The active cases have dropped to 6.97% of the total positive cases of the country, demonstrating a steady falling percentage of the total cases,” said the Ministry. It added that this sustained achievement is the result of collaborative action by States/UTs under the Centre's strategy of comprehensive testing, timely tracking, quick hospitalisation and adherence to the standard treatment protocol. Gradual progress The Ministry release said the trajectory of the active caseload across States/UTs has been diverse, demonstrating their focused efforts and gradual progress in their fight against COVID19. “Karnataka has reported a steep decline in the active cases in the past 24 hours. With the consistent decline in active cases, the cases per million [population] in India are among lowest in the world. India’s average cases per million stand at 5,930,” said the Ministry. It added that 17 States/UTs have cases per million lower than the national average. 470 deaths in 24 hours As per data released by the Ministry there has been a steady decline in the number of COVID deaths also. “470 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours. India’s deaths per million population stands at 88. Twenty-one States/UTs have fewer deaths per million than the national average. The declining trend of the percentage active cases is commensurately supported by rising percentage of recovered cases. The total recovered cases stand at 74,91,513,” said the Ministry. It added that 58,684 patients had recovered and got discharged in the last 24 hours
02 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cases, positivity rate declined in October||It was again over 7,000 COVID-19 cases in Kerala, with the State testing 50,000 samples and detecting 7,025 cases on Sunday. The Health Department released data on 28 persons whose deaths were added to the official toll. Of the 28 deaths reported, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Kannur reported five deaths each, Alapuzha four, Kozhikode three, Thrissur and Palakkad two each, Malappuram and Ernakulam one death each. Telangana recorded 1,416 more cases on Saturday. While 41,675 people were tested, the results of 887 were awaited. Five more patients died. The 1,416 new cases included 279 from Greater Hyderabad, 132 from Rangareddy, 112 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 82 from Nalgonda, 79 from Bhadradri-Kothagudem, and 74 each from Khammam and Karimnagar. The lowest of two cases were from Narayanpet, while Nirmal had seven cases. Andhra Pradesh reported 2,618 new infections and 16 deaths on Sunday. Daily positivity of 82,405 samples was 3.19%, the lowest in months, and the overall positivity rate for 81.11 lakh samples was 10.18%. Five districts reported no new deaths, and Krishna four. Chittoor and Guntur reported three deaths each, West Godavari, East Godavari and Srikakulam reported one death each. In Karnataka, positive cases in October declined over August and September figures, while testing increased. On Sunday, 3,652 new COVID-19 cases were reported. Twenty-four people died on Sunday. The number of RT-PCR tests conducted in October rose to 18.43 lakh, compared to 11.05 lakh in September. The number of rapid antigen tests declined from 9.13 lakh in September to 8.59 lakh in October. C.N. Manjunath, Director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and nodal officer for labs and testing, COVID-19 task force, said “We have seen that the RT-PCR tests have better sensitivity and many people who had negative results in the rapid antigen tests tested positive on RT-PCR. However, the rapid antigen tests have complemented the testing strategy and reduced the burden on the RT-PCR tests as they give immediate results,” he added. Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 incidence was on the decline, and Chennai’s tally on Sunday crossed the two lakh-mark with 686 patients testing positive. However, it took three months for the city to add one lakh cases, taking its total to 2,00,533 till date. The State recorded fresh 2,504 cases, taking its tally to 7,27,026.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
02 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||Adityanath faces anti-incumbency test||Under sustained heat over law and order incidents in the State, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath faces a test of anti-incumbency in the bypolls to seven seats on Tuesday. Amid a new phase of acrimony between the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati spurred by the Rajya Sabha elections, and the activism of a Priyanka Vadra-led Congress seen in the past few months, the bypolls would also be a fight among the three to claim the position of the main Opposition party as the State heads towards the 2022 Assembly election. In 2017, the BJP had won six of these seats. This time, in a multi-polar contest, the BJP faces a string of questions, making the contest in most seats keenly watched. Unlike the top leadership of the SP, the BSP and the Congress, Mr. Adityanath personally campaigned, first virtually and then in public meetings. The other parties left the campaign to their second string of leaders. Article 370, temple At his rallies, Mr. Adityanath flaunted the dilution of the Article 370 and the construction of the Ram Mandir as fulfilment of promises made by the BJP. In recent rallies, he even raised contentions issues like bringing a law against ‘love jihad’ and promised to take stern action against cow slaughter. On the back foot after the shooting of policemen in Kanpur and the killing of wanted criminal Vikas Dubey and his aides, the BJP government tried to placate the influential Brahmin community by taking a number of punitive measures against other controversial figures in the State politics. Jailed MLA Mukhtar Ansari and former MP Atiq Ahmed have faced most of the brunt, as the administration demolished and seized their properties. “Our sympathy can never be for a criminal, goonda or mafia,” Mr. Adityanath said at a rally in Jaunpur in reference to the demolition. “When this is happening, the farmers, youth and women are pleased by it but the SP is in pain that such action is being taken against mafias,” Mr. Adityanath said. The Brahmin factor is on full display in the Deoria seat, where the Congress, the BJP, the SP and the BSP have all fielded Brahmins. However, the son of the deceased BJP MLA Janmejai Singh, Ajay Pratap Singh, has altered the equations by filing nomination as an Independent. Mr. Ajay Pratap said he was fighting to save the honour of his late father and people (Sainthwar caste). In Bangermau (Unnao), the BJP battles the baggage of the Kuldeep Singh Sengar rape controversy. BSP chief Mayawati asked voters on Sunday to ensure the success of her candidates “to give a right message to the opponents”. SP president Akhilesh Yadav tweeted, “The youth are now saying out loud that the jumlebaaz will be shown the door. In the coming days, the youth will emerge as the yuvraj .”
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||‘BJP has everything to gain in M.P. bypolls’||Ahead of the byelections to 28 seats in Madhya Pradesh, Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia , who quit the Congress and joined the BJP in March, says the new entrants to the BJP and its senior leaders are working together to ensure the party’s victory. He says the party has chalked out constituency-focused blueprints for the contest.  In the 2018 Assembly election, you got a resounding majority, especially in the Gwalior-Chambal region. So, what has changed since that election? Historically, the Congress has never crossed the figure of 18 seats [of the total 34] in the region since Independence. And for the first time in 2018, owing to multiple reasons, we crossed 18 and the tally went up to 26. One seat went to the BSP and seven to the BJP. It was a one-way street for the Congress. That in a huge way resulted in the formation of the Congress government. The party’s victory can largely be attributed to trust reposed in the Congress by the people of Gwalior-Chambal. Having said that, lawmakers were trampled upon, disrespected and their wishes and aspirations with regard to developmental projects were completely cast aside, combined with a corrupt government of Kamal Nath. Not only me, but two former Ministers of the Congress government, still with the party, said the same thing whilst they were Cabinet Ministers. Never before have Cabinet Ministers of a government written and spoken against the functioning of their government in such an open manner. Nevertheless, nothing changed. It’s rather sad and devastating that in a government formed after 15 years, Mr. Nath lost the trust of 22 legislators, of which 16 were MLAs and six Ministers. This is unprecedented in the political discourse of our country. Four legislators resigned later. So, 26 legislators resigning from a political party which possesses only 114 MLAs is a staggering 28 per cent. What kind of government was Mr. Nath running, which could not even hold together its own MLAs let aside cater to the needs of the party’s workers and the public? These facts speak for themselves. What are the focus areas of your election strategy this time? We’ve been in power for six months in Madhya Pradesh and had to battle COVID-19. But we have had a clear blueprint in place. First, State-wide measures such as a supplement to the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi in the form of the CM Kisan Samman Nidhi which adds Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 6,000 a year to farmers and the delivery of Rs. 7,500 crores, which Mr. Nath had locked up in his treasury, into farmers’ accounts. Then, resumption of schemes that were scrapped by Mr. Nath such as Ladli Lakshmi and Kanyadan Yojana, and the Sambal scheme. We have had a constituency-focused plan in place too wherein development requirements not fulfilled by the Congress government have been identified. Every constituency has got between Rs. 200-300 crore and Rs. 2,000 crore in development projects. We are going to the people with a blueprint for the State. Let us not forget, of the 28 seats up for election, 27 belonged to the Congress. The BJP has everything to gain, while the Congress has everything to lose. For the purpose of the election, how did you and your supporters reconcile with experienced BJP leaders? We have officially had over 1.5 lakh people leave the Congress and join the BJP. Many of them were office-bearers, which shows the level of disenchantment within the Congress towards the current dispensation. We have worked on our relationship with the BJP over the last three-and-a-half months making sure there is complete unity. And in many constituencies you will see current and past legislators and office-bearers on one platform working unitedly to ensure the party’s victory. So, the union has been complete, and without any issue. Are you also eyeing the Chief Minister’s post after the byelection? In my family, we are not after a nameplate. Our cause is not politics but one of public service. And therefore, our goal is development and progress of the region and a connection with the people of the State. For me, it’s not Mr. Nath’s story of kissa kursi ka [the chief minister’s chair] but about finding a place in people’s hearts.  In my family, we are not after a nameplate. Our cause is not politics but one of public service
02 November 2020||New Delhi,||File FIRs for cybercrime, States told||The Union Home Ministry has written to all States to examine and register FIRs based on the complaints received on the National Cybercrime Reporting Portal, www.cybercrime.gov.in. As per data available with the Ministry, only 2.5% of total complaints registered on the portal are converted into First Information Reports (FIRs). Through the portal, the Ministry aims to raise a group of “cybercrime volunteers” to flag “unlawful content” on the Internet. “Good Samaritans are welcome to register as Cybercrime Volunteers in the role of Unlawful Content Flaggers for facilitating law enforcement agencies in identifying, reporting and removal of illegal / unlawful online content,” says the website. The unlawful content is categorised as content against the sovereignty and integrity of India, against defence of India, against security of the state, against friendly relations with foreign states, content aimed at disturbing public order, disturbing communal harmony and child sex abuse material. The volunteers will have to submit photograph, name and address proof to be enlisted as a volunteer. Since its launch last year, the portal has received over 2 lakh complaints, but FIRs have been registered only in 5,000 cases. A senior government official said on an average, around 1,000 cybercrime complaints were received every month from across the country. The rate of conversion of complaints to FIRs is very low. In July, of the over 30,000 complaints registered, only 273 FIRs were registered, the data show. The portal was launched on August 30, 2019 to help people report all kinds of cybercrimes on a centralised platform. An earlier version of the portal launched in September 2018 on the directions of the Supreme Court, catered only to complaints of child pornography, sexual harassment crimes against women and children. The total number of complaints received against child pornography, rape and gang rape from January-September this year stood at 13,244. On February 4, Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy informed the Rajya Sabha that from August 30, 2019 to January 30, 2020, as many as 33,152 cybercrime incidents were reported on the portal where 790 FIRs were registered by the law enforcement agencies. Rising numbers According to data compiled by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), the number of registered cybercrimes increased by 63.5% in the year 2019 compared with the previous year’s. A total of 44,546 cases were registered under cybercrimes compared with 27,248 cases in 2018. In 2019, 60.4% of cybercrime cases registered were for the motive of fraud (26,891 out of 44,546 cases) followed by sexual exploitation with 5.1% (2,266 cases) and causing disrepute with 4.2% (1,874 cases). Helpline for victims The portal has started a helpline only for victims of financial cyberfraud in Delhi who can dial the number 155260 or report the incident on www.cybercrime.gov.in. On receiving the complaint, the designated police officer after verifying the matter will report to the bank and financial intermediary or payment wallet for blocking the money involved in the cyberfraud. “Use of this facility will help a victim of financial cyberfraud in retrieving the money and help the police in identifying the cybercriminal(s) and take legal action as per law,” the Ministry said.
02 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Pallivasal extension to generate power by May||With work restarting on the generating station of the much-delayed 60-MW Pallivasal extension scheme in Idukki district, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) is expecting to start power generation in May 2021 by operationalising the first generator. Plagued by a host of issues, including technical glitches and geological challenges, the commissioning of the Pallivasal extension scheme has been delayed by several years. According to the initial agreement inked in 2007, the extension scheme should have been completed on March 1, 2011. On Oct. 21 Although the KSEB had floated tenders on multiple occasions to revive the scheme, they had not worked out. The work was awarded afresh on the fifth attempt which has now enabled the State-owned power utility to restart the work on the generating station on October 21 this year. Work on the tunnel and the penstock pipes were also progressing, KSEB officials said. The power station at Pallivasal is the oldest in operation in the State. The first stage of the Pallivasal hydro-electric project was completed in 1940 and, by 1952, it became full-fledged with a total installed capacity of 37.5 MW. In 2002, the KSEB completed the renovation of this hydroelectric project. Two units Subsequently, the 60-MW Pallivasal extension scheme (153.9 million units) was designed to fully utilise the available water. The power station will have two 30 MW units, one of which is expected to be operational by May, 2021.
02 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Banks told to pay back interest on interest, says RBI||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) informed the Supreme Court on Sunday that it had advised banks and financial companies to fully comply with a government scheme to pay back borrowers compound interest, or interest on interest, charged on their loans during the six-month moratorium. The RBI, in a short affidavit, said its circular was issued on October 26, just three days after the Finance Ministry approved the scheme for ex-gratia payment of the difference in the compound interest and simple interest charged between March 1 and August 31 for eight categories of loans worth up to Rs. 2 crore by November 5. The RBI said it had “advised” commercial banks, cooperative banks, financial institutions and non-banking financial companies to comply with the government’s payback scheme. “RBI has advised all commercial banks (including Small Finance Banks, Local Area Banks and Regional Rural Banks), all Primary (Urban) Co-operative Banks/ State Cooperative Banks/ District Central Co-operative Banks, all All India Financial Institutions and all Non-Banking Financial Companies (including Housing Finance Companies) to be guided by the provisions of the Scheme and take necessary actions within the stipulated timeline therein,” the affidavit filed through advocate Ramesh Babu M.R. said. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan is scheduled to hear the case on November 2. The government scheme is meant to bring “additional relief” to borrowers affected by the pandemic-induced financial distress. The Union Cabinet had approved the scheme on October 21. The scheme will cover MSME, education, housing, consumer durables, credit card, auto, personal and consumption loans. Clause three of the government scheme defines “all financial institutions” to include banking companies, public sector banks, cooperative banks, regional rural banks, all India financial institutions, non-banking financial companies, housing finance companies registered with the RBI, and national housing banks. “The Central Government has directed that all lending institutions shall give effect to the scheme and credit the amount calculated as per the scheme into the accounts of the borrowers by November 5,” the Ministry of Finance had earlier declared in an affidavit. All lending institutions will credit the difference between compound interest and simple interest on loans, it said.  RBI has advised commercial banks, cooperative banks, and NBFCs to comply with the scheme Affidavit in SC
02 November 2020||New Delhi,||Car-makers rev up for Deepavali||Anticipating strong demand during Deepavali, most car-makers registered strong growth in dispatches to dealers in October. Market leader Maruti Suzuki on Sunday said it sold over 1.63 lakh passenger vehicles in the domestic market in October, 17.6% up from 1.39 lakh vehicles in the month in 2019. The company said sales of its mini segment cars (Alto, S-Presso) remained almost flat at 28,462 units, while those of compact cars (WagonR, Swift, Celerio, Ignis, Baleno and Dzire) and utility vehicles (Gypsy, Ertiga, S-Cross, Vitara Brezza and XL6) were up 26.6% to 95,067 units and 10% to 25,396 units, respectively. Two-wheeler sales The country’s largest two-wheeler maker, Hero MotoCorp, posted its “highest-ever sales in any single month” at over 8.06 lakh units in October 2020, a growth of 35% over the year-ago month. “A positive turnaround in customer sentiments, particularly for motorcycles across markets, continued government policy support and a credible resumption of supply chain, logistics and business operations have enabled the company to achieve record numbers during the auspicious festive period.” it said. Hyundai Motor India also recorded the highest-ever domestic sales since its inception of 56,605 units, a growth of 13% over October 2019. The previous highest monthly domestic sales number for the company was 52,001 units in October 2018. Tarun Garg, director (sales, marketing & service), HMIL, said, Positive tone “The October month sales performance has set a positive tone for the overall business environment and we are confident that Hyundai will continue to strongly contribute towards sustainable growth of the economy, community and all its stakeholders.” More offers Honda Cars India saw a year-on-year growth of 8.3% in sales last month at 10,836 units. The company’s senior vice-president and director, marketing and sales, Rajesh Goel, said, “We have seen positive sales momentum in line with market sentiment ... The festive buying picked up from Navratra in mid-October and we are focusing on maximising deliveries during this period. Thanks to our strong and refreshed product line-up introduced right before the festive season and ongoing multiple consumer offers, we expect this demand to continue through Deepavali … .” Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) said it sold 12,373 vehicles last month, a growth of 4%. Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, sales and service, TKM, said, “The month of October has been our best month so far since March 2020. The festive season has proved to be bullish as we witness demand surging, month on month. This has been true of our retails too as order flow has been smooth, from the very beginning.” Robust demand Home-grown Mahindra & Mahindra saw a 1% growth in domestic passenger vehicle sales in October at 18,622 units. Veejay Nakra, CEO, automotive division, M&M Ltd., said, “We are happy to achieve a growth of 4% in utility Vehicles, despite certain supply constraints ... the festive season has started on a positive note with deliveries and bookings being higher than last year. Going forward, this augurs well for a robust festive demand which in turn will help the industry in the short term.” Motorcycle-maker Royal Enfield, however, reported a decline of 7% in sales at 62,858 units in October 2020.
02 November 2020||New Delhi,||Gilgit-Baltistan a part of India, says MEA||India on Sunday slammed Pakistan for its attempt to accord provincial status to the “so-called Gilgit-Baltistan”, saying it is intended to camouflage the “illegal” occupation of the region by Islamabad. Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India “firmly rejects” the attempt by Pakistan to bring material changes to a part of Indian territory which is under Islamabad’s “illegal and forcible occupation” and asked the neighbouring country to immediately vacate such areas. Mr. Srivastava’s response came following a media query. “I reiterate that the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including the area of so-called ‘Gilgit-Baltistan’, are an integral part of India by virtue of the legal, complete and irrevocable accession of Jammu and Kashmir to the Union of India in 1947,” he said. He said the Government of Pakistan had no locus standi on territories “illegally and forcibly” occupied by it and that the latest move would not be able to hide the “grave” human rights violations in these Pakistan-occupied territories. ‘Vacate all areas’ “Instead of seeking to alter the status of these Indian territories, we call upon Pakistan to immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation,” he said. Pakistan has announced holding elections for the legislative assembly of Gilgit-Baltistan later this month. In a ruling earlier this year, the Pakistan Supreme Court allowed Islamabad to amend a 2018 administrative order to conduct general elections in the region. The Gilgit-Baltistan Order of 2018 provided for administrative changes, including authorising the Prime Minister of Pakistan to legislate on an array of subjects. Following the verdict, India issued a demarche to a senior Pakistani diplomat here and lodged a strong protest over the apex court ruling. The polls were to be held on August 18, but they were postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.
02 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Dharani time slots can be booked through Mee Seva||People opting for land transactions through Dharani website can book their time slots through Mee Seva centres. The government has decided to put in place an alternate channel for people for slot booking through Mee Seva centres. Accordingly, suitable facilities are being created at the Mee Seva centres so that property owners could utilise the services. The development follows the recent launch of Dharani portal providing for registration and instant mutation of land records. The portal facilitates online booking of slots for registrations and other transactions on payment of requisite charges. The government specified that user charge for slot booking would be Rs. 200 per transaction from end-to-end completion. The user charge also includes cost of necessary print-outs (up to 10 pages) that are part of the slot booking process.
02 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Security forces unfurl tricolour in former Maoist heartland||The Border Security Force and the Odisha police have set up a Company Operating Base (COB) at Gurasethu, dubbed the “ideological headquarters” of the outlawed CPI(Maoist), in Swabhiman Anchal along the Odisha-Andhra Pradesh border. This is considered a milestone in the fight against the left-wing extremists. The BSF and the Odisha police personnel unfurled the tricolour in front of the CPI(Maoist)’s “Martyr Pillar” at Gurasethu in Malkangiri district. Experts said security forces had managed to reclaim the area from the CPI(Maoist). Remote area Gurasethu was once known to be the heartland of the CPI (Maoist). The ultras used to conduct training and other activities without fear, as the place was not easily accessible. Security forces had to trek to reach the place. “In a significant development, the Odisha police and the BSF solidly advanced up to Gurasethu in Swabhiman Anchal and the BSF will now maintain a camp there. This happened to be the ideological headquarters of the Maoists until recently,” tweeted Odisha Chief Secretary Asit Tripathy congratulating the security forces. DGP Abhay said a team of the BSF, the Special Operation Group and the India Reserve Battalion along with the DIG of the BSF and the Malkangiri SP reached Gurasethu on Saturday to establish the COB. “With this COB, people of the area will feel more secure,” he said. “This is another milestone for the BSF... people will soon taste the fruits of development,” said BSF commandant G. Sukumar Sarangi. Swabhiman Anchal, erstwhile a cut-off area, has been the bastion of the CPI(Maoist). This area remained cut off from Malkangiri till the Gurupriya river bridge was constructed in 2018. Malkangiri has been one of the worst-affected districts with 332 Maoist incidents recorded between 2008 and 2020. These claimed the lives of 101 civilians and 77 security personnel. The cut-off area itself witnessed the killing of 25 civilians and 49 security personnel, including five BSF officers. After the construction of the bridge, the forces gradually started moving in and so did the administration.
02 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Three new Rafale jets to fly non-stop from France to India||Three Rafale fighter jets of the Indian Air Force are scheduled to arrive on November 4 flying non-stop from France, an official source said. With this, the IAF will have eight of the 36 Rafale jets in service. “Three Rafale jets will fly directly from Istres in France to Jamnagar, an eight-hour-plus non-stop flight,” the source said. They will be accompanied by French Air Force mid-air refuelling aircraft. “There will be three tankings in all,” the source said. The first batch of five Rafale jets were formally inducted into the No.17 ‘Golden Arrows’ squadron of the IAF on September 10 at the Ambala Air Force station. They arrived in India in July with a stopover at the Al Dhafra airbase in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). During the first leg of the flight from the Merignac airbase at Bordeaux in France to the UAE, the jets were accompanied by the French Air Force mid-air refuellers. For the journey from the UAE, they were accompanied by IAF midair refuellers. The five jets, three single seat and two twin-seater trainers, were flown from France by IAF pilots led by Commanding Officer of No. 17 squadron Group Captain Harkirat Singh. The Indian Embassy in France had said in a statement that delivery of all 36 aircraft would be completed as per schedule by 2021-end. The second squadron would be based at Hasimara in West Bengal. Last month, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria said the IAF would get three or four Rafales every two or three months till all 36 jets were delivered and that the first squadron would be fully ready by 2021-end and the second by 2023. “In the next three years, we will see the Rafale and Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) MK1 squadrons operating with full strength, along with additional Su-30MKI and MiG 29 aircraft, that are being ordered in addition to the current fleets,” he said.
02 November 2020||New Delhi,||People facing double whammy of pandemic & price rise: Cong.||The Congress on Sunday accused the Narendra Modi government of letting stocks rot and artificially increasing the prices of vegetables and pulses. Congress spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh, at a press conference here, said the inflation, coupled with the COVID-19 pandemic, was denting the festive spirit. “As if the common man was not suffering enough through job losses and income uncertainty, the government has been ignorant and blatantly incompetent in controlling inflation,” Mr. Vallabh said. He alleged that the government, instead of exploring avenues to provide support to the people and boost consumption, was on the lookout to extract as much from them. The overall CFPI (Consumer Food Price Index), which had been hovering over 9% in July and August, breached the 10% mark in September, he said. Mr. Vallabh said the inflation rate for vegetables in September was 22.71%, while it was 13.69% for pulses. “The current prices of potato are the highest in the last 130 months or close to 10 years,” he said. Mr. Vallabh said India exported 1.23 lakh tonnes of potatoes despite a supply shortage in the country. “The government’s incompetence and inaction is evident from the fact that while we exported 1.23 lakh tonnes of potatoes to nations like Saudi Arabia, Oman, Myanmar and others in 2019-20, we ourselves have a supply shortage.” “There are 30 lakh tonnes of potatoes lying in cold storages across Uttar Pradesh, out of which 22 lakh tonnes were meant for the markets. The government is now forcing the farmers to take out these stocks by 31st October, instead of 30th November. On the one hand the government has been crying out loud that farmers will now be able to sell their produce anywhere, anytime on the other hand it is forcing farmers to take potatoes out of cold storage and sell their produce,” Mr. Vallabh said. In the case of onions too, the government didn’t do anything to arrest the price rise, he said. In January, India imported 46,000 tonnes of onions to control the rates. Out of this, 32,000 tonnes, or close to 70%, had rotted in the godowns. Mr. Vallabh said all these steps were deliberate attempts to help the big corporates. “We demand that the government immediately act on black marketers, assess stock of essential items lying in cold storages and push sufficient stock in the markets to control the prices,” he added.
02 November 2020||MYSURU,||Kin join probe into woman’s death||Relatives of Seema Banu who was found dead along with her two children at her home in Dublin, Ireland, are making efforts to bring the bodies to their native place in Periyapatna taluk of Mysuru district for the last rites. Seema’s cousin Sufi Masood Hussain told The Hindu that the family was in touch with the External Affairs Ministry to facilitate transportation of the bodies of Seema Banu, her daughter, Asfira Syed, and son, Faizan Syed, to Halaganahalli in Periyapatna taluk. “We are waiting for them to release the bodies. Since the Irish police are investigating the deaths as a murder case, we had been informed that the release of the bodies may take a longer time. And the investigations are still in the early stages,” he said. Though the bodies when released are expected to be handed over to Seema’s husband, Syed Sameer, who will decide on the last rites, the family of Seema is hoping that the authorities would prevail upon her husband to send the bodies to India. Seema’s family in Mysuru, however, has expressed its inability to bear the financial expenditure of transporting the bodies to their native place. Husband a suspect Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police, Mysuru, C.B. Ryshyant said Seema’s husband had not been arrested yet. “He is a suspect,” the SP added. He said Seema’s family members were in touch with the Irish police – called Garda – and were regularly exchanging information. Mr. Hussain said the Irish police would be questioning Seema’s father, Abdul Gaffar, mother, Qurshidunnisa, and brother Rizwan about Seema’s relationship with her husband. “They are scheduled to join them in a video call to collect the information,” Mr. Hussain said. The family had already shared video calls Seema made to them from Dublin, he said. Mr. Sameer, a 42-year-old software engineer, was earlier working in Dubai before he shifted to Ireland about two years ago and Seema too had joined him about a year ago along with her children. Earlier this year, Seema had suffered a series of injuries following a serious assault on her. The discovery of her body along with her two children comes ahead of the assault case going on trial, Mr. Hussain said before adding that the family had shared with the authorities their suspicion behind the alleged murders of Seema and her two children.
02 November 2020||Jaipur,||58.96% voting in Rajasthan civic polls||About 59% votes were polled till 5.30 p.m. in the second phase of polling for three municipal corporations in Rajasthan on Sunday, the State Election Commission said. The polling started at 7.30 a.m. and continued till 5.30 pm. The exact voting percentage may rise as some voters were still in the queues. The votes will be counted on November 3, a SEC spokesperson said. Till 5.30 p.m., 58.96% votes were polled, he said. According to the official, 63.13% polling was recorded in Kota South, 57.98% in Jaipur Greater and 57.88% in Jodhpur South municipal corporation till 5.30 p.m., he said. Out of more than 19.45 lakh registered voters, 11.47 lakh people voted to decide the fate of 1,287 candidates for ward councillor at 3,211 polling stations in 310 wards. On October 29, the first phase of voting was held in Jaipur Heritage, Kota North and Jodhpur North municipal corporation.
02 November 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANGIRI,||First slot on Dharani in Yadadri today||Online registration of agricultural property through Dharani portal, for the first time in the State, will be recorded at the Joint Sub-Registrar’s Office of Addagudur in the district on Monday. The first slot was booked by one Dasari Veeraiah of Dharmaram village in Addagudur mandal on Saturday, and was allotted 11.30 a.m., District Collector Anita Ramachandran informed. Mr. Veeraiah, a government employee, would be registering one acre land as a gift deed in favour of his wife. The whole process of registration or mutation would be completed within 10 minutes, and the transferor-transferee are required to book a slot prior to the process.
02 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Centre gave only half of tax collections: KTR||Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Sunday took to Twitter saying that Telangana got back only half of the total quantum of taxes that the Centre collected in the State since 2014. “Our State’s contribution to Centre in the form of taxes is a whopping Rs. 2,72,926 crore whereas what Centre has released to Telangana is Rs. 1,40,329 crore. Telangana continues to be a pillar of strength for India,” he said. Investment in key infra He also said that the growth in Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) and per capita income were achieved with investments in key infra sectors and increased capital expenditure. At the same time, fiscal prudence was balanced. On debt-GSDP ratio, Telangana with 22.8% is in the top five states with low debt-GSDP ratio. Inclusive growth Telangana’s growth has been inclusive and has focussed on agriculture, industry and services sectors, thereby improving per capita. While the growth of per capita income of our country between 2014-2020 was 54.9%, Telangana grew at 83.9%. Telangana has been consistently achieving much higher GDP growth rate than the country’s average growth rate for the past six years. Able leadership, progressive policies and an ear to the ground enabled the State to thrive.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Haryana mulls law against ‘love jihad’||“As the incident is being linked to “love jihad”, both the Centre and the State government are looking into the issue,” Mr. Khattar said. “Legal provisions are being looked at so that the guilty don’t get away, and no innocent person is punished.” Home Minister Anil Vij took to Twitter to declare that the State government was mulling a law but did not divulge details. The police have arrested three men so far, including the main accused Tausheef, and his friend Rehan. Mr. Vij said the SIT was also probing whether there was an organised effort to encourage religious conversions. “In the Faridabad incident, too, the victim’s family has alleged that there was pressure for conversion, which is not acceptable,” he said. “This is a very serious matter. And if we have to bring a law to stop it, we will,” he added. On Saturday, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announced that his government would bring an “effective law” against “love jihad” and warned that offenders would face death.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||GST inflows in October cross Rs. 1 lakh crore||However, she added, “We remain as yet unconvinced on the persistence of this trend after the festive season is over, after the pent-up demand is fulfilled.” The uptick in October's GST inflows could be attributed to the festive demand and input tax credits as well as other reconciliations that were due for businesses in September, said Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY. GST cess collections, used to compensate the States for switching to the GST regime, rose to Rs. 8,011 crore (including Rs. 932 crore collected on import of goods). This is over 5% more than a year ago and 12.5% higher than the previous month. The total revenue earned in October by the Central and State governments stood at Rs. 44,285 crore and Rs. 44,839 crore, respectively. October’s GST inflows must not be considered a return to normalcy for businesses, said the Consortium of Indian Associations, an umbrella body of MSMEs, stressing that these revenues normally relate to sales that occurred in September, when a majority of the economy, including public transport, were unlocked. “Many companies raised sale invoices in September by pushing out their finished products which they had planned in March itself. We need to await data for November and December before we can confidently say the economy has rebounded to pre-COVID-19 days,” said K.E. Raghunathan, the consortium’s convenor.
02 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Celebrate and nurture Kannada: Yediyurappa||Celebrating Kannada and its rich cultural, literary heritage should not be restricted to just one day or a month. It should be a year-long celebration and part of our daily lives, said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa while addressing the 65th Kannada Rajyotsava celebrations organised by the Department of Education here on Sunday. The next one year would be observed as ‘Kannada Kayaka Varsha’ and the government is in the process of drawing up programmes to nurture and preserve Kannada in the age of technology, he said. Use of Kannada has been made mandatory in all levels of the administration. “Kannada has a history of more than 2,000 years, and has a rich cultural, literary heritage,” he said, quoting poets Pampa and Kuvempu. He called upon citizens to not just converse in Kannada, but also encourage children to do the same. He hopes children read the works of literary giants and are better informed about the State’s literary and cultural heritage. He said the unification of the State is a story of struggle in which many littérateurs, journalists and other eminent people participated. “Karnataka was formed with regions from Madras, Bombay and Hyderabad presidencies on November 1, 1956. The State was re-named as ‘Karnataka’ on November 1, 1973,” he said. He stressed that the National Education Policy gives importance to regional languages. This, he maintained, would help education in Kannada medium. Stating that technology had become an inseparable part of our lives, impacting language and culture, he said several organisations, including Kannada Ganaka Parishath and universities in the State, have been working on ensuring Kannada language matches the pace of technological growth. “Our government is working hard to make Karnataka a model State in the country and have sought guidance from experts, intellectuals and eminent citizens. We are committed to overall development of the State,” he added. Across the globe, countries are grappling with COVID-19, and Karnataka is not an exception. Mr. Yediyurappa said the government was ably handling the outbreak that had impacted industries, economy, education and working class people. “COVID-19, floods, heavy rainfall and drought… the government has come to the aid of people during these testing times, with help from social organisations, philanthropists,” he said. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar said that over the past 14 years, the enrolment in government schools has been the highest this year. With many families under financial strain following the outbreak of COVID-19, many children from private schools have been admitted to government schools. According to records, 90,000 students have been admitted in government schools across the State. For the first time, PUC NCERT science textbooks are being made available in Kannada. The low-key celebrations were attended by local MLA Rizwan Arshad and a few senior officials.
02 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Congress accuses BJP of distributing money||The last day of public campaigning for the bypolls to Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar constituencies saw allegations of money distribution to voters, to both entice and keep them away from the polling booths. The BJP and Congress have been engaged in a bitter war of words over the alleged bribery of voters. Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday accused the BJP of transporting cash to Sira, even as the Congress released video tapes purportedly showing BJP workers enticing people to vote for their candidate in R.R. Nagar. Despite the results of the bypolls in Sira and R.R. Nagar not having any consequence for the BJP government, the election is being fought tooth and nail. “Voter ID cards have been collected in several places where minorities are high in number, and voters have been given money not to vote by BJP workers. In other places, money is being distributed to vote in favour of the BJP. What is the Election Commission doing?” asked D.K. Suresh, MP for Bengaluru Rural, at a press conference. He also released video clips in support of his claims. In Sira, addressing a rally, Mr. Kumaraswamy alleged that the ruling BJP had transported to the constituency Rs. 6 crore in cash using a police vehicle. “A police officer told me, but I do not want to reveal his name,” he said. He accused the BJP of offering more than Rs. 1,500 to entice voters. “But using money power, the BJP cannot win in Sira, like they won in K.R. Pete,” he added. Meanwhile, former Minister and BJP leader Arvind Limbavali dismissed the allegations and said, “If money is being distributed, the Congress should complain to the Election Commission. Let there be an inquiry.”
02 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Bineesh complains of uneasiness, hospitalised||Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPI(M) secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who is in the custody of the Enforcement Directorate (ED), was taken to Bowring Hospital in Bengaluru on Saturday. “He complained of uneasiness and was hospitalised around 3.30 p.m. The doctors are treating him,” said an ED official. The ED arrested Bineesh last week for his alleged financial links to businessman Mohammed Anoop, who had been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in Bengaluru in connection with a drug racket in August. He is scheduled to be produced before the court on Monday. A source said they are waiting for the medical report. “It is possible he wanted to avoid going to jail. We are waiting for the medical report,” said the source.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Modi mocks Tejashwi, Rahul as ‘double yuvraj’||The Prime Minister addressed public meetings at Chhapra, Samastipur, Motihari (East Champaran) and Bagaha (West Champaran). At Bagaha in West Champaran,also Mr. Modi raised issues of construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, scrapping of Article 370 in J&K and the CAA. “Today with blessings and help of everyone in the country, construction of a glorious Ram temple is going on Ayodhya but even at this time you all should not forget those people who had questioned even the existence of Lord Ram and putting stumbling block in its construction,” Mr Modi said. Criticising the Opposition, Mr. Modi said, “They spread misinformation by telling lies to people and get their work done by frightening them… Qhen CAA came into effect, they spread lies that citizenship of several people will be scrapped… One year is going to be over now, has any Indian’s citizenship gone,” Mr. Modi asked at his last public meeting in Bagaha. At Chhapra, Mr. Modi again raised the issue of the Pulwama terror attack and said those people “who were not happy with the martyrdom of the brave soldiers in Pulwama, have come to Bihar to seek your vote”. “Keep those people away for safe fate of Bihar,” he added. Invoking locally significant deities, Mr. Modi said, “Till Chhath and Diwali no poor people will go hungry…you meri maa (my mother) prepare for Chhath puja as your son is there in Delhi.” Chhath is an important four-day religious festival in Bihar, which is scheduled in the third week of November. “River Ganga was flowing even before we came to power but we made its water clean and pure in which mothers can observe Chhath puja… Don’t you think business can be done by plying ships in river Ganga? We’ve started this project and work is going on,” he said. While making indirect reference to the previous RJD government in the State, Mr. Modi said, “Earlier mothers used to warn their children not to go out as they were worried over thembeing kidnapped for ransom... Do you want a return of the same government in the State? He also listed several welfare steps taken by “double-engine NDA government” in the State and the country and said, “the NDA government meets all adversities with responsibility”. The Prime Minister also reiterated that under the new education policy, the “language of education will be in mother tongue and there will also be one entrance exams for jobs” for benefit of students from poor families. “The NDA government works without any discrimination and it works for everyone,” Mr. Modi said, adding, “If Bihar has to be saved from bimari (diseases), don’t vote for them”. He appealed to people to vote for “Nitish Kumar-led NDA with a huge mandate for an all round development in the State and country as well”. In all his four public meetings Mr. Modi also reiterated that NDA means BJP, JD(U), Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Vikasheel Insaan Party.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Hizbul chief killed in encounter in J&K||Saifullah was the last surviving militant who figured in the group pictures of Hizb ‘commander’ Burhan Wani, killed in an encounter in 2016. “We were tracking his movement for the last two days. I would like to congratulate the Anantnag police for tracking his movements,” he said. According to the police, around 200 militants have been killed this year. The body of the slain militant was sent to Baramulla for burial and the last rites after completion of medico-legal formalities. “The nearest family members of the killed terrorist shall be allowed to participate in the last rites at Baramulla,” the police said. There were inputs that Saifullah and his men were planning to attack some security installations and civilian areas in the Valley, the DGP said. “Militancy in north Kashmir is at its last stage. We have the upper hand as militancy is almost under control. I hope Kashmir will be a free region soon. There will be no changes in anti-militancy operations in Kashmir Valley despite the upcoming winter,” Mr. Singh said.
02 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Youth sets himself ablaze near Telangana BJP office||Protesting the recent arrest of BJP State President Bandi Sanjay at Siddipet, a youngster set himself abalze in front of BJP State Party Office at Nampally here on Sunday. Passers-by rescued the victim, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central Zone) P. Viswa Prasad told The Hindu . “They doused flames with water and sand,” he said. Srinivas (25), a cable operator from L.B. Nagar, who is a BJP supporter was yelling ‘Jai Sanjay Anna, Jai Raghunandan Anna, Jai BJP’ after setting himself ablaze. A police patrol team shifted him to the Osmania General Hospital, Mr. Prasad said, adding that the incident took place at 12.20 p.m. “The incident appears to be in protest against the arrest of Sanjay in Siddipet District,” the officer said. On Monday, Mr. Sanjay was detained by the police on the outskirts of Siddipet stating that his entry into the town was likely to lead to tensions. He was sent away to Karimnagar. He was going to Siddipet after police conducted raids at Raghunandan Rao’s house, who is the BJP’s candidate for upcoming bypolls at Dubbaka. Earlier the police seized Rs. 18.65 lakh from the house of Mr. Rao’s relative in Siddipet. “Sanjay Anna's arrest was illegal. On that day I was down with fever so I couldn’t go there. I am ready to do anything for my party, Sanjay Anna , Aravind Anna (Nizamabad MP) and Raghunandan anna ,” Mr. Srinivas said after he was rescued by the passers-by.  There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni.
02 November 2020||New Delhi,||Congress ignored Patel’s contributions, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hit out at the Congress, accusing it of being a family-centric party and ignoring the contributions of the country’s first Home Minister, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. He was speaking at an election rally in Samastipur, Bihar. The Congress hit back saying it had organised a country-wide satyagrah on Sardar Patel’s birth anniversary — Kisan Adhikar Diwas— where it recalled his contributions to farmers particularly, the Bardoli farmers’ movement. The party said the Modi government had destroyed everything that Patel fought for and achieved. Congress hits back Congress spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh, at a press conference here, said Mr. Modi believed in “distract and rule”. Instead of giving an account of his six-year rule or the NDA government’s rule in Bihar, the Prime Minister was raking up such issues to distract the voters, Mr. Vallabh said. “ Congress ek parivaar main aisi simat gayi hai ki, kal unki [Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s] birth anniversary main unko smarran karne se bhi inke pait main chuhe daudane lage [The Congress is so much centered around one family that their stomachs hurt even while recalling Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his birth anniversary],” Mr. Modi said in his speech. Reacting to this allegation, Mr. Vallabh said that for the BJP Sardar Patel must be new, but for the Congress he was a revered figure. “Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel lives in our hearts. The BJP has to get his statue made in China. BJP gives tickets to those people who called Mahatma Gandhi names, a figure who was revered by Sardar Patel,” Mr. Vallabh said.
02 November 2020||Hassan,||Ekalavya, Kreeda Ratna awards announced||The State government has chosen sports personalities, including cricketers K.L. Rahul, Veda Krishnamurthy, and Mayank Agarwal, athlete Reena George, and hockey player Nikhil Thimmaiah for the Ekalavya award. Minister for Sports and Youth Empowerment C.T. Ravi announced the list of sports personalities chosen for the Ekalavya and Kreeda Ratna awards for 2017, 2018, and 2019 in Chikkamagaluru on Sunday. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will present the awards in Bengaluru on Monday.
02 November 2020||Jaipur,||Gurjar body starts stir over quota in Rajasthan||A major Gurjar organisation on Sunday started an agitation over reservation, a day after community leaders held talks with the Rajasthan government and reached a consensus on 14 points. The call for the agitation was given by the Gurjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti. According to police, youths in large numbers blocked a rail track in Bharatpur’s Bayana. Routes of seven passenger trains were changed in the wake of the Gurjar agitation, a North-Western Railways spokesman said. Seven trains were diverted due to a blockade on the Hindaun City-Bayana railway line, the spokesperson said in a statement. Organisation convenor Colonel Kirori Singh Bainsla said he is waiting for State Sports and Youth Minister Ashok Chandna to come to Bayana from Jaipur. When asked how long the agitation would stretch, he said, “It depends on the government.” The agitation will affect traffic on the Delhi-Mumbai rail route. Traffic was disrupted on the Bayana-Hindaun road, police said. Earlier on Saturday, Gurjar leader Himmat Singh said the talks with the government were positive. Mobile Internet services have been suspended in many districts. The Home department had invoked the National Security Act in Bharatpur, Dholpur, Sawai Madhopur, Dausa, Tonk, Bundi, Jhalawar and Karauli districts. The organisation is demanding that the Rajasthan government get the Gurjar reservation included in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, fill the backlog of vacancies and give the benefit of 5% reservation to the Most Backward Classes in the pending recruitment process.
02 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Mullappally’s comment draws flak||A ‘misogynist’ comment by Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran triggered widespread condemnation on Sunday. It also prompted the Kerala Women’s Commission to slap a case on Mr. Ramachandran. Mr. Ramachandran posited at a Congress rally that women who have self-respect would die if raped. They should at least ensure that they did not get violated again, he said. The case concerned He was speaking in the context of the government pursuing cases of rape against a galaxy of Congress leaders based on the recommendation of the judicial commission that examined the solar investment fraud case in 2016. The case had rocked the Oommen Chandy government in 2014. The accused in the case, a woman, had told the commission that she had traded sex for getting the imprimatur of the United Democratic Front (UDF) government for her solar project. When Pinarayi Vijayan came to power in 2016, the alleged victim filed rape complaints against several Congress leaders, including Mr. Chandy. The police registered a case and commenced an investigation. The probe has made little headway so far. Mr. Ramachandran said whenever Mr. Vijayan faced adversity he raked up the old and unproven salacious case against Congress leaders as a defence. He did not name the woman. Mr. Ramachandran’s words went viral and set off an avalanche of criticism that cut across political lines. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said it reflected Mr. Ramachandran’s mindset. To blame a rape victim for the crime was male supremacist attitude. ‘In the past too’ She said Mr. Ramachandran had used such sexist comments in the past to disparage women. Mr. Ramachandran also drew flak from Congress MLA Shanimol Usman and KSWC chairperson M.C. Josephine among others. Apology Mr. Ramachandran has apologised for the comment, which certain quarters had misconstrued as anti-women, according to him. Mr. Ramachandran had drawn severe disapproval in June for his ‘gender insensitive and derogatory’ allusion to Ms. Shylaja as ‘Nipah princess’ and ‘COVID queen.’
02 November 2020||SIDDIPET,||All ready for Dubbak bypolls||All arrangements have been made for the smooth conduct of Dubbak byelection on Tuesday. Speaking to the media at Dubbak on Sunday, Returning Officer (RO) B. Chenanaiah said that polling will be held on November 3 from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. Informing that so far, Rs. 58 lakh cash was seized, he said that Rs. 2 lakh was returned to an owner after submitting related documents. “There are 1,98,807 voters comprising 97,978 men, 1,00,778 women and 51 service voters,” Mr. Chennaiah said on Sunday. 89 sensitive booths “Out of the 315 polling stations in the constituency, 89 are sensitive, and adequate security arrangements have been made. We have deployed 400 polling officers, 400 assistant polling officers and 800 additional staff, for the smooth conduct of polling. There are 6,150 elderly voters, out of which 1,550 are more than 80 years old. Of them, 1,340 have used the postal ballot,” he said. Time for COVID voters “Also, 73 COVID patients were identified and allotted time at the last one hour to cast their vote. Web casting will be there from 104 polling stations,” said Mr. Chennaiah, adding that more than 5,000 revenue and police officials have been deployed. Police Nodal Officer and Siddipet ACP Balaji said that about 2,000 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were pressed into service. He urged outsiders to leave the constituency before the polls.
02 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||BJP bought our MLAs, says Gujarat Cong.||Two days before voting for byelections to eight seats in Gujarat, the Opposition Congress on Sunday released a video of former legislator Somabhai Patel “admitting” that the BJP paid Rs. 10 crore to each of the eight legislators who resigned before the Rajya Sabha polls in the State. Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda and former party president Arjun Modhvadia released the video and accused the BJP of “buying Congress MLAs” in the State. In the video, Mr. Patel is heard claiming that “after getting the money, the eight MLAs resigned”. The resignations ensured that the ruling party won the third Rajya Sabha seat despite being short of numbers. Their resignations have necessitated the byelections. “It is an open secret that the BJP paid money to the legislators. With this video, it is established that the MLAs were bought during the Rajya Sabha polls,” Mr. Chavda told mediapersons. Mr. Modhvadia demanded that the Income Tax Department and the Enforcement Directorate launch a probe based on the admission of Mr. Somabhai.
02 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Prime accused in JEE proxy case held||The Assam police on Sunday arrested Bhargav Deka, the prime accused in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main proxy candidate case, from the Borjhar airport here. Mr. Deka is the owner of a Guwahati-based coaching institute that allegedly provided a substitute to take the test on behalf of candidate Neel Nakshatra Das to eventually score 99.8%. The candidate and his father Jyotirmoy Das, a doctor at a reputed hospital in Guwahati, were arrested on October 28 along with three employees of Tata Consultancy Services, to which the National Testing Agency had outsourced the conduct of the exam. One Mitradev Sharma filed a complaint at the Azara police station against the JEE topper on October 23 after a leaked phone call recording indicated he had used unfair means to score 99.8%. The candidate was heard saying that the invigilator of the examination centre had helped him get out soon after signing and writing his roll number on the answer sheet, which was later filled up by his proxy somewhere else.
02 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Ezhuthachan Puraskaram for Paul Zacharia||Writer Paul Zacharia has been selected for the 28th Ezhuthachan Puraskaram, the highest literary honour of the State government. Announcing the award here on Sunday, Culture Minister A.K. Balan said that Zacharia was chosen for the award for his contributions to Malayalam literature and thought for the past 50 years. He was chosen by a jury headed by Kerala Sahitya Akademi president Vysakhan and comprising poet K. Satchidanandan, literary critic M. Thomas Mathew, Sanskrit scholar K.G. Poulose, and Culture Secretary Rani George. The award comprises a cash prize of Rs. 5 lakh, a citation, and a plaque. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will present the award at a function to be held at the Secretariat Durbar Hall. Myriad streams Zacharia’s writing spans myriad streams of literature, including novellas, short stories, essays, travelogues, and children’s books. Known for his Malayalam short stories and essays for much of his writing career, he chose to write his first novel A Secret History of Compassion in English, in 2019. He is known as a non-conformist who fearlessly critiques the religious and political establishments through his writings. His well-known works include Bhaskara Pattelarum Ente Jeevithavum , Oridathu , Oru Nasrani Yuvavum Goulishashthravum , Salaam America , Praise the Lord , Urulikkunnathinte Luthiniya , Buddhijeevikalekkondu enthu prayojanam , Praise the Lord , Enthundu Vishesham Pilaathose , Oru African Yathra, and Arkkariyam . The jury has observed that he was able to build a new aesthetic merging tragedy and comedy. His cultural interventions are testimony to the fact that he is someone who observed the society around him keenly. Using stinging black humour, he turned the thoughts of an average Malayali into unusual literary moments, said the jury.
02 November 2020||Hyderabad,||SPF constable dies as rifle goes off accidentally||A Special Protection Force constable was found dead with bullet injury at Bank of Maharashtra’s currency chest in Ranigunj on Sunday morning, police said. A Madhu (31) from Amberpet was deployed at Bank of Maharashtra for providing security to the chest. Mahankali police station inspector Kaveti Srinivasulu said that Madhu’s self-loading rifle (SLR) went off accidentally when he reportedly placed the weapon under his chin while performing duty. The incident took place around 7.20 a.m. “The bullet went through his chin and came out from the skull,” he said, adding that Madhu was found in a pool of blood. A native of Suryapet, Madhu was survived by his wife and two children, a girl and a boy child (twins).
02 November 2020||Faridabad,||Crowd attacks police in Ballabgarh||A panchayat meeting held at Ballabgarh here in Haryana to seek justice for Nikita Tomar, a college student who was shot dead by a stalker and his friend a week ago, turned violent on Sunday, with the crowd of around 200 protesters throwing stones at the police and shops. Ten police personnel were injured. Thirty persons were detained, the police said. Mild force was used to disperse the mob, the Faridabad police said in a press statement.
02 November 2020||Guwahati,||Mizoram seeks help to end blockade||The Assam-Mizoram border row continued for the fifth consecutive day on Sunday with the authorities of both States failing to make local groups in southern Assam lift the indefinite economic blockade. The dispute flared up last week after the Mizoram government decided not to withdraw its forces allegedly occupying parts of Assam. Consequently, over 100 trucks carrying essentials, and vehicles with Mizoram-bound passengers have been blocked by agitators in Assam’s Cachar and Karimganj districts. Mizoram’s Chief Secretary Lalnunmawia Chuaungo has written to his Assam counterpart Jishnu Barua, who took over charge on October 31, seeking police protection for the stranded vehicles along the NH-306. He also sought action against Assam police personnel who had allegedly left Mizoram-bound vehicles, including oil tankers, at the mercy of the agitators on the Assam side.
02 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Local visitors fill tourist space in Kaziranga reserve||The pandemic-wary domestic and foreign tourists have largely avoided the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) where elephant safari began on Sunday. But their space has been mostly filled by local people and visitors from elsewhere in Assam and its adjoining north-eastern States. Tourist season The KNPTR, the world’s safest address for the one-horned rhinoceros, reopened on October 21 after seven months. The annual tourist season for the park is from October-April but the last season had ended prematurely due to the COVID-19 lockdown in March. “Elephant safari is one of the major attractions of the park. We started the safari from today [Sunday] but had to reduce the number of seats from 60 to 40 per day in order to maintain physical distance,” KNPTR Director P. Sivakumar said. He said the visitors this time were mostly from the north-eastern States. The KNPTR also conducts jeep safaris. Assam Forest officials said locals had also been travelling to other popular wildlife reserves such as the Manas National Park and the Nameri National Park “possibly because the tourist pressure is less this time”. KNPTR officials said the park earns an average annual revenue of Rs. 5.2 crore that took care of maintenance and salaries of the casual staff. Tourism in the State suffered in December 2019 due to the violent agitation against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act before the pandemic struck.
02 November 2020||Guwahati,||Assam allots medical seats for 3 groups||The Bharatiya Janata Party-led alliance government in poll-bound Assam has announced reservation in medical seats for students belonging to three communities that have been demanding the Scheduled Tribe (ST) status. The reservation of 17 medical seats for students from the Koch-Rajbongshi, Ahom and Chutia communities will be from the State’s quota for the Other Backward Class (OBC) that had been raised from 15 to 27% some time ago. These three communities comprise more than 25% of Assam’s electorate with the Morans, Mataks and “Tea Tribes” — the other three communities demanding the status. “We have reserved eight seats for Koch-Rajbongshis, five for Ahoms and four for the Chutia community,” Education Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. The reserved seats, officials said, will be spread across seven medical colleges.
02 November 2020||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||Highways Chief Engineer inspects RoB work||Chief Engineer of State Highways (Projects) M. Murugesan on Sunday visited Kallagam near here to review the progress of Road Over Bridge on Tiruchi-Chidambaram Road. He directed the officials to speed up the work. He also directed them to ensure the quality of work. Mr. Murugesan instructed the officials of Quality Control division of Highways department to inspect and monitor the quality of work regularly. Superintending Engineer. KG.Sathya Prakash, Divisional Engineer A. Shabudhin, Assistant Divisional Engineer S.Raja,and Assistant Engineer C.Natarajan accompanied Mr. Murugesan.
02 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai’s tally breaches two-lakh mark||While fresh cases have been on the decline, Chennai’s tally on Sunday crossed the two-lakh mark, with 686 more persons testing positive for COVID-19. It took three months for the city to add one lakh more cases, taking its tally to 2,00,533. The State recorded 2,504 fresh cases, taking its tally to 7,27,026. Another 3,644 persons were discharged, and 30 more persons succumbed to the infection. With this, a total of 6,94,880 persons have been discharged so far, even as the toll touched 11,152. Active cases dipped further to 20,994. Coimbatore reported 248 cases, Chengalpattu 145 and Tiruvallur 136. A total of 110 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem, while the remaining 32 districts saw less than 100 cases. This included Erode with 98 cases and Tiruppur with 85. Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi had the least number of cases (three each). Chennai, Coimbatore, Chengalpattu, Salem, Tiruvallur, Tiruppur and Kancheepuram are the districts that have reported a higher number of cases in the last seven days. As per data available with the Health Department, positivity rate has been declining across the State. In the last four weeks, the positivity rate dropped from 9.7% (October 2-8) to 6.8% (October 23-29) in Chennai. Similarly, in Coimbatore, the positivity rate declined from 8.7% (October 2-8) to 5.6% (October 23-29). However, the festive season has sounded an alarm in the Health Department. “We should not be complacent, keeping in mind the situation in Europe, the U.S. and a few States in the country itself. Due to the festival season and a tendency to shop, all have been directed to follow standard operating procedures,” an official of the Department said. He added that campaigns stressing importance of wearing masks had been intensified. “We have also asked district-level officials to conduct strict fever surveillance and ensure that clusters, if any, are immediately followed up with intensive contact tracing, testing and containment. We should keep emphasising on COVID-19-appropriate behaviour,” he said. Of the 30 deceased, 15 persons died in private hospitals and an equal number of persons in government facilities. Chennai accounted for 11 of these deaths, followed by five in Kancheepuram. Coimbatore recorded no deaths. This included two persons in their 30s. A 31-year-old man from Chennai, who had diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease, was admitted to a private hospital, with complaints of fever for six days and cough for two days on October 22. He died on October 31. The second person, a 33-year-old man from Chengalpattu, had systemic hypertension, diabetes and chronic kidney disease. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on October 29, but he died on October 31. One more private laboratory — the Molecular Lab at Karpagam Hospital, Coimbatore — was approved for COVID-19 testing.
02 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schools to focus on well-being of students once they reopen||While schools await detailed guidelines from the Tamil Nadu government for reopening their campuses for Classes 9-12 from November 16, many schools want to keep the initial focus on students’ physical and mental well-being. Since senior students are being called to schools, most principals and parents feel schools should not delve into academics immediately and start preparing the students for the exams so as to make up for lost time. Instead, they should assess the students’ concerns and needs. General interactions “For the first few days, schools should not focus on academics or completing lessons. Since we will be meeting the students after March, it is best to take some time off lessons and have general interactions, conversations about how learning has been over the last few months and the challenges they have faced,” said Vishnucharan Panneerselvam, correspondent, Shree Niketan Group of Schools. P.G. Subramanian, principal, Bhavan’s Rajaji Vidyashram, said that based on the standard operating procedures, which will be released by the State government, schools would decide how to call the students to the campus and how to schedule classes. “Schools will first need to work with teachers and then students to prepare them for the norms that will be in place to ensure their health and safety,” he said. The State government had earlier decided to reopen schools for senior classes only for guidance sessions. That decision was put on hold. It is to be seen whether that decision will be implemented or schools can call all students. Staggered timings The Tamil Nadu Teachers Association has said schools should be told to implement staggered timings for the students to be allowed on the campus. “For students taking board exams in 2021, time is running out and it will help us if we meet them in person and ensure they catch up with lessons. At the same time, we hope strict physical distancing norms are enforced and not more than 10 students are allowed to sit in each classroom,” it said in a statement. Smaller batches Association president P.K. Ilamaran said teachers should either individually seek out students or divide them into smaller batches and speak to them about how the last few months have been, before delving into academics. From how students will go to school to the changes in infrastructure — provision of hand-washing facilities at every entrance, sanitiser and masks and scheduling of daily lessons — schools will have a lot to plan over the next two weeks once the guidelines are out. “District officials should work with the schools in their jurisdiction and ensure that specific norms are implemented, based on their location and student strength. For rural and urban schools, there are many different issues that need to be addressed,” according to Patrick Raymond of the Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers Federation.  Schools will first need to work with their teachers and then students to prepare them for the norms that will be in place to ensure their health and safety P.G. SubramanianPrincipal, Bhavan’s Rajaji Vidyashram
02 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Theatres and multiplexes in State to reopen on November 10||Theatres and multiplexes in Tamil Nadu have indicated that they will resume operations from November 10 following the standard operating procedure (SOP) laid down by the State and Central governments. A few standalone theatres have said they will wait for another week and take a decision on the basis of the films that are ready for release. If there are no new releases from the Tamil film industry, theatre-owners are planning to re-release a few films or screen other language films. On Saturday, the State government said it would allow theatres and multiplexes to reopen from November 10 with 50% of their seating capacity. To create awareness among the audience, theatres have been asked to screen messages on the COVID-19 precautionary measures during the show time. “Unless there is some big film for Deepavali, we will not reopen the theatre. We would rather wait than incur losses. On normal days, our occupancy rate is 70%; now, with the 50% limit, it does not make sense for us to reopen immediately,” said the proprietor of a popular theatre in the city. Udeep B, managing director of Mayajaal, said his screens would open on November 10. “Complete COVID-19 new normal SOP has been set in the multiplex last month itself,” he said. “There are some films in the pipeline, which we expect to be released. Or we will open with other language films playing in other States. There will be some new release for Deepavali or there are some Hindi films releasing. We will play them,” he said. Archana Kalpathi, CEO, AGS Cinemas, said, “We will be starting on November 10 to test the protocol. Looking at the way restaurants and other places have bounced back, theatres will also see patrons coming back if we give them the comfort and the safety.” “If there is no new content, we will release some movies that were running before COVID-19 broke out,” she said. Most theatre-owners pointed out that producers were hesitating to release films, wondering whether the audience would run the risk of visiting a theatre. They want to wait and watch. “We have already incurred heavy losses and we don’t want to release the film and get stuck again. Families will take more time to visit theatres until the number of COVID-19 cases come down. And patrons aged below 25 will not come unless it is a big star film. I will wait until Pongal,” said a producer speaking on condition of anonymity. A source in the film industry said, “Theatres need content for the audience to come in, while content-providers want the audience to come in to release the films.” “We still have more than a week. So let us wait and see which producer is making the first bet,” he said. The 1,213 screens, with over 6.36 lakh seats, in the State brought down their curtains in March this year. According to estimates, a one-day closure of all theatres will lead to an average loss of Rs. 8 crore. Amusement parks Theme park operators are still in a dilemma as they rely heavily on schools and children. While a handful of them said they would resume work on November 10, others said they would wait until 2021. “We have a lot of water-rides. So we don’t want to take chances now. We will open in March 2021,” said a theme park operator from the southern part. In Chennai, VGP and a few more amusement park operators said they would reopen this month as soon as their contract workers and employees returned. “We will commence operation on November 10. We will start training our staff in queue management and handling various rides in compliance with the norms prescribed by the government,” said V.G.P. Ravidas, managing director of VGP Universal Kingdom. Vincent Adaikalraj, director of Black Thunder, said, “We have a park at Ooty that we will open [after getting approval from the Collector]. With regard to Black Thunder, we will open it at the end of November or in summer. We are still evaluating.” Currently, there are over 25 organised players in Tamil Nadu in the theme park space. Each employs 300-500 people. According to the Indian Association of Amusement Parks and Industries, there are 150 parks and they have a projected revenue loss of over Rs. 1,100 crore.
02 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Constitute committee to study impact of irrigation project: NGT||The southern bench of the National Green Tribunal has directed a joint committee to be constituted to study the environmental impact of the Mettur-Sarabanga Lift Irrigation Project and submit a report. An application was filed against the implementation of the project on the grounds that prior Environmental Clearance (EC) was not obtained before commencing work on the project and that the project was in total disregard to the riparian rights of the Delta farmers. The applicant alleged that the project only intended to exploit the water source to develop new agricultural ayacuts in Edappadi, Sangagiri, Omalur and Mettur taluks to irrigate about 4,238 acres of land. To affect farmers The applicant said construction of the project had begun without obtaining EC and that it will affect the livelihood of the farmers in the Cauvery Delta region and the lower riparian areas. “It is submitted that the G.O was issued in an arbitrary manner and no expert body was constituted to study the flow of excess water to be diverted to develop new ayacuts. It is also submitted that there were no opportunities given to the farmers in and around the lower riparian region to raise their objections and concerns,” the applicant said. The applicant further said that in the past few decades no excess water was available in the Mettur dam and that drawing water illegally from the Cauvery would lead to further scarcity in and around the lower riparian areas, directly affecting the agricultural output of the Delta region, leading to issues of food security across Tamil Nadu. The Bench directed a joint committee comprising officials of the Chennai office of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, State Environment Impact Assessment Authority, and the Public Works Department be formed to study the environmental impact of the irrigation project and submit a report by December 10.
02 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No more cuts planned by govt.||Encouraged by the signs of recovery in revenue collections in the last couple of months, the Tamil Nadu government seems to have decided against any further expenditure cuts. Its line of thinking has been supported by one of the key recommendations of the Rangarajan committee that assessed the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the State’s economy. In its report submitted to the government in September, the committee suggested that any more expenditure cuts were “not warranted”. As of now, the government has cut its expenditure by about 0.7% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). In other words, it has reduced its expenditure by Rs. 14,000 crore through austerity measures. The enhancement of the age of superannuation of employees from 58 to 59 years, a freeze on the payment of dearness allowance to the staff and the pensioners till July 2021 and the suspension of encashment of earned leave for a year are among the measures. 25% decline Though the figures of revenue collections for the first half (April-September) of the current financial year are not available as yet, a government official says that compared with the corresponding period last year, revenue receipts declined by 25%, a figure that was originally anticipated for the whole of 2020-21. In September and October, there was an “upswing” in the collections of the State Goods and Services Tax (SGST). If the trend of improved revenue collections continues, it will give the government a greater fiscal room, resulting in lesser borrowings. In the last seven months, the government had borrowed around Rs. 54,000 crore, constituting about 2.75% of the originally permitted 3% of the GSDP. This accounts for about 90% of the amount firmed up prior to the pandemic broke out. In view of the Centre’s permission to increase the borrowing limit by 2%, subject to certain conditions, the State has planned to take another Rs. 40,000 crore. In the end, its overall borrowings may be 4.5%, though the State can go up to 4.75%. Conscious of the Rangarajan committee’s recommendation for an increase in the capital expenditure by Rs. 10,000 crore, the government has cleared several infrastructure projects in irrigation, roads and bridges and school education. For meeting the immediate requirements arising out of the pandemic, the government may have to spend at least Rs. 5,000 crore in the remaining part of the year, according to the committee. The committee, which put the State economy’s growth rate at -0.61% to 1.31% for the current year, indicated that in view of the continuance of the lockdown, the probability of a negative growth rate was “high”. The farm sector was expected to grow at 6.54%, real estate at 3.64% and construction at 5.24%. The overall manufacturing growth was likely to register a rate of -5% and hotel, tourism and transport might see a figure ranging from -5% to about -13%. The official says the government has begun acting on some of the recommendations. Sector-specific recommendations will be sent to the Departments concerned.  As of now, the government has cut its expenditure by about 0.7% of GSDP. In other words, it has reduced its expenditure by Rs. 14,000 crore
02 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic police conduct campaign to help curb stop line violations at junctions||Stepping up efforts to curb stop line violations, the traffic police began a campaign from Sunday to make motorists follow the rules. Stop lines have been marked on the roads to make motorists halt when approaching intersections controlled by traffic signals. As many motorists have been violating stop lines, it has been causing difficulties in traffic management. At traffic signals, uniformed police personnel were seen holding public address systems and advising motorists to follow the rules and stop at the marked points. They also sought the cooperation of motorists to ensure free flow of traffic in the city. A senior traffic police officer said, “After relaxation of lockdown restrictions, many vehicles have hit the road and motorists are often not following the rules In order to bring a sense of discipline, we have launched the campaign. At all traffic signals, our personnel will ensure motorists follow the rules.” The Greater Chennai Corporation has been asked by the traffic police to paint fresh stop lines wherever they have faded out. As per the Motor Vehicles Rules, a motorist will have to pay a fine of  Rs. 100 for the first offence of stop line violation and up to Rs. 300 for subsequent offences, police officers said.
02 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sweet shops, meat retailers being awarded hygiene ratings||This festive season, when you walk into a sweet shop or a meat retailer, look out for their star rating from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). The Food Safety Department has so far certified 50 sweet and meat retail outlets each based on various hygienic practices. All sweet stalls in the city that took part this year have received five-star ratings. “This certification is being done based on a set of parameters. External agencies authorised by the FSSAI are doing two sets of audits. They look at points including maintenance and sanitation, personal hygiene, control of operations and food safety certification among others. After the first round of audits, we give them points that can be improved and also three months to comply, after which another audit is conducted,” explained A. Ramakrishnan, designated officer (Chennai), Food Safety Department. Though the certification is voluntary, a two-day training programme on food safety is compulsory for the establishments. Sangeetha Group’s P. Rajagopal said the certification was yet another addition to the ISO certification of their central kitchen. M. Ravi of the Chennai Hotels’ Association said they welcomed the certification as it would help build confidence among customers. A.G. Saranya Gayathiri, who heads Parikshan, a food safety and audit agency, said standalone restaurants, too, should opt to get hygiene ratings.
02 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four firms have placed bids for Metro tunnelling work for the phase II project||Four firms have bid for the construction of a 21-km underground stretch for the phase II project of Chennai Metro Rail. Gulermak, Tata Projects, L&T and Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Co (Singapore) Pte Ltd-Woh Hup Pte Ltd (joint venture) have submitted their bids. While the entire phase II project covers a length of 118.9 km, Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) will build the project by giving out contracts in sections. Initially, two tenders were floated for the construction of tunnels between Venugopal Nagar in Madhavaram to Kellys (9 km) and then to Taramani (12 km). After technical and financial bids were finalised, a contractor would be chosen to build tunnels in a few months, sources said. Two tunnel boring machines (TBM) each will bore through the earth in these two stretches — one for onward and another for return tracks. Though TBMs can bore at a speed of 5-10 metres a day on an average, the geological conditions will determine the actual working speed. According to the officials of CMRL, they decided to start this first since tunnelling work was the toughest and consumed the maximum amount of time in a project. “We hope to carry out this work as fast as we can but it will depend highly on the geological conditions in these stretches. To ensure disruptions are less, we have done soil testing every 25 m at hundreds of spots throughout the city. Despite that there could be some challenges,” an official said. It could take nearly four years to finish the tunnelling work in this stretch.
02 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After nine months, Tamil Nadu completes 1 crore RT-PCR tests for COVID-19||Nearly 9 months after it started testing samples for COVID-19, Tamil Nadu on Sunday hit the milestone of one crore tests using RT-PCR kits. “Tamil Nadu is the only State which goes entirely by RT-PCR testing. With laboratories in all districts, the State’s capacity is over one lakh tests per day,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. With 73,012 samples having been tested in the last 24 hours, the number of RT-PCR tests done so far stands at 1,00,29,222. Strategy P. Umanath, managing director of the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation, said, “The success of Tamil Nadu’s strategy of using only RT-PCR [tests] is exemplified by the fact that it is the only State where the active case count has not increased after July. It easily accounts for the highest [number of] RT-PCR tests per million population among the major States. Still, we need to continue maintaining the aggressive testing strategy to mitigate any probable surge in the winter months.” According to data available with the Health Department, as of October 31, Tamil Nadu accounted for the second-highest number of samples tested in the country, next to Uttar Pradesh, where a total of 1,48,63,388 samples had been tested. However in Uttar Pradesh, rapid antigen tests were done in significant proportions. Maharashtra came third, having tested 89,06,826 samples. Positivity rate Tamil Nadu’s test positivity rate, as of October 31, was 7.28%, placing the State seventh in the country. The State started testing samples in February after the first laboratory for COVID-19 testing was set up at the King Institute of Preventive Medicine, Chennai. Prior to this, samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. The first laboratory-confirmed case was reported on March 7. Focus “Going forward, the focus will be on aggressive testing, contact tracing and testing at least 10 times the number of positives in the districts. Of late, in addition to those taken at hospitals and fever camps, samples are being taken from street vendors and marketplaces," the Health Secretary said. This is how the testing of samples has progressed in the State — 2,546 samples tested in March, 1,17,394 in April, 3,72,416 in May, 6,78,721 in June, 14,87,455 in July, 21,55,009 in August, 25,40,876 in September and 26,02,160 in October. However, the number of samples tested per day has declined from over 90,000 in early October to 70,000 now. The seven-day average was 75,140 (October 25 to 31). As of November 1, a total of 97,60,029 persons had been tested. Testing kits The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) has ordered 88.26 lakh RT-PCR testing kits till date. Of them, 69.36 lakh kits have been received by TNMSC so far. Another 2.78 lakh kits were provided by the Central government and 53,000 were donated. TNMSC has provided 68.37 lakh kits to hospitals so far. Currently, 7.5 lakh kits are available with hospitals and 4.2 lakh kits are available with TNMSC. The State has a total of 203 testing facilities — 66 in the government sector and 137 in the private sector.
02 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Units can now buy land irrespective of violation by seller||In a significant policy decision aimed at boosting industrial growth, the Tamil Nadu government has said that industrial units can now possess lands, irrespective of any violation of provisions of the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961, by the seller/vendor in the transaction. The State government also issued a notification that sought to double the ceiling area for an industrial or commercial undertaking, from 15 standard acres to 30 standard acres of dry land ( punjai ), giving effect to an amended legislation adopted in the Assembly in July 2018. A senior bureaucrat said: “With this decision, one can hold up to 120 acres of dry land [the highest conversion of a standard acre being equivalent to four acres] without permission. It is 60 acres in case of wetland.” Earlier, the buyer could not possess the land even if industrial units had bought the lands, unaware that the seller had violated the provisions of the T.N. Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 [seller-attracted issues]. “Even now, the government can reject such applications made under Section 37-A of the Act. But now, there is a chance for applying, which was not the case earlier,” an IAS officer said. Boosting business The State government has since directed the Commissioner of Land Reforms to send proposals in accordance with the decision taken over granting permission, under Section 37-A of the Act. As per the Act, industrial units cannot possess lands beyond a slab, and it was increased a couple of years ago, he said. If a party owned lands beyond the slab, they had to declare it to the government, under the Act. If the excess lands were sold wholly, or in parts, to another party, the transaction would not be allowed. “This decision will boost the business environment in the State,” the officer said. Another official in the Revenue Department said the Tamil Nadu government’s decision followed high-level deliberations on the issue and consideration of opinions from the Advocate General in this regard. He, however, clarified: “If the authorised officer has already taken steps to recover the lands to the government, this will not apply. This will only apply to lands pending action by the government.” So far, the Industrial Exemption Committee had not recommended the grant of permission in case of ‘seller-attracted issue’ lands, and representatives of the Industries Department were of the view that Section 20 of the Land Reforms Act should not be enforced on industrial units, when its seller held land beyond the ceiling limit, but no declaration had been made by the authorised officer for the said land. The issue was discussed in detail during a meeting chaired by the Chief Secretary in March. The G.O. can be accessed on The Hindu portal at http://bit.ly/TNGOIndustry
02 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New shrimp species found in Indian coral reef||Scientists associated with the National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources have identified four species of shrimps hitherto not found in Indian waters. The species were found in the coral reef in the Lakshadweep islands and have since been studied. The findings have been published in Zootaxa , an international peer-reviewed journal. The species, Hippolytoid shrimps, were found at a depth of 0.5-2 m from the intertidal region of Agatti Island of Lakshadweep group of islands. T.T. Ajith Kumar, principal scientist at the National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resource at the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), said they discovered the species during exploratory surveys in the reefs. “We discovered two shrimp species, which are new to science. We named one Periclimenella agatti after the Agatti island where it was found and another as Urocaridella arabianesis , after the Arabian Sea,” Mr. Ajith explained. The Department of Biotechnology has funded the development of germplasm resource centre for marine ornamental invertebrate, aiming to conserve the biodiversity. Export business “Business in ornamental fish is as much as US $500 million across the world but India has no share,” said Mr. Ajith, a native of Nagarcoil, who had worked at Annamalai University till 2014. He is currently working at NBFGR, Kochi. Kuldeep Kumar Lal, director of ICAR, said the discovery offered an opportunity to develop ornamental fish trade in India besides supporting the livelihood of the coastal and island communities. The NBFGR has since collected three species of marine ornamental shrimps and raised them in captivity. Since March, 20 women from the island had been trained to raise the shrimps. The aim is to develop hatcheries to enable sustained income for the beneficiaries, who will establish rearing units in their backyard. The DBT would also create marketing channels and link them directly to enable them sell the captive reared ornamental shrimps and sea anemones, he explained.
02 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Collegium system encroaches on State rights: VCK chief||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi president Thol. Thirumavalavan on Sunday said the Collegium system followed in India by the judiciary not only encroaches on the rights of the States but is also against the idea of a ‘federal structure’. Addressing a webinar on ‘State Rights and Collegium System’, he said even the Constitution defines the rights of the States and the Union Government, but the party that comes to power at the Centre doesn’t respect the rights of the States. “This [mindset] has an impact in the judiciary as well and the Collegium is an evidence of that. It is not a system that is present in the Constitution of India but created by the Supreme Court,” he said. The Chief Justice of India has more powers than the Central government. “While it impedes State rights, the Collegium system is against the idea of federal structure reiterated by the Constitution. BJP is not just a political party that wants to get to power. They have an intention. They have a long-term vision to take India thousands of years back. They want to destroy social justice to ensure that the privileged classes continue to enjoy these privileges,” he alleged. Centre-State relations VCK general secretary D. Ravikumar said there is a need to form a committee to look into Centre-State relations again and amend the Constitution. “We passed a resolution at Maanila Suyatchi Maanadu in 2017 that a committee to look into the Centre-State relations should be formed again. Though the State governments should be consulted in the appointment of judges of the High Courts, it doesn’t happen in spirit. The State government should have the power to appoint High Court judges and Articles 217, 221, 222, 223, 224 and 224A of the Constitution should be amended accordingly.” Former Madras High Court judge D. Hariparanthaman said, “In reality, the Supreme Court is always under the control of the Central government when the latter is strong. The Supreme Court becomes independent when the Central government is weaker.” Referring to the incident of four judges addressing a press meet in 2018, Justice Hariparanthaman said, “They questioned the Chief Justice’s role as ‘Master of the Roster’ and suggested that he is acting at the behest of the Central government.”
02 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Illegal liquor party busted||After rounding up youth partying illegally at a restaurant in Injambakkam on East Coast Road (ECR) on Saturday, the police let them off with a warning.   On receiving information about a bar being operated illegally from a private premises on ECR, a special police team from Neelankarai conducted searches late on Saturday. The team stumbled upon a DJ party organised at a restaurant in Injambakkam. At the party, alcohol was being supplied illegally to the customers. The organisers held the event under the guise of a birthday party. The police said the manager, Stalin, 32, was serving drinks illegally late into the night. The bar manager was arrested and liquor bottles and musical instruments were seized. About 20 young men and women who were partying were let off with a warning.
02 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prince of Arcot condemns killing of French teacher||The Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, on Sunday strongly condemned both the murder of French teacher Samuel Paty by an Islamist radical and the inflammatory posts caricaturing Prophet Muhammad in France. He said Muslims had the right to protest against attempts to defame Islam and the Holy Prophet. “Let the vested interests desist from unnecessarily interfering and insulting other religions. Any reaction in defence of the Prophet has to be in accordance with exemplary conduct. The Prophet did not allow cowardly insults or physical attacks to come in the way of his great mission,” he said.
02 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen resist token system||The fishing community has been opposing the implementation of the token system in the Kasimedu fishing harbour, whereby the entry and exit of boats will be monitored. Boat owners have been asked to provide details, including the names of labourers, date of departure/return and location of fishing. “Will they guarantee the safety of our men, boats and nets if we provide these details? The safety equipment they have provided us will not work in half the boats. We travel for as long as a week to reach fishing grounds. In such cases, how can we return quickly to the shore if there is a cyclone?” asked an office-bearer of a boat owners’ association. Kumaresan, a boat owner, said the token system would not suit Chennai, since the labourers were not fixed or attached to the boats. “Sometimes even bystanders are taken on fishing trips on short notice. We get people from Andhra Pradesh or Thoothukudi,” he said.  The Fisheries Department, which introduced the system, is now insisting that deep sea fishermen and trawlers register themselves before leaving for trips.
02 November 2020||CHENNAI/ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘CM has turned State into a kitten before Centre’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday accused Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami of turning a “majestic State” like Tamil Nadu into a “kitten before the BJP government (at the Centre).” Addressing a virtual meeting of party cadre in Erode, as part of his Tamizhagam Meetpom (Retrieve Tamil Nadu) campaign, he said the time had come to put an end to the humiliation of the State, and stop being servile to the Centre. “That is why I call the [2021] Assembly election not an instrument for change, but a war,” he said. According to him, the ruling AIADMK was facing a leadership conflict and Mr. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam would have to give up their roles in May 2021, and leave Fort St. George. “They will be chased away by the people after the election in May,” he said, charging that the nearly 10 years of AIADMK rule had pushed the State to the bottom. Mr. Stalin said the State government and the AIADMK were functioning like two different entities and they would break anytime like brittle glass. “We witnessed the drama staged by Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam to occupy their seats in the last four years. The policy of the government is to loot, and Tamil Nadu has registered negative growth in all fields,” he said. He said the State had moved to the 14th position in ease-of-doing business rankings in the country, as per a list released by the Union Commerce and Industry Minister in September. “The government is lying that they have attracted more investments and provided job opportunities,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the Centre might appreciate the AIADMK government, but not others. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Tamil Nadu had controlled COVID-19. We do not know whether the Prime Minister is still in the country orhas been living secretly somewhere else,” he quipped. The DMK leader said as many as 11,000 people had died of COVID-19 and over seven lakh people were infected by the virus. Adverting to the Paul Harris Fellowship conferred on Mr. Palaniswami, Mr. Stalin said as many as 10 lakh people had received the award till 2016, and anyone who was ready to pay Rs. 75,410 could get the award. On reservation Mr. Stalin, in a separate statement, also urged the Centre to withdraw its stand in the Madras High Court that it was not in favour of 50% reservation for government doctors in postgraduate medical courses. Even though the Supreme Court had clearly ruled that the State government had the rights to implement compartmental reservation, the AIADMK government was not able to do it for fear of the BJP government, he said. Pointing out that the reservation policy was followed before 2016, Mr. Stalin said denying government doctors a place in postgraduate courses was against social justice.
02 November 2020||CHENNAI/Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Doraikkannu laid to rest in Thanjavur||Agriculture Minister R. Doraikkannu, who died battling COVID-19-related complications on Saturday night at a private hospital in Chennai, was laid to rest in a coconut grove, in Vanniyadi, near his native village Rajagiri in Thanjavur district, with State honours, on Sunday. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, several Ministers and AIADMK deputy coordinator K.P. Munusamy paid their respects by placing wreaths to the portrait of the late Minister. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of the late Minister. “Saddened by the demise. He made noteworthy efforts to serve the society and empower farmers. Condolences to his family and supporters in this sad hour,” Mr. Modi said. Governor Banwarilal Purohit and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami too, on Sunday, condoled Doraikkannu’s death. “His untimely demise is an irreparable loss to the people of Tamil Nadu, and, particularly, to AIADMK,” the Governor said. Mr. Palaniswami said Doraikkannu’s death was a huge loss not just to the late Minister’s family, but also personally, to him, the AIADMK and Tamil Nadu. The Chief Minister said the late Minister had earned the goodwill of the people. “Minister Doraikkannu was from an agricultural family and was chosen to become the Minister of Agriculture by former Chief Minister late Jayalalithaa. He was also part of my Cabinet and earned respect from the people for his service,” Mr. Palaniswami said. In a joint statement, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami recalled the late Minister’s contributions to the party. The Chief Minister and other Ministers visited the private hospital in Alwarpet to pay floral tributes. DMK president M.K. Stalin termed his death a great loss for AIADMK. “In the Assembly, he was always courteous while presenting his replies on demands for grants for his Department, and while responding to questions,” Mr. Stalin said. “He had a lot of respect and affection towards me,” PMK founder S. Ramadoss said. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri termed the Minister’s death an irrevocable loss. “Doraikkannu was known for his simplicity,” said MDMK chief Vaiko. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, DK president K. Veeramani, VCK founder Thol. Thirumavalavan, BJP State president L. Murugan, CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan and TMC leader G.K. Vasan also extended their condolences. Meanwhile, Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan was on Sunday given the additional portfolio of agriculture.
02 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MAK develops incinerator for waste management||Coimbatore-based MAK India has developed MAK green incinerator and is installing it for solid waste management in cities. Raman Sivakumar, chief scientist of the company, said it has installed two incinerators - at Erode and Chennai - and is in the process of installing the third one in the State. Segregates solid waste The incinerator, which works on vaporisation and incineration technologies, segregates municipal solid waste. It processes bio-degradable and non-bio degradable wastes separately to ensure that zero waste is generated from the process. The biodegradable waste is converted into organic manure and non-biodegradable waste is processed to generate cement-like ash and granulated carbon. The steam generated can be recovered and reused. The ash is made into pavement blocks and granulated carbon has several applications, he said. Pollution-free The entire process is pollution-free, the chief scientist of the company claimed. The average cost to instal a plant to treat the non-biodegradable waste works out to Rs. 4 lakh for a tonne of waste and the minimum land required is one acre (for 10 tonnes of waste). The company installs, operates and maintains the plants and is looking at long-term agreements with civic bodies. According to founder of the company, Manickam Athappa Gounder, the company is looking at solution for every pollution.
02 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two juveniles held for alleged sexual assault on girls||The Coimbatore rural police on Sunday arrested two boys for alleged sexual assault on two minor girls from their neighbourhood. The police said that the two boys, aged 14 and 15, from a village in Coimbatore district were arrested based on a complaint lodged by the mother of one of the victims. The girls are aged 10 and nine. The alleged sexual assault came to light on Saturday afternoon, when the 14-year-old boy, a class IX student, came to the house of the 10-year-old girl, a class V student, and asked if she was interested to join him for games. When the girl said she was not interested, her mother asked her the reason. The girl then told her mother that the boy and his 15-year-old friend sexually assaulted her and her nine-year-old friend at a secluded place in the locality on the afternoon of October 26, the police said. As per the complaint lodged with the Vadavalli police, the 14-year-old boy sexually assaulted the 10-year-old girl and the 15-year-old boy, a class IX drop-out, sexually assaulted the other girl, a class IV student. The complaint was transferred to the All Women Police Station (AWPS), Perur, where a case was registered against the minor boys. AWPS inspector Anbuselvi said that the boys were produced before the Juvenile Justice Board after which they were sent to the Juvenile Delinquents Observation Home at Lakshmi Mills junction on Sunday. The minor girls were given medical attention and counselling.  (Children in distress can call Childline on 1098)
02 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two shops fined for violating safety norms||Coimbatore Corporation on Sunday fined two shops on Oppanakara Street and closed one on Big Bazaar Street after Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian found violation of COVID-19 safety guidelines. According to sources, the civic body slapped Rs. 2 lakh fine on a textile shop and Rs. 1 lakh on another shop – both on Oppanakara Street – after Mr. Pandian found they were overcrowded. The Commissioner undertook the surprise visit after inaugurating a street play to create awareness among people and owners and managers of commercial establishments to follow the COVID-19 safety guideline. He also directed the Assistant Commissioner, Central Zone, M.M. Kanagaraj, and Zonal Sanitary Officer R. Radhakrishnan to close down a shop on Big Bazaar Street as it was overcrowded. During his inspection at several other shops, the sources said, the Commissioner asked the shop keepers to follow all the COVID-19 safety guideline like installing sanitiser dispensing machine, checking temperature of customers before they entered the premises and noting down their contact details.
02 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Shortage of containers hits apparel exports||Shortage of feeder vessels and containers at Thoothukudi port are affecting garment exports, according to Apparel Export Promotion Council chairman A. Sakthivel. In a memorandum to the Union Ministry of Shipping, Mr. Sakthivel said that in the recent days, exporters faced difficulty in shipment due to insufficient empty container inventory and capacity of small vessels. The exporters end up paying higher freight cost to ensure timely delivery to the buyers. “It has been gathered that there will not be any feeder vessel availability for next few weeks. Already, there are considerable shipments piled up and it is expected that the situation will get worse,” he said. Small vessels With fall in imports from China, there is an imbalance in container inventory in the country and exporters are unable to get good condition empty containers to export cargo from here. With increasing exports from India to the United States, there is a demand too for more containers. But with availability of only small vessels, space in the vessels is less and shipping lines are full. Thus, freight costs have gone up.
02 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Lack of funds hits bonus payments||With just two weeks for Deepavali, bonus talks are yet to start in some units and where it has commenced, there are delays in arriving at settlements. Trade union leaders say it could be a tough year for the workers as industries are citing lack of fund flow to pay bonus even at last year’s levels. Trade unions issue notices to industries about a month before Deepavali and talks commence after Ayudha Puja. “We expect talks to pick up from Monday in the engineering units in Coimbatore district. Only one pumpset major has arrived at a settlement so far,” says V. Perumal of Coimbatore District General Engineering and Mechanical Workers’ Union (CITU). “Our demand is that all workers should get bonus payments and the amount should not be less than last year,” he says. The units do cite reasons such as fund crunch. Some are saying they will pay in two instalments and some say they cannot pay the same amount as last year. A clear picture will be known only in the coming week, he says. M. Arumugam of AITUC says the National Textile Corporation (NTC) has agreed to pay 8.33 % bonus and 50% wages for the month of September. It has said that it will not be able to pay advance amount usually disbursed for the festival as its mills are yet to resume operations. In the private mills, the talks are yet to start, he says. The State government has not made announcements so far regarding bonus for workers of co-operative spinning mills. The union leaders say that the bonus is for 2019-20 financial year and lockdown was implemented only from March 25. However, many units remained closed in April-May and hence, the managements say they face financial problems. According to C. Sivakumar, president of Coimbatore and Tiruppur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association, the micro units will pay some amount as bonus to the workers. But the amount will be paid only before the festival and it may not be the same as last year. “Since the units re-opened after the lockdown, there were delays in getting the pending payments from bigger units. Only now is the situation getting better. Though the working hours have reduced, the worker strength remains the same. The units will pay bonus to all of them,” he says.
02 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNAU pays tribute to Agriculture Minister||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University led by Vice Chancellor N. Kumar on Sunday paid tributes to Agriculture Minister R. Doraikannu, who died in a private hospital late on October 31. A release from the University said Registrar, senior faculty and non-teaching staff joined Mr. Kumar to pay their tributes. The University had arranged a condolence meeting at Anna Auditorium at 11 a.m. on Monday and asked all its staff, spread across the State, to join via video conferencing.
02 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman’s chain snatched||Five-sovereign gold chain of a woman was snatched by a man when she was walking on the Police Recruits School (PRS) campus on Avinashi Road on Sunday. The police said that the chain belonging to P. Kanagam (75), mother of a policeman, was snatched by a lone man when she came to PRS grounds for evening walk. The man escaped from the campus and ran towards Pappanaickenpalayam after snatching the chain Chain belonging to another woman was snatched on the PRS campus recently.
02 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Singanallur tank inspected||Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian on Friday inspected the Singanallur tank. He inquired about migratory birds and insects that lived in and around the tank and the plants found there.
02 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NTK cadre booked for hoisting ‘T.N. flag’||The Saibaba Colony police booked four functionaries and a few members of Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) who hoisted a flag as Tamil Nadu flag at the party’s office at P.N. Pudur as part of observing Tamil Nadu Day on Sunday. The police said that a flag bearing insignias of Chera, Pandya and Chola dynasties was hoisted along with NTK flag. An Assistant Commissioner of Police, who passed that way, found the flag and removed it from the party office and informed the Saibaba Colony police. A case was registered against NTK's State co-ordinators Vijayaragavan, Abdul Wahab, Coimbatore north district secretary Gavaskar, north district treasurer Chinnathambi and others for various charges including unlawful assembly. Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) observed Tamil Nadu day at the Periyar Study Centre at Gandhipuram. TPDK members, led by general secretary K. Ramakrishnan, cut a cake with a red image of Tamil Nadu. A flag with a red map of Tamil Nadu against white background was pinned to a table which Mr. Ramakrishnan said was for representational purpose. “Karnataka government came up with a State flag. Tamil Nadu should also have a State flag considering the opinion of the people. On Tamil Nadu Day, TPDK urged the government to protect the rights of the State on every front,” he said.
02 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Kirtilals offers policy cover for its customers||Kirtilals, diamond and gold jewellery brand, has announced COVID-19 healthcare policy upto Rs. 5 lakh for its customers across all its showrooms. Suraj Shantakumar, Director – Business Strategy, Kirtilals, said in a press release, “In these uncertain times, we want to assure our customers that we take health and safety very seriously. When we say we want them to be safe, we want to convey their value at Kirtilals." Customers can visit the Kirtilals showroom for details. The service was launched a week ago and the amount insured is proportionate to the purchase value. The policy is valid for nearly 10 months. Apart from the precautionary measures taken at all its stores, Kirtilals has implemented the policy cover for its employees too.
02 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Work to re-lay Kollampalayam bypass road begins||Preliminary work to re-lay the Kollampalayam bypass road, which turned unmotorable after it was dug for various development works, began here recently. The one-km narrow stretch passes through residential areas and connects Karur Bypass Road with Erode Main Road. Since vehicles from the outskirts use the road to enter the city, the stretch is busy round the clock. The Erode Corporation, in March, carried out underground sewerage scheme works and later laid water pipelines under the dedicated water supply scheme. The road was again dug for house service connections. After all these works, the condition of the road turned worse and it became unmotorable. During rainy season, water stagnated in pits leading to accidents. Following this, the residents and motorists demanded the authorities to re-lay the road at the earliest. The Highways Department has begun work to remove the old tar-topped surface. The road would then be filled with gravel and tar-topped again. The work is expected to be completed in two weeks. However,the residents opined that the department should have re-laid the road during the lockdown period, as closure of the busy stretch for a week would affect the movement of vehicles.
02 November 2020||KANNIYAKUMARI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Kanniyakumari, Madurai districts report 43 fresh cases each||Kanniyakumari reported 43 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday, which took the district’s tally of positive cases up to 14,947, with 323 active cases. A total of 113 persons were discharged from hospitals in the district. The same number of new cases were recorded in Madurai too, with which the total number of cases in the district, which has 486 active cases, rose to 18,778. There were 64 discharges from hospitals. Dindigul registered 29 fresh cases to have a total case count of 9,802. The district also witnessed the discharge of 19 people. The number of active cases is 48. Twenty-eight new COVID-19 cases took Tirunelveli district’s tally up to 14,235. There were 38 discharges in the district, which has 158 active cases. A total of 25 fresh cases were added to the case count of Thoothukudi, which reached 15,087. After 24 persons were discharged, the district has 456 active cases. With 18 new cases, Virudhunagar saw its tally go up to 15,455. With 40 more patients having been discharged, the district has 129 active cases, and the death toll remains at 220. Theni’s single-day case count was 17, and overall case count touched 16,250. Hospitals in the district discharged 20 persons. There are 54 active cases. Ten people tested positive in Sivaganga. The tally of the district, which has 124 active cases, moved up to 5,912. Twenty-five people were got discharged from hospitals. Tenkasi and Ramanathapuram districts recorded three fresh cases each. While Tenkasi’s overall case count touched 7,826, the latter’s tally moved up to 6,007. The number of active cases in Tenkasi is 26, where as the figure for Ramanathapuram is 53. While six persons were discharged in Tenkasi, which marked two fatalities to have a death toll of 155, Ramanathapuram witnessed 26 discharges.
02 November 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||Freedom fighters honoured on Puducherry Liberation Day||Freedom fighters were honoured during the Puducherry Liberation Day celebrations at Karaikal on Sunday. Accompanied by District Collector Arjun Sharma, Senior Superintendent of Police Niharika Bhatt and other senior officials, Agriculture Minister of Puducherry R. Kamalakannan honoured the freedom fighters after unfurling the national flag and inspecting the guard of honour presented by uniformed personnel. In his address, Mr. Kamalakannan said Karaikal district has been sanctioned Rs. 702.29 crore during 2020-21 for implementation of schemes and expenditures, that includes Rs. 21.57 crore for road works, Rs. 21.12 for infrastructure development and Rs. 13.52 crore for central schemes. For removal of prosopis juliflora on farmland that had been left fallow due to shortage of water in the Cauvery river, subsidy of Rs. 10,000 per hectare would be provided for a maximum of two hectares. As for those who have been cultivating the land for the last three years, the money will be given as arrears. The Minister also unveiled proposals for modernisation of poultry units in Kottucherry area, and establishment of a new campus for Perunthalaivar Kamarajar Institute of Engineering and Technology at a 25-acre site in Srumavilangai. A sum of Rs. 7 crore has been earmarked for first phase of infrastructure development for the campus, he said. The Nehru Market that has been modernised by keeping the heritage features intact, with Rs. 10.05 crore World Bank funding and would be handed over to the Municipality soon for being put to public use, Mr. Kamalakannan said. There was progress in the Karaikal-Peralam rail link project for which the Central Government has sanctioned Rs. 177.69 crore, he said.
02 November 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Former Minister leads road roko||The DMK cadre led by former Minister V. Senthil Balaji on Sunday staged a road roko on Gandhigramam Road, demanding registration of a murder case by the police following the “mysterious death” of a partyman purportedly in a clash with AIADMK members. According to sources, the AIADMK and the DMK cadres had put up flex boards featuring pictures of their leaders on the occasion of the kumbabishegam of Vinayakar Temple on Mavadiyan Street on Friday. A tussle broke out between them and subsequently the banners were allegedly damaged and disfigured by the cadres of rival parties on Saturday. Prabakaran (55), who was reportedly injured in the clash along with his son Vigneshwaran (28) had complained of chest pain and was rushed to a private hospital, where he died. Prabakaran’s body was subsequently taken to the Government Medical College Hospital in Karur for post mortem. Alleging that Prabakaran was killed in the clash, Mr. Senthil Balaji led the road roko. The DMK partymen demanded that the police register a murder case against one Nandakumar (20) and other AIADMK cadre responsible for the death of Prabakaran, and refused to receive the body after completion of post mortem. Superintendent of Police Pagalavan reached out to the protesters promising suitable action, thereafter the DMK partymen dispersed. Traffic was thrown out of gear for more than two hours on Gandhigramam and Karur Road. Meanwhile, Nandakumar of AIADMK was booked under section 304/2 (causing death by negligence), police sources said.
02 November 2020||KODAIKANAL,TAMIL NADU||Helicopter joy ride service launched in Kodaikanal||A group of well-trained pilots, who had served in Indian Army and Naval forces, led by Wing Com. Satish Kumar, has launched a joy ride service on a helicopter for visiting tourists here. Speaking to reporters, the pilots said the idea of offering tourists here to experience a joy ride on a helicopter would be a memorable one, especially for the honeymoon couples. An aerial view of the Green Valley or other tourist spots would be a different experience, they said. As part of the maiden launch of the new service, they would be creating awareness among the tourists of the advantages of flying above the hills and taking an aerial view. The Standard Operating Procedures would be strictly adhered to and at a time, six tourists can fly in the helicopter. All precautions due to the covid-19 pandemic would also be followed, including physical distancing norms. The pilots said that they would be offering the copter service till November 3 here and planned to have thrice a week service depending on the response from the tourists. The rates would be affordable and the idea was to popularise the helicopter service. Already, the pilots said that they were engaged in the business of renting out helicopters/aircrafts for emergency services. Recently, in about 40 minutes, they airlifted an organ from Madurai to Coimbatore. “Like North Indians, where many people used copter services, we want to popularise among the public in this part of Tamil Nadu,” they added. A tourist operator Sam Antony having his office on Seven Roads here welcomed the helicopter service. It is something which would attract more tourists to visit the hill station and take a look at the scenic Kodai from a top view. “From time immemorial, we have been taking the tourists in private cabs to seven or 10 spots for a price depending on the season and off-season.” The helicopter service looks innovative and attractive, he opined.
02 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Trans News launched in city||The first edition of Trans News, an online magazine for transgender people, was launched at the Transgender Resource Centre here on Sunday. C. Shanmuga Sundaram, senior manager of Hi-Tech Arai; R.K. Vikrama Karna Pazhuvettarayar, writer and historian; Deepa Nagarani, writer; and C. Kavitha, Assistant Professor with Sri Meenakshi Government Arts College for Women, were the chief guests at the launch of the magazine. Chairperson of Transgender Resource Centre and magazine Chief Editor Priya Babu said the magazine would enlighten people on transgender people by focussing on their lives, love, aspirations and celebrations. It would be initially available in Tamil and English languages. All models featured in the magazine were from the transgender community. The magazine would have reports on health, religion, success stories of transgender people and book reviews. There would be space where products manufactured by transgender people would be advertised. Transgender people who seek jobs could upload their resume and also apply for job offers advertised on the magazine. The magazine has a team of three transwomen reporters - R. Jeeva, Padmini Prakash and Viji- who mainly contribute stories. The Tamil magazine can be accessed attransnews.in, and the English aten.transnews.in.
02 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow cameras, mobile phones inside Meenakshi Temple’||Devotees and tourists visiting Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple want the government to permit them to carry their cameras and mobile phones so that they can capture the temple’s architectural splendour. Following an appeal to this effect put forth by Travel Club here on Saturday at a meeting to discuss measures needed to revive the tourism industry, Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar said he would take up the issue with the Chief Minister and request him to examine the modalities positively. He said that with COVID-19 well under control, not only tourism, but other sectors too would be revived. Former Travel Club president G. Vasudevan of Hotel Fortune Pandiyan said that since foreigners were not likely to visit India at least for the next one year due to the COVID-19 restrictions, the government must revive the tourism industry through liberal sops. Tourism and allied industries had come to a standstill since March-end when the COVID-19 induced lockdown started. A huge drain Not only the employees, even the employers had been finding the going tough as they must spend huge money on upkeep of the premises, paying electricity bills, water tax, property tax and other overheads even without matching revenues. “The government must give a tax holiday and rebate in electricity tariff, as in other southern States and help the tourism industry tide over the crisis,” Mr. Vasudevan said. Another member, S. Sundar, said despite relaxation of lockdown regulations and Standard Operating Procedures, restaurants witnessed minimal footfall. Many establishments were unable to make both ends meet and were contemplating closure for some more months. The government’s intervention at this juncture would be a morale booster to them, he said. Airport Director Sentil Valavan said many changes were taking place in Madurai airport and new facilities were being added. Corporation Commissioner S. Visagan said the Madurai was transforming from an ancient to a modern city, thanks to the Smart Cities Mission initiatives under which works to the tune of Rs. 1,200 crore had been taken up. Once these projects were completed, the city residents could expect many user-friendly facilities. Dr. Satish Devadoss spoke on the role of Confederation of Indian Industry in the city’s development and how Madurai had become a medical hub for southern districts.  In doldrums Not only employees, even employers find the going tough as they spend huge money on upkeep of the premises  The government must give a tax holiday and rebate in electricity tariff, as in other southern States  Despite relaxation of lockdown regulations and SOP, restaurants witness minimal footfall
02 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Depressed over bad omen, woman ends life||A newly-wed woman, J. Kaleeswari, committed suicide after she thought that her marriage had brought bad omen to her in-laws’ family, near Kalligudi on Saturday. Police said the woman, who was married for just two weeks, was depressed after some of the family members fell sick. The woman, hailing from Tiruppuvanam in Sivaganga district, married K. Jayakumar, a postman in Karuppayoorani near of Kalligudi on October 18. Subsequently, Jayakumar’s uncle and his grandmother met with an accident. The woman felt that only her bad omen had brought misfortune to the family. “She had been telling her father P. Paramalai, 40, that after her marriage the family has been suffering only because of her,” Tirumangalam Deputy Superintendent of Police Vinothini said. The woman immolated herself on Saturday forenoon and was rushed to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. However, she died without responding to treatment. Koodakovil police are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104’ and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.
02 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Chain snatched||A pharmacist, V. Vijayalakshmi, 57, of Vadipatti Government Hospital was robbed of her two- sovereign gold chain by two motorbike-borne robbers near Samayanallur on Saturday night. Police said that the woman was riding pillion with her son. Two men followed their bike. When they were proceeding on Samayanallur-Kattupuli Nagar road, the pillion rider of the other bike yanked the gold chain from her neck and fled the scene at around 9 p.m. The Samayanallur police are investigating.     Two workers of a textile shop in Elumalai were attacked by an armed gang that robbed their mobile phones and cash near Peraiyur on Saturday late night. Police said that C. Muniyappan, 33, of Soolapuram and his colleague Ganesan were returning home on their bikes when the accused waylaid them. The gang members attacked them with a log and knife and snatched their mobile phone and Rs. 1,250 from them on Soolapuram-Chellayipuram road around 10 p.m. The T. Ramanathapuram police have arrested two persons identified as A. Navaneethakrishnan, 29, and K. Thangapandi, 36, of Chellayipuram. The police are on the lookout for three other accused.
02 November 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Fisheries varsity releases rank list||Vice-Chancellor of Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University (TNJFU) G. Sugumar on Sunday released the UG admission 2020-21 rank list in the official website: www.tnjfu.ac.in. Admission for 383 seats in Bachelor of Fisheries Science (B.F.Sc.), Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.), B.B.A. in Fisheries Business Management, and B.Voc programmes was undertaken through online mode. Adithya Nagarajan from Chennai topped the rank list with 195.50 cut-off mark followed by B. Rishi Kesavan from Thoothukudi and S. Gopikrishna from Theni who were placed in the second and third position respectively. In-person counselling for the special category students will be conducted on 07.11.2020 at Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University, Nagapattinam. For other candidates, online counselling will be conducted through website from November 9 to 11, the Vice-Chancellor said in a press release.
02 November 2020||P.A. NarayaniMadurai,TAMIL NADU||eSanjeevaniOPD use: Madurai stands second in Tamil Nadu||Madurai district team of eSanjeevaniOPD, the national teleconsultation service launched by the Union Health Ministry during the COVID-19 pandemic, stands second in the State in terms of providing more number of tele-consultation services to the public. The team has provided 21,859 teleconsultations from July 1 to October 29, according to data obtained from the Health department. While initially eSanjeevaniOPD provided only general outpatient services, the health department introduced speciality outpatient services. So, currently, teleconsultation services are also provided in specialities such as AYUSH, obstetrics and gynaecology, antiretroviral therapy (ART) for people living with HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and mental health. The patients can either download the eSanjeevaniOPD application on their smartphones or visit the official website. They should register their personal details, generate a token and consult a doctor. Finally, the patients can download an e-prescription. District Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar said eSanjeevaniOPD services were rolled out in Madurai district on June 1. Special training The medical officers have been specially trained to give teleconsultation service from the control room of the Office of Deputy Director of Health Services. At every block, the village health nurses (VHNs) also help the public to avail the service through the electronic gadgets provided to them. A. Sundara Mahalingam, a doctor who provides tele-consultation services, said the medical officers and the VHNs were creating awareness of the free consultation service in rural areas. COVID-19 patients and those with general ailments consulted the doctors through the teleconsultation service. “We ask the patients about the symptoms and provide preliminary diagnosis. In case the health condition is critical, we recommend them to visit the nearest government health facility. We also ask the VHNs to have a follow-up on such patients,” Dr. Mahalingam said. The data showed that myalgia, influenza like illnesses, fever and anosmia were some of the conditions for which people sought teleconsultation. Routed to Madurai Dr. Arjun Kumar said doctors in Madurai team provided teleconsultation services to an average of 65 patients from other districts every day, as calls from other districts were routed to the Madurai unit. But, interestingly, only 35 people from Madurai district used the service on an average every day. “More number of people from Madurai district must use the eSanjeevaniOPD service so that they can avoid visiting the hospitals in these days of COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. An action plan had been prepared to ensure that Madurai bagged the first place in the State in terms of number of teleconsultation services used by the public, he said. Presently Villupuram district stands first, and Nagapattinam trails Madurai, a distant third.
02 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry Chief Minister pays tributes to freedom fighters||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Sunday paid glowing tributes to the sacrifices and struggles of freedom fighters who secured the liberation of Puducherry from colonial rule and vowed to preserve its identity and ensure that the benefits of hard-won independence reached all sections of society. Addressing the 66th Liberation Day celebrations after unfurling the tri-colour at the Gandhi Thidal, Mr. Narayanasamy said the leadership would overcome all obstacles to provide an environment of growth, peace and security for the people. He appealed to the people to support the efforts of the administration. The celebrations commemorate the special occasion on November 1, 1954 when the Union Territory attained liberation from French colonial rule following a historic referendum that reflected the emphatic popular will to join India. While the French executed de-factor merger on this day, it wasn’t until August 16, 1962 that the Indian Government effected the de jure transfer of territory to the Union. Apart from celebrating Independence Day along with the rest of the country on August 15, the Union Territory has been celebrating August 16 as its Independence Day and November 1 as Liberation Day. Mr. Narayanasamy listed the various welfare measures taken by his government to improve the lives of farmers, students, workers, downtrodden and marginalised sections. Among the upcoming projects were modernisation of stormwater drains and canals, a handicrafts bazaar at the Pondy Marina, renovation of the Anna Thidal into a playground and a Smart City initiative to build modular/mobile toilets, he also said. The Chief Minister said the NHAI had greenlighted the four-lane Villupuram-Puducherry highway and work was expected to commence shortly. The Centre had also approved the construction of flyovers at the Rajiv Gandhi and Indira Gandhi Squares. According to Mr. Narayanasamy, Puducherry has been topping several governance parameters in various surveys. He also mentioned that the Union Territory had the highest testing rate per million of population in the country. Earlier, the Chief Minister inspected a guard of honour presented by the Puducherry armed police force. V. Vaithilingam and N. Gokulakrishnan, MPs, Speaker V. P. Sivakolundhu, Ministers, legislators, Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar, Director General of Police Balaji Srivastava, freedom fighters, officials and dignitaries participated. The Liberation Day events in the enclaves of Karaikal, Yanam and Mahe were flagged off by Ministers R. Kamalakannan, Malladi Krishna Rao and M. Kandasamy. In Mahe, Mr. Kandasamy opened an outdoor gymnasium sponsored by the Mahe Service Cooperative Bank in the presence of V. Ramachandran, MLA, E. Valsaraj, former Minister and Aman Sharma, Regional Administrator. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi and Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister N. Rangasamy extended their greetings to the people on the occasion.   The Union Territory has the highest testing rate per million of population in the country
02 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||New Mission Director||In orders passed by the Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi, G. Sriramulu, Director of Indian System of Medicine and Homoeopathy, will, in addition to the charges held, hold the charge of the post of Mission Director, Pondicherry State Health Mission, with immediate effect until further orders.
02 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Open House will target negligent officials: Bedi||The Open House session at the Raj Nivas will target negligent officials who are responsible for grievances relating to a range of civic issues, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said on Sunday. Their attendance will be recorded in a defect register maintained by the Chief Grievance Officer which would be shared with departments concerned for entry into personal files of the defaulting officer, Ms. Bedi also said. The practice would begin from the session on Monday.
02 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Bedi is against all norms of democracy: CPI leader||Communist Party of India (CPI) leader D. Pandian on Sunday charged Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi with “tearing to pieces” all democratic norms and principles of elected governance in Puducherry. Talking to reporters here on the sidelines of a seminar organised by the CPI, he said that Ms. Bedi has no knowledge of history of Puducherry. She had unsuccessfully contested the election in New Delhi and the BJP had posted her as the Lt. Governor of Puducherry. In other States, the Governors were functioning in tandem with elected governments. But in Puducherry, Ms. Bedi was standing in the way of decisions taken for promotion of the welfare of people by the elected government such as free supply of rice. The Lt. Governor would not listen to any advice but Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy was resisting all her interventions in keeping with the statutory provisions. The BJP had no ground in Tamil Nadu and parties that join hands with the party would only suffer a serious setback, he said. The front formed by the DMK, Congress, Left parties, VCK and other like-minded parties was strong in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, he said.
02 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||New cases drop below 100-mark in Puducherry||Puducherry recorded three COVID-19 deaths while new cases dropped below the 100-mark to 96 on Sunday. All the fatalities were reported in the capital where the toll now stands at 491 of the total of 595 deaths in the Union Territory. Karaikal has to date accounted for 55 deaths, followed by Yanam (42) and Mahe (seven). The new cases were detected from testing 3,182 samples while 421 persons were discharged after treatment in the past 24 hours. Of the fresh cases, Puducherry region accounted for 69, followed by Karaikal (11), Yanam (5) and Mahe (11). The test positivity rate was 3.01% while the case fatality rate stood at 1.69% and the recovery rate 89.28%. The overall tally is 595 deaths, 3,169 active cases, including 2,309 patients under home isolation, a cumulative total of 35,109 cases and 31,345 recovered patients. So far, 3.11 lakh samples have been tested of which 2,73,523 returned negative.
02 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu-Puducherry bus services resume||With the Tamil Nadu government givingthe green signalfor the operation of bus services to neighbouring Puducherry, private bus operators and State-run road transport corporations, including TNSTC, resumed services from Puducherry to Cuddalore, Tindivanam, Villupuram and other district headquarters on Sunday. A Transport Department official said that Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy had written to his Tamil Nadu counterpart seeking permission to resume services on the routes. Prior to the lockdown, over 200 buses, including 70 from the government-owned Puducherry Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), were operated to destinations in Tamil Nadu. Important routes The important routeswere Chennai, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Tindivanam, Chidambaram, Tiruvannamalai and Kancheepuram among others. Official sources said that Puducherry showed interest in resuming the services considering the fact that the Union Territory had unique geographic location with Tamil Nadu. “The Tamil Nadu Government responded positively. Accordingly, 200 buses resumed services on Sunday adhering to COVID-19 protocols. Both the State road transport corporations will resume services as per the previous agreements,” an official said. The PRTC will operate buses depending on the response from the public in a phased manner, the official said and added that passengers would be screened both at the boarding and alighting points.
02 November 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||New cases come down||Puducherry recorded three COVID-19 deaths while new cases dropped below the 100-mark to 96 on Sunday. All the fatalities were reported in the capital where the toll now stands at 491 of the total of 595 deaths in the Union Territory. Karaikal has to date accounted for 55 deaths, followed by Yanam (42) and Mahe (seven).
02 November 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Farmers anxiously await water release from dam to save standing paddy crops||Paddy farmers of Rajapalayam taluk, whose farms are served by the Sasthakoil dam, are anxiously waiting for the release of water from the minor reservoir, to save their standing crop. Though the water level in the dam is just short of its surplus -- 103.2 metres as against the maximum storage level of 103.4 metres – Public Works Department officials are waiting for clearance from the State government for the release of water. “We have already sent the proposal for release of water on November 5. We expect the Government Order for water release soon,” an official said. The dam, with a storage capacity of 36.47 mcft indirectly irrigates over 3,000 acres of paddy fields served through 11 irrigation tanks in the taluk. “Sowing began almost two months ago, using the little water available in the wells. In some parts, farmers have already transplanted their crops and in other parts they are waiting for the water release to facilitate transplantation. Delayed transplantation would lead to a loss in crop yield,” said a farmer, C. Vairamuthu (47) of North Devadanam. Stating that he was sharing the same well with a dozen other farmers for lift irrigation, Mr. Vairamuthu said that it took almost two months for them to complete transplantation as the water in the well was not enough for speedier transplantation. “Had there been early water release, our fortunes could have been different,” he added. Only the recent rainfall has saved them, he said. Cultivation in a majority of the ayacut under the first three irrigation tanks – Nagarikulam, Periyakulam and Vazhavanthankulam has been completed. Farmers of the region have already petitioned officials twice since the first week of October for water release, as the irrigation season begin in mid October. “We are also bothered about the sand mining in the Nagariyaar and mining on the irrigation tanks for soil meant for brick kilns. If the water is released, at least the illegal mining activity can be prevented,” said president of Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam, N.A. Ramachandra Raja.
02 November 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||6,000 kg of rice seized||The police arrested four persons and seized 6000 kilograms of rice packed in 120 bags and loaded in two goods vehicles here on Sunday. During a vehicle check, the police intercepted the vans near Perunazhi bus stop. A check revealed that they had no valid document. Based on the confession, it came to light that the four suspects had procured the essential commodity through a broker and planned to transport it to Madurai for sale to a private rice mill. The arrested persons names were given as Murugan (40) of Jaihindpuram, Vinod Kumar (34) of Palanganatham, Ramamurthi (39) of Villapuram (broker) and Vinod (32) of Tiruvarur district. The Kamudi police seized the vehicles and handed over the four accused to the Civil Supplies CID police for further investigation.
02 November 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||1.87 tonnes of turmeric on way to Sri Lanka seized by Q Branch||The Q Branch police team seized 1,875 kg of turmeric from an abandoned country boat near the Mandapam shore in the early hours of Sunday. Police said that following a specific tip-off, a team kept a watch near the designated point since Saturday. However, they were able to spot only an abandoned boat. A search on the boat indicated that it had stashed 75 bags of turmeric. A senior officer said that of late, the turmeric is in high demand in Sri Lanka due to the covid-19 pandemic. Hence, the agents from towns like Erode procured the material at a cheap price and transported it to the coastal district by road. With surveillance intensified, the boatmen moved over to Thoothukudi or other locations. Since Mandapam was the closest point to reach the international waters, the smugglers came here and moved in the absence of surveillance teams. With more inputs coming in about from "informers", the officer said that apart from the State police, Central agencies also were monitoring the movements round-the-clock. It is said that the smugglers received gold in exchange for turmeric at a cheaper price and hence sold them in local markets. The yellow metals, which were 22 carat, were in high demand among the buyers, the officer said. In the last three months alone, when covid-19 pandemic was at its peak and the curfew was also in force, the movement of turmeric by road remained high. Recently, for about 10 days, there was not much activity as the police were keeping a tight vigil due to the Thevar Jayanthi celebrations, the officer added.
02 November 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Ration rice seized||The police arrested four persons and seized 6000 kilograms of rice packed in 120 bags and loaded in two goods vehicles here on Sunday. During a vehicle check, the police intercepted the vans near Perunazhi bus stop. A check revealed that they had no valid document. Based on the confession, it came to light that the four suspects had procured the essential commodity through a broker and planned to transport it to Madurai for sale to a private rice mill. The arrested persons names were given as Murugan (40) of Jaihindpuram, Vinod Kumar (34) of Palanganatham, Ramamurthi (39) of Villapuram (broker) and Vinod (32) of Tiruvarur district. The Kamudi police seized the vehicles.
02 November 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||1.87 tonnes of turmeric seized from boat||The Q Branch police team seized 1,875 kg of turmeric from an abandoned country boat near Mandapam shore in the early hours of Sunday. Police said that following a tip-off, the police kept a watch but they were able to spot only an abandoned boat. When they searched the boat, they found 75 bags of turmeric, meant for smuggling to Sri Lanka. A police officer said that of late, turmeric, whihc has medicinal value, is in high demand in Sri Lanka due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
02 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Police take steps to ensure safe Deepavali shopping in Salem||With Deepavali just a fortnight away, the Salem City and Rural police have taken steps to manage crowd and prevent crimes during festival shopping. Watch towers with public address system are being installed in busy bazaar areas to monitor the crowd and ensure COVID-19 safety norms. City Police Commissioner T.Senthil Kumar said, “Police personnel would be deployed in the watch towers to keep an eye on anti-social elements. Awareness banners will be placed in public spaces to educate people on COVID-19 safety protocols such as hand sanitation, wearing mask and maintaining physical distancing norm while shopping.” M. Chandrashekaran, Deputy Police Commissioner (Law and Order), said that 53 persons, including 11 repeat offenders, have been arrested to prevent crime. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger said that stern action would be initiated against businesses violating COVID-19 safety guidelines.
02 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Aavin launches sweets and paneer||The Tamil Nadu Co-operative Milk Producer’s Federation Limited (Aavin), Salem, has launched “Palm Jaggery premium Moti Pak”, “Palm Jaggery Millet Ladoo” and paneer for the Deepavali here recently. District Collector S.A. Raman launched the sweets and paneer at the Collectorate in the presence of Aavin president V. Jeyaraman, District Revenue Officer R. Dhivakar, Aavin general manager R. Narmada Devi and other officials. While the ladoo is made of millets, palm jaggery, almond, cashewnut, groundnut, coconut and ghee, the Moti Pak is made of condensed milk and palm jaggery, Mr. Raman said. He claimed that 100 gram paneer contains 18 gram protein and calcium essential for the body. The Collector said that sweets and paneer are available at all Aavin retail outlets and through agents. “A sales target of 30 tonne has been fixed for this year,” Mr. Raman said. Orders can be placed with the mobile numbers, Salem – 97516 94664, 94430 26950, Mettur and Edappadi – 94880 62377.
02 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted money, gold seized in Salem||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) raided the residence of Deputy Inspector General (Registration), Salem zone, on Sunday and seized Rs. 3.20 lakh in unaccounted cash and over 30 sovereigns of gold. According to DVAC sleuths, V. Anand was the DIG(Registration) for Salem zone including Salem, Namakkal, Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri districts and he was transferred to Cuddalore recently. He was relieved from his office on Saturday, and had allegedly received gifts at his house near Fairlands.  Tip-off Based on a tip-off, DVAC team led by ADSP Chandramouli raided the house during the early hours of Sunday and seized Rs. 3.20 lakh and 34 gold coins.
02 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Mettur surplus water scheme works inspected||Senior officials from the Public Works Department inspected the ongoing Mettur surplus water scheme works here. Ramamoorthy, Chief Engineer of Water Resources wing, PWD, Tiruchi Zone, visited Mettur and reviewed the progress of works. According to officials, Mr. Ramamoorthy visited the site of main pump house at Thipampatti, link canal works in Nangavelli and construction of pump houses at Kanandheri. The Mettur surplus water scheme works are being carried out at an approximate cost of Rs. 565 crore and will benefit over 4,000 acres of farm land.
02 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Outflow increased from Mettur dam||The outflow from Mettur dam was increased to 15,000 cusecs on Sunday. According to Public Works Department officials, the water level at the dam was 99.70 ft against the full reservoir level of 120ft. The storage was 64,453mcft and the inflow to the dam reduced to 7,113 cusecs. The discharge through Cauvery River from the dam was increased from 12,000 cusecs to 15,000 cusecs. The discharge through East-West canal was maintained at 900 cusecs.
02 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Rajini supporters are in favour BJP’||People who support actor Rajinikanth are in favour of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said Kumarikrishnan, president of the party’s State Propaganda Wing here. Mr. Kumarikrishnan told presspersons here that educated youth and those interested in the development of the country were attracted to BJP and it was this group of voters Rajinikanth was addressing to. He added that BJP would achieve success, irrespective of Rajinikanth’s entry into politics.
02 November 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Youth, who killed his mother, dies||Manirathnam alias Manikandan (28) of Kadanganeri, who had allegedly killed his mother Isakki Ammal (48), died of burns here on Sunday. Police said that Manirathnam had stoned his mother to death and set himself on fire. He was rushed to the Government Hospital in a serious condition, where he died on Sunday. Police said that Manirathnam was not mentally stable. He has an elder brother, who was working in a private firm in Coimbatore. Isakki Ammal had brought up her two sons from childhood as her husband had deserted the family long years ago. Further investigation is on. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
02 November 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||OPS treks to tribal hamlet, listens to people’s grievances||Trekking for about a kilometre to the tribal village in Melaparavu near Bodinayakkanur, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam assured the people of all basic needs by the State government. About a month ago, the tribal people from this village submitted a memorandum to Mr. Panneerselvam at a public hearing in Periyakulam. There are about 40 families with a population of 250 people, who depended on agriculture. The crops raised here included paddy, sugarcane and coconut among others. On Saturday, when the Deputy CM’s office in Periakulam informed the Anaikaraipatti panchayat secretary Karuppiah about the visit, the people were jubilant. As the northeast monsoon had become active, there was widespread rain along the western ghats and Kottakudi river was in flow. Thus, the villagers were apprehensive that the Deputy CM may not come to their hamlet as the vehicles cannot cross the river with water flowing. However, as Mr. Panneerselvam arrived, he crossed the river and trekked for about a kilometre to reach the tribal people. On his arrival, the villagers welcomed him with folded hands and some of them were in tears and thanked him for keeping his word, Mr. Karuppiah told The Hindu on Sunday. He said that under the Prime Minister Gram Sadak Yojana, the district administration had sanctioned laying roads at a cost of Rs. 1.27 crore, which were completely damaged in the recent rains. Almost 30 % of the works were completed, he said and added that the rest of the work was under way as per the schedule. Similarly, the villagers said that a mini bridge across the Kottakudi river would enable them to cross with ease and reach out to the markets and hospitals swiftly. The officials assured to get the works done without delay, when the Deputy CM enquired about the progress. After spending about an hour, Mr. Panneerselvam trekked again from the village and after crossing the stream, he got into the car. The villagers were immensely moved by the gesture and hoped their dwellings would also be renovated soon by the officials, Mr. Karuppiah said.
02 November 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||3,000 kg of explosives seized; three held||The Bodinayakkanur police arrested three persons on the charges of possessing 3000 kg of explosives in their farmhouse here on Sunday. Following specific information, the teams raided a private farmhouse on the outskirts of the town since Saturday night. Based on the confessions, the police arrested Murugappa (53) of Dorairajapuram Colony and two of his accomplices identified as P. Kumaresan (45) and S. Perumal (40). Though they claimed that it was intended for cutting rocks for a quarry, they had no valid documents or licence to stock. Moreover, it was not stored as per the regulations in godown, but was hoarded in a coconut farm. They were arrested and further investigation is on.
02 November 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||3,000 kg of explosives seized||The Bodinayakkanur police arrested three persons on the charges of possessing 3000 kg of explosives in their farmhouse here on Sunday. Following specific information, the teams raided a private farmhouse on the outskirts of the town since Saturday night. Based on the confessions, the police arrested Murugappa (53) of Dorairajapuram Colony and two of his accomplices identified as P. Kumaresan (45) and S. Perumal (40). Though they claimed that it was intended for cutting rocks for a quarry, they had no valid documents or licence to stock. Moreover, it was not stored as per the regulations in godown, but was hoarded in a coconut farm. They were arrested and further investigation is on.
02 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Hotel owner murdered||An armed gang murdered a parotta shop owner on Krishnarajapuram Main Road here late on Saturday night. Police said Vaazhvaangi (28) was winding up the day's business and was about to pull down the shutters. At around 11 p.m., three suspects came to the shop and picked up a wordy altercation. Suddenly, two among them pulled out hidden knives from them and attacked Vaazhvaangi, who collapsed. Though, a few passersby alerted the police and the victim was rushed to the Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital, he died on the way. Superintendent of Police Jeyakumar and DSP Ganesh inspected the scene of crime. Vadapagam police have registered a case of murder and are on the lookout for three suspects from Arockiapuram. Preliminary inquiries revealed that previous enmity may be the motive.
02 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||As Deepavali nears, social distancing goes for a toss||Throwing the mandatory COVID-19 safety protocols to the wind, people thronged the key commercial streets in the city in large numbers on Sunday, for Deepavali shopping. There has been a surge in the number of shoppers in areas such as NSB Road, Chinnakadai Street, Big Bazaar Street, Nandhi Koil Street, West Boulevard Road near Theppakulam, Singarathope, and Super Bazaar for the last few days to buy dress materials and ready-made garments. Being a holiday on Sunday, shoppers made a beeline to visit their favourite textile showrooms. With thousands of people thronging NSB Road, which is considered a shoppers’ paradise, there wasn’t enough space to move about. The crowd moved at a snail’s pace due to the heavy rush. But for about 30% of the people wearing masks, the majority had failed to wear masks and maintain social distancing. The safety protocols being in force to prevent the spread of COVID-19 were apparently disregarded. While a few showrooms allowed customers in after screening with thermal scanners, the surging crowds made the process impracticable in several other shops. Many of them did not exercise caution to keep distance even while buying clothes in the showrooms. Though the police were visible on the streets, they hardly checked the people, who were not wearing face masks. Though, most of the employees of showrooms were seen wearing face masks it hardly served the desired purpose as almost all showrooms were heavily packed right from morning. Many of them struggled to put in place the COVID-19 safety protocols. Expressing concern over the non-compliance of safety protocols by shoppers and traders, N. Jamaludeen, a consumer activist, said that complacency had cropped up among all stakeholders. Most of the stakeholders had failed to follow the safety norms and it poses a great danger to public health. “I have seen people, who do not wear masks but can be seen coughing, sneezing, and spitting on NSB Road. It is disturbing,” Mr. Jamaludeen said.
02 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees 227 new cases and five deaths||The central districts recorded 227 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. Five deaths - two in Nagapattinam and one each in Karur, Thanjavur and Tiruchi districts were reported. A 51-year-old man with a history of lung disease and a 58-year-old man with a pre-existing condition of diabetes succumbed to COVID-19 in Nagapattinam. A 74-year-old man from Karur, a 71-year-old man with a history of coronary artery disease from Thanjavur and a 61-year-old man with a history of chronic kidney disease from Tiruchi died of the viral infection. Thanjavur recorded the highest number of cases in the region, with 52 patients testing positive for the infection. There was a slight increase in the number of patients in the district compared to the previous days. Among them were primary contacts and inter-district travellers. Tiruvarur recorded 51 new cases for COVID-19 on Sunday. Tiruchi reported 34 new cases of patients testing positive. Patients were primary contacts, patients with a history of respiratory illnesses and local index cases. Meanwhile, a total of 27 patients who had been undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from COVID-19 on Sunday. In Karur, 32 patients, including residents of Puliyur, Anna Nagar and Gandhigramam tested positive for the viral infection. Inter-district travellers from Tiruchi too, reported positive. In Nagapattinam, 25 patients tested positive for COVID-19. Among them were primary contacts and local index cases with no history of travel or contacts. Pudukottai district recorded a sharp drop with 19 fresh cases reported. Among them were local index cases and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Majority of the patients testing positive were asymptomatic, official sources said. In Ariyalur, eight COVID-19 cases were reported while in Perambalur six patients tested positive for COVID-19.
02 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||IGNITTE does it again, two govt. school students in NEET rank list||By figuring in the State rank list of students who have cleared NEET, two students of government schools in Tiruchi district who were trained by IGNITTE Club, the teaching club of National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi, have added another feather to the institution's achievements. Harikrishnan of Government Higher Secondary School, Lalgudi, and Kishore of Government Higher Secondary School, Mannachanallur, who had scored the first and 114th ranks among government school students in NEET are expected to secure admission into government medical colleges in the State. Notwithstanding the limitations caused by COVID-19 pandemic, the IGNITTE team provided coaching to the students through telephonic conversation for a period of five months. Earlier, two government school students - Sethupathi of GHSS and Pugazharasi of GHSS Manachanallur who were also trained by the IGNITTE team secured admission in EEE and MME departments at NIT-T after clearing the Joint Entrance Examinations. Congratulating the IGNITTE Club’s success, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said the institution will sustain this initiative.
02 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Minor girl saved from marriage||A 17-year-old girl who walked out of her home near Vaiyampatti in the district a few days ago after her parents allegedly fixed her betrothal against her wishes, has been provided institutional support by the government agencies. The minor girl - a nursing student- approached the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Z. Annie Vijaya on Saturday and complained that her parents were trying to get her married forcibly and that they had fixed her betrothal on Sunday. The girl also informed that she was not interested in the wedding, said police sources. The matter was immediately referred to the Anti Child Trafficking Unit, Tiruchi, for inquiry. Police sources said the girl had left her home on October 29 and stayed at her relative's house in Dindigul before approaching the DIG, Tiruchi Range. A Woman Inspector attached to the Anti Child Trafficking Unit conducted inquiries with the girl. The matter was informed to the Child Welfare Committee and the girl was lodged in a temporary home here. The sources said the parents of the girl have been asked to come for inquiry by the Anti Child Trafficking Unit.
02 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 99.55 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 8,270 cusecs and the discharge was 15,000 cusecs.
02 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water released from three dams for pisanam cultivation||Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, Ambasamudram MLA R Murugiah Pandian and other officials released water for irrigation for the Tamirabarani farmers here on Sunday. Following representations made, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami directed the PWD engineers to assess the water storage in the reservoirs and release it in such a way that the farmers in the belt benefitted. The northeast monsoon, which had enabled widespread rains in the region, had helped the pisanam cultivation to have a wider coverage this season, officials from the Agriculture department said. A total of 86,107 acres of land covering Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts would directly benefit from the water released from Papanasam, Servalaru and Manimuthar reservoirs through the Palayam channel and Kannadiyan channel among others in both the districts. Apart from the farmers in the belt getting water, the groundwater table in the adjoining areas too may benefit as the water would flow through the channels for the next 151 days, the Collector said and added that 1400 cusecs of water was released in the presence of the MLA and other officials. The farmers from Ambasamudram, Cheranmahadevi, Tirunelveli, Palayamkottai, Srivaikundam, Tiruchendur, Thoothukudi and Eral blocks would benefit through the release from the three reservoirs. A PWD engineer said that depending on the storage level, water would be released for the above purpose and hoped the rainfall over the next few days would also help improve the storage adequately in the dams. Farmers and water users association members expressed satisfaction over the release of water and hoped to have higher yield this season when compared to the corresponding previous year.
02 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||DMK men remove posters in Tiruppur||DMK men on Sunday removed posters that were placed in different parts of the Tiruppur city claiming that they denigrated the party and its president M.K. Stalin. Posters appeared in several places in the city, including Kumaran Road and near Tiruppur railway station, with captions ‘people's rule?' along with the photo of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami with farmers and 'family rule?' along with the photo of Mr. Stalin with his son Udhayanidhi. DMK's Tiruppur district (central) in-charge K. Selvaraj said that the posters did not have the name of the press where they were printed. “Instead of finding who pasted the indecent posters, the police were eager to find who removed them. The police should find who pasted such posters without respecting democratic values,” said Mr. Selvaraj. A group of AIADMK workers petitioned the Tiruppur north police seeking action against DMK workers who removed the posters. They alleged that DMK workers resorted to the act as they were unable to respond to the issues brought to the attention of the public through the posters. Tiruppur north inspector V. Ganesan said that the police were yet to register a case regarding the incident.
02 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||BJP is a pro-farmer party, says Annamalai||BJP State vice-president K. Annamalai said that his party is with the farmers and the State and district administrations gave nod for the laying of high-tension power lines through farm lands.  Membership programme Speaking at the youth membership programme of BJP in Tiruppur on Sunday, Mr. Annamalai said that he will not debate with farmers as he himself is a farmer and he would debate only with politicians. He was reacting to the call for an open debate made by the Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Protection Association which announced cash reward of Rs. 1 crore if the IPS officer-turned-politician was able to prove that Central government is not involved in laying of high-tension power lines and construction of transmission towers.  Welfare of farmers “The reward announced for the debate shall be used for the welfare of farmers,” he said. Mr. Annamalai said that more youngsters were joining the BJP, terming the party as a 'national stream', attracted by the good governance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. MLA visits protest venue The protest by the farmers’ association against the works of high-tension power lines for the 765 KV Virudhunagar–Coimbatore transmission link entered the fifth day on Sunday. AIADMK Perundurai MLA and former Minister Thoppu N.D. Venkatachalam on Sunday visited the protest venue at Uthukuli and interacted with farmers.
02 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Cameras to track traffic violators in the Nilgiris||The Nilgiris district police have installed highly sophisticated cameras at a major traffic junction in Udhagamandalam town to identify motorists violating traffic rules. Nine Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) and Red Light Violation Detection (RLVD) cameras have been installed at Charring Cross recently. The Nilgiris district Superintendent of Police, V. Sasi Mohan, told The Hindu that Charring Cross was one of the busiest intersections in the Nilgiris with the most amount of vehicular traffic passing through. “For this reason, we have installed the ANPR and RLVD cameras at this location, to catch traffic violations and also for use in other aspects of crime prevention,” said Mr. Mohan. The overview cameras would be able to track all vehicles passing through the town and towards Gudalur, Kotagiri and Coonoor. Sort of violations Mr. Mohan said the RLVD cameras would capture any motorists violating traffic rules, such as jumping red lights, riding without helmets, overcrowding vehicles, speeding and riding or driving in the wrong lane. Similarly, the ANPR cameras would identify the number plate of the vehicle. The feed from these cameras was connected to the police control room in the district, from where the cameras could be remotely monitored. The district police also said that the cameras would be linked to the National Informatics Center (NIC) server, where the images from the cameras could be cross-verified with the vehicle registration details of the owner. An e-challan would then be issued with the owner of the vehicle getting a message on his registered mobile number about the violation and the fine that had been imposed.
02 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Woman killed by wild elephant||A 58-year-old woman was killed by a wild elephant during an accidental encounter near Kokkal in Gudalur on Sunday morning. Forest Department officials identified the deceased as C. Kamalathi. They said Ms. Kamalathi had just left her house at around 6 a.m. to run some errands when she crossed paths with a wild elephant that was moving through the area. The animal attacked the woman, before fleeing into a nearby forest. Local residents and the Forest Department officials rushed the woman to hospital, but she died of injuries. The officials said interim compensation had been released to Ms. Kamalathi’s next of kin.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Western region sees 705 new cases, one death||The eight districts in the Western region, on Sunday, reported 705 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one death. A 52-year-old man from Namakkal, who was undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in Salem, died. The patient was suffering from respiratory and kidney ailments, a media bulletin said. Coimbatore district reported 248 fresh cases. According to the Health Department, 1,728 patients from the district were under care at different hospitals and two COVID-19 Care Centres as of Sunday. A total of 573 persons were discharged from treatment centres. The district did not report any death due to the disease on Sunday. Eighty-five persons tested positive in Tiruppur district, taking the tally to 12,837. The district had 960 active cases as on Sunday. The Health Department said that 114 persons from the district returned home after recovering from the disease on Sunday. Salem district reported 110 new cases, lowest in the recent times. Of the 64 fresh cases in Namakkal, eight had returned from Salem, Karur, Coimbatore and Tiruchi. Erode district reported 98 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 10,393. While 101 persons were discharged, 801 persons continued to be under treatment. Forty-five persons tested positive in the Nilgiris district. The total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 6,661. The district administration said that 275 persons were undergoing treatment. Krishnagiri reported 37 cases and and Dharmapuri 18.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu completes 1 crore RT-PCR tests||According to data available with the Health Department, as of October 31, Tamil Nadu accounted for the second-highest number of samples tested in the country next only to Uttar Pradesh, where a total of 1,48,63,388 samples had been tested. However in Uttar Pradesh, rapid antigen tests were done in significant proportions. Maharashtra came third, having tested 89,06,826 samples.  Tamil Nadu’s test positivity rate, as of October 31, was 7.28%, placing the State seventh in the country.  The State started testing samples in February after the first laboratory for COVID-19 testing was set up at the King Institute of Preventive Medicine, Chennai. Prior to this, samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. The first laboratory-confirmed case was reported on March 7. "Going forward, the focus will be on aggressive testing, contact tracing and testing at least 10 times the number of positives in the districts. Of late, in addition to those taken at hospitals and fever camps, samples are being taken from street vendors and marketplaces," the Health Secretary said. This is how the testing of samples has progressed in the State — 2,546 samples tested in March, 1,17,394 in April, 3,72,416 in May, 6,78,721 in June, 14,87,455 in July, 21,55,009 in August, 25,40,876 in September and 26,02,160 in October. However, the number of samples tested per day has declined from over 90,000 in early October to 70,000 now. The seven-day average was 75,140 (October 25 to 31). As of November 1, a total of 97,60,029 persons had been tested. The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) has ordered 88.26 lakh RT-PCR testing kits till date. Of them, 69.36 lakh kits have been received by TNMSC so far. Another 2.78 lakh kits were provided by the Central government and 53,000 were donated. TNMSC has provided 68.37 lakh kits to hospitals so far. Currently, 7.5 lakh kits are available with hospitals and 4.2 lakh kits are available with TNMSC. The State has a total of 203 testing facilities — 66 in the government sector and 137 in the private sector.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Heralding winter||
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Enveloped in misty splendour||
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lay footpath||The absence of a footpath on College Road of Karaikudi municipal area, especially from Arya Bhavan Junction to Sekkalai Bakery, has put the lives of people at risk. Since roadsides are encroached by vendors and haphazardly parked vehicles, pedestrians are forced to share the road space with fast moving vehicles. Many times, one can observe lorries occupying half the busy road during peak hours and unloading things. Owing to the never-ending underground drainage works, the condition of the road itself is very bad. Debris and large potholes can be seen even in the middle of the road and a short spell of rain leaves the entire road waterlogged. Authorities concerned should complete the drainage work as soon as possible and lay footpath for pedestrians. Arunchandran Chenan, Karaikudi.     The Prime Minister and the Chief Minister have requested the public to strictly follow the COVID-19 guidelines to combat the spread of the pandemic. But relaxation in lockdown rules and crowd pulling activities of political parties, trade unions and demonstrators give a wrong notion to the public that the virus has been edged out. Consequently, people are sluggish in maintaining physical distancing in public. If leaders could set an example in the adherence of the rules, the common man will follow them. B. Nagalingam Pillai, Nagercoil.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||The recent rains had wreaked havoc in areas such as Velmurugan Nagar, Duraisamy Nagar, Vanamamalai Nagar, Namachivaya Nagar and Thai Moogambigai Nagar in Madurai. As a result, senior citizens, children and women could not use the water-logged roads. This is a perennial problem, witnessed during every rainy season. The corporation should take steps to provide a lasting solution to this problem.  G. Chitti Babu,  Madurai      The Prime Minister and the Chief Minister have requested people to strictly follow the COVID-19 guidelines to combat the spread of the pandemic. But relaxation in lockdown rules and crowd- pulling activities of political parties, trade unions and demonstrators give a wrong notion to the public that the virus has been edged out. Consequently, people are sluggish in maintaining physical distancing in public places. If leaders could set an example in adherence of the rules, the common man will follow their footsteps.  B. Nagalingam Pillai, Nagercoil
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||A wooden pole used for supporting power lines along the road leading to Metraleeshwaran Sivan Temple at Gopurapatti village in Mannachanallur Taluk in Tiruchi presents an ominous sight. Devotees coming from near and far in vehicles use the path, and collapse of the pole could turn disastrous. A concrete pole has to be placed at the location, in the interests of public safety. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti    The risk of stroke which is a leading cause for death and disability worldwide, has become higher due to blood clots caused by COVID infection. Even young persons with mild COVID symptoms are susceptible to strokes. A need has arisen for COVID patients to be tested for the increased risk of stroke. M.A. Aleem Tiruchi    A sense of complacency in following precautions against spread of COVID-19 could turn disastrous. The seriousness in adhering to the precautions must be sustained, as fears are being expressed about the epidemic impact getting into the peak period. The civic body has to play an effective role by spraying insecticides in locations of public confluence, and enforcing social distancing and other safety protocol. S. Raghavan Tiruchi    While the system of garbage removal is functioning smoothly in the Tiruchi Corporation limits, the pace of removal of wastes like tree leaves and fallen twigs and branches is not up to the mark. The earlier system of removing foliage once a week must be restored. T.M. Ranganathan Srirangam    Under Swachh Bharat Mission, the City Corporation used to allow college and school students to paint pictures and inscriptions on the side walls of bridges. These days, the political parties have seemingly started sticking bills on the paintings. The onus is on the civic body to step up monitoring and maintain the cleanliness of walls. Fazil S. Sait Kamaldeen Tiruchi    The Mannargudi-Kumbakonam Road that used to be busy with vehicular traffic before the COVID-19 pandemic has now become unsafe for the public as the decreasing frequency of public transport has spurred the threat of roadside robberies. Isolated spots along the stretch between Sakkoottai and Thippirajapuram seem to be the ideal locations for robbers to strike at two-wheeler riders during darkness. The authorities concerned must step in to ensure safety of the motorists. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Leaders must set an example||The Prime Minister and the Chief Minister have requested the public to strictly follow the COVID-19 guidelines to combat the spread of the pandemic. But relaxation in lockdown rules and crowd pulling activities of political parties, trade unions and demonstrators give a wrong notion to the public that the virus has been edged out. Consequently, people are sluggish in maintaining physical distancing in public. If leaders could set an example in the adherence of the rules, the common man will follow them. B. Nagalingam Pillai, Nagercoil.     The Samathanapuram traffic signal in Palayamkottai has not been working for a long time and has become one of the most congested places for traffic movement. Traffic police officials must take steps to ensure smooth movement of vehicles as every day hundreds of light and heavy vehicles pass through the road connecting the Samathanapuram signal and the SP office. Also the 500 mt stretch is full of pits and potholes and vehicles find it difficult to move along this stretch. The Corporation must repair the road at the earliest. P. Victor Selvaraj, Palayamkottai.
02 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rajyotsava celebrations toned down in Belagavi and Dharwad districts||Rajyotsava celebrations were toned down in Belagavi and Dharwad districts due to the COVID-19 restrictions on Sunday. In Belagavi, where the annual State re-organisation festivities used to be a day-long affair that stretched well into the night, the celebrations were reduced to only a few hours. The day also witnessed some disturbances with the police using lathis to disperse a crowd that threw stones at a private passenger from Maharashtra and the arrest of Kannada activists who tried to disrupt a Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti meeting. District in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi spoke to a small crowd at the CP Ed College Grounds on Club Road. He received the guard of honour from the police and other forces. The routine performance by school children of songs and dances were cancelled due to the schools not being in session in the extended lockdown. Mr. Jarkiholi asked young people to be proud of their heritage and to do their bit to preserve the language and culture of the land. MLAs, MLCs, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath, Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi, Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan, and other officers were present. In Dharwad, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar inaugurated the celebrations. He garlanded the statues of Deputy Channabasappa and K.G. Kundanagar, leaders of the State reorganisation movement. Mr. Shettar asked young people to read and understand the history of the land to appreciate the sacrifices of the early cultural leaders. He thanked and honoured some Corona Warriors, including doctors, nurses and police and other personnel. MLAs, MLCs, zilla panchyat members, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, Superintendent of Police Krishnakant and other officers were present.
02 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Arvind Patil to join BJP soon||It seems that the politics surrounding the elections to the District Central Cooperative Bank has claimed its first political victim. District in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has said that Arvind Patil, senior leader of the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti and former MLA, who is contesting the bank polls, would soon be joining the BJP. “Mr. Patil is our candidate from Khanapur. He is no longer a member of the MES. He will soon be joining the BJP. I was in the Congress for a long time. But now I am in the BJP. That is how it works,’’ Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi said. He was speaking at the Rajyotsava celebrations at the CP Ed College Stadium here on Sunday. He, however, clarified that DCC Bank polls were non-political and that the efforts being made by various BJP leaders to elect directors unanimously was to see that minor, unrelated things such as elections to a local bank did not affect the unity of the party at the taluk or district level.
02 November 2020||Belagavi/Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Flood victims face endless wait for relief||“When residents of the bypoll-bound R.R. Nagar in Bengaluru suffered house damage after heavy rains, they got an immediate relief of Rs. 25,000 per household. But such relief was missing for North Karnataka,” said farmers’ leader Choonappa Pujari in Belagavi on Sunday. He accused the State government of playing politics over flood relief. The farmers of Belagavi have been badly hit by successive floods and are finding it difficult to rebuild their lives. Farmers in Kangrali in Khanapur taluk have lost three crops since the monsoon of 2019 and also suffered losses in the recent heavy rains. Basavaraj Kareppa, who had sown millets, niger and vegetables on his 4-acre land, said his entire crop was washed away. “I lost my crop in 2019. I reinvested all the money that I received in relief on cultivation of kharif crop this time. But I have lost that too,” he said. He is among the many farmers and villagers who have lost their crops, houses and cattle. Very few have got proper relief amounts, accordingto Jayashree Gurannanavar, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) leader. She alleged that only the politically powerful farmers had got proper compensation. The KRRS conducted a house loss survey in Saundatti taluk and found that 6-8 houses were damaged in each village, but the staff at the tahshildar’s office maintains that only 35 houses were damaged in the entire taluk, she said. Mr. Pujari alleged that families with clout had bribed or influenced officers to include their names in the list of house collapse victims, despite not suffering the misfortune. Compensation numbers Officials admitted that only a handful of the 4,619 families who lost their houses have received complete compensation in Belagavi district. The Rajiv Gandhi Rural Housing Corporation releases house loss relief amounts in four instalments. Only a small percentage of individuals have got the fourth instalment. At a recent review meeting, officers told Revenue Minister R. Ashok that only around 20% of the beneficiaries had received three instalments. However, the impact of this year’s floods has been less than that of last year’s. Officials have estimated the loss suffered by private individuals, government institutions and public authorities to be Rs. 268 crore between July to September. The loss in October is still being assessed. Officials say that may come to around another Rs. 100 crore to Rs. 150 crore. But this is far less than the losses suffered in 2019. The loss in Belagavi district alone stood at around Rs. 35,000 crore then, said a senior officer. Of that, only around 6%, or Rs. 2,100 crore, was released by the Union government last year. In Vijayapura district, the total crop loss is around Rs. 790 crore, and over 3,000 houses have been affected. Ex-gratia relief has been given to 1,325 families who lost their houses. Initial estimates have put crop loss on 2.5 lakh hectares, including 15,000 hectares of horticultural crop. The final survey is yet to be completed. In Bagalkot, as many as 5,881 houses were completely or partially damaged. The crop loss is pegged at one lakh hectares of agricultural crop and 47,000 hectares of horticultural crop. The total loss is estimated to be around Rs. 700 crore. In both Bagalkot and Vijayapura, distribution of crop loss relief is in progress, while house damage compensation distribution is yet to start. There is palpable anger over the delay in distribution of compensation across these districts. After conducting an aerial survey of flood-hit areas in Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts on October 21, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had promised that relief and rehabilitation work would be taken up on a war footing. The next day, Deputy Chief Minister and Kalaburagi district in-charge Govind Karjol reiterated this. He promised an immediate relief of Rs. 10,000 to each flood-affected family and a survey of damaged houses within 15 days. Over a week down the line, these assurances are yet to translate into reality.
02 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Celebrate, nurture Kannada all year long: CM||Celebrating Kannada and its rich cultural, literary heritage should not be restricted to just one day or a month. It should be a year-long celebration and part of our daily lives, said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. He was speaking at the 65th Kannada Rajyotsava celebrations organised by the Department of Education here on Sunday. The next one year would be observed as ‘Kannada Kayaka Varsha’ and the government is in the process of drawing up programmes to nurture and preserve Kannada in the age of technology, he said. Use of Kannada has been made mandatory in all levels of the administration. “Kannada has a history of more than 2,000 years, and has a rich cultural, literary heritage,” he said, quoting poets Pampa and Kuvempu. He called upon citizens to not just converse in Kannada, but also encourage children to do the same. He hopes children read the works of literary giants and are better informed about the State’s literary and cultural heritage. Mr. Yediyurappa said the unification of the State is a story of struggle in which many littérateurs, journalists and other eminent people participated. “Karnataka was formed with regions from Madras, Bombay and Hyderabad presidencies on November 1, 1956. The State was re-named as ‘Karnataka’ on November 1, 1973,” he said. He stressed that the National Education Policy gives importance to regional languages. This, he maintained, would help education in Kannada medium. Stating that technology had become an inseparable part of our lives, impacting language and culture, he said several organisations, including Kannada Ganaka Parishath and universities in the State, have been working on ensuring Kannada language matches the pace of technological growth. “Our government is working hard to make Karnataka a model State in the country and have sought guidance from experts, intellectuals and eminent citizens. We are committed to overall development of the State,” he added. Across the globe, countries are grappling with COVID-19, and Karnataka is not an exception. Mr. Yediyurappa said the government was ably handling the outbreak that had impacted industries, economy, education and working class people. “COVID-19, floods, heavy rainfall and drought… the government has come to the aid of people during these testing times, with help from social organisations, philanthropists,” he said. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar said that over the past 14 years, the enrolment in government schools has been the highest this year. With many families under financial strain following the outbreak of COVID-19, many children from private schools have been admitted to government schools. According to records, 90,000 students have been admitted in government schools across the State. For the first time, PUC NCERT science textbooks are being made available in Kannada. The low-key celebrations were attended by local MLA Rizwan Arshad and a few senior officials.
02 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 37,000 tweets in protest against SMW plant||Residents of Electronics City Phase II and the neighbouring Chikkanagamangala, Doddanagamangala and Shantipura villages on Sunday participated in a ‘Tweetstorm’ demanding closure of the Solid Waste Management (SWM) plant located in the area. Thousands of residents took to Twitter to complain about the odour, leachate contamination and the menace of flies, under the hashtag #ShutDownEcitySWMPlant. Online protesters tagged the Chief Minister, Deputy Chief Minister and civic officials in their tweets, which totalled over 37,000. Residents claim that the stench has become unbearable, but that their complaints have fallen on deaf years. Citizens’ groups in the neighbourhood have been demanding closure of the plant for several years. To add to their worry, the civic body has proposed an incineration-based waste-to-energy plant in Chikkanagamangala. Residents have written to the Chief Minister opposing the proposal. Deepu Chandran, who participated in the Tweetstorm, said, “We are also concerned about the quality of groundwater in the area. Residents can’t keep their windows open due to the flies.” In the past, residents had requested the civic body to implement odour control systems. “Every time we meet the authorities, they promise to take action, but nothing has changed,” said Kailas Pillai. Vrinda K., a resident of Electronics City, said that the stench from the plant was so severe that it causes nausea. “We met the special commissioner in October 2019 with our complaint. It has been over a year now and there has been no improvement at all,” she said. Recently, the BBMP said that each waste processing plant would be ‘mentored’ by experts from the Technical Guidance Committee to ensure residents in the neighbourhood do not suffer any inconvenience.  We met the special commissioner in October 2019 with our complaint. There has been no improvement at all Vrinda K., resident, Electronics City
02 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rallies, padayatras and more||In the midst of allegations of distribution of money to woo voters in Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituencies, which will go to the polls on Tuesday, the open campaign came to an end on Sunday. With limited time available at the disposal of leaders, rallies and padayatras marked the day, while party workers went from house to house to solicit votes. While the entire clan of JD(S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda campaigned in different parts of Sira, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar was in R.R. Nagar. The campaign by city BJP leaders was focused on R.R. Nagar. The bitter battle for the R.R. Nagar seat between the Congress and the BJP led to tense moments as BJP workers staged a protest early on Sunday morning on ring road, on their way to Nandini Layout police to register a complaint against the Congress for a skirmish with saffron party workers. Mr. Shivakumar was also in R.R. Nagar.Later in the day, MP for Bengaluru Rural D.K. Suresh denied that the Congress was involved in any untoward incident. He criticised the BJP for “enacting a drama” to gain sympathy. In Sira, the JD(S), which is fighting to retain the seat, staged a huge road show and rally. While former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and his son Nikhil participated in the road show, former Minister H.D. Revanna and his son, and MP for Hassan, Prajwal Revanna also joined in. At a massive rally, Mr. Deve Gowda announced that he would adopt Sira taluk for development and sought votes to “protect the party”. Ammajamma blacks out Ammajamma, the JD(S) candidate in Sira, blacked out during the campaign rally owing to exhaustion on Sunday. The 61-year-old, who had just recovered from COVID-19, took part in the party’s campaign rally in the morning. She almost fainted, but party workers came to her rescue.
02 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||10 lakh people tested for COVID-19 in 22 days||Testing for COVID-19 has been taken up on a war footing with as many as 10 lakh tests conducted in a span of 22 days between October 8 and October 30 in Bengaluru Urban district. Prior to this, it took the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) more than a month – from September 4 to October 8 – to test 10 lakh people. Data from the BBMP’s COVID-19 war room shows that the number of tests conducted in the city (Bengaluru Urban) since the outbreak of the pandemic touched the 30-lakh mark on October 30. With an increase in the number of tests, the positivity rate as well as the number of cases recorded per day has declined since October, said officials. The positivity rate for September was 12.78 %, which has declined to 8.15% in October. Civic officials have been given a target to complete 45,000 to 50,000 tests per day. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said that the number of COVID-19 positive cases and the positivity rate in the city were declining. “Once people test positive, they isolate themselves and reduce the spread of the infection. In the coming days, we will not reduce the number of tests, and continue testing 50,000 people every day,” he said. In the coming days, the civic body’s focus will be to reduce the positivity rate in outer areas. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, BBMP war room special officer, said that each of the zones have been given testing targets depending on the incidence of cases reported in the last week. “Zones with high positivity rates are given higher testing targets than others,” she said. As of Saturday, the positivity rate in Bengaluru Urban over a 14-day period stood at 4.98%.
02 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Modi, Shah wish people of State on Rajyotsava||Prime Minsiter Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah wished the people of the State on the occasion of Karnataka Rajyotsava. “Kannada Rajyotsava wishes to my brothers and sisters of Karnataka. The skills and power of Kannadigas have taken Karnataka to heights. I wish for the happiness and health of the people of Karnataka,” Mr. Modi tweeted in Kannada. “My best wishes to the people of Karnataka on the occasion of Rajyotsava. Karnataka has always played an important role in the nation’s development and progress. May the State continue to excel and prosper in the years ahead,” Mr. Shah tweeted.
02 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Marijuana found in air cargo consignments||Officials in the air cargo complex at Kempegowda International Airport seized hydroponic marijuana weighing 448 grams and worth approximately Rs. 72 lakh. The consignment was concealed in courier parcels declared as a gaming mouse and a watercolour kit imported from Los Angeles, USA. The authorities are tracing the recipient of the parcel based on the address. In September, customs officials busted two similar cases involving consignments of marijuana and other illegal substances.
02 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Kuvempu Samagra’ released||The comprehensive literary works of Jnanpith awardee and national poet Kuvempu, titled ‘Kuvempu Samagra’, was released in both hard copy and digital formats on the occasion of the 65th Kannada Rajyotsava by Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Sunday. The books, comprising 12,000 pages, have been published by Prasaranga of Kannada University, Hampi. “This is an important development to bring literary works of Kuvempu in the digital format. Now, any reader located in any part of the world can enjoy and experience the writings of the literary giant,” said Mr. Narayan. Kuvempu’s daughter and writer Tarini Chidanandagowda, and former vice chancellor of Kuvempu University Chidanandagowda attended the event virtually.
02 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In R.R. Nagar||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, who is also the District Election Officer for R.R. Nagar, said on Sunday that 14 cases have been filed in various police stations in the Assembly segment under the Disaster Management Act for violation of COVID-19 norms. There have also been five cases of poll code violation. He said those who were not residents of the segment would not be allowed to stay further, now that the public campaigning for the byelection was over. He said that as part of additional arrangements, nine flying squads, apart from the 27 already in place, 36 marshals, five video-viewing teams, 56 sector officers, and eight excise flying squads have been deployed. Extra vigil will be kept on places such as marriage halls and community centres where people can congregate. He reiterated that as per the directions of the Election Commission, exit polls should not be published from November 3 to 7. There is also a ban on sale of liquor till midnight on Tuesday, and also on November 10, the day of vote counting. Prohibitory orders will be in place till Wednesday 6 p.m.
02 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nikhil omits two names||Nikhil Kumaraswamy, son of former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, did not mention the names of his cousin and MP for Hassan Prajwal Revanna and uncle H.D. Revanna when he started speaking at a JD(S) rally in Sira on Sunday. He apologised later and addressed them before continuing his speech.
02 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Darshan booked||Election officials on Sunday filed a case against Kannada film actor Darshan for allegedly violating the COVID-19 guidelines while campaigning for BJP candidate Munirathna ahead of the bypolls in R.R. Nagar Assembly constituency. The R.R. Nagar police registered a case against Darshan and others, charging them under various sections of the Disaster Management Act. “We have video clips and photographs. The actor, accompanied by his associates, did not wear mask or honour the mandatory social distancing guidelines,” said a police officer. Senior officials pointed out that it was a health risk as thousands of people had gathered during the road show. “His fans may also decide not to wear masks or take precautions,” the officer said.
02 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hassan-Mangaluru road work begins||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies K. Gopalaiah said the repair of Hassan-Mangaluru road, which has been in a bad state following rains in the recent days, had begun on Sunday and the work would be completed soon. Speaking to presspersons in Hassan on Sunday, Mr. Gopalaiah, who is also Minister in-charge of Hassan, said he came to know about the state of the road and had instructed the officers to take up the repair immediately. “The road will be asphalted to cover the potholes. The work has begun today,” he said. Residents of Sakleshpur had demanded the repair of the road and also warned the district administration of severe protests if the demand was not fulfilled immediately.He further said that Hasanamba Utsav would be a simple affair this year owing to COVID-19. The district administration would expect the cooperation of the public for the smooth conduct of the event. The Minister said the BJP was confident of winning the byelections in R.R. Nagar and Sira constituencies. The people would support the Yediyurappa-led BJP government by electing the party’s candidates, he said. Reacting to Leader of the Opposition Siddaramiah’s comments on the change of CM, Mr. Gopalaiah said Mr. Yediyurappa would complete the remaining term as the CM. There was no question of a change as the party had accepted him as the leader. The Minister, earlier hoisted the national flag at the district stadium on the occasion of Kannada Rajyotsava. He also felicitated achievers from different fields as part of the programme. Among those felicitated included Dr. Hampanahalli Thimme Gowda and Anasuyamma, who have been chosen for Rajyotsava Awards this year.
02 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Police crack robbery case, arrest one person||The Hassan police have succeeded in cracking the robbery case reported at Mallapura in Arkalgud taluk on September 28. The police arrested one person in this connection and recovered Rs. 5 lakh from him on Friday. At a press conference in Hassan on Saturday, R. Srinivasa Gowda, Hassan SP, said that two persons were involved in the crime. The police could trace Irfan Ahmed, 40, and recover a major portion of the stolen money. The other accused in the crime, Syed Mubeen, had been absconding with the remaining Rs. 99,000. The accused are from Periyapatna taluk in Mysuru district. Syed Yakub, a farmer also in sheep trade, in his complaint alleged that two unknown people assaulted him and took away Rs. 5.99 lakh in cash from him while he was sleeping at his farmhouse on September 28. The Konanur police had registered the case. The complainant has doubts about the involvement of Irfan Ahmed in the crime. Upon verification, the police found that he had not returned to his village since the incident was reported. Later, they traced him down and arrested him.
02 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Residents protest against release of water||Residents of Halebidu in Belur staged a protest on Sunday morning opposing the release of water from Dorasamudra tank. Officers of the Water Resources Department had let the water out to repair the tank bund. The protesters maintained that the officers had assured them they would repair the bund without wasting any water from the tank that had been filled for the first time in the last 15 years. The protesters raised slogans against the officers and Belur MLA K.S. Lingesh. They alleged that the release of water would damage the area downstream. Somashekhar Shivacharya Swami of Pushpagiri Mutt and others visited the spot extending support to the protest. Senior police officers and Revenue Department officials also were present. Later in the afternoon, K. Gopalaiah, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies and Minister in charge of the district, visited the spot and spoke to protesters. He said the officers had released water only to take up the work. “It is the responsibility of the officers to ensure the safety of the people. If it rains heavily and the tank bund collapses, it would cause serious damage. There is sufficient water in the tank and there is no need to worry,” he said. He also told the protesters that the repair work would be completed within 10 days and the water level would be maintained.
02 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Rajyotsava should become Nityotsava, says Minister||Taking exceptions to pro-Karnataka concerns expressed in November, Agriculture Minister and Koppal in-charge B.C. Patil has said that the fight for the protection and the development of Karnataka and Kannada should continue throughout the year. “As we have been witnessing, concerns for Kannada and Karnataka are overwhelmingly shown in November only when the State observes Rajyotsava to mark the formation of a linguistic State. We need to continue the same zeal and commitment throughout the year,” he said. He was addressing a gathering at the Rajyotsava celebrations after hoisting the national flag at the district stadium in Koppal on Sunday. Strongly holding that the use of a language in daily life was the only way to protection it and to ensure its development, Mr. Patil urged Kannadigas to use Kannada among themselves as well as with others in the State. He also expressed concerns over the increasing influence of other languages in different parts of the State. “Kannadigas have big hearts. They wholeheartedly welcome people with other linguistic backgrounds. They need to develop love towards Kannada by passionately using it even with people who speak other languages. They should show more interest in using Kannada than they show interest in using other languages. They should collectively stand up and fight for Kannada when it faces threat from other languages,” he said. The Minister recalled the consistent efforts by those who fought for a State for Kannada-speaking people such as Alur Venkata Rao and hailed the former Chief Minister D. Devaraj Urs for his efforts to rename Mysore State as Karnataka on November 1, 1973. Mr. Patil released a leaflet containing information about insurance for rabi crops. Tableaux prepared by the departments of Health and Family Welfare, Horticulture, Women and Child Development, Agriculture, Transport, among others, on various topics to spread awareness among people were displayed. Tableaux on COVID-19 prepared by the Transport Department and Health Department bagged the first and second prizes, respectively. The Agriculture and Horticulture departments got the third prize. Earlier, contingents of the Civil Police, the District Armed Reserve Police, the Home Guards, the Bharat Seva Dal, NCC and Scouts and Guides participated in a parade. Koppal MLA K. Raghavendra Hitnal presided over the celebrations. Zilla Panchayat president K. Rajashekhar Hitnal, Lok Sabha member Karadi Sanganna, Zilla Panchayat vice-president Beena Gause, Deputy Commissioner Vikas Kishore Suralkar, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Raghunandan Murthy, Superintendent of Police T. Sridhar and Additional Deputy Commissioner M.P. Maruthi and others participated in the event.
02 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bureaucrats urged to work with zeal for State’s overall development||Hailing the contributions made by those involved in the efforts for the unification of Karnataka, Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna has urged bureaucrats to work with the same spirit for the overall development of the State. She was addressing a gathering after offering floral tributes to Goddess Bhuvaneshwari to mark the inauguration of the 65th Rajyotsava celebrations at Nagareshwar School Grounds here on Sunday. Stressing on the need to preserve cultural legacy and rich heritage, Ms. Jyothsna said that it would be everyone’s responsibility to unite and build a prosperous State. She also recalled the sacrifices of freedom fighters, including Deputy Chennabasappa, Acharya B.M. Shreekantaiah, Kuvempu, A.N. Krishnarao, Allur Venkatrao, Mangalavede Srinivasrao, S. Nijalingappa, K.F. Patel, Gorur Ramaswamy Iyengar, Haranahalli Ramaswamy, Kadidal Manjappa, Kengal Hanumanthaiya, H.S. Doreswamy, Ballari Siddamma and Patil Putappa, who all dreamt of a unified Karnataka, in pursuit of which a State was formed for Kannada-speaking people in 1956. Karnataka has an enthralling history with several dynasties such as the Mauryas, the Satavahanas, the Kadambas, the Gangas, the Chalukyas, the Rashtrakutas, the Hoysalas, the Vijayanagar kings and the Wodeyars having shaped it. Pointing out the region’s outstanding contribution to literarature, Ms. Jyothsna said that the Kavi Raja Marga, a ninth century Kannada classic and the first available literary work in Kannada written by the famous Rashtrakuta king Nrupatunga and co-authored by a poet and Kannada language theorist Sri Vijaya, was contributed by Kalyana Karnataka region.
02 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kannada is life for every Kannadiga, says DC||Deputy Commissioner of Bidar Ramachandran R. has said that Kannada was not just a language, but life for every Kannadiga. He was addressing the Kannada Rajyotsava celebrations at the Police Parade grounds in Bidar on Sunday. “The unification of Karnataka was an important milestone in the history of Karnataka. It was the result of consistent struggles and mass movement led by Alur Venkata Rao, B.M. Shrikantaiah, A.N. Krishna Rao, S. Nijalingappa, Kadidal Manjappa, Kental Hanumanthaiah, Patil Puttappa and other leaders,” he said. Pointing to the recent floods that had wreaked havoc in northern districts, including Bidar, Mr. Ramachandran reiterated the government’s commitment to addressing the woes of flood victims.
02 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Detained for bid to hoist NK and KK statehood flag||An attempt to hoist a Statehood flag of North Karnataka and Kalyana Karnataka by members of the Kalyan Karnataka Pratyeka Rajya Horata Samiti in boycott of Rajyotsava celebrations was foiled by the police in Kalaburagi on Sunday. Members of the Kalyan Karnataka Pratyeka Rajya Jagruti Samiti, led by M.S. Patil Naribol and a few others, who tried to break the police cordon at Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Chowk, were stopped by the police personnel and prevented from hoisting flags bearing the map of six districts of Hyderabad Karnataka region. As many as 10 members of the organisations were detained by the police and released later.
02 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘KK region has contributed immensely to Kannada’||Chancellor of Sharnbasva University Sharnbaswappa Appa has said that the Sharanbasaveshwar Samasthan had played a pivotal role in the protection of Kannada and empowerment of women by promoting education for them. He recalled the contribution of the samasthan towards protection of Kannada braving the onslaught of Hindi, Marathi, and Urdu and providing a window of opportunity to the people of erstwhile HK region to pursue their education in Kannada by starting Kannada medium institutions. In his recorded online message on the occasion of Karnataka Rajyotsava, Dr. Appa said Kalyana Karnataka region had contributed immensely to the enrichment of Kannada.
02 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mega sea food parks proposed in two coastal districts||Mega sea food parks, which provide facilities for processing fish food, their preservation and value addition, will come up in Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada under the Pradhan Mantri Matsaya Sampada Yojana, said Minister for Fisheries, Ports, Inland Water Transport and Muzrai Kota Srinivasa Poojary here on Sunday. Speaking at the Rajyotsava celebrations at the Nehru Maidan, Mr. Poojary said that each food park will be set up at an the estimated cost of Rs. 100 crore. He told reporters later that a search is on for identifying land. “We are looking on 80 acres of land in Niddodi near Moodbidri and also a place in Puttur taluk for the park in Dakshina Kannada. It will be finalised in another 20 days,” he said. Mr. Poojary said apart from fish processing units, each mega food park will have cold storage facility and mechanisms for preparing value added products. “Only wealthy fishermen have these facilities now. At these food parks, small time fishermen can make use of the cold storage facilities,” he said. The parks in the two districts will be set up on a pilot basis and more such parks will be set up in other parts of the State later, he said. The fishermen have shown interest in cage cultivation of fish in the backwaters. As many as 200 fishermen turned up for the training programme held in Mangaluru, while 425 fishermen turned up for the programme held in Udupi. The State Government gives Rs. 2 lakh subsidy for each fisherman for adopting cage cultivation. The State Government has set a target of creating self employment of 10,000 youths through such cultivation, he said. The State Government is setting up Matsya Darshini in all the 198 wards of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike. As financial incentive, the Government is issuing Kisan Credit Cards to fishermen, he said. Earlier, Mr. Poojary hoisted the national flag and reviewed the ceremonial parade by the police. He presented a laptop each to Shaivi B, Geeta H and Sweeta, who are the three students from Kannada medium who topped in the recently held SSLC examination. He presented district Rajyotsava awards to 40 persons including writer A.V. Navada, physican U.V. Shenoy, artiste Chandrashekar Hegde Puttur, Yakshagana artiste Ganesh Kolekady, cyber security expert Ananth Prabhu G, Actor Chaitanya Mani B and journalists B.T. Ranjan Shenoy and Srinivas Nayak Indaje.
02 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Retired teacher joins hands with govt. to help build house for poor student||A high school headmaster in Udupi who retired on Saturday has joined hands with the government to construct a small house for a poor girl student from Koraga community. The teacher, Murli Kadekar, retired after 37 years of service at Nittur High School, a government-aided private high school, managed by Nittur Educational Society, on October 31. He was the headmaster of the school for the last five years. Mr. Kadekar told The Hindu that the family of the girl in Class 9 has seven members at home. They have been living in a thatched house. A new house for them has been built now by Udupi Nirmiti Kendra. It is yet to be completed as about 10 % works are pending. The government gives the family a maximum of Rs. 2 lakh for the house built at Kakkunje. The balance amount will be borne by Mr. Kadekar. The total cost of construction might come to Rs. 4 lakh or little more. It will be known only when the house is completed. Since the house had a toilet built earlier, which now requires a change of roof, the new house will have a hall, a bedroom and a kitchen, he said and added that he is diverting some amount from this retirement benefits to construct the house for the poor family. The new house was handed over to the girl on Saturday. The teacher had arranged for electricity supply to the student’s thatched house last year. In addition, while in service, he launched “Mane Belagu” project to ensure electricity supply to the houses of poor students of the school by collecting funds from donors. The houses of about 90 such students were provided with either electricity connection from the grid or solar lighting system, during the past 14 years, he said and added that SELCO Solar Light Pvt. Ltd. had also joined hands in this project. The teacher along with the alumni of the school and parents took an initiative this rainy season to cultivate paddy on about 50 acres which, otherwise, had been left uncultivated for decades in the surroundings of the school. Prompted by this initiative, other paddy land owners nearby who had also left their fields fallow for years took up cultivation in about 25 acres.
02 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘We’re making efforts to get Blue Flag label for more beaches in Udupi’||Udupi district administration has initiated measures to get the coveted Blue Flag eco-label from the international agency Foundation for Environment Education, Denmark, for more beaches in the district, Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Sunday. Delivering the Rajyotsava address at the Mahatma Gandhi stadium in Ajjarakadu, he said that the End Point beach at Padubidri bagged the Blue Flag label recently. It has put Udupi district on the international map of tourism. The district administration has taken steps to get international recognition for more such beaches. A Blue Flag beach is an eco-tourism model to provide tourists clean and hygienic bathing water, facilities/amenities, safe and healthy environment and sustainable development of the area. The certification is awarded by the agency in Denmark based on 33 stringent criteria under four major heads that is, environmental education and information, bathing water quality, environment management and conservation and safety and services on beaches. The government upgrading Byndoor Gram Panchayat as a Town Panchayat by incorporating the areas under Yadtare, Paduvari and Byndoor villages is a new milestone in the development of the district, he said. The Deputy Commissioner said that the government recently approving to upgrade the Udupi District Hospital as a 250-bed hospital with a total staff strength of 197 will help provide quality health care to people of the district. The upgradation project is estimated to cost about Rs. 115 crore. The project has been approved 23 years after Udupi district was carved out of Dakshina Kannada. Mr. Jagadeesha said that nurturing, promoting and passing on Kannada to the future generation have emerged as a challenge in the computer era. All have a responsibility in preserving Kannada. The Deputy Commissioner said that Tulu and Kannada are like two eyes. Both should be promoted together. Udupi district-level Rajyotsava award was presented to 36 achievers and four organisations on the occasion. Laptops were given away to nine students of government high schools who were toppers in the SSLC examination of 2020. Spoorthi Ashok Rathod of Mahalakshmi English Medium High School, Uchila and Rashmitha of Mookambika High School, Kollur, who were toppers in this year’s SSLC examination, in Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes categories, respectively, were given away cheques for Rs. 1 lakh each from the Department of Social Welfare.
02 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Land identified in Puttur for offices of SP and DAR||Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor said here on Sunday that 19 acres of land has been identified in the jurisdiction of Puttur City Municipality for setting up the office of the Superintendent of Police, Dakshina Kannada, and associated facilities by shifting them from Mangaluru. In an informal chat with reporters, the MLA said that two acres of land have been identified at Chikka Mudnuru for setting up the office of the Superintendent of Police. Another two acres have been identified at Bannuru for building residential quarters for police personnel. In addition, 15 acres have been identified at Kemminje for the office of the District Armed Reserve (DAR) Police and also a ground for training purposes of police personnel. Mr. Matandoor said that he has written to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai requesting the government to shift the offices from Mangaluru to Puttur to make the police administration smoother as all borders of the jurisdiction of Dakshina Kannada Police will be about 50 km-60 km away from Puttur and can be reached easily. The MLA said that he has also spoken to the Director-General and Inspector-General of Police on this. “One round of talks with the persons concerned on shifting the offices have been held,” he said. He said that initially, the offices can be started on rented buildings till the government allocated funds for setting up the offices and related facilities. The MLA said that he will exert pressure on the government to shift the offices from Mangaluru if the government delayed in taking up this initiative.
02 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Cycle of commute’ rally held in Mangaluru||Expressing the need to encourage people across all age groups to cycle, Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash said here on Sunday that the city police will extend support to make cycling safe on the city roads. Flagging off ‘cycle for commute’ rally held by Mangaluru Smart City Ltd., Mangaluru City Corporation and Bicycle Clubs of Mangaluru, Mr. Vikash said it was good to see the turnout for the cycle rally. Apart from being an easy mode to commute, cycling helps in all round development, he said. MCC Commissioner and in-charge Managing Director of MSCL Akshy Sridhar said MSCL and MCC are promoting safe cycling tracks. As many as 200 cyclists took part in the rally.
02 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Video classes a good avenue to continue learning’||Appreciating the initiative of a group of teachers from Dakshina Kannada to provide recorded video lectures for Class 10 students, district In-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said here on Sunday that the teachers have provided a new avenue for students to continue learning after Vidyagama neighbourhood schooling was stopped. Launching Swajnana – the link through which recorded lecturers will be available on YouTube – Mr. Poojary said the State government decided to temporarily stop neighbourhood schooling following death of a teacher from Moodbidri and a few children testing positive of COVID-19 across the State. “There is no definite answer to whether the infection was because of neighbourhood schooling. But decision was taken to stop Vidyagama for time being (which has affected learning). The recorded lectures provide a good avenue for students,” he said. A group of about 40 teachers have recorded lectures for Class 10 students, especially from Kannada medium, who do not have access to virtual classes. These lectures in the traditional chalk and board method have been recorded at the St. Aloysius Pre University College. Two lectures each are being released in the evening, starting from Sunday, as per the schedule given by the office of Deputy Director of Public Instruction (DDPI). DDPI Malleswamy said the department has made arrangement to send these lectures in the form of Compact Disc or in pen drive to schools, which opens from Monday.
02 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man arrested after body is found||The Konaje police on Sunday found in an abandoned stone quarry the body of a 70-year-old man who reportedly went missing on Thursday last. The police arrested a man on the charge of murdering the old man. The Konaje Police gave the name of the deceased as Palliyaka alias Palliyabba, a resident of Mallar Arastana of Pavoor village. The police said that Palliyaka, who was into money lending, left the house on Thursday and failed to return.
02 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 cases declining in Mysuru, says Somashekar||District-in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar said here on Sunday that COVID-19 cases were showing a declining trend in Mysuru owing to aggressive testing and early treatment. Speaking during the Kannada Rajyotsava celebrations, the Minister said the district was a role model for others in the handling of the pandemic in the early days. But things went awry in subsequent stages following which the State government, on the suggestions of experts and scientists, initiated new measures that brought the situation under control. Not only have the testing facilities ramped up but the number of daily tests being conducted have increased manifold, helping detect the presence of the virus in the early stages. “Treatment in the early stages has not only helped increase the rate of recovery and decrease the number of deaths but has also helped prevent the spread of the virus,” the Minister added. Mr. Somashekar said there was a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases after the lockdown was lifted in a graded manner but things were now under control. He sought the cooperation of the people in tackling the pandemic. The war against COVID-19 is not yet over and should continue till a vaccine is available. Until then people should ensure social distancing, wear masks and comply with the use of sanitisers all of which will go a long way in preventing the spread of the virus, said Mr. Somashekar. Referring to recent conduct of Dasara festival, the Minister said the festivities were curtailed to prevent the congregation of crowd to curb the spread of COVID-19. He expressed confidence that Mysuru district would soon fall under the green zone. He paid tribute to COVID-19 warriors – doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, pourakarmikas, police and other officials – who were on the frontline in the efforts to manage the pandemic. Recalling the importance of Kannada Rajyotsava celebrations, Mr. Somashekar said the struggle for the unification of Karnataka went alongside with the struggle for Independence from the British and culminated in the reorganisation of the State on November 1, 1956. The youth of the State should strive for the comprehensive development of Karnataka and cultivate interest in Kannada literature and local culture, he said, while calling for the greater use of Kannada in administration. The authorities also felicitated 11 persons for their contribution to various fields ranging from social work, art, culture and media. Floral offerings were made to idol of goddess Bhuvaneshwari personifying Karnataka and Kannada. Local elected representatives, officials from the district administration and others were present.
02 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Freight traffic gaining traction in Mysuru railway division||The Mysuru Division of the South Western Railway has shown signs of increase in freight traffic movement following the graded unlocking to open up economic activities that were shut down due to the pandemic. The figures for September 2020 indicate a gradual turnaround and the division loaded 213 rakes compared to 210 that were loaded in September 2019. and this trend is expected to continue for the remaining period of the financial year. For October 2020, there were as many as four rakes comprising 109 wagons that were loaded from Kadakola on the outskirts of Nanjangud where a major two-wheeler manufacturing factory is located. Mysuru Division also loaded 534 wagons of freight on Saturday which is the highest single-day loaded so far. The previous highest loading was 479 wagons for any single day. Sources in the Railways said the division loaded 0.69 tonnes of freight in October 2020 as against 0.59 tonnes of freight loaded in October 2019, an increase of 16% on a monthly basis. This is an indicator of buoyancy in the economy. The revenue generated through freight was Rs. 38.44 crore in September 2020 as against Rs. 35 crore in September 2019. However, the half yearly cumulative load for the period April to September is low because of the lockdown. As against 1,289 rakes that were loaded in 2019 during April-September, 751 rakes were loaded during the current financial year. The main freight transported by the division is iron ore. Tthe Railways managed to secure confirmed orders from Mysore Minerals Enterprises, Chitradurga, and the ores are transported to Tornagallu. During the lockdown period, the Railways launched the Business Development Unit in July with the objective of giving a thrust to freight traffic and enabling ease of doing business. The objective was to increase and double the freight traffic post-lockdown and this is paying dividends, sources said. The major freight customers for the division include players in the iron and steel, mining, cement and agriculture sectors. The traction in the movement of cement, iron ore, fertilizers, etc., are indicators of growth in the economy and efforts will be doubled to give a boost to freight traffic, the sources added. But the shadow of the pandemic continues to loom large on the passenger earning segment as the number of people travelling has dipped and it is a long haul ahead to return to the pre-pandemic level of traffic. As against Rs. 22.33 crore earned in September 2019, the division earned Rs. 2.19 crore in September 2020 in the passenger segment. The passenger earnings will continue to remain low till normalcy returns and all the trains mentioned in the railway timetable resume operations.
02 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Low-key Dasara cost govt. Rs. 2.05 cr.||The State government incurred an expenditure of Rs. 2.05 crore on the Dasara celebrations in Mysuru, which remained muted this year owing to COVID-19. Releasing details of the expenditure here on Sunday, Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar, who is also the Minister in charge of the district, said the government had spent Rs. 2.05 crore out of the Rs. 10 crore sanctioned for the festivities. While Rs. 50 lakh and Rs. 36 lakh had been spent on the Dasara celebrations in Mandya and Chamarajanagar, respectively, out of the same Rs. 10 crore as per the directions of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, a total expenditure of Rs. 2.91 crore had been incurred in total. He said the authorities will await necessary directions from the Chief Minister over the next course of action on the unspent money. In addition to the Rs. 10 crore that was announced by the Chief Minister during the high-level meeting on September 8 and released into the account of the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru, who is also the Dasara Special Officer, on September 25, the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) too had announced Rs. 5 crore towards Dasara celebrations. The Rs. 5 crore announced by MUDA was not released. Meanwhile, Mr. Somashekar said no new tradition had been started this year with regard to spending money and clarified that the payment of Rs. 40 honorarium lakh to the erstwhile royal family had been in practice. A.H. Vishwanath, MLC; L. Nagendra, MLA; Rohini Sindhuri, DC; Chandragupta, Mysuru City Police Commissioner; and C.B. Ryshyant, SP, were present when details of the expenditure were released.
02 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kannada classical centre moves to new premises||The Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada (CESCK) shifted to its new premises at the University of Mysore campus on Saturday in a move expected to boost research on the language. The CESCK functioned all these years out of the CIIL premises. A spacious office was provided for it in the building of the National Centre for History of Science at Manasagangotri. Experts and littérateurs who graced the virtual event to mark the occasion and celebrate the Kannada Rajyotsava, laid the broad contours and the work that needs to be undertaken on priority. Jnanpith awardee and Kannada littérateur Chandrashekar Kambar who made a virtual address said Indian languages have a hoary past and a wealth of literature but English has usurped the position of a link language due to the education system introduced by the British. This system introduced by Macaulay bred an inferiority complex among Indians who have come to consider their past as worthless. The situation is such that it is considered a must for jobs today and the language experts and CESCK should strive to ensure that Kannada regains its pride of place, said Mr. Kambar. He said there was no country as linguistically diverse as India with a wealth of literary corpus and the Bhakti movement opened the floodgates of literary outpouring. Yet English was encouraged as it was linked to job opportunities whereas this was not so in countries like China, Russia or Japan. G. Hemantha Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, University of Mysore, described the shifting of the CESCK to Mansagangotri campus as a sort of ‘homecoming’ and laid the broad road map for the centre apart from its research activities. He said works of poets like Pampa, Ranna, Ponna, etc., should be translated into English and other Indian languages. There was no dearth of Kannada scholars but efforts should be made to identify senior most scholars and document and recognise their works, he added. Deputy Director of Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL) Umarani Kuppaswamy said there were nearly 43 million Kannada speakers in the country constituting 3.61% of the population. The language had rich traditions spanning over 2,000 years. She said culture and language were interlinked and celebrating a language amounted to celebrating a culture and if the language was lost the culture too would perish with it. She said the CIIL can help in promoting Kannada as a link language among tribes some of who had their own languages but did not have a script.
02 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Savadi unfurls national flag in Raichur||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi unfurled the national flag in Raichur and Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya did the honours in Yadgir to mark the Rajyotsava celebrations on Sunday. Mr. Savadi, who is also Raichur district in-charge Minister, addressed the gathering and said that the unification movement to bring Kannada-speaking people under one State would remain in the hearts of the millions of Kannadigas forever. “During the rule of the British and after Independence, Kannada-speaking people were spread across various parts of Southern India. To bring them under one State concept, writers, freedom fighters and prominent Kannadigas fought for many years. As a result of the sacrifices of thousands of people, Karnataka was created on November 1, 1956. “Raichur district has a history of people who fought for the unification of the State. Karnataka Sangh played a decisive role in the struggle. Poets Shantarasa, Dhruvanarayan, M.K. Kulkarni, Siddaiah Puranik, Raj Purohit and many others were part of the struggle. Pandit Siddaram Jambaladinni, Narasimhalu Vadavati, Gajal Gundamma, Pandit Manik Rao Raichurkar, Channabasappa Bettadur, Shankaragowda Bettadur and many other musicians, Janapada and Tatvapada singers made Kannada language rich by their immense contribution,” Mr. Savadi said. “It took 391 years to unify the Kannada linguistic people after the end of the Vijayanagar Empire. Kannadigas have extended a helping hand to other people speaking different languages to stay within the State following the principle of brotherhood and the message of Vishwa Manava (Universal Man) by Rashtrakavi Sri Kuppalli Venkatappa Puttappa who is popularly known as Kuvempu. Therefore, it is everybody’s duty to continue with the same principle and extend the rich culture of the State to the outside world,” he added. In Yadgir In the programme held in Yadgir, Dr. Ragapriya addressed the gathering. Assistant Commissioner of Yadgir sub-division Shankaragowda Somanal, Chandrahas Mithha, Veeresh Hallur, Doddappa Naik, Nagaraj, Shivakumar, Sharanu, V. Srinivas Prasad, Samadhana, Veerabhadra, Syed Ustad Bhairi, Tarasingh, Kotrayya Mathad, Girish Chatraki, Vijayalakshmi, Mallikarjuna, Rajkumar, Shanbhuling Patil, Hanumappa, Basavaraj Sajjan, Sharnappa, Mahadev, Basalingamma, Sai Prakash, Ashwini, Eramma, Pradeep Bhise, Hanumantaraya, Devamma, Lakshmibai Rathod, Jagadguru Hiremath, Hanumantaraya Nagappa, Siddappa Tambake, Suraiya Begum and Mohammad Hussain, officers and staff of the Revenue, Health, Police and Social Welfare departments, Panchayat Development Officers, pourakarmikas and anganwadi workers were felicitated for their remarkable work in tackling COVID-19 and also writers for their contribution to Kannada language.
02 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Foodgrains to be bought under MSP scheme||A Cabinet Sub-Committee has given the go-ahead to purchase foodgrains under the minimum support price (MSP) scheme from December 1. Hence, officials have already been directed to complete the registration process by the end of November, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi has said. He was talking to reporters in Raichur after unfurling the national flag to mark the Rajyotsava celebrations at the District Armed Reserve (DAR) Police Grounds on Sunday. Mr. Savadi, who is the in-charge Minister of Raichur, said that with an intention to help farmers, the Cabinet Sub-Committee has decided to purchase foodgrains, including paddy, green gram, red gram, groundnut and coconut, under the minimum support price scheme and officials should complete the process of registering details of farmers before November 30. Meanwhile, the State government has sent a requisition to the Union government to increase the minimum support price, based on which foodgrains would be purchased, he added.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Around 100 families in Lakkasandra will shift to make way for metro||One hundred and one families living in shanties at Lakkasandra slum will be rehabilitated at Kudlu as the government land they are currently occupying will be used for the Namma Metro project. The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) will spend Rs. 4.5 lakh per family to provide housing to those displaced. Another Rs. 1.5 lakh will be provided under existing housing schemes by the government. Earlier this year, some of the residents had claimed that 120 families currently live in the slum, but the survey team has said that 101 households are eligible for rehabilitation. Most of the families living in the shanties hail from north Karnataka. For over a year, the BMRCL has been making attempts to acquire around five acres of government land at Lakkasandra where people have built makeshift structures. The land is required for the Namma Metro underground project, and will be used for a casting yard. “Earlier, the Bengaluru Urban district authority and Karnataka Slum Development Board had proposed to provide rehabilitation at Kurubarahalli in Tavarekere hobli on Magadi Road. But families already residing in Kurubarahalli, where housing facilities have been provided by the Board, raised objections,” said a BMRCL official. Exploring options This development forced the metro rail corporation to explore other options. “Now, the Slum Board has identified a place at Kudlu on Hosur Road. BMRCL has agreed to provide the required funds for housing,” said the official. He added that affected families will also get an allowance to shift their possessions. This is not the first time that BMRCL has stepped in to provide housing for displaced families. However, officials say the current rehabilitation project for families in Lakkasandra is one of the bigger undertakings for Phase II of Namma Metro. “The land will be used for temporary purposes,” the official added. Under Phase II, the BMRCL is building a tunnel network from Dairy Circle to Nagawara. At Cantonment and Shivajinagar stations, it has deployed four tunnel boring machines out of which three have commissioned tunnel works. Officials claim that a majority of the land required for the project is already in possession of BMRCL.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||SIT overcomes multiple pitfalls to nail murderers of RTI activist||An eight-year-long path to justice saw four police officers with the Special Investigation Team (SIT) pitted against 12 people, including a former civic councillor, accused of murdering an RTI activist. For the SIT team, it was eight years of frustrating and painstaking investigation, and standing up to bribery and false accusations. But justice was finally served. On October 29, the civil and sessions court found the 12 accused guilty of the murder of RTI activist Lingaraju and sentenced them to imprisonment. On November 20, 2012, Lingaraju was hacked to death outside his house in Vittal Nagar in front of his wife and son by a group of armed assailants. “The victim had crossed paths with Govindaraju, the husband of the then Azad Nagar councillor Gowramma,” said a police official who was part of the investigation team. Lingaraju had filed a complaint of disproportionate assets against Govindaraju following which the Lokayukta raided his house and booked him and Gowramma under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Documents pertaining to property worth over a hundred crores of rupees were seized. Given the magnitude of the case, the High Court directed formation of an SIT team to probe the murder. It was headed by the then Joint Commissioner of Police Pranob Mohanty and included Abdul Ahad, the then SP (CID) along with Tilok Chandra, Deputy SP (CID), and Inspector Manoj, and Sadashivamurthy, former director of prosecution, who was the special public prosecutor in the team. Hashmath Pasha, senior counsel, who was appointed amicus curiae, played a key role in keeping the High Court updated. According to the police, Govindaraju had tried to bribe Lingaraju to withdraw the complaint, but when that failed he resorted to threats. During the course of their investigation, the police learned that Govindaraju had paid a notorious habitual offender Chandru Rs. 7.5 lakh to eliminate Lingaraju. Chandru was incarcerated at the time but organised the murder from inside prison. “When we started the investigation, we had to establish motive, the link to Govindaraju and the assailants. We started connecting the dots to take the case to the logical end,” said Mr. Ahad, who is currently SP, Anti Corruption Bureau. Key witnesses started turning hostile. Govindaraju, who had been arrested, had reportedly offered Rs. 8 crore to Lingaraju’s wife Umadevi. The SIT submitted evidence showing that around 50% of the amount had already been paid. But the SIT, anticipating that the councillor and her husband would attempt to derail the investigation, got Umadevi to give her statement to the magistrate even before Govindaraju approached the family. During the course of the trial, as many as 80 out of 103 witnesses turned hostile. Govindaraju, citing health reasons, got himself transferred to Victoria hospital from where he directed operations to thwart the SIT, said a police officer. He got a woman to file a rape complaint against the special public prosecutor. The Upparpet police, with help of the SIT, uncovered details of a meeting Govindaraju had with the woman while he was in prison. Owing to lack of evidence, the police concluded that the rape accusation was a false case. “It was a challenge for the SIT to arrange security cover for all the witnesses till completion of the trial. The accused would send goons to the court to threaten them. They tried to bribe court officials,” said Ahad. But the SIT’s determination paid off. “All 12 accused have been found guilty. It is a victory for justice and those who stood by us to get the verdict,” Ahad added.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||October records least cases in 3 months||The number of COVID-19 cases recorded in October declined when compared to August and September even as testing increased during the same period. According to the media bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the number of tests conducted in October in the State stood at 27.03 lakh, while the number of positive cases reported in the same month was 2.14 lakh. This is a decline in positive cases compared to August (2.29 lakh) and September (2.75 lakh). Further analysis of the data shows that the number of RT-PCR tests conducted in October increased dramatically to 18.43 lakh compared to 11.05 lakh in September. The number of rapid antigen tests conducted declined from 9.13 lakh in September to 8.59 lakh in October. C.N. Manjunath, Director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is the nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said that 68% of the tests in October were RT-PCR. “We have seen that the RT-PCR tests have better sensitivity. Many people, who had negative result in the rapid antigen test, tested positive in the RT-PCR test. However, the rapid antigen test has complemented the testing strategy and reduced the burden on the RT-PCR test as it gives an immediate result,” he added. On Sunday, as many as 8,053 people were discharged and 3,652 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the State. This takes the total number of positive cases to 8.27 lakh and the total number of discharges to 7.65 lakh. Twenty-four people across the State succumbed to the virus on Sunday, taking the total toll to 11,192. Health and Family Welfare Minister and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that the number of recoveries were more than new cases for the 18th consecutive day. On Sunday, the discharge rate in the State stood at 92.52%.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Volunteers fix potholes||Volunteers of ‘PotHoleRaja’, along with residents and a few officials, marked Karnataka Rajyotsava by fixing potholes in Gandhipura near Whitefield and badly affected stretches in Kadugodi. A representative from the PotHoleRaja initiative said that the potholes they fixed on Sunday were close to schools. “Just because the schools are not open does not mean that they should not be fixed,” he said. The representative added that they have been getting more calls, messages and tweets for getting potholes fixed after the recent rains.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A bet-ter view||
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COP||The declaration of byelections to two seats in Karnataka seems to have caused damage to the JD(S) cadre. In the run-up to the bypolls, many JD(S) leaders, from former gram panchayat members to former legislators, quit the party and joined the Congress. Even union leaders of taxi and autorickshaw left the JD(S). Reacting to these developments, former MLA and JD(S) leader Y.S.V. Datta(in picture)said the party had suffered a major jolt, not just now but after it formed coalition governments with the BJP and the Congress. Insisting that the JD(S) had been strong before forming the coalition governments, he said the two national parties had “systema-tically destroyed” it. However, with rumours of a possible leadership change being effected in Karnataka in the coming days, which way the “kingmaker” party will lean this time is being watched keenly.   T. Suneel Kumar, a 1989-batch IPS officer, was promoted as Director-General of Police (DGP) just a day before he retired. He officiated as DGP of the Central Investigation Department for a day on October 29 and retired at the end of the day. P.S. Sandhu, who was DGP, CID, was sent on leave for the day to accommodate Mr. Kumar and later reinstated. This is not the first time such an exercise has been carried out for a brother officer. However, this ticked off another IPS officer, P. Ravindranath, also of the 1989 batch. He has resigned in protest over the “out of turn promotion” to Mr. Kumar. Mr. Ravindranath was embroiled in a controversy back in 2014 and there was an “image issue”, said a senior officer on why the promotion did not go his way. The Home Department is yet to take a call on his resignation. Nagesh Prabhu K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj
02 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha gets first cyber police station||The first cyber police station in the district started functioning here on Sunday. It was inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan through videoconferencing. The cyber police station was created by converting the cyber cell functioning at the office of the district police chief in Alappuzha. The new police station will be headed by Alappuzha South inspector M.K. Rajesh. Officials said that the cyber police station was launched in view of increasing cybercrimes in the district. It would conduct investigations on complaints such as online fraud, social media crimes, and so on. Apart from investigating cases, it would continue to provide technical assistance to cases registered in other police stations too. “The cyber police station is formed to investigate serious cybercrimes like data fraud, hacking of bank accounts, and serious social media crimes. People can continue to file complaints regarding cybercrimes in respective police stations and the first information report will be filed there. If there is a need for an in-depth probe, the local police will file a report to the district police chief. The district police chief will hand over the complaint to the cyber police station if needed,” said an official. District Police Chief P.S. Sabu said that officials with technical expertise in investigating cybercrime cases would be a boon to the cyber police station.  Contact Following is the contact number of the cyber police station 0477-2230804.
02 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||616 cases reported in Alappuzha||The district logged 616 COVID-19 cases and 778 recoveries on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 591 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of the infection of another 22 people remains undetected. Two persons who came from abroad and one from another State also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district also recorded four COVID-19-related deaths, taking the official tally to 102. The deceased were identified as a 71-year-old man from Aroor (died on October 28), a 74-year-old man from Sanathanapuram (died on October 28), a 67-year-old man from Edakkad (died on October 29), and an 88-year-old man from AN Puram (died on October 29). The 616 new cases include 55 reported from Punnapra South, 52 from Alappuzha, 47 from Chunakara, and 34 from Mannancherry. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 8,538. The police have registered 34 cases and arrested 12 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 276 people for not wearing face masks and 996 for not maintaining physical distance. Another three cases were registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed in the district under section 144 of the Cr.PC. Action was taken against 36 people in connection with the three cases. Parts of ward 4 in Haripad municipality, ward 2 in Thazhakara and ward 17 in Thanneermukkom grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.
02 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Paddy cultivation to be revived||Paddy cultivation will be revived in fallow lands in Onattukara region. As part of the initiative, seeds were sown in the fallow part of Karingalil Peruvelilchal Puncha spread across Nooranad, Chunakara and Palamel grama panchayats. Besides, cultivation has also started in fallow lands in Thamarakulam grama panchayat. The cultivation is being undertaken under the aegis of the Onattukara Farmers Club, various padasekhara samithis, and Kudumbashree units. Farmers are provided seeds and fertilizers free of cost.
02 November 2020||Bengaluru/Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bineesh hospitalised in Bengaluru||Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who is in the custody of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Bengaluru was taken to Bowring Hospital Bengaluru on Saturday. “He complained of uneasiness and was hospitalised around 3.30 p.m. The doctors are treating him,” said an ED official. The ED arrested Bineesh last week for his alleged financial connections with businessman Mohammed Anoop who was arrested in August by the Narcotics Control Bureau in Bengaluru in connection with a drug racket. He was scheduled to be produced before the court on Sunday. A source said that they were awaiting the medical report. “It is possible that he wanted to avoid going to jail. We are waiting for the medical report,” said the source. The ED probe stems from a case being investigated by the Narcotics Control Bureau which busted a drug trafficking racket in Karnataka in August in a series of raids. The agency was interrogating Bineesh in custody on suspicion of bankrolling a drug trafficking operation using illegitimately earned wealth and then laundering the proceeds of the crime to legitimise the wealth. Bineesh has denied the accusations and maintained that vested interests were attempting to foist the crime on him. Investments Meanwhile, the ED has reportedly moved to examine Bineesh’s investments in Kerala. The agency was also likely to summon his associates here for questioning. They possibly included persons in the cinema industry, car accessory, hotel and foreign exchange businesses. The ED has frozen Bineesh’s known assets in the State. However, the agency required to verify reports that he had sunk his allegedly illegitimate earnings into the plantation sector. NCB seeks details The Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) has sought details of Bineesh’s questioning from the ED. The agency was likely to interrogate him. The ED described Anoop as a “drug peddler.” It said a massive infusion of funds into Bineesh’s accounts in Kerala from questionable sources often preceded his periodic cash transfers to Anoop. Bineesh could not explain the fund transfers and was “completely evasive in his replies.”
02 November 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Pettimudy victims given land title deed||Power Minister M.M. Mani has said the government has done everything possible in the Pettimudy disaster rehabilitation. At a function held at Kuttiyarvalley on Sunday, the Minister inaugurated the title deed distribution of land to the Pettimudy victims and the construction works of new houses. Each family got the title deed of five cents of land. Compensation District Collector H. Dineshan said that the compensation to the family members of the victims would be given before the end of the month. The State government issued notification on October 27 to provide compensation, said the Collector. The government had directed the parental company to complete the construction works within three months. The district administration will monitor the progress of the works. Idukki MP Dean Kuriakose and Devikulam MLA S. Rajendran attended the function. Four estate bylanes were buried under the debris in the landslip at Pettimudy on August 6. As many as 66 bodies were recovered and four missing in the month-long search operations.
02 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Metropolitan Transport Authority inaugurated||The Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA), the first authority of its kind in India to integrate, plan and regulate different commuting modes, took effect on Sunday, over a year after the State Legislative Assembly approved the Act on the basis of which it would function. The authority, chaired by the Transport Minister and having the Transport Secretary as its vice chairman, would bring under one umbrella agencies like the MVD, the Kochi Corporation, and town and urban transport planners. The KMRL had readied draft rules of the KMTA, which was vetted and improved upon by a select committee that was constituted for the purpose. Inaugurating the authority on Sunday afternoon, Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran said that it had been vested with tremendous powers to streamline and optimise different modes of public transport. “Much progress has been made in preparatory works like arraying private buses in the region under seven companies, autorickshaws under a cooperative society and in readying a comprehensive mobility plan. A common command and control centre under CSML has already been readied, while AuSa, a prepaid app for autos, is becoming popular. These efforts won twin recognitions from the Ministry of Urban Affairs,” he said. Urban mobility The architect of National Urban Development Policy, O.P. Agarwal, who as an urban transport expert is member of KMTA, spoke of how Kochi’s journey in constituting an MTA had been unique, since most global cities are struggling to formulate one. “The focus must now shift to effective functioning of the authority, in ushering in fast, sustainable and cost-effective modes of commute, aspects that are at the core of urban mobility. It is not the number of public transport vehicles that matter, but how many commuters use them,” Mr. Agarwal said. Mayor Soumini Jain, yet another member of the authority, highlighted the urgent need to control greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles and other sources. “The KMTA must strive to ensure safe, reliable and comfortable travel in the region,” said M. Swaraj, MLA, who was nominated as member of KMTA. The other members of KMTA are secretaries of LSG and Finance Departments; Transport Commissioner; District Collector; City Police Commissioner; Chief Town Planner; Deputy Transport Commissioner; Ravi Raman, Urban Transport Planner; former Mayor K.J. Sohan; and John Mathew, a lawyer. The inauguration of the long-pending KMTA had been included in the State government’s 100-day programme since fast and safe transportation was hitherto a major hurdle in Kerala, where urbanisation is taking place at breakneck speed. The COVID situation has made matters worse, since commuters rely more on private vehicles, worsening congestion on roads and highways.
02 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Tough task cut out for sector magistrates to rein in pandemic||Sector magistrates or ‘COVID sentinels’, gazetted officers tasked with enforcing the COVID-19 protocol, are acutely aware of the risk of contracting the virus themselves and did not volunteer to shoulder additional work, but have been seeing their duties as an essential service in difficult times. One of the magistrates tested positive for the novel coronavirus on October 19. He remains in quarantine. “The source of infection was not clear. The area had several positive cases of infection, and as magistrates, we were required to keep track of gatherings,” the official said. Another sector magistrate said she spent 10 days in quarantine after the police officer who accompanied her on visits to shops and establishments tested positive. “Even at the office, where around 25 people work, colleagues have been worried about the chances of a spread of infection from me, since files go from hand to hand,” she said. “Initially, we thought our duties as sector magistrates would last only a month or so. But the ID cards we received are valid till January, which implies three months of duty, in addition to regular work at the office, and no leave from work as a magistrate,” she added. Failure to comply with physical distancing norms and improper mask wearing or absence of mask can invite a fine of Rs. 200, while shops functioning without adhering to the protocol will be fined Rs. 500. Even if a warning is given, it is listed as an offence, she said. “Several people are already staring at poor financial prospects with the pandemic. Fines are avoided, as people may not be able to afford them,” said Jayapradeep V.M., a higher secondary school teacher who is the sector magistrate for Edappally South. “From registering over 110 offences for improper mask wearing on a single day a few weeks ago, the number has fallen to a little over 30 now. That would mean that the work we are doing is effective,” he added. The initial list had 146 gazetted officers. A few officials had backed out citing health and other issues. Another list with 46 officers as a ‘reserve pool’ to be deployed in areas where cases are spiking or containment zones have increased was released recently. “Section 144 has been a useful shield to enforce the protocol. The prospect of punishment if restrictions under Section 144 are violated instills fear,” Mr. Jayapradeep said. None of the magistrates volunteered to take up the work, they said. Lists of gazetted officers were prepared at the taluk level, and some were chosen from it. A veterinary surgeon, who is the sector magistrate for Muvattupuzha, said it took a few days to get used to the work they were unaccustomed to doing. “If we know of weddings or other functions happening in the area, we make a visit,” said E.K. Lal, a higher secondary school teacher and sector magistrate for Elamkulam village. “It could be a risk for us too, but it is a social responsibility, much like health workers,” he said.
02 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Biocontrol alone can’t tackle water hyacinth||Experts have called for an integrated approach with mechanical intervention as the mainstay to solve the problem of water hyacinth in Central Kerala waterbodies. Biocontrol and use of microbes to contain the spread of water hyacinth are effective in limited areas whereas the problem in most of the waterbodies in Alappuzha, Ernakulam and Thrissur districts was extensive, sources in Kerala Agricultural University said. It was also not advisable to use weedicides, they said. It is estimated that about 20,000 sq.km. of waterbodies are affected by the spread of hyacinth in Central Kerala districts.  The phenomenon is seasonal. The spread starts with the end of the rainy season when waterbodies are relatively less salty. They disappear as rains decrease and waterbodies get more salty. However, during the time of its spread, water hyacinth pose problems varying from disruption of free flow in waterbodies to congestion that brings movement of both cargo and people to a halt. Tourism boat operator P.B. Saju in Ernakulam said that water hyacinth affected the free flow of boats.  Boat engines choked “This season being down because of COVID-19 restrictions, it was not a problem. But most often, boat engines are choked by water weeds especially during the opening months of the tourism season,” he said. “Boats have to be stopped often to clear the engines,” he added. He said that the problem was mostly seasonal and affected the services in both Alappuzha and Ernakulam districts. Sources in Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore said that the public sector company moved about 3.5 lakh tonnes of raw materials every year using the national waterway between Kochi port and its two company premises. But they pointed out that the problem was mostly seasonal and that the Inland Waterways Authority took steps to ease the congestion of the waterway periodically. It is estimated that about six lakh tonnes of cargo is moved every year using inland waterways. The waterway is used intensively in Central Kerala, in Alappuzha, Ernakulam and Thrissur districts.
02 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Women leaders in city willing to test political waters again||Most of the prominent women councillors in the outgoing council of the Kochi Corporation may once again test their electoral fortunes in the ensuing civic polls. While a few openly stated that they would be in the fray, some others maintained that they would wait for their parties to decide on their political future. The prominent among the women leaders who vowed to go by the wishes of the political party leadership was Kochi Mayor Soumini Jain. “I will go by the decision of the Congress party leadership and will follow its directives,” said Ms. Jain when asked whether she would be in the fray. On the question whether she, if asked to contest, could settle for something less in the next council which would be led by a male Mayor, Ms. Jain said she belonged to a party where Oommen Chandy, a former Chief Minister, was now functioning as an MLA. Shiny Mathew, who had earlier staked her claim to the post of Kochi Mayor, expressed her willingness to contest in the election, if the party was keen on fielding her. “There are a few divisions in West Kochi which are reserved for women. If the party picks me as a candidate, I shall contest.” she said. On a winning streak Shyamala S. Prabhu, the BJP councillor who created a history of sorts by posting six straight victories from Cheralai division, is all set to repeat her electoral performance. Ms. Prabhu, who has been representing the division for 30 years in a row, even when the division was unreserved and made a general seat, is likely to contest the upcoming polls. “A decision on my candidature has to be taken by the party. If at all I am contesting, it will be in Cheralai and no other division of the local body,” she said. V.K. Minimol, former Health Standing Committee chairperson, of the Congress, is one of the probables who may get the party ticket second time to contest. She has been busy with organisational activities in the divisions from where she could seek a second term as the councillor. “Let the party take a call on the candidate,” she said. Grecy Joseph, chairperson of the Development Standing Committee who fell out favour with the Congress leadership, said she would certainly be in the electoral battle. Ms. Joseph was suspended from the party after her refusal to resign from the post of chairperson of the Standing Committee. “I will be contesting in the election. However, I am waiting for a decision from the party leadership regarding the disciplinary action against me,” she said. Poornima Narayan and Sunila Selvan, the two Standing Committee chairpersons of the CPI(M), left their decision on electoral plans to the organisation. Prathibha Ansari, chairperson of the Health Standing committee who won the election last time as an LDF-backed Independent, may this time contest in the party symbol if the CPI(M) decides to field her.
02 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Women start-up summit concludes||A six-day ‘Women Startup Summit 2020’ concluded on Sunday with a call for launching businesses that could improve the living standards of common people. The summit, organised by the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) in association with Startup India, TiE Kerala, and Indian Women Network of the Confederation of Indian Industry, focused on boosting women’s presence in entrepreneurial ventures such as start-ups and the challenges they faced. State IT Secretary Mohammed Y. Safirulla, while inaugurating the event on Saturday, had said that new-age entrepreneurs should make greater use of modern technology that could resolve issues such as waste management and water shortage. State IT Mission Director Chithra S. announced the winners and felicitated change-makers at the summit. KSUM-incubated Riafy Technologies of Kochi was declared the best inclusive start-up, while IIMK Live of Kozhikode became the best inclusive incubator. Sahrdaya College of Engineering and Technology, Kodakara, Thrissur, was chosen the best inclusive Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Centre.  AI for future Federal Bank executive director Shalini Warrier highlighted the importance of Artificial intelligence (AI) in future technologies. AI had enabled her bank’s recruitment wing to bring down expenditure by 75%, Ms. Warrier added. The most-awaited competition named ‘She Loves Tech India 2020’ saw close to 100 participants vying for honours with their women-friendly products.  Sahrdaya College of Engineering and Technology, Kodakara, Thrissur, adjudged best inclusive Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Centre
02 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Beaches witness huge footfall||Beaches in Kochi saw huge footfall on Sunday when the destinations, except Fort Kochi, were reopened for visitors. The District Collector has postponed the reopening of the Fort Kochi beach to mid-November as a precaution against people thronging the beach front in violation of the COVID-19 protocol. As a result, several visitors who arrived at Fort Kochi had to return. Meanwhile, there were a lot of visitors at Cherai, Munambam and Kuzhupilly beaches. They were permitted only after their details were recorded. Parking of vehicles was limited to one hour. Plans are afoot to prepare tenting accommodation at Munambam, to woo tourists to the locale managed by the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC). Water sport activities will resume there in a week. Ernakulam and Alappuzha DTPCs will shortly enter into an agreement to operate their buses in either direction to help tourists, according to sources. Thus, guests visiting Kochi will be able to visit the famed backwaters in houseboats, which abound in Alappuzha, while those on a visit to Alappuzha can check out Marine Drive and other places of interest in Kochi. “With buses operating in either direction, we hope to fix affordable rates for the tours,” said S. Vijayakumar, Secretary, Ernakulam DTPC.
02 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||New fronts to battle corruption, inefficiency||“We are not apolitical. We are against rampant corruption and inefficiency among politicians who dominate society now,” says K.K. Gopakumar of Thrikkakara Jana Munnettam (Thrikkakara people’s front), which has forged alliance with all like-minded people across the political spectrum. He said that apolitical organisations could not survive for long. “Society needs a vision for its growth and that is the reason why we emphasize that we are not apolitical and not against political affiliations,” he said. Thrikkakara Jana Munnettam had no link with the 2020 movement in Kizhakkambalam, he said when asked about the inspiration behind the formation of the organisation that would field its candidates in all the wards of the municipality in the upcoming local body polls. He said that a call had been given out to people who were like-minded. “The response has been very good and so far candidates have been identified in 15 of the wards,” he said. Alexander Shaju of V4 Kochi, an organisation of mostly young people who feel that Kochi needs a leadership to raise it to the expectations of being a great city, said that V4 Kochi would field candidates in all the divisions of the Kochi Corporation in the upcoming elections. “The organisation is made of enthusiasts for a better tomorrow. They are against communalism and corruption and want leaders to be efficient and honest,” he said. Public anger Chellanam 2020 hopes to cash in on the public anger against the “failure of successive governments to address issues like serious sea erosion and threat faced by ordinary fishers.” Pavizham Biju, its president, said that political parties just did not care about the lives of ordinary people. “Parties are only worried about their capability to lure people into their ranks without caring for people at all. Candidates of Chellanam 2020 will contest in all the 21 wards in the panchayat,” he said. Mr. Gopakumar claimed that Thrikkakara Jana Munnettam candidates would stand out against the candidates of other political fronts because of their educational qualification, personal integrity and ability to serve society as a whole. “The candidates for the Thrikkakara Jana Munnettam have been chosen keeping in mind their ability, formal educational qualifications as well as their acceptability before people,” he added.
02 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Over 1,000 cases for second consecutive day||For the second day in a row, Ernakulam recorded over a thousand new COVID-19 cases, with 1,042 people testing positive for the virus on Sunday. Twenty health workers were among those who tested positive. The source of infection in 178 people remains unknown, and 841 people contracted the infection through local contact. The highest number of cases was reported from Thrikkakara, with 52 people testing positive. Cases of infection were recorded in areas including Edathala, Maradu, Choornikkara, Mattancherry, Fort Kochi, and Rayamangalam. As many as 808 people have tested negative, and 29,916 remain in quarantine. A total of 140 people were admitted to hospitals and first-line treatment centres (FLTCs), and 93 were discharged. As many as 12,808 people are being treated for the infection in the district. For testing, 5,025 samples were collected at government and private facilities.
02 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Agency to have jurisdiction over GCDA, GIDA areas||The jurisdiction of the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA), which was inaugurated on Sunday, will be extended to areas under the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) and the Goshree Islands Development Authority (GIDA) shortly. Apart from different modes of public transport and bicycles, the authority will henceforth oversee the condition of roads and allied infrastructure, and also traffic regulation. It will oversee road repair and resurfacing works as well. Cycle tracks Priority will be accorded to ensure adequate availability of public transportation modes in the Greater Kochi area. Cycle tracks will be laid wherever possible, to ensure safety of bicyclists. Footpaths will be made differently abled-friendly. It will rely on mobile apps to effectively coordinate its functioning. Commuters will thus be able to select their chosen mode of travel from among metro rail, buses, trains, autos, taxi cars or ferries, well before they set on a journey, thus ensuring seamless and hassle-free commute. Smart cards will ensure smooth fare payment. All this is expected to provide a facelift to the Greater Kochi area and commuting in the region. The authority will operate on the lines of Singapore Land Transport Authority, for fast and effective functioning. Authority’s powers A Government Order dated September 24 bestows a wide array of powers on the authority. It can thus curb entry of polluting vehicles into green zones, take strategic steps to streamline public transport and cargo transit and to make optimal use of technology to bring in sustainable and cost-effective infrastructure development. The KMTA can also levy congestion fee, mobility improvement fee and public transport development fee. It can also impose curbs on movement of select vehicles during peak hours and clamp down on polluting vehicles. The body has been vested with the power to ban abandoning of vehicles on road sides and to rope in stakeholders to open parking lots, bus and logistics ports. It is further empowered to levy fees and regulate non-transport vehicles. It is duty-bound to take frequent stock of transportation situation in the region and bring lacunae to the State government’s notice. It must choose a full-time CEO who has wide exposure in transport management and engineering and also in urban planning.
02 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Demand for suspension of LPG terminal work||People living in the vicinity of the LPG jetty and storage facilities being built by Indian Oil Corporation on Puthuvype island staged a protest on Sunday (November 1), Kerala Formation Day, demanding that all work on the project be stopped. Ajay Ghosh of LPG Terminal Virudha Janakiya Samara Samiti, an organisation protesting against the facilities, said the work on the project was going on despite people’s protest.
02 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||711 cases in Kollam||The district reported 711 new COVID-19 cases, five deaths and 838 recoveries on Sunday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 702 contact cases, five persons without any known source, two health workers and one NRI and one person who had travelled from another State. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 72-year-old Polyathodu resident, 74-year-old Chavara resident, 83-year-old Paravur resident, 63-year-old Kollam resident and 65-year-old Kollam resident are due to COVID-19. Cases with no known source include a 78-year-old from Kadappakada, 42-year-old from Veliyam and three others from Thazhava aged 19, 55 and 28. A 29-year-old Kulasekharapuram resident and 40-year-old Anchal resident are the heath workers who contracted the infection. The district currently has 17,999 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 3,47,720. While 1,622 people completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 83,403 primary and 7,618 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present the district has 6,516 active cases.
02 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||KSCDC inducts 2,000 new labourers||Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC) has inducted 2,000 new labourers on Kerala Piravi Day as part of the State government’s 100-day action plan. The new recruits will be attached to the cutting, peeling and grading sections of KSCDC factories. The appointment orders were handed over by Minister J. Mercykutty Amma on Sunday at a function held on the premises of KSCDC factory at Ayathil. Thirteen persons from scheduled tribe category are also part of the new workforce. Action plan Since LDF government came into power, KSCDC has taken 5,000 new labourers in its 30 factories and the corporation will be recruiting 2,000 more in connection with the action plan. “The government had sanctioned the fund for disbursing the gratuity of cashew labourers and renovating the factories. Along with recruiting, steps will be taken to ensure them continuous working days,” said the Minister. In order to protect the sector, interest-free loans and provision to restructure loans were also introduced by the government for private processors who have been declared non-performing assets (NPAs). “Private processors have been given Rs. 5 crore and we could also restore the MBBS seat reservation for the children of cashew labourers through protests and legal measures,” she added. The government had allocated Rs. 12 crore for renovating all 30 factories of the corporation to give them an employee-friendly makeover. The corporation had also procured 2,000 tonnes of raw cashew nuts from the local farms in Kannur and Kasaragod during the lockdown to keep their factories operational during the last few months. “The functioning of the corporation during the last five years has been transparent,” said KSCDC chairman S. Jayamohan.
02 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||CM opens cyber crime police station in Kollam city||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday inaugurated the first Cyber Crime Police Station in Kollam city through video conference. The station functioning at a separate building in city police office complex will be handling all cyber crime-related cases. The station is one of the 15 new stations in various districts that were inaugurated on Kerala Piravi Day. Earlier, only Thiruvannathpura, Kochi, Thrissur and Kozhikode cities had cyber police stations. The Chief Minister in his inaugural address observed that the increasing number of social media users were vulnerable to cyber crimes, and cyber police stations would be instrumental in bringing down such offences. The charge of the cyber station was handed over to inspector Y. Muhammed Khan by Kollam District Police Chief T. Narayanan. The department also appointed other staff including women police personnel at the station. “The station will help in nabbing cyber criminals at the earliest by completing the investigation in a time bound manner,” Mr. Narayanan said.
02 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Interview||Interview for selecting guest lecturers in Physics (general category) and Chemistry (Vishwakarma category) departments at IHRD Model Polytechnic College, Karunagappally, will be held on November 6 from 10 a.m. Qualification required is postgraduation in subjects concerned and NET. Interested candidates can appear for the interview with original certificate and two attested copies.
02 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Man sentenced to 10-year RI||A special POCSO court here on Sunday sentenced a person to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 50,000 for abusing a minor girl. Kollam First Additional Sessions Judge Harikumar passed the orders against Ujayan, 38, a resident of Parayil Veedu, Paravur. The case registered in January 2017 was investigated by Sub Inspectors Nazir, Vijayakumar, and Anilkumar while public prosecutor Subhadran appeared for the prosecution.
02 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||First panchayat-owned shopping mall in State||K.B. Ganesh Kumar, MLA, on Sunday inaugurated Pathanapuram Town Centre Mall, the first panchayat-owned shopping mall in the State. The Rs. 28-crore mall spread in 1.4 lakh sq ft has five storeys. Four lifts, one escalator, three multiplex theatres, food court, play area, and parking for 200 vehicles are among the amenities of the mall.
02 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||434 cases in Kottayam||As many as 434 persons including a health worker tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Sunday All but two contracted the virus through contact. The cases also included 62 persons above the age of 60 and 59 children. Kottayam continued to lead the tally with 45 cases, followed by Changanassery with 45 cases. Erattupetta reported 31 cases while Vijayapuram and Kanjirappilly had 22 cases each.
02 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Test positivity rate jumps to 14.53% in Kozhikode||Test positivity rate jumped to 14.53% in Kozhikode district on Sunday when 888 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, 6,109 samples had been sent for lab tests. Of the newly infected persons, 873 had acquired the infection through local transmission. The source of infection of nine persons was unknown. A total of 1,042 people recovered from the infection and the active cases from the district now is 9,333. As many as 5,853 people are under home isolation. Kozhikode Corporation has 199 cases of locally acquired infections, Maniyoor 47, Feroke 46, Olavanna 45, Vadakara 41, Puthuppady 34, Chorod and Kunnamangalam 32 and Koduvally 30. In Malappuram Malappuram district registered 522 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 890 recoveries on Sunday. While 483 patients were infected through direct local contacts, the source of infection could not be established in 30 cases. There were four health workers among the newly infected. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said a fall in the number of new infections was a matter of solace for the administration. There are 9,149 active cases, and more than 60,200 people are quarantined across the district. In Wayanad Two people who were under COVID-19 treatment died in Wayanad district on Saturday. The deceased are a 72-year-old man from Meenangadi and an 85-year-old woman from Moolankavu near Sulthan Bathery. The man had been under treatment for high blood pressure and breathing problems since October 19, while the woman was being treated for breathing problems at the taluk hospital in Sulthan Bathery since October 16. Eighty-six new COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Sunday, of which 84 are of local transmission. As many as 132 people were cured and discharged from various treatment centres in the district. At present, 837 people are under treatment.
02 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Food Safety drive to test quality of jaggery||The Food Safety Department has decided to conduct a week-long special drive in the district to test the quality of jaggery available in the open market and prevent the trade of adulterated products. Mobile unit The service of a mobile testing unit will be used for the drive that will be launched on Monday. Coordinators of the drive said they had noticed the increased presence of cheaper sweeteners and colours in different types of jaggery available in the market. The initiative would give consumers and wholesale traders an opportunity to check the quality of products using the department’s lab facilities free of cost, they added. Many traders on S.M. Street are expected to benefit from the free testing drive. Small scale units engaged in the production of jaggery in different parts of the district may also make use of the opportunity to check the quality of products. M.D. Babychan, Assistant Commissioner, Food Safety, Kozhikode, said his team had come across several test results that indicated the presence of adulterants in palm and sugar cane jaggery. “Since the products are widely used for the preparation of a number of other food items, proper vigil is crucial to ensure better health,” he added. Creating awareness According to Mr. Babychan, the drive is also aimed at creating awareness among consumers. Ways to identify good quality jaggery would be explained, he added. A few years ago, there were several incidents of poor quality jaggery being brought to the city from other States for wholesale and retail trade. In most cases, the details of suppliers were unknown. Some traders had complained about the presence of sand and chemicals in the products.
02 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Online arts, sports classes for students||Students in aided and government schools in the district will now get arts, sports and work experience classes online, with Minister for Education C. Ravindranath on Sunday opening the Kozhikode district-level launch of ‘Vidyaravam’, a project by Samagra Shiksha Keralam (SSK). A release said that the expertise of arts and sports teachers, academics, and other experts would be utilised for the project. Students of classes 1 to 9 will benefit from the project. Classes will be divided into arts, education, sports, and work experience. The project aims to enhance the creative instincts and aptitude of students and by utilising their interests in arts and sports, it will enhance their learning abilities, the release added. Sources in the SSK pointed out that both children and parents were going through a difficult phase in the pandemic period. The project will help them overcome the tough phase. There will be academic groups for music teachers, art teachers, sports teachers, and work experience teachers. They will prepare videos and online learning modules. Educational officers, faculty from the District Institute of Education and Training, and trainers, apart from SSK staff, will be involved in the project. The videos prepared by the academic groups will be circulated among the 15 block resource centres in the district, which will take them out to the schools under their jurisdiction. The respective teachers will circulate them through parents’ groups and class groups. Students who exhibit their talents through the project will be given special training through a ‘talent lab’ system, the release said.
02 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Residents oppose fee for entry to Kappad beach||The entrance fee introduced by the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) for permitting visitors to the beautified Kappad beach, which was reopened in keeping with the COVID-19 protocol on Sunday, has drawn flak from local residents. The locals alleged that the Tourism Department was flouting the promises made during the beautification process for securing the prestigious Blue Flag certification for the destination. A fisherman from the area said people who used to spend their free time on the beach at no extra cost earlier were left shocked. “The revised entry fee for local people is Rs. 10 now,” he said. A separate fee for children and parking charges have irked many who used to visit the spot from neighbouring villages. Many of them have posted their concerns on the District Collector’s Facebook page, demanding action. Meanwhile, people’s representatives and local body members said they would recommend the cancellation of entrance fee imposed on local residents. It would be brought to the attention of the district administration and Tourism Department officials, they said. Koyilandy MLA K. Dasan said the DTPC, at present, was not in a position to find its own fund for the maintenance of the beach, which was renovated after investing a huge sum. “However, we cannot endorse the collection of entrance fee from local people,” he said, adding that the DTPC should think of other possible options to generate revenue from the area to meet the maintenance expenses.
02 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Enabling Kozhikode’ to be launched today||Minister for Health and Social Justice K.K. Shylaja will launch ‘Enabling Kozhikode’, a mission for empowering the differently abled in the district, through videoconferencing at 2 p.m. on Monday. The Minister will open the Community-based Disability Management Centre (CDMC) that has been set up at the Community Health Centre in Olavanna in association with the Kozhikode block panchayat. ‘Hearing Friendly Kozhikode’, a project being implemented in association with the Indian Academy of Paediatricians to make hearing test mandatory for all newborns in the district, will also be launched on the occasion. ‘Enabling Kozhikode’ is being implemented by the district administration and the Department of Social Justice with the support of people’s representatives, local bodies, and various government and non-governmental agencies. The mission aims at coordinating various projects for the differently abled, which will help detect disabilities at the earliest, provide help for treatment and rehabilitation and make all buildings and public places in the district disabled-friendly. CDMCs are being set up in every block as part of the mission. Model Buds Schools will also be set up in every Assembly constituency. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran will preside over the event while actor Mammootty will be the guest of honour.
02 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Minister opens ‘Langali’ project||Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran on Sunday inaugurated the ‘Langali’ project of the National Service Scheme (NSS) for promotion of coconut cultivation in Kozhikode district. NSS coordinators said the project would help realise the planting of 5,000 coconut saplings in Kozhikode district. All the 13,900 volunteers and their families will extend support to the initiative, which was part of celebrations to mark Kerala Piravi Day, they added. Planting material According to project coordinators, Langali (Malayalam term for coconut tree) will reinforce the importance of coconut cultivation among youth and the scope of manufacturing various coconut-based products. The planting material for the scheme will be collected directly from agriculture farms, they said. The first sapling was planted by Mr. Saseendran during the inaugural event held near the Government Guest House. NSS district coordinator S. Sreechith was present.
02 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police identify three of gang who attacked house||The Elathur police on Sunday identified three persons who allegedly attacked the house of an elderly woman at Ambalappadi on Saturday. According to the police, the gang members were in an inebriated state, and the woman, who sustained injuries in the incident, was admitted to the Cooperative Hospital in the city. It was reportedly an argument over the blocking of a narrow passage by a group of local fish vendors near the woman’s house that led to the late-night attack. There were reportedly seven persons in the gang. Prasanna, the complainant, said the gang had damaged a car and a two-wheeler at the house. They gained entry into the house by breaking the main gate and the front door, she told the police. The issue was also taken up by the local residents’ association. They alleged that some fish vendors were creating nuisance in the locality.
02 November 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||IUML to rest three-time winners in local body polls||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) will rest those who were elected three times in the local body elections. Although the party had taken such a decision earlier, it was not implemented so far. A meeting of the State committee held here on Sunday decided to strictly implement the decision with the objective of giving thrust on youth. IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP, and organising secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP, said the party would intensify its agitation against the State government in the coming days for “pledging Kerala to gold smuggling and drug peddling lobbies, and for showing injustice to minorities by implementing reservation for the forward communities in an unjust manner.” The IUML will organise agitations at district, constituency and regional level by joining hands with the UDF constituents demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “The State government is trying to mortgage Kerala. It is swinging from corruption to controversies. It has lost its face like never before,” the IUML leaders said. The IUML will take part in the Collectorate marches planned by the reservation groups on November 9. They said the State government had shown great injustice to quota communities. “The new reservation will affect not only the reservation communities, but also the merit section,” they said. IUML State president Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal presided.
02 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Leelavathy wins K.P.S. Menon award||Malayalam literary critic M. Leelavathy has won this year’s K.P.S. Menon Memorial Award. The award in memory of the late writer-diplomat has been instituted by the Chettur Sankaran Nair Memorial Cultural Trust (CSN Trust), Ottappalam. A three-member jury comprising CSN Trust chairman P.T. Narendra Menon, secretary E.P. Chitresh Nair, and philanthropist K.S. Menon chose Dr. Leelavathy for the 13th edition of the award considering her contributions to Malayalam language and literature. Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) Vice Chancellor K.N. Madhusoodanan will give away the award at a function at Dr. Leelavathy’s house in Kochi on Saturday afternoon. The award comprises Rs. 50,000, a plaque, and a citation. Dance fete cancelled Mr. Menon said the CSN Dance Festival held annually as part of the award ceremony at Ottappalam had been cancelled in view of the COVID-19 restrictions. Writer and former chief secretary K. Jayakumar was the first recipient of the K.P.S. Menon Memorial Award in 2008. T.K.A. Nair, former advisor to the Prime Minister, won the award in 2009, followed by former diplomat Nirupama Rao in 2010, NRI businessman M.A. Yusuff Ali in 2011, Carnatic vocalist M. Balamuralikrishna in 2012, writer M.T. Vasudevan Nair in 2013, journalist T.J.S. George in 2014, singer K.S. Chitra in 2015, industrialist P.N.C. Menon in 2016, senior police officer K. Vijay Kumar in 2017, former diplomat T.P. Sreenivasan in 2018, and film producer Gokulam Gopalan in 2019.  Cusat VC K.N. Madhusoodanan will present her with the award on Saturday
02 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||435 cases reported in Palakkad||Palakkad district registered 435 COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday. However, there were 390 recoveries in the district. When 222 of them had contracted the disease through direct local contact, there were 206 cases without an identifiable source of infection. District officials said that six cases came from across the borders. There was one health worker among the new cases. There were 7,419 active cases currently under treatment in the district. Apart from them, 84 persons from Palakkad were under treatment in Malappuram, 33 in Ernakulam, 25 in Kozhikode, 35 in Thrissur, five in Kannur, and one in Wayanad.
02 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Shobha alleges bid to sideline her||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State vice president Shobha Surendran has lashed out at the State leadership of the party, specifically State president K. Surendran. In a complaint sent to the national leadership, Ms. Surendran has accused Mr. Surendran of trying to sideline her, and thus deliberately trying to destroy her political career. She said she was insulted by being made State vice-president of the party while she was holding the position of a national executive member. “It is deliberate vendetta. I need justice,” she said. Ms. Surendran has explained in detail all the political intrigues taking place within the party under the leadership of Mr. Surendran. She said that Mr. Surendran turned against her fearing that she would be a threat to him. She said that she expected the party Central leadership’s intervention in the matter soon.
02 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Konni taluk hospital to get more health staff||The State government will allot more health staff to the Konni taluk hospital, which has been witnessing a rapid expansion of medical infrastructure, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said. Inaugurating through videoconferencing a slew of projects worth Rs. 10 crore at the hospital on Sunday, the Minister said the new projects, coupled with increase in the number of beds, warranted the recruitment of additional manpower. The State government would grant permission for these vacancies in a phased manner. The opening of a multi-storey building, ventilator ICUs, labour room, operation theatre, and an ambulance with modern facilities elevated the taluk hospital to the status of a modern health centre, noted the Minister. Regarding the newly opened Government Medical College in Konni, the Minister said steps would be expedited to open the in-patient facilities. The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) had already sanctioned about 60% of the Rs. 338 crore sought for the second-phase expansion of the institution. K.U. Janeesh Kumar, MLA, presided over the function while Anto Antony, MP, unveiled the plaque of the building.
02 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta registers 160 new cases||As many as 160 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 154 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 26 persons were yet to be traced. Among the local bodies, Pathanamthitta municipality reported the highest number of cases with 22 testing positive, followed by Malayalappuzha panchayat with 10 cases. Meanwhile, 228 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the number of active cases to 2,381. The district has reported a total of 15,338 cases so far.
02 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Global symposium on future materials and molecules||The Department of Chemistry in Mar Thoma College, Thiruvalla, in association with the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE), is organising an international symposium on ‘Future Materials and Molecules’ from November 10 to 14. Johan Martens, Head of the Division of Surface Chemistry and Catalysis, Leuven University, Belgium, will inaugurate the symposium. Nine countries Scientists and academicians from nine different countries will deliver lectures on the recent trends and various exciting aspects of future materials and molecules. Dr. Euyakim Mar Coorilos Episcopa, College Manager, launched the website of the symposium on Sunday.
02 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital’s test positivity rate nosedives to 10.7||COVID-19 test positivity rate nosedived to 10.7 in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday when 591 people were diagnosed with the infection from among 5,481 people who were subjected to testing during the last 24 hours. Bringing more relief, 831 people who were convalescing in hospitals and other places recovered from the infection, taking the number of active cases in the district to 8,521. Among those who tested positive, 578 acquired the infection through local transmission, while the source of infection in 125 of them were unknown. Eleven health workers and two imported cases were among the caseload. Five more deaths – those of natives of Poovar, Chirayinkeezhu, Edava, Pallipuram and Karyavattom – have been attributed to the disease, taking the death toll to 415. The district administration placed 1,680 more people under quarantine. With this, the total number of people quarantined has gone up to 25,489 in houses and 174 in various institutions. 338 pulled up As many as 338 people were pulled up by sectoral magistrates to violating the prohibitory orders in the district. While cases were registered against 29 people who flouted COVID-19 protocol, 70 people were fined by the sectoral magistrates and police for various offences. Action has been adopted against 17,243 people so far since the clamping of prohibitory orders on October 4. New testing centre A new testing centre comprising kiosks will become operational at the General Hospital, designated an exclusive COVID-19 hospital, on Monday. The facility, which will collect swab samples for RT-PCR and rapid antigen testing, is expected to boost testing in the district. The kiosks will also be beneficial to those looking to test themselves at the end of their quarantine periods.
02 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A saga of struggle for equality||How much of Kerala history can you pack in a 10 minute video? Quite a lot, if one were to go by a YouTube video released by Prathidhwani, socio-cultural organisation of IT employees in the State to mark Kerala Piravi day. Titled 'Keraleeyam', the video zooms in from the formation myths about the State, touches upon the invasions by the Portuguese and the Dutch and the fightbacks by the local rulers and ends with laying emphasis on the renaissance movement that shaped the society as we know it now. The video itself is made out of a series of digital art images created by six artists -Bipin.M.K, Gopika.P, Mittu Hari Bose, Vaisakh Krishnan, Vinod Pillai and Viswadas.K.P. All of the work, including the art works, scripting, editing and music was done by IT employees associated with Prathidhwani. Only the narrator Babu Zacharias Pala is from outside the IT sector. “The thought began from 'Varakoottam', the artists' club under Prathidhwani, around two months back. We wanted to do something related to the State’s history on Kerala Piravi. We began charting the major historical events, with each part assigned to different artists from our group. There were several equally important events. So we managed to squeeze in whatever we could during the available time,” says Binoy Xavier, who first came up with the concept and scripted the video. To ensure the uniformity in style of the drawings, a few samples were initially drawn and shared among the artists. As they began the work, they constantly showed their works to each other through screen sharing applications. The primary aim of the video seems to be to raise an awareness of the kind of struggle that the renaissance leaders had to go through to put an end to many social evils. Powerful drawings Featured are some powerful drawings on Ayyankali's Villuvandi samaram against the prohibitions imposed on lower castes from venturing into the public roads and Narayana Guru's consecration of a Shiva idol at Aruvippuram. Lesser known reformers like Arattupuzha Velayudha Panicker who organised the ‘Mookkuthi viplavam’ and other struggles are also featured. The video ends with the exhortation that people should realise where we started from and that we have to constantly tell ourselves that equality was not achieved naturally, but through a lot of struggle.
02 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sivasankar’s official pursuits could be under ED scanner||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Sunday appeared poised to extend its anti-money laundering probe into the official pursuits of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, while the IAS officer was in government service. The agency has reportedly served notice to Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta to provide details of several mega projects promoted by Mr. Sivasankar. The ED has purportedly sought details of Mr. Sivasankar’s role in promoting e-mobility scheme, K-Phone project, Smart City, and Downtown projects. Govt. response The government neither confirmed nor denied the report that the ED had sought such details. A senior officer told The Hindu that the administration was yet to verify the matter, and Monday might bring more clarity to the subject. However, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran said that such a move was on. They said the ED wanted to find out whether Mr. Sivasankar had financially benefited from pushing the projects. His foreign visits were also a subject of inquiry, according to them. Suspended in July The government had suspended Mr. Sivasankar from service on a charge of official misconduct in July. Earlier, he had headed the IT Department. The ED had arrested him on October 28, and the officer has been in the custody of the agency since for questioning. The ED is investigating Mr. Sivasankar on the charge of helping UAE consulate gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh to stash away the proceeds of the crime and legitimise the wealth in stages. In a court filing, the ED had said that Mr. Sivasankar had used the heft of his office to help Swapna regularly clear air freight addressed to the UAE consulate here without examination by the Customs. On July 5, the Customs had seized 34 kg of gold from a consignment marked to the diplomatic mission setting off a series of investigations by Central law enforcement agencies.
02 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Manmohan to release book on Kerala||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh will release 'Kerala and the World Economy,' a collection of papers which analyses different facets of the State’s economic interactions, at an online function on Monday. The work is published by the Centre for Development Studies (CDS), Ulloor, as part of its 50th anniversary. Finance Minister T. M. Thomas Isaac will accept the first copy at the function planned at 5.30 p.m. K. M. Chandrasekhar, chairman, CDS governing body, will preside. The book deals with aspects of the Kerala economy in seven broad groups; sustainable development, commercial crops, livestock and fisheries, high-tech manufacturing and modern industries, international trade, migration and remittances, and health, according to the CDS. In its 50th year, CDS - is well-equipped to take on 21st century challenges and the new normal caused by COVID-19, CDS director Sunil Mani said.
02 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Capital’s zoo, museum to open tomorrow||After nearly seven months, the zoo and the museum in the city will reopen to visitors on Tuesday. The Sree Chitra Art Gallery will also reopen that day. Visitors were last allowed on the premises on March 12. Elaborate arrangements have been made to ensure that COVID-19 safety guidelines are strictly followed. Tickets for the zoo will be issued from 9 a.m. to 5.15 p.m., while visitors will be allowed till 6.30 p.m. Napier Museum timings will be from 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. Staff will be allowed entry only after their temperatures are taken. Employees who come in contact with the public such as those issuing or verifying tickets or guides have been issued gloves, face masks, and face shields. Tickets will be issued while ensuring physical distancing. Entry too will follow the same protocol. While hand wash has been provided at the entry to the zoo, inside touch-less sensor hand sanitisers have been made available. Inside the zoo, security guards will ensure that no crowding occurs. The cafeteria and food kiosks inside the zoo will open after a week so that the operators can be familiarised with safety protocols to be put in place, followed by their review. Buggies will operate, though distancing will be maintained here too. On Mondays when the zoo is closed to visitors, intensive spraying and sanitising of public areas such as benches, barricades, and ticketing counter premises will be done. The plan is to allow only 26 visitors at a time in the museum and 20 in the art gallery.
02 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Jaleel posts letter to ED on Facebook||In a development related to the overlapping investigations into the money-laundering aspect of the gold-smuggling case, Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel posted on his Facebook account a letter he had written to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in October. In the letter, Dr. Jaleel had detailed his assets, earnings and bank accounts. He had addressed his letter to the Assistant Director, ED. Phone seized The Minister also revealed that the Customs had confiscated the mobile phone of his security officer. But the agency was yet to serve him any notice for questioning. The Minister said he looked forward to clearing the air with the agency.
02 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||400 benefit from ASAP internship||The State government’s internship programme under the Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP) has benefited 400 engineering students in a year. In the next phase, opportunities will be provided to graduates and postgraduates in subjects other than engineering to do their internship in sectors they seek employment in.
02 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||15 cyber police stations opened||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has appealed for wholehearted steps to prevent the cyber world being used as a platform to slander others or settle scores with them. He was speaking during the formal launch of 15 Cybercrime police stations and the new building of the Malakkappara police station in Thrissur on Sunday. Pointing out that the proliferation of low-cost digital tools has paved way for an unprecedented access to social media, Mr. Vijayan said that the scenario had given rise to various consequences, including dissemination of defamatory content. Under the circumstances, the government could not remain a mute spectator to cybercrime against women and children. The proposed amendment to the Kerala Police Act, 2011, would ensure stringent punishment to those accused in cybercrime. Dedicated system The Chief Minister also inaugurated a dedicated videoconferencing system that linked the Kerala Police headquarters with each police station and special wings in the State.
02 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:,KERALA||New party floated in capital||The Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam (TVM), a party floated by a collective of capital-based social media groups, professional organisations, Vyapara Vyavasayi organisations, residents' associations and alumni associations raising a 'pro-development' slogan came into being on Sunday. According to a press release issued by the organisation through its spokespersons G.Vijayaraghavan and S.N.Raghuchandran Nair, its aim is to create a 'pro-development' vote bank in all wards in the upcoming local body elections. It will soon publish a list of priority projects for the capital as a whole and for specific wards, for the discussion of the larger public. The statement said that the upcoming elections will be a mark of protest of the people who have been neglected for years.
02 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister’s assurance on hearing aids||All differently abled who need assistive devices will be provided with these, Minister for Health and Social Justice K.K. Shylaja has said. The money for this will be provided by Kerala State Handicapped Persons Welfare Corporation Ltd., she said. The Minister was speaking after inaugurating Sharavan, a project of the corporation to distribute digital hearing aids with ear moulds to 1,000 hearing impaired people this year, on Sunday. She said the decision to distribution hearing aids to 1,000 urgently was taken in the wake of the large number of applications seeking hearing aids. Karikkakom resident Haridas and Chirayinkeezhu resident G. Chandrika were given the assistive devices in connection with the inauguration of Shravan.
02 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New lottery with Rs. 1-cr. prize launched||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac launched the new ‘Bhagyamithra,’ lottery which promises Rs. 1 crore each to five winners as first prize. The lottery is priced at Rs. 100. Draws will be held on the first Sunday of every month. The Minister also launched www.statelottery.kerala.gov. in, the new website of the Lotteries Department, a mobile app ‘Bhagyakeralam’ and a new software, LOTIS.
02 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala Bank opens 10 ATMs in Kannur||The Kerala Bank has opened 10 more ATMs in Kannur district. Minister for Cooperation Kadakampally Surendran inaugurated the ATMs at an online function. The facilities are at Kannapuram, Pilathara, Mathamangalam, Kadannappally, Azhikode, Chakkarakkal, Koothuparamba, Mattannur, Peravoor, and Iritty. With this, the bank has 31 ATMs in Kannur district.
02 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||943 cases, 1,049 recoveries in Thrissur||As many as 943 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur district on Sunday while 1,049 people recovered from the disease. There are 10,332 active cases in the district and 82 people from here are undergoing treatment at hospitals in various other districts. So far, 40,714 cases have been reported from the district and 30,055 patients have been discharged from the hospital. According to official statistics, 920 patients contracted the disease on Sunday through local contact. They include 118 patients are above the age of 60 and 72 children below the age of 10. In all, 6,816 people are under home observation. 790 in home care As many as 1,119 started treatment in the district on Sunday, and 329 of them at hospitals while the rest 790 people are under home observation. In all, 5,286 samples were collected for tests on Sunday. The district development committee reviewed the COVD-19 preventive steps taken in the district. The district, which was successful in checking the pandemic in its initial phase, is facing a spurt in the cases. The committee stressed the need to strengthen the measures to control the spread. MLAs of the district will lead the preventive measures in their respective constituencies.
02 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Pratishedha Jwala against atrocities||Hundreds of people joined the Pratishedha Jwala, a torchlight protest against the sexual violence against women on the Kerala Piravi Day in the district. They also expressed their protest against atrocities against Dalits, Adivasis, and sexual minorities. An umbrella committee of various women’s and social organisations hosted the protest. Small rallies Many people gathered in small groups, maintaining the COVID-19 protocol, in the city. Small torchlight rallies were organised. People who were not able to join the protests on streets expressed their solidarity by holding torchlight from homes. Many joined the protest on social media by posting pictures. “The violation of rights and denial of justice against women, Dalits, Adivasis, and sexual minorities have been rampant in the State and the country. Incidents such as Hathras, Unnao, Walayar, and Palathayi are repeating. Women have been molested at homes, public places, and even in ambulances. The Dalits, Adivasis and sexual minorities are also facing denial of social justice,” the protesters noted. “The authorities who have to act against these atrocities are turning a blind eye to them. Cyber attacks against women are becoming daily events. In many incidents, the police are taking stand in favour of abusers,” they alleged. People who raised their voice against the violations of justice were being attacked across the country, they added.
02 November 2020||THRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tigress recaptured in Neyyar sanctuary||The nine-year old tigress that gave forest officials and the residents of Neyyar a sleepless night after escaping from its cage the previous day was finally captured on Sunday after an elaborate combing operation spread across the 10-acre Lion Safari Park. The animal, which had been captured from Pulpally in Wayanad few days ago, had fled from the enclosure in the park on Saturday. Ever since, the forest officials had been kept on tenterhooks with the perimeter of the park being reinforced to prevent the animal’s escape. Bringing claims that it could have leapt into the Neyyar reservoir to a naught, the tigress was spotted at least four times during the early hours of the day near the periphery and a cage that was set up for its capture. A goat that was kept as bait was somehow left undevoured by the animal. Soon, a combing operation was launched under the supervision of Conservator of Forests (Agasthyavanam Biological Park) J. Devaprasad and led by Thiruvananthapuram Wildlife Warden J.R. Ani, Flying Squad DFO Justin Stanley and forest veterinary officer Arun Zachariah. Three teams of 10 foresters and veterinarians each perambulated various parts of the park. While a squad spotted the animal, it panicked and ran towards the cage, despite being visibly exhausted. As the tigress soon found refuge in a bamboo clump, the forest officials fired a 0.303 blank cartridge to drive the animal out. It was finally sedated using a tranquiliser dart by around 1.30 p.m., following which it was secured in a net and later accommodated in a treatment cage. The foresters have reinforced the cage to prevent another escape, Mr. Ani said. While it remained in a satisfactory condition, the tigress is finding it difficult to consume food owing to the root canal of its lower canine tooth being exposed. Following its treatment, the animal is likely to the shifted to the Puthur Zoological Park in Thrissur or a proposed asylum for animals in Wayanad. Meanwhile, the Forest Department has launched an inquiry into the circumstances that had led to its escape.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Happy scene||
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Colouring the skies||
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For his daily bread||
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||New buds and shoots||
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Protests for CM’s resignation||
02 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Damage to groundnut crop likely to dominate DRC meet proceedings||Damage to groundnut crop in 11 lakh acres in Anantapur district due to excess rainfall till October-end will be the main topic at the District Review Committee meeting scheduled on Monday. The meeting is being held after a long gap due to the COVID pandemic. While good rainfall raised hopes initially, excess rain later led to vegetative growth and the yield fell abysmally low to three to four bags per acre compared to an average yield of 10 bags. Heated debate and demand for better compensation is likely to be witnessed at the meeting and it might pass a resolution seeking a change in policy for compensation taking village as a unit.  Drip irrigation Currently, the production cost per acre is above Rs. 15,000 and with the low yield, farmers could get just Rs. 3,000 per acre on an average where groundnut crop suffered damage, but the policy allows only Rs. 6,000 per acre compensation, which is very low according to farmers and many MLAs, who are likely to raise this issue. If groundnut and cotton crops are the visible losses on a large scale, horticulture crops too suffered very badly and would be a point for heated discussion. With subsidy on drip irrigation and sprinkler systems not yet finalised, a demand on that issue too may crop up. While so much of damage has occurred, no proper e-cropping and crop-cutting experiment has been done in the district to come to correct conclusion on the quantum of loss. If that is the position in kharif season, except distribution of some red gram seeds, nothing has been properly planned for the rabi season by the district officials and that may also draw flak from the people’s representatives.
02 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sathya Sai Trust signs MoU with NCERT-CIET||On the occasion of the Sri Sathya Sai Vidya Vahini (SSSVV) programme completing a decade, the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust signed a memorandum of understanding with the NCERT-CIET on Sunday to share its expertise with all government school teachers in the country. The MoU was signed between the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust and the NCERT-CIET (Central Institute of Educational Technology) to share the SSSVV’s learning materials with the ‘DIKSHA’ (Digital Infrastructure for Knowledge Sharing), a national portal for teachers. The MoU was signed by SSSCT managing trustee R.J. Rathnakar and Amarendra Behara, Jt Director, NCERT-CIET. Sri Sathya Sai Baba had launched the SSSVV programme on November 23, 2010, to meet the growing need for holistic education for all, a release from the Trust said. It empowers teachers, especially rural teachers, with effective teaching tools and aids. The SSSVV is an online resource for teachers to access content, training, and teaching aids for enhanced teaching-learning outcomes. The SSSVV lesson plans are available for the CBSE syllabus as well as several State boards. The available SSSVV content includes comprehensive Master Lesson Plans for Grades I to IX in Science, Environmental Studies, Mathematics, Social Studies, and English grammar. A strategic approach to standardised implementation was rolled out in 2017 by SSSVV Director Karuna Munshi, with TCS providing software development solutions. Nearly 1,200 Master Lesson Plans had been created. SSSVV was invited to New Delhi by the education vertical of the National Institute for Transforming India (NITI) Aayog, the Government of India’s think tank, to present the highlights of the programme. The pilot project of the programme with the SSSVV content was launched in government schools of two districts. After the first year of successful implementation in the government schools of Virudhunagar district in Tamil Nadu, the feedback was overwhelmingly positive.
02 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Folk singer Mangli dedicates song to police||Gooty-based folk singer Satyavathi Mudavath, popularly known as Mangli, whose ‘Ramuloo… Ramulaa...’ from the Telugu movie Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo was a hit, dedicated a song to the police personnel of the State on the occasion of the Police Martyrs’ Week celebrations. Hailing from Basampalli Thanda in Gooty mandal, the Anantapur police had approached her for making a song on police martyrs. Mangali has written and composed the song. The idea was mooted by Anantapur Superintendent of Police B. Sathya Yesu Babu, and the Police Department provided the visuals for the video song which was released in Vijayawada on Sunday. The video song ‘Salaam Police Anna, Sarileru Evaru Neeku Anna, Sahore Police Anna Janhithame Koreduvu Anna’ is a four-minute song highlighting the services of police personnel and their dedication to people’s safety. The entire song was recorded in just 10 days, said Disha Police Station DSP A. Srinivasulu.
02 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spurious liquor seized, Inter-State gang busted||The Chittoor police busted an inter-State gang allegedly involved in producing and selling spurious liquor, and seized material worth Rs. 18 lakh, apart from an auto and a system. According to information, as a sequel to the arrest of a couple of youth and seizure of some fake defence liquor bottles under Chittoor rural police limits on October 22, the Chittoor SP, S. Senthi Kumar, formed a special party to probe the case. During investigation, it was found that one Mari Rajan, alias Pandiyan (56), who retired as Havildar in the Indian Army in 2000 and settled in Goa, started procuring caps and empty bottles with the help of a few working at a liquor-bottle manufacturing unit. With the help of a printer, identified as Ramesh, Pandiyan procured labels of branded liquor that is usually supplied to ex-servicemen, and filled the bottles with locally made, cheap liquor. The bottles would then be placed in iron barrels meant for packing paint. Another acquaintance, one Kesava Murthy, from Bengaluru, joined hands with Pandiyan. Murthy would take care of the transportation of the bottles in the guise of paint barrels to Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and A.P. Special parties raided the locations at Goa and Bengaluru during the last three days and held Pandiyan, Murthy and Ramesh.
02 November 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes to freedom fighters mark A.P. Formation Day celebrations||Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kalikrishna Srinivas and Women and Child Welfare Minister Taneti Vanitha on Sunday paid tribute to the freedom fighters who had laid down their lives for the formation of Andhra State. Mr. Srinivas hoisted the national flag at the district Collectorate and garlanded the portrait of Amarajeevi Potti Sriramulu. Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat, Denduluru MLA K. Abbai Chowdary, Collector Revu Mutyala Raju, Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Nai, Joint Collector Venkata Ramireddy and others were among those who paid tributes to Potti Sriramulu. They recalled the services of Kovuri Chandrareddy, Jonnavittula Gurunadham, Konda Venkatasubbaiah Pantulu, Pattabhi Seetaramaiah, Sanagapalli Ramaswamy Gupta, Macherla Ramachandar Rao, Mamidipudi Venkatarangaiah, Puranam Venkatappaiah Pantulu and other leaders who fought for the Andhra State. Heads of various departments and officials unfurled the national flags and celebrated AP Formation Day in West Godavari district. They paid floral tributes to Amarajeevi Potti Sriramulu.
02 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. committed to uplifting weaker sections, says Minister||People’s representatives and district officials, led by Social Welfare Minister P. Viswaroop paid rich tributes to Amarajeevi Potti Sriramulu marking the celebrations of Andhra Pradesh Formation Day at the Collectorate here on Sunday. BC Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna, Rajya Sabha member P. Subhash Chandra Bose, Kakinada MP V. Geetha, District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy and others recalled the sacrifice of Potti Sriramulu for the formation of Andhra State. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Viswaroop said the State government was committed to the welfare of the backward classes, farmers and women and several schemes were introduced for them. “Various schemes introduced in the State shows the commitment of the YSRCP government towards the welfare of weaker sections,” said Mr. Viswaroop. In the education sector, the State government allocates a huge grant for renovation of the government schools across East Godavari district, said Mr. Viswaroop. Appointment letters were handed over to 15 differently-abled people who got the government jobs under the backlog category on the occasion.
02 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1.25 lakh people await cataract surgery in E. Godavari||At least 1.25 lakh elderly people suffering from poor vision are awaiting a cataract surgery in the East Godavari district. The third phase of the YSR Kanti Velugu programme was postponed due to the spread of COVID-19 virus in the district from April to November 2. The programme envisages screening of elderly persons to identify problems related to eyesight and providing them timely medical assistance, apart from performing the cataract surgery. The YSR Kanti Velugu Programme Coordinator (East Godavari) P. Mallikarjun Rao said, “The secretariat staff have been roped in for registration of beneficiaries. The third phase is dedicated to elderly people.” Mr. Rao is also the president of the District Blind Control Society. New facilities “The State government has sanctioned three theatres for cataract surgeries and other medical treatment for eye defects and have been set up in Amalapuram, Ramachandrapuram and Tuni,” said Mr. Mallikarjun. “By the end of the second phase, at least 1.25 lakh people are required to undergo the cataract surgery. Many old people neglect eye defects citing age factor. However, many defects leading to temporary blindness can be cured through proper medical intervention,” he added. Doctors’ team A team of doctors visits the village secretariats, where the elderly people are asked to report for screening. Surgeries are performed as per an action plan to ensure that every needy person gets access to timely medical aid.
02 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Harvesting machine operators warned against overcharging ryots||East Godavari Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha on Sunday stated that the machine operators should charge Rs. 1,800 to Rs. 2,200 for harvesting one acre of paddy. Harvesting of paddy has already begun in the district, but this time, farmers, mostly tenants, are going to face difficulties in getting labour at low wages as workers from northern part of the State have not yet arrived due to lack of cheaper modes of transportation, which were all temporarily stalled in the wake of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Left without workers, farmers have now turned to machine harvesters. In this context, Mr. Lakshmisha said the revenue and agriculture department officials would be monitoring the fare to be charged for the harvesting process, so as to ensure that the operators do not exploit farmers by charging exorbitant amount. “We will seize the machinery if any operator is found charging more than the stipulated amount, which is, Rs. 2,200 per acre of harvesting operation,” said Mr. Lakshmisha.  The Rythu Bharosa Kendras will monitor the harvesting operations in the district, where paddy was sown in above 2.25 lakh hectares in the kharif.
02 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Potti Sriramulu wanted capital in Seema: TGV||Freedom fighter Potti Sriramulu wanted the capital of Andhra Pradesh to be built in Rayalaseema, and it was due to his 56-day fast that the State of Andhra Pradesh was carved out of the erstwhile Madras Presidency with Kurnool as its capital, BJP Rajya Sabha MP T.G. Venkatesh said here on Sunday. It would be a fitting tribute to the great man if the second capital of Andhra Pradesh is set up in Rayalaseema, Mr. Venkatesh said. Garlanding the statue of Potti Sreeramulu here in the city, Mr. Venkatesh said that even if the capital is set up in Visakhapatnam, only the locals of that region would benefit, and to speed up development in the Rayalaseema region, the second capital must be set up in this region, he said. Kurnool, after remaining the capital for three years, remained undeveloped and jobs also went to the locals in Hyderabad. “The same mistake was done by shifting the capital to Amaravati,” he alleged. “Rayalaseema farmers sacrificed 85,000 acres of land for the Srisailam project, but the coastal region and Telangana are drawing water and reaping the fruits, whereas the Rayalaseema lands have remained parched. Except for the Telugu Ganga project during N.T. Rama Rao’s time and Pothyreddypadu during Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy’s tenure, no other project has come to Rayalaseema that is worth mentioning,” he opined.
02 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister: TDP did not create settled atmosphere post division||The Telugu Desam Party(TDP) never celebrated the State Formation Day on November 1 since the division of Andhra Pradesh in 2014 and offered no assurance to the people in the traumatic post-division times, said Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath here on Sunday, adding that they only harped on organising protests. Participating in the State Formation Day celebrations here, he said the government was taking utmost care to ensure the welfare schemes reached each and every eligible person in a saturation mode regardless of their backgrounds, but that some people were “trying to create hindrances in the delivery mechanism”. Blaming the TDP for its alleged complaining nature and not creating a settled atmosphere after the formation, Mr. Buggana said the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government, on the other hand, had been concentrating on improving the functioning of the local-self governance. Remembering Potti Sriramulu, the Minister said sacrifice of the leaders should not be forgotten. Reviews airport works The Finance Minister later inspected the progress of work at the Orvakal Airport and asked the officials to see to it that the pending works get completed at the earliest for the Directorate General of Civil Aviation(DGCA) team to inspect and give permission for the commercial operations. He went round the terminal and the runway.
02 November 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister, officials pay homage to Potti Sriramulu||Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) participated in the AP Formation Day celebrations in Krishna district on Sunday. He paid homage to Amarajeevi Potti Sriramulu. Eluru Range Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police K.V. Mohan Rao, Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu, Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) ASP Vakul Jindal, trainee IPS officer Prerana Kumar and other officers participated in the celebrations at the District Police Headquarters. The officers unfurled national flag and paid floral tributes to Potti Sriramulu.
02 November 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gutkha, liquor seized in raids||In a joint operation, the police in association with Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) personnel conducted raids at different places in Krishna district on Sunday and registered 28 cases and took 37 persons into custody for possessing banned gutkha products and Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL). The police teams conducted raids on the shops in Machilipatnam, Gudivada, Nuzvid, Nandigama, and Avanigadda police sub-divisions and seized NDPL, gutkha and jaggery wash, all worth about Rs. 13.60 lakh, stored illegally. Raids continued till evening at G. Konduru, Mylavaram, Agiripalli, Kaikalur, Mandavalli, Chillakallu, Reddygudem, Tiruvuru, Gampalagudem and other places, said Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu.
02 November 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam, Nellore register zero deaths for second day||In a welcome development, zero deaths were recorded for the consecutive second day in Nellore and Prakasam districts. The death toll due to the pandemic remained unchanged at 1,057 in the region in the last 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Sunday night. So far, 571 patients in Prakasam district and 486 in Nellore district have succumbed to the viral disease. After recording a maximum number of fresh cases and casualties in September, the incidence had started declining in October. The number of recoveries were treble the number of fresh admissions into hospitals in the two districts. However, the number of fresh cases went up by over 100 during the period when compared to the previous day. With 255 patients testing positive for the disease, the cumulative confirmed cases rose to 59,656 in Prakasam district in a span of 24 hours.  The number of active cases came down to 1,431 as 164 patients were discharged on recovery during the period. So far, 57,654 patients have recovered from the disease. Active cases In Nellore district, the number of positive cases rose to 61,158 with 96 persons getting infected in the last 24 hours. The caseload, however, came down further to 1,335 as 181 patients were discharged on recovery. So far, 59,823 patients won the battle against the disease.
02 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bollineni gets nod for new courses||Bollineni Medskills of GEMS Hospital, Srikakulam, got permission from the AP government to introduce new five courses from the academic year 2020-21, according to the institution's centre head Ch. Nageswara Rao. The new courses such as perfusion technology, renal dialysis technology, emergency medicine technology, naeuro physiology and respiratory therapy courses would provide jobs for students, he said. Mr. Nageswara Rao said that Bollineni Medskills was a non-profit organisation and it was established to serve students of the rural areas. Admissions details can be obtained over phone No. 7995013422
02 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kasibugga CI felicitated||Minister for Fisheries and Horticulture Sidiri Appala Raju on Sunday felicitated Kasibugga Circle Inspector Guggilapu Srinivasa Rao for achieving digital transformation award for successful introduction of e-beat system in Palasa and Kasibugga. He said the optimum utilisation of technology would help the Police Department to serve people better. “The QR (quick response) based e-beat system is helping higher officials to know the ground level patrolling on real-time basis.” Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that Srikakulam Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar’s encouragement made him to concentrate on e-beat system which was successfully implemented in Bengaluru and other major cities.
02 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Charitable programmes mark A.P. Formation Day||Vasavi Club International organised several charitable programmes in Srikakulam on Sunday in connection with the A.P. Formation Day. Club representatives Perla Mahesh, Tammana Bhaskar, Mandavilli Mallikarjuna Rao and Mandavilli S.S.Guptadistributed essential commodities among the orphan children studying at Behara Mano Vikas Kendram. Earlier, the members offered floral tributes to a statue of Potti Sriramulu.
02 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virtual ‘Arjitha’ sevas at Tirumala soon||The TTD has announced resumption of some ‘Arjitha’ (paid) Sevas in virtual mode inside the Srivari temple at Tirumala from the second week of November. ‘Arjitha Dolotsavam’, ‘Arjitha Brahmotsavam’ and ‘Sahasra Deepalankara Seva’ were performed in Ekantam on Sunday inside the temple. Preparations are on for release of online tickets for the Sevas from the second week of this month. The Sevas performed inside the temple will be telecast live on SVBC.
02 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Battery vehicles donated to TTD||Devotees from the Vellore-based VSL Industries and Akella Raghavendra Foundation donated five battery-operated auto rickshaws to Srivari temple on Sunday. The keys of the five vehicles, collectively worth Rs. 15 lakh, were handed over by VSL Industries Managing Director G.A. Harikrishna to temple in-charge Deputy Executive Officer Venkataiah. Three of the five rickshaws would be deployed for maintenance of sanitation and two for garbage clearance at Tirumala.
02 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan’s failure at multiple levels hit Polavaram hard, says Naidu||TDP national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Sunday said the failure of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government at multiple-levels had hit the Polavaram project hard. At a press conference here, Mr. Naidu said the multi-purpose project across the Godavari river near Rajamahendravaram, comprising a 194 tmcft reservoir for irrigation and drinking water purposes and a power plant of 960 MW capacity was the lifeline of Andhra Pradesh. “Amaravati and Polavaram are like two eyes of the State. But unfortunately, the Chief Minister’s irresponsible way of handling the key issues will ruin both the projects,” said Mr. Naidu. Talking about how the Chief Miniser had shot a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Ministry of Finance capping project cost at Rs. 20,398 crore as against the Rs. 47,725 crore the State wanted, Mr. Naidu said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy lacked the finesse needed to handle such important issues. Reverse tendering Pointing to the fact that the Union Finance Ministry had offered less than half of the revised cost required to complete the Polavaram multi-purpose dam project, putting a question mark on its future, Mr. Naidu said it was unfair on the part of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy to push the blame on the TDP at this stage. He alleged that the YSR Congress Party was resorting to mudslinging at the TDP as a diversionary tactic. He said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s ignorance and arrogance were at play when he went ahead with the reverse tendering process, ignoring the advice of the Polavaram Project Authority (PPA) and the Union Jal Shakti Ministry. The TDP president said the overall project cost had increased manifold because of the hike in the cost of land acquisition and the Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) components, which had gone up from Rs. 2,937.26 crore during 2010-11 to Rs. 33,187.07 crore after the 2013 Land Acquisition Act came into force. “The YSRCP government should have convinced the Centre and settled the issue in an amicable way. Finding lapses with the previous regime and writing letters to the Centre would not help the people of Andhra Pradesh. A crucial project which has a potential to irrigate every acre in the State is now hanging fire,” said Mr Naidu. He said instead of focussing on early completion of the project, the YSRCP government was busy making needless comments against the TDP, blaming it for taking up the project under the State Government’s supervision. National project He said the Polavaram was declared a national project in 2014, meaning that the Central government would provide the funds while the State government will execute the work. He said taking into consideration the past record of 16 national projects executed in 10 States had taken 30 to 50 years for completion, the Union Cabinet had given the task of executing the Polavaram project to the State government.
02 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||The Hindu lensmen bag awards||Photojournalists of The Hindu , Vijayawada have bagged two awards in the SPAAP fifth India Press Photo Awards-2020 given by the State Photojournalists’ Association of A.P. The awards were presented in a ceremony here on Sunday. Special News Photographer K.V.S. Giri bagged the Mandali Venkata Krishna Rao Memorial Award for his photograph ‘Virus’. Principal News Photographer V. Raju bagged Neelamraju Muralidhar Memorial Award for his photograph which was titled ‘Root of the health’. An online competition was conducted in three categories. Prizes were also given in various other categories. A. Satish Lal of Hyderabad bagged the gold medal in the open colour category for his photograph ‘Nose ring of Jat women’. In the photojournalism category, A. Satish of Vijayawada bagged the gold medal for his photograph ‘Annaku Gorumudda’ and Hira Punjabi of Thane won the gold medal in photo travel category for the photograph ‘Budham Saranam’.
02 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Time to shop in ‘style’||An exhibition of designer garments and lifestyle products -- The Style Store --, inaugurated at Sri Sesha Sai Kalyana Vedika on Bandar Road on Sunday, evoked good public response. Women in large numbers trooped in to pick their choice at the event which has been timed with the ongoing marriage and festival season. The organiser, Puja Kaur, said 'The Style Store' was a one-stop destination for those looking for trendy and fashionable clothes. Designers from Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Kolkata, Madhya Pradesh, Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad brought in their designs to woo the local buyers. The array of display includes saris, kurtis, tops, bridal wear besides lifestyle products like one gram jewellery, bedsheets, door curtains, divan sets, hand bags, silver articles and much more. The exhibition is on till Monday (November 2 till 9 p.m.)
02 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Potti Sriramulu remembered||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan paid tributes to Amarajeevi Potti Sriramulu on the occasion of Andhra Pradesh Formation Day, at Raj Bhavan in Vijayawada on Sunday. Mr. Harichandan garlanded the portrait of Potti Sriramulu and paid tribute to the freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for the State. He recalled the services of the freedom fighters on the occasion of AP Formation Day celebrations. Governor’s Secretary M.K. Meena and other officials participated. Officials of various departments took part in the celebrations at their offices by strictly following the COVID-19 guidelines. Andhra Pradesh was carved out of the erstwhile Madras Presidency by the Centre on November 1, 1956 after a fast-unto-death by Potti Sriramulu.
02 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘DBT scheme will ensure quality power supply’||Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) Managing Director Rajat Sud has said that the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme introduced by the Energy Department will ensure adequate and quality power supply to the agriculture sector. During a meeting with Energy Secretary N. Srikant on Saturday, Mr. Sud appreciated the State government for its ‘sustained efforts in making the DBT, a farmer-friendly scheme. He observed that the direct delivery of power subsidies focused on improving the efficiency and cost–effectiveness. “In the past, several constraints hit the rural areas with substantial economic costs in both farm and non-farm sectors. In this scenario, the smart meters can address the issues,” Mr. Sud opined. ‘Will support govt. efforts’ He said the EESL would support the efforts of the State government in enhancing the energy performance, efficiency, solar power development and smart metering to improve accountability and accuracy. Mr. Srikant said that the government was providing free power to the farm sector as a tool to stimulate agricultural growth and rural economy. “The DBT will not be burdensome for the farmers as the government deposits the entire amount of power charges into their bank accounts directly, which they would pay to the DISCOMs,” he said.
02 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. scores third in Public Affairs Index||Confederation of Indian Industry’s (CII) A.P. chairman and Efftronics Systems Pvt. Ltd. managing director D. Ramakrishna congratulated Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for bagging the third best-governed State honour conferred by the Bengaluru-based Public Affairs Centre (PAC). Andhra Pradesh stood in the third position in the Public Affairs Index-2020 (PAI) released by the PAC. Mr. Ramakrishna said the village and ward secretariats helped A.P. in decentralising governance. He also appreciated the government’s ReStart package for industries during the pandemic and congratulated Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy for promoting industrial development.
02 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati JAC observes bandh over ryots’ arrest||Protesting the arrest and handcuffing of farmers, and the alleged high-handed behaviour of the police with the women protesters in Thullur mandal and other villages, leaders of the Amaravati JAC observed a bandh in capital villages in Guntur district on Sunday. The committee members staged a protest at Thullur and raised slogans against the government for house arrests and preventive arrests of the Opposition party leaders. They demanded that the government take action against police personnel who behaved rudely with protesters and release the arrested farmers. Owners of shops and other establishments and auto-rickshaw drivers participated in the bandh voluntarily. Additional security forces were deployed as a precautionary measure.
02 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sarada students shine in NEET-2020||Students of Sarada Educational Institutions, Moghalrajpuram, in the city secured good ranks in NEET-2020. . Senior BiP.C students N. Bala Rishi secured 114th rank, Abithapai Ramesh (207th rank), N. Vaishnavi ( (439), K. Akhila (572), K. Yesaswini (771), M. Saranya (820) and 100 more got good ranks in the entrance test, said institute chairman Y. Ramesh Babu in a press release. He complimented the students for their achievement.
02 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lawyer’s son too dies of COVID||Javeed Moosavi, son of Table Tennis Federation of India senior vice-president and senior advocate S.M. Sultan, died on Sunday while undergoing treatment for COVID-19. Javeed’s death was the fourth in the family and occurred a day after Sultan passed away. On Friday, Sultan’s wife Lubna died and 10 days ago his mother breathed her last. Javeed was an alumnus of city’s Nirmala High School and KL Deemed to be University. He is survived by a sister.
02 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Raghavendra elected as AFI joint secretary||Former Secretary of the Andhra Pradesh Athletics Association (APAA) A.V. Raghavendra has been elected as Joint Secretary of the Athletics Federation of India at the annual general body meeting held in Gurgaon. Also, APAA secretary A. Hyma has been elected as Executive Committee member of the Federation.
02 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State for development of all regions: Minister||Minister for Agriculture and district in-charge Minister Kurasala Kannababu has said that the objective of decentralisation of administration was to ensure the development of all regions in the State. Speaking at the AP Formation Day celebrations at the Collectorate here on Sunday, Mr. Kannababu recalled that Andhra Pradesh was the first State in the country to be formed on linguistic basis. A light metro rail corridor would be established in Visakhapatnam at an estimated cost of Rs. 14,000 crore and a modern tram corridor with Rs. 7,000 crore. The Minister gave details of the welfare schemes likeand other projects being implemented in the district. An amount of Rs. 587.73 crore was credited to the accounts of 3,91,822 mothers of 5.75 lakh students in the district under the Amma Vodi scheme. Similarly, Rs. 459.43 crore was credited to the bank accounts of 6,61,317 beneficiaries as the first instalment under the YSR Asara scheme on September 11. He explained that measures were being taken for distribution of house sites to 2,53,173 poor people in the district. A total of 1,439.08 acres of government land was available in the district, another 299.87 acres of assigned and 84.43 other land was acquired in the district. An additional 4,457.05 acres of government and assigned land was taken under the Land Pooling Scheme in urban areas. He said that eligible women beneficiaries would be given the land soon. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao spoke on the prospects of Visakhapatnam and added that it would soon gain international recognition. Official Language Commission Chairman Yarlagadda Lakshmi Prasad, District Collector V. Vinay Chand, Anakapalle MP B.V. Satyavathi, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha and Superintendent of Police (Visakhapatnam Rural) B. Krishna Rao spoke. Earlier, Mr. Kannababu hoisted the national flag and saluted it. Later, he paid tributes to the portraits of Telugu Talli and ‘Amarajeevi’ Potti Sriramulu. Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana and MLAs G. Babu Rao, Kannababu Raju, Gudivada Amarnath and A. Adeep Raj, Joint Collectors Venugopal Reddy, Arun Babu and Govinda Rao, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana and VMRDA Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao were among those who participated.
02 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP, YSRCP steeped in corruption: BJP||BJP national general secretary and State in-charge Sunil Deodhar and BJP State president Somu Veeraju have exuded confidence that the BJP-JSP alliance will emerge as a strong alternative to the TDP and the YSR Congress Party in the State. K. Surendra Mohan has taken over as State president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) at a programme organised here on Sunday. Addressing a meeting organised in this connection at MVP Colony here on Sunday, they alleged that both the TDP and the YSRCP were indulging in corruption and promoting the interests of their families. Describing the BJYM as the soul of the BJP, Mr. Deodhar said that the responsibility of making India a super power as envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was possible only through youth. Unfortunately, the youth in the State were 'jobless' and have no opportunities despite the Centre providing ample opportunities to them. Mr. Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was given a great opportunity by the people of the State, but he had failed to live up to their expectations, Mr. Deodhar alleged. Mr. Deodhar found fault with the State government for raising loans to fund free schemes. The youngsters in the State have multiple talents, and they should be trained to make them stand on their own feet, he said. The BJP has shown that a poor ‘chaiwala’ could become the Prime Minister unlike the TDP in the State and the Congress party, which were promoting family politics, Mr. Deodhar said. Mr. Veerraju said that the north Andhra districts have remained neglected for long despite having hard-working and intelligent people besides a 175-km coastline. He said that the BJP was committed to the development of the region. Saying that the Prime Minister was keen that the benefits of welfare schemes should reach the poor, he called upon the party workers and leaders to pull up the State government, if people’s representatives and party leaders indulged in corruption. The party cadre should also remember that a majority of the welfare schemes in the State were funded by the Centre. MLC P.V.N. Madhav spoke. Rajya Sabha Member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, party State general secretaries Vishnu Vardhan Reddy and Lokula Gandhi, former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju, Visakhapatnam Parlimentary District BJP president M. Raveendra and former MP K. Haribabu were among those who attended. Earlier, an impressive motorcycle rally was taken out by BJYM workers from Sri Sampath Vinayaka temple to the Gadiraju Palace Function Hall, where Mr. Surendra Mohan took over as the new BJYM State president.
02 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam against development of north Andhra, Rayalaseema: Kannababu||Criticising the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders for spearheading the 'Amaravati Parirakshana' agitation, Minister for Agriculture Kurasala Kannababu alleged that the Opposition party is against the development of north Andhra and Rayalaseema regions. Addressing a press conference here on Sunday, Mr. Kannababu criticised the TDP leaders for opposing Visakhapatnam as Executive capital and confining themselves to Amaravati villages. He said that the three capitals would pave the way for development, especially of the backward North Andhra region, which was neglected by the previous government. “While Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is aiming at balanced development of all the three regions, the Opposition is confining itself only to Amaravati and misleading the public in the name Amaravati Parirakshana agitation,” he said. He said that Mr. Naidu has sacrificed the interests of the State for his personal interests and accepted the special package from the Centre and also failed to submit revised estimates for Polavaram project. He also alleged that Mr. Naidu was responsible for the State coffers going empty.
02 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held in murder case of Intermediate student||The murder of 18-year-old Varalakshmi from Gajuwaka has left people of the city in a state of shock. The city police took two youths, Akhil Sai and Ramu, into custody in the connection with the murder case. Police suspect that it was a pre-planned murder by Akhil Sai due to some dispute. According to police, Varalakshmi, who had completed Intermediate, a resident of 61 Ward, Sundarayya Colony, under Gajuwaka police station limits, was reportedly known to Ramu, who resides in the same locality. Akhil Sai, a student of Law College, Andhra University, is said to be a friend of Varalakshmi's brother since five to six years. On Saturday evening, Varalakshmi reportedly informed her family that she was going out to buy ‘mehendi.’ Her family members were busy making arrangements for marriage of one of their relatives. Varalakshmi allegedly met Ramu and Akhil Sai, near a temple on a hillock, a few blocks from her house. Akhil Sai allegedly attacked the girl with a blade. The girl died while undergoing treatment at the King George Hospital (KGH). A senior police officer from the city said: “There is a dispute between the trio, presumed to be love. It was Akhil Sai who attacked Varalakshmi with blade. The role of Ramu in this case is yet to be ascertained.” Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Home Minister M. Sucharitha enquired about the incident and asked the police officials to take stringent action against those responsible for the murder. The Chief Minister also announced financial aid to the family members of the victim. Meanwhile, a pall of gloom descended on Sundarayya Colony. A number of locals, women organisations from the city and members of various political parties went to the house of the victim and expressed their grief to the family members. Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha told the media that the accused were taken into custody. The case was transferred to Disha Police Station. The police said they would ensure that the charge-sheet was filed within a week. Mr. Manish Kumar Sinha also said that the police would ensure that such incidents do not recur. Awareness programmes and counselling sessions would be conducted at colleges in the coming days, he added.
02 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 85 new cases, one death||Visakhapatnam district reported as many as 85 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 56,410 as per the bulletin released on Sunday evening. For the first time in the last three months, active cases fell below 2,000. This is second time since the last one week, the district reported fewer than 100 cases. On October 26, the total number of cases reported was also 85. One person died in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 479. As many as 163 persons, who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19, have been discharged from the hospitals and COVID-19 care centres. The number of active cases has dipped to 1,944. The last time, the active cases fell below 2,000 in the district was during last week of July, which is more than three months. Similarly, the total number of recoveries/discharges stands at 53,987 in the district. This takes the total recoveries from the district to 95.7 %. Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar said that there are nine very active, 19 active and 294 dormant clusters in the district. As many as 627 clusters were already de-notified by the district administration.
02 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arogyasri hospitals discuss problems due to pandemic||The Arogyasri Network Hospitals Association of Navyaandhra Pradesh (ANHAAP) at its annual meeting here on Sunday discussed about the problems of hospitals in the pandemic situation. B. Narendra Reddy, association president, said that about 200 persons were dependent on each hospital. The clearance of Rs. 650 crore arrears by the State government has enabled the private hospitals to continue their services. He said that the hospitals were providing services to COVID patients also. Six months ago, these hospitals were not in a position to pay the salaries of their staff but Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy’s initiative in clearing the pending dues, came to their rescue. Now, the dues are being paid in two weeks. Package rates Dr. Narendra Reddy said that the government would be apprised of the need to increase the package rates, being given through Arogyasri Trust, so that the hospitals could provide even better services. Association secretary P.B. Kameswara Rao, North Andhra secretary Ramana Murthy and representative K. Tirumala Prasad were among those who participated in the meeting.
02 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five held for ‘kidnapping’ six-year-old||The city police took five persons into custody on charge of kidnapping a six-year-old boy from Auto Nagar area, under Gajuwaka police station limits, here on Sunday. According to the police, a businessman Naresh Yadav had allegedly borrowed about Rs. 40 lakh from a businessman of Gajuwaka. Since the money was not repaid on time, the businessman from Gajuwaka had reportedly hatched a plan to kidnap Yadav’s son. Special teams rescued the boy within an hour, it is learnt.
02 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag-Hazrat Nizamuddin festival specials cancelled||Due to safety-related modernisation and non-interlocking works for commissioning of double line between Turekela Road- Harishankar Road- Lakhna of Titlagarh-Raipur section of Sambalpur division, the following trains are cancelled. Train no. 02888 Hazrat Nizamuddin-Visakhapatnam festival special express, leaving Hazrat Nizamuddin from November 2 to 7 will be cancelled and 02887 Visakhapatnam-Hazrat Nizamuddin festival special express, leaving Visakhapatnam from November 3 to 8 will also be cancelled. Passengers are requested to bear with the inconvenience caused.
02 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag Film Society pays tribute to Sean Connery||A condolence meet was held by the Vizag Film Society (VFS) at Andhra University HRD Centre here on Sunday to pay tributes to internationally acclaimed actor, producer and the first James Bond Sean Connery (90), who died in London on Saturday. VFS president P, Viswanadham, vice president Kasi Visweswara Rao, secretary Narava Prakasa Rao and joint secretary P.V. Raman were among those who attended. The participants observed a two-minute silence in honour of the actor.
02 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||68.44% students pass AU degree examinations||The final year degree examinations results of Andhra University were released, here on Sunday. Dean, UG Examinations, D.V.R. Murthy, said that out of 24,328 students, who attended the examination, 16,651, (68.44%) have passed. He said that students can check their results in the official website of Andhra University .
02 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP will have no tie-up with TDP in future, says Deodhar||Bharatiya Janata Party national secretary and in-charge of Andhra Pradesh affairs Sunil Deodhar have said that the party will not forge alliance with the Telugu Desam Party (TDP). Terming N. Chandrababu Naidu as ‘U turn Babu’, Mr. Deodhar said the TDP national president had suppressed the growth of Andhra Pradesh by frequently changing his political stance. “TDP is a direction less party and it has no political future. That is why, many TDP leaders are knocking the doors of the BJP. More TDP and YSRCP leaders will join out party shortly. The TDP had joined hands with the Congress in 2019 elections. The BJP will not have any alliance with it in future,” Mr. Deodhar told The Hindu . ‘Mounting debt’ Taking a dig at the YSRCP, Mr. Deodhar said the ruling party had also lost faith of the people for corruption. “All the funds sanctioned to the State by the Centre are being diverted for other purposes. The debt incurred by the State has gone beyond the Rs. 2.6 lakh-crore mark. The State economy is also in for a tough time as there has been no generation of employment,” said the BJP leader. Claiming that the BJP has a bright political future in the State, Mr. Deodhar said the common man has started understanding the policies launched by the Narendra Modi government. “Scrapping of Article-370 has been appreciated people. The BJP has won the trust of people of Andhra Pradesh by finding solutions to many issues such as Rama Janmabhoomi. Now, they are eagerly waiting to vote for the BJP in the next general elections,” he said. Local body polls He said that the party leaders in all 13 districts have been told to highlight the the ‘historic decisions’ taken by the BJP government at the Centre and improve the party’s strength. Mr. Deodhar also hoped that the BJP would win a decent number of seats in the local body elections.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Business time||
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Taking no chances||
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dazzling effect||
02 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State braces for likely surge in COVID-19 cases||People of Telangana have lived through eight months of the COVID-19 pandemic and there might be more to come. In the 244 days since March 2, when the first case was detected in the State, over 2.4 lakh people have been infected so far and the virus has claimed 1,341 lives. However, of late, people seem to have become relaxed about precautions without realising that the challenges are far from over. Eight months into the pandemic, Health department officials are estimating another surge in cases as a large number of people stepped out of home for Bathukamma and Dasara festivals. The festival gatherings was the centre of discussions during a review meeting held by Health Minister Eatala Rajender with COVID-19 Expert Committee on Saturday. In fact, foreseeing the possibility of a surge, officials had earlier urged people not to participate in large scale gatherings, and to restrict celebrations only to close family members. Besides, since any virus finds cold temperatures favourable, officials opined that COVID’s virulence might increase in the winter. However, these two are not the sole reasons for estimated surge. The recent floods in Hyderabad and large gatherings during election campaigning could also contribute to the possibility. During the spell of heavy rain last month, sewage water entered several homes, while silt and garbage covered streets. With that distress and grief over loss of life and property, COVID fear was relegated to second position; safety was the prime concern of the people.  The second wave of the pandemic is sweeping through European nations and surge is also witnessed in the USA. In India, spike has been observed in Delhi and Kerala. These aspects, apart from bed strength, oxygen availability and details regarding other infrastructural capacity, was discussed at the meeting Testing and deaths Between March 2 and October 31, a total of 43,23,666 samples have been tested, leading to the detection of 2,40,048 positive cases. The government had come under sharp criticism for low testing until mid-June, after which the number of tests were increased from a maximum of 4,000 a day in June to around 60,000 daily towards August-end. By the end of October, around 40,000 people were being examined. One of the important observations is regarding the drop in the number of daily COVID deaths. While eight to 10 deaths were reported till September-end, it gradually dropped to four to six deaths per day. Telangana High Court on October 12 said the death statistics furnished by the Public Health department were not trustworthy. Senior officials of Health department insist the deaths are not under-reported. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy said that with better understanding of the infectious disease and drugs such as steroids and heparin, they have been able to bring down the death rate. He remarked earlier people underwent testing only when symptomatic. “Precious time was lost and the disease progressed. Now, we are reaching out to people and identifying cases in early stages. Treatment starts even when a person is asymptomatic which avoids disease progression,” he said.  Treatment starts even when a person is asymptomatic which avoids the disease progression. K. Ramesh Reddy, Director of Medical Education
02 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flood relief money distribution to resume||The State government has decided to resume distribution of cash to all the left over families that were severely affected by recent heavy rain from Monday. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed Municipal Administration Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar and GHMC Commissioner Lokesh Kumar to prepare a schedule for distribution of cash relief in the affected localities. Accordingly, the financial assistance would be provided at the doorstep of the left over affected families. Distribution of financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 each to the affected families was taken up following the instructions from Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao but the process was halted midway. The government had distributed Rs. 387.9 crore to the 3.87 lakh affected families. The distribution was made from the Rs. 550 crore released from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to the Municipal Administration department for taking up rescue, relief and rehabilitation programmes in the flood affected areas. Sanitation drive The Chief Secretary also reviewed the health and sanitation conditions in the Greater Hyderabad limits which had witnessed untimely heavy rainfall. The government had decided to launch a week-long special sanitation drive in the GHMC from November 4 to 10 in the light of change in the seasonal conditions, spurt observed in the COVID-19 cases across the world and likelihood of spread of infectious diseases post flood. The drive envisaged cleaning of garbage points, removal of construction and demolition waste, spraying disinfectants and anti-larval and vector control operations, among other things, in all the localities. Teams with sufficient availability of men and material should be organized at the ward-level while citizens could lodge their grievances with the GHMC through helpline number 040-21111111. Mr. Somesh Kumar also reviewed the functioning of basti dawakhanas. There were 199 basti dawakhanas presently functioning in the GHMC area and the Chief Secretary directed the Health department officials to launch 30 new ones. It was also decided to open another 37 basti dawakhanas within a week.
02 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Recreation facilities coming up in FTL||At a time when the city has been battered by a flood and there is a debate about construction activity near water bodies, a recreational park to mark 100 years of completion of Osmansagar Reservoir is being built on its right side. “The park will be spread over 18 acres and provide various recreational facilities. We are only executing it,” said an official at the makeshift office on the site. This reporter was stopped from photographing the ongoing work as pneumatic drills, earthmovers and trailer-tractor have been deployed for creating the facilities. Access to the park was blocked during the COVID-19 lockdown and work began after a few months. “The work has been pending for two years,” said a Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority official who refused to go on record. The Osmansagar reservoir was completed in 1920 and was built as a flood protection for Hyderabad as well as a source of drinking water to the growing city. The small park and the bund were one of the favoured sunset points in Hyderabad. “There was always a lot of crowd because we invariably went on a Sunday,” reminisces Sadhana Ramchander a nature lover about visits to the park. The survey map dated December 2019 shows that the park being developed falls within the Full Tank Level of the lake. The G.O.Ms.No. 111 prohibits construction within the FTL limits. The GO has a vast overarching clause and it prohibits: “Various developments within 10 km radius of Himayatsagar and Osmansagar lake areas which are main sources of drinking water supply as per the recommendation of the Expert Committee constituted by Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board to suggest ways and means to monitor the quality of water in these reservoirs.” Ironically, during a Lake Protection Committee meeting of HMDA in September 2019, the issue about protection for the two lakes was noted. “The Chairman, LPC has instructed the District Collector, Ranga Reddy District to list out all the construction activities taken in the conservation zone in catchment limits of Osmansagar and Himayatsagar as per G.O.Ms.No. 111 and to verify the legality of permissions.” Emails and messages to clarify on the park status to Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar went unanswered.
02 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Country Vacations directed to refund membership money||A commission forum directed Country Vacations to pay Rs. 1 lakh as compensation and refund Rs. 1.20 lakh a complainant paid to the company as subscription of ‘Country Club Thumbs Up’ membership. It found the respondents did not deliver the free three nights and four days’ trip to Dubai which one of their representatives had assured the complainants. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission – III, Hyderabad was dealing with a compliant filed by Roshan Kumar Agarwal (38), a resident of Kondapur. Mr Agarwal stated that in August 2016, an executive of the respondents called and stated his family are winners of a free holiday gift voucher worth Rs. 35,000. As part of the company’s anniversary celebrations, a special offer of three nights and four days trip, Rs. 10,000 in meal vouchers and interest-free EMI conversion of Rs. 1.20 lakh was included. After making payments, the complainant received an e-mail confirming the club membership and holiday package. He then received two membership cards, but said that there was no mention of the free Dubai trip. So he requested a refund of the Rs. 1.20 lakh. For their part, the respondents contended that as per the membership agreement, the free trip was to a destination within India. They also maintained that any oral commitment by sales staff cannot be honoured, and that the membership fee is non-refundable. Taking all arguments and evidences placed on record, president Nimma Narayana and member Lakshmi Prasanna cited a case, invoked the Indian Contracts Act, 1872, and stated ‘contracts entered into through an agent, and obligations arising from acts done by the agent, will have the same legal consequences, as if the contracts had been entered into and the acts done by the principal in person.’ It also invoked a Supreme Court order which stated that confirmation via e-mail constituted a valid agreement. Finding the respondents deficient in service, the commission directed them to refund the Rs. 1.20 lakh, pay Rs. 1 lakh towards ‘mental agony’ and costs of Rs. 5,000.
02 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Defeat TRS to restore social justice in State’||Defeat of Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) in Dubbak was a necessity for Telangana to safeguard itself from corruption and for social justice as only the family and social group of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was cornering all the benefits, Telangana Congress leaders said as they wound up the election campaign on Sunday. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, who along with senior leaders spoke to reporters, alleged that KCR has handed over the administration and all resources of Telangana State to his son, daughter, nephew and other relatives. “This has badly hit the social justice system in the entire State, at all levels, with only a small group of people enjoying access to all resources of Telangana,” he said. Appealing to people to vote for Congress candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy, the TPCC chief said that it was Srinivas Reddy’s father and former minister Ch. Muthyam Reddy who developed Dubbak constituency and TRS just ignored it in the last seven years of its rule. “Srinivas Reddy is highly educated and had returned to Dubbak after leaving a decent job in USA only to serve the constituency. He will be the true voice of Dubbak in the Assembly,” he said. Mr. Reddy said that the late Ramalinga Reddy represented Dubbak segment for four terms and the TRS leadership deprived him of funds for development. “In fact, Ramalinga Reddy himself had expressed his helplessness on the floor of the Assembly. When Ramalinga Reddy could not develop Dubbak, how could his wife Sujatha do,” he asked. Meanwhile, Congress’ Mr. Srinivas Reddy dismissed rumours being spread that he would shift to the ruling party if elected. On Sunday, Congress MP A. Revanth Reddy said that development in Dubbak constituency was compromised at the cost of Siddipet, Sircilla and Gajwel.
02 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC, APSRTC to ink deal on resumption of bus services today||After months of gridlock, the transport undertakings of Telangana State and Andhra Pradesh are scheduled to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on Monday on resumption of inter-state bus services. While bus services from Telangana to states such as Karnataka and Maharashtra had resumed, both Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) and Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) had not started their services as they could not agree on mutually-agreeable terms. These terms included the number of buses to ply between the two states, and the number of kilometres each STU should run to either State. On Sunday, TSRTC confirmed that an MoU would be signed between the managing directors of both TSRTC and APSRTC in the presence of Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar. Sources said that the MoU would also restart the much needed revenue generation for TSRTC. The transport juggernaut had lost revenue as buses to Andhra Pradesh did not ply during Dasara.
02 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘COVID may become endemic to humans’||The way ahead in keeping track of the novel coronavirus is through “aggressive testing, genome sequencing, monitoring and surveillance” as these actions will “provide long-term gains in terms of preparedness for future outbreaks as well as networks and infrastructure to handle them”, affirmed top scientists of the CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB). This is because the rate of zoonotic viral transmission (from animals to people) is accelerating due to the unprecedented increase in humanity’s global footprint. “Every country needs to strategise on reducing possibilities of emerging infectious diseases and have reliable surveillance and management mechanisms in the case of their occurrence,” emphasised CCMB director Rakesh Mishra and his colleagues Somdatta Karak and Surabhi Srivastava in an online post. The scientists pointed out that COVID-19 pandemic could be a long-term crisis and is likely becoming endemic to humans. Hence, the country cannot afford to follow a “blinkered strategy” in dealing with the pandemic, and it is important to ramp up capacity in multiple spheres of healthcare and R&D. Countries across the globe have achieved relative success in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic by meticulously following “testing, tracing and efficiently isolating the positive cases to keep the disease spread under control”, they reiterated. Noting that the country is ranked third in the world based on the number of confirmed cases after United States and Brazil, they suggest the mitigation strategies must consider the heterogeneous nature of the population, the economic and urban versus rural divide, and the weak healthcare infrastructure. It was also disclosed that work is under way at CSIR-CCMB and other institutions to develop antigen-based and antibody-based diagnostic assays and check for their specificity. These tests will be easy to carry out, familiar to healthcare workers, cheap and easy to scale, making them ideal for mass surveillance. Initially, it was A3i clade of the coronavirus which was the dominant variant in the country and later, the globally prevalent A2a subtype became predominant as the pandemic swept across the country. Global repository ‘Nextstrain’ has over 90,000 genome submissions of coronavirus categorised into 10 known viral variants based on their genomic differences from each other, they explained. The rate of mutation in India has been observed at 26 times per year matching the global mutation rate and suggesting the virus will remain stable. Studies are now on to check for differences in human host genomes to explain the spectrum of COVID-19 manifestation – from asymptomatic cases to fatalities, the scientists added.
02 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS adds 1,416 cases to virus tally||Telangana recorded 1,416 more COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total to 2,40,048. While 41,675 people were examined, results of 887 were awaited. Five more COVID-19 patients died. The new 1,416 cases include 279 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area, 132 from Rangareddy, 112 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 82 from Nalgonda, 79 from Bhadradri-Kothagudem, and 74 each from Khammam and Karimnagar. The lowest of two cases were recorded from Narayanpet, while Nirmal had only seven fresh cases. Of the 41,675 people tested on Saturday, 39,229 opted for government facilities and 2,446 got examined at private labs. From March 2 to October 31, a total of 43,23,666 samples have been put to test and 2,40,048 have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. At present, there are 18,241 active cases with 2,20,466 patients having been discharged and 1,341 having died pf the deadly virus. At the 61 State government hospitals, there are 4,606 oxygen beds and 1,375 ICU beds as on Saturday. In the 227 private hospitals, 2,998 oxygen beds and 2,271 ICU beds were available for patients.
02 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP complaint to EC, DGP over false charges||The war of words between TRS and BJP escalated with the latter filing an official complaint on Sunday with the Election Commission (EC) and the Director General of Police (DGP) to take action against Telangana Ministers K.T. Rama Rao and T. Harish Rao and senior party leaders for “making false allegations” about the prospective law and order issues by the national party. In the communication, general secretary G. Premander Reddy said that his party has “full faith in the democratic values” adhering to the “principles of good governance” and respect for the Constitution of India. However, during the course of Dubbak by-election campaign, police had filed several false cases against the BJP and its leaders and activists without any justification. The TRS government has also been acting and discharging its duties in the most ‘undemocratic’ way and this was taken to the notice of the EC. These include that the “BJP is trying to create law and order problem in Hyderabad and attempting to attack Pragathi Bhavan and to see that their activists are lathi-charged leading to the extent of firing. Taking advantage of these remarks, police have been making arrests of party activists and leaders for no reason. Therefore, it is necessary to inquire into the matter and and take necessary action,” Mr. Reddy added.
02 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Webinar on alternative cinema||Department of Film Studies at the English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) in association with the Department of English, Shivaji University, Kolhapur, Maharashtra conducted a webinar on “South Asia in Alternative Cinema(s).” Prof. Moinak Biswas, Jadavpur University, delivered a talk on ‘Thinking with Cinema: Mani Kaul Reading Deleuze’ while Prof. Anup Singh Beniwaldiscussed the cinematic interpretations of partition and Prof. Somdatta Mandal gave a talk on ‘Opening Up: Locating Queer Cinema in India’.
02 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Harish Rao comes down heavily on BJP candidate||How can BJP candidate M. Raghunandan Rao, who does not take care of his parents, take care of people in Dubbak constituency?, asked Finance Minister T. Harish Rao. “Madhavaneni Bhagavanth Rao, Mr. Raghunandan Rao’s father, has been getting Aasara pension of Rs. 2,016. His parents get six kg rice every month in ration. Bhagavanth Rao has received Rs. 54,000 so far under Rythu Bandhu while his wife Bharatamma has received Rs. 86,250 under the same scheme. The BJP candidate himself got Rs. 1,11,550 so far,” said Mr. Harish Rao, while addressing a media conference on the last day of campaigning for Dubbak by-polls, at Mirdoddi on Sunday. He asked the BJP candidate to explain who have been offering these benefits to his family. In a related development, expelled BJP leader Thota Kamalakar joined the TRS in the presence of Mr. Harish Rao. Addressing a campaign at Rayapol, Mantoor, Anajpur, Timmakkapally and other villages, Mr. Harish Rao said that he would take the responsibility of the constituency and urged people to vote for TRS. “We have established Rayapol mandal headquarters and this was made possible only because of the late MLA S. Ramalinga Reddy,” he said. Later in the evening, addressing another press conference, he urged voters to choose between locals and outsiders. “Decide between those who tell you lies and those who serve you. Do you want your own people or others? Those who perform or those who can only tell words? Do you want Rythu Bandhu or not? Do you want people around you all the time or those who come occasionally?” he asked and appealed to voters to act wisely while voting on November 3. He alleged that the BJP has been trying to “foment trouble in Hyderabad to act in its favour” before the by-elections.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Original Ankapur chicken now at your doorstep!||The original spicy country chicken from Ankapur in Nizamabad district is now a phone call away. Thanks to TSRTC Cargo and Parcels services introduced in July this year, the famed non-veg curry prepared in the model village is now available to food lovers in North Telangana. RTC officials of Armoor depot hit upon the idea of cashing in on the craze for country chicken ( Natu Kodi or Desi Chicken ) prepared by select few families in Ankapur. Hitherto, people familiar with the tasty dish used to request the cooks to send parcels through the RTC crew. Without losing time, the RTC officials set up a TSRTC Health Food Court in Ankapur village, 5 km from Armoor town. They posted a controller and a dedicated mobile number (98484-08003) was given for orders. All that one has to do is to call up the number and place the order. A kilogram of cooked country chicken costs Rs. 650, including the parcel charges. Controller at TSRTC counter, Boya Pratap said the moment an order is placed, it is passed on to the cooks in the village. After the payment through Google Pay is confirmed, the said cook ensures that the order is delivered to the destination. The customer has to pick up the order from the counters at respective bus stations. So far, 334 orders have been successfully delivered. Presently, the regular bus services plying towards Jubilee Bus Station (Secunderabad), Warangal, Hanmkonda, Jagtial, Metpally, Karimnagar, Nirmal and Adilabad are being used. Ideally, the orders are kept ready by 9 a.m. for onward journey so that the dish is not spoiled. There is another service to JBS Secunderabad at 1 p.m. Chandramohan Billa, owner of Kolla Anjaiah Parcel Mess in Ankapur, told The Hindu that his father, late Anjaiah, was instrumental in popularising the spicy curry to the outside world in 1988 along with two others. Since then, 10 such outlets have cropped in the village itself. The namesake sale points have mushroomed all across Telangana, including several in the twin cities. “We use three-month-old country chicken handpicked by our suppliers from the rural areas, unlike the one bred in the poultries now. The taste is totally different, that’s why we get repeat orders from our customers. We have been sending parcels in the quantity of 10-15 kgs to Hyderabad on special occasions. All precautions are taken while preparing the food and we ensure that the dish does not become stale when it is delivered to customers,” said Chandramohan. T. Ramachandra Murthy, depot manager at Armoor, is satisfied with the response and said Sundays is quite a busy day with plenty of orders. “We are also delivering corn in dozens to the customers. Orders are taken by the Ankapur counter,” he said.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Youth sets himself ablaze...||“The incident appears to be in protest against the arrest of Sanjay in Siddipet District,” the officer said. On Monday, Mr. Sanjay was detained by the police on the outskirts of Siddipet and sent away to Karimnagar. He was going to Siddipet after police conducted raids at Raghunandan Rao’s house, who is the BJP’s candidate for upcoming bypolls at Dubbaka. Earlier the police seized Rs. 18.65 lakh from the house of Mr. Rao’s relative in Siddipet. “Sanjay Anna's arrest was illegal. I am ready to do anything for my party, Sanjay Anna , Aravind Anna (Nizamabad MP) and Raghunandan anna ,” Mr. Srinivas said after he was rescued by the passers-by.  (Call Roshni suicide intervention centre: +9140 66202000 or 6666 1117 )
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Online disadvantage?||The registration of agricultural land on Dharani portal is set to begin on Monday. The booking of time slots for registration of land has already been enabled at Mee Seva centres. It is no exaggeration that there were 33 lakh views of the portal within 24 hours of its launch by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on October 29. What surprised most viewers was the charge list that popped up for services. The registration department that never charged a rupee for its services so far fixed Rs. 200 as user charge for booking of time slot for registration. Then, mutation will cost Rs. 2,500 per acre and another Rs. 300 was payable towards printing and courier charges of pattadar passbooks.   The heat over Dubbak continued to rise with allegations and counter-allegations from both the ruling TRS and BJP, as the electioneering picked up but what surprised most was the silence of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao — both star campaigners for the large part of the campaign. It was Finance Minister T. Harish Rao who headed the campaign totally and Mr. KTR did not utter a word on Dubbak. But the ‘cash seizure’ controversy took the heat to the top and irrespective of the truth it was the BJP that gained sympathy in the episode. The ruling party apparently got a bit shaky after that and KTR was forced to counter with an extensive media chat attacking the BJP and its ‘false’ claims on social media. KCR too, chipped in attacking the Central government and the BJP on the MSP for paddy and take BJP on its claims over its contribution of pensions in Telangana towards the end of the campaign.   Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will rarely miss an opportunity to take potshots at TDP president and former AP Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu. The launch of Dharani portal provided another opportunity to him to take an indirect dig at the TDP president. Explaining about the salient features of Dharani, Mr. Rao said that the “Chief Minister who often spoke about IT” did not try to leverage technology. It was the TRS government which brought IT intervention in land record management, he said. The CM also warned people about vested interests who would try to mislead them about Dharani and said there could be teething problems with the introduction of the new system which can be overcome.  (N. Rahul, R. Ravikanth Reddy and M. Rajeev)
02 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: court rejects bail plea of man in IB staffer’s murder case||A Delhi court has rejected the anticipatory bail application of a man in connection with the murder of Intelligence Bureau (IB) staffer Ankit Sharma during the north-east Delhi riots. The court noted that his phone location was traced at the scene of crime on the day of incident and that it cannot be a mere coincidence. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav found substance in the arguments of Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) that the custodial interrogation of Muntajim was necessary to unearth the conspiracy for planning, instigating and executing riot action plan. “His presence/custodial interrogation is also necessary for his identification by way of judicial test identification parade from public witnesses,” the judge noted. The court also said that it has already dismissed the regular bail application of principal accused in the case, Tahir Hussain, and co-accused Sameer Khan, with whom Muntajim has been in regular touch and his name has also cropped up in the intercepted phone calls/transcripts of co-accused Haseen. Muntajim, in his anticipatory bail application, stated that he has been falsely implicated in the present case by the investigating agency and has nothing to do with the alleged incident. His plea said that he was completely taken aback on seeing the notice issued by the investigating officer of the case, directing him to appear before him on September 30. He said the medical condition of his wife was critical as she had delivered a baby on September 25. The plea said he is the sole bread-earner of his family and has to look after his ailing wife and the infant, both of whom are presently under treatment. Muntajim argued that he has been falsely roped into the matter merely on the basis of disclosure statements made by the co-accused. His plea said he has not been captured either in any CCTV footage or any viral videos. He also said his phone location is of no help for the investigating agency as he is a resident of the same locality. However, the SPP argued that Muntajim is a resident of Nand Nagri and his presence at the SOC at the time of incident was not natural. The SPP said his phone location has been found to be at the scene of crime on both days – on February 24 and 25 – when the intensity of the communal riots was maximum. The SPP argued that the call details record analysis of his mobile phone reveals that his movement was not at one particular place on the day of incident. The SPP said he was constantly moving in and around the area, as sometimes his location was found at Khajuri Khas and sometimes at Karawal Nagar, which is “sufficient indication” of his involvement in the present case.
02 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘File FIR on plaint by eyewitness of women’s murder during riots’||A Delhi court has directed the city police to register within five days an FIR on a complaint of a man who claimed to have witnessed killing of burqa-wearing women and their bodies being thrown into Bhagirathi Vihar nala during the north-east Delhi riots. Metropolitan Magistrate Rakesh Kumar Rampuri gave the direction after rejecting the police’s submission that allegation of the complainant, Nisar Ahmed, regarding some burqa-clad women or ones looking like Muslim women being killed with swords and their body being thrown into the drain are “false and baseless”. Threat calls Mr. Ahmed, a small trader of readymade garments, in his plea, also submitted that he has been receiving threat calls and is being asked about details of his complaint and being told to settle the matter.  “The court fails to appreciate as to how the police could even claim that the allegation of the applicant [Mr Ahmed]... are false and without any evidence before conducting any thorough and proper investigation known to law, of which FIR is the commencing point,” the court remarked. In his complaint, Mr. Ahmed said that after he witnessed the crime, he locked himself and his family members inside his house. On February 25, a mob came to his house and broke the gate and looted his shop. Mr. Ahmed also stated that his motorcycles were dragged out on the road and set ablaze. He said a large trunk containing his daughter-in-law’s jewellery and other personal items related to her marriage were also looted. He said that with the help of some neighbour, he and his family managed to flee the area. When he tried to register an FIR, Mr. Ahmed said, he came to know that another FIR was registered at Gokalpuri police station on the complaint of one Aas Mohammad, who was also a victim of unnamed rioters and theft. The police stated that a handwritten complaint of Mr. Amhed was received and was clubbed with the other FIR as the dates and places of incident were same. It also stated that allegation regarding killing of burqa-clad women are false and baseless. As the police said that chargesheets have been made in the other FIR, the court questioned as to how it can be expected to investigate the allegations of present complainant, which are substantially different from the chargesheet prepared by the investigating officer. Even further investigation in the other FIR “would not cover the required proper investigation in the allegations levelled by present complainant”, the court said, directing the Station House Officer of Gokalpuri police station to get Mr. Ahmed’s complaint investigated properly as per law.
02 November 2020||New Delhi,||Head constable dies in road accident||A 40-year-old Delhi Police head constable was killed allegedly after his motorcycle was hit by a delivery van in north-east Delhi’s Harsh Vihar on Sunday, the police said. The deceased, Durgesh Kumar, was posted at Preeti Vihar police station, they also said. According to the police, the incident took place around 4.30 p.m. while Kumar was riding his motorcycle. He was near Shamshan Ghat here when the van allegedly hit him, after which the driver of the offending vehicle fled the spot. The accused driver was, however, later held, they said. Kumar was taken to Dr. Hegdewar hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead, a senior police officer said. “We have registered a case under Sections 279 [rash driving or riding on a public way] and 304 A [causing death by negligence] of the Indian Penal Code and apprehended the driver of the offending vehicle,” said Ved Prakash Surya, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-East). The accused driver has been identified as Naresh Kumar, a resident of Saboli village in Delhi, he said. Kumar lived with his wife, a 13-year-old son and a five-year-old daughter in Ashok Nagar, the police said.
02 November 2020||New Delhi,||HC quashes FIR as victim and accused are married||The Delhi High Court has quashed an FIR registered against a man for allegedly making physical relations with a girl on the pretext of marriage after taking into account that the couple are now happily married and having a child. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait quashed the FIR registered at Paharganj police station and consequent proceedings noting that “no useful purpose would be served in prosecuting petitioners [the man] any further”. As per case of prosecution, the man made physical relations with the girl on the pretext of marriage in December 2018. In April, 2019, on account of physical proximity, the girl was found to be pregnant with the child of the man. Since the man’s parents were not in favour of their marriage, the girl filed a complaint on December 8, 2019, when she was seven months pregnant. The prosecution opposed the present petition by the man to quash the FIR stating that the allegations against him are serious in nature. Not a minor The man, in his plea, submitted that after registration of FIR, the girl produced her school admission register which shows her date of birth as September 28, 2001, and as such she wasn’t a minor in April 2019. Hence, no case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, is made out. The girl, who was present during the videoconferencing hearing, said her marriage was solemnised with the man and currently, both are residing as husband and wife. She said that her husband has undertaken to take care of her and their child and all monthly expenses as per a compromise deed. She said that her in-laws had also agreed to accept her and her child. She said the matter has been settled and she does not wish to pursue the case any further. Taking into account the facts, Justice Kait said if the FIR is not quashed, it would cause injustice to the couple.
02 November 2020||New Delhi,||Complaint against dhaba fundraiser||Delhi Police has received a complaint against Gaurav Wasan, who posted the video of ‘Baba ka Dhaba’ and collected funds on behalf of the dhaba owner, alleging misappropriation of donations. Kanta Prasad, owner of ‘Baba ka Dhaba’, in his complaint said that Wasan shot his video and posted it online and convinced the public to donate money. The video went viral. Wasan mentioned his mobile number and bank account details as the owner did not have the same. but, he never revealed transactions details.
02 November 2020||New Delhi,||Hindu Sena defaces signboard outside IICC||Hindu Sena workers on Sunday allegedly defaced a North Delhi Municipal Council signboard outside the India Islamic Cultural Centre (IICC) on Lodhi Road in Lutyens’ Delhi. FIR registered Posters were put up on the signage of IICC which read “Jihadi Terrorist Islamic Centre”. The police, however, said the posters were soon removed and an FIR has also been registered against unknown persons after North body reported the matter. S.M. Khan, vice-president of IICC, said that they have registered a complaint with local police regarding the incident and also raised the issue of security at the IICC. President of right-wing group, Hindu Sena, Vishnu Gupta said he got to know that some of their workers had done it. He said when he asked the workers, they said radical terrorists activities are taking place all over the world, particularly in France, and scores of people from Muslim community came in support of the attack in Indian cities like Bhopal, Mumbai and Aligarh. These people are openly supporting radical Islamic terrorism by doing this. A senior North body official said, “The posters have been removed and police have been informed to take action as per norms.” The police said that an FIR has been registered against unknown people in connection with thedefacement of public property at Tughlak Road police station. “The posters were removed immediately. We have registered a case under Section 3 of Delhi Prevention of Property Act against unknown people. We are scanning CCTV footage installed in and around the vicinity but have not found any relevant footage,” a senior police officer said. This is not the first time the right-wing outfit has blackened the road signs in the national capital. In June, Hindu Sena workers had defaced a signboard outside the Chinese embassy here to protest against the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in clashes with the Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.
02 November 2020||New Delhi,||Online booking of high-security plates resumes||Online booking of High-Security Registration Plate (HSRP) and colour-coded stickers for vehicles restarted along with their doorstep delivery in some parts of east and west Delhi on Sunday, officials said. Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot had directed officials to stop online booking last month after complaints were received from vehicle owners about delays and issues in logging into the registration portal. “The process started smoothly and no complaints have been received so far,” an official said, adding that “around 3,000 bookings are targeted every day up to Deepavali.” “If the service from suppliers of HSRP and colour-coded stickers and dealers remains satisfactory, the bookings will be raised after the festival break,” the official said.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Food for thought||
02 November 2020||Mumbai,||Karnataka Rajyotsava: MVA ministers wear black bands||Maharashtra Cabinet ministers on Sunday sported black bands while carrying out official duties to express solidarity with Belagavi’s Marathi speaking community which observes Karnataka Rajyotsava, the formation day of Karnataka on November 1, as a ‘black day’. Maharashtra claims Belagavi, part of the erstwhile Bombay Presidency, but currently a district of Karnataka, on linguistic grounds. The dispute between the two States over Belagavi and other border areas is pending before the Supreme Court for many years. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar said the State government’s resolve is to pave the way for a united Maharashtra that includes the territories of Belagavi, Karwar and Nippani. “I extend open support to the ongoing fight of the people in the border areas. This fight will not end till the Marathi speaking region becomes a part of Maharashtra,” said Mr. Pawar. Black balloons released In its meeting last week, the State Cabinet decided to support the Marathi community living in the border areas by sporting a black badge. Maharashtra Water Resources Minister and NCP State president Jayant Patil was spotted on Sunday sporting a black badge while performing his official duties, while State Urban Development Minister and senior Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde released black balloons in Thane. Mr. Patil said NCP workers and all ministers in the State government were sporting black bands to express solidarity with their brethren in the border areas. “Atrocities against Marathi speaking people by Karnataka are continuing even though the case is pending in the Supreme Court,” Mr. Patil alleged, while expressing confidence that Belagavi and other border areas comprising Marathi speaking people will be part of Maharashtra. Mr. Shinde and Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal, in a letter to the Marathi speaking people of Karnataka, said the Maharashtra government is committed towards ensuring that their demands for education, social justice, and conservation of Marathi language are met. Last year, the Maharashtra government appointed the two ministers as co-coordinators to oversee its efforts to expedite the case related to the boundary dispute. “We both are small soldiers of this movement to include these areas into Maharashtra, which is indebted to the sacrifice and courage of the local Marathi population,” the leaders said in the letter. The ministers also promised to the Marathi community in Karnataka the delivery of benefits under schemes of the State government’s School and Higher Education, Transport, Social Justice, Home and Marathi language departments. The Maharashtra government has reportedly taken the decision to sport the black bands based on a request by the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) in Belagavi. The organisation has stepped up pressure for the integration of Marathi speaking areas with Maharashtra since its launch in 1948. The MES has been spearheading the movement in Karnataka. Since the State’s formation on November 1, 1956, MES leaders and its members in Belagavi have been observing Karnataka Rajyotsava as a ‘black day’, to express their dissatisfaction on their inclusion in Karnataka. The district, previously a part of the Bombay State, was integrated into Karnataka (then known as Mysore State) when the States were linguistically reorganised. The period between the 1960s and 1980s saw violent protests and tension on the border. The single-point demand of the MES is that Belagavi should be merged with Maharashtra. ‘True love for Marathi’ In a telephonic conversation with the members of the unification committee, Mr. Shinde assured them of full support from the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. The ministers said people in Maharashtra should learn from those in the border areas what it means to have true love for Marathi language and culture. Maharashtra considers everyone in the border areas who speaks Marathi irrespective of his/her caste, creed and religion as its own, the ministers said. “We consider providing them representation and involvement in social, cultural and political fields as very important and will take policy decisions from time-to-time,” they said. “The inclusion of the Marathi speaking areas into Maharashtra will be a dream come true for the 12 crore population in the State. We stand with you till the moment that golden day comes,” the letter said. “Till that historic moment turns into a reality, Maharashtra would continue to remain in solidarity with the Marathi-speaking people in the border areas,” it said. Sena MP Sanjay Raut told reporters that the demand for inclusion of the Marathi speaking areas of Karnataka into Maharashtra was a fight for the rights of people living along the border areas of the two States. “The 60-year-old fight was for the rights of the Marathi speaking people living in Belagavi and other areas along the Karnataka-Maharashtra border. We need not be told that the sun and moon will continue to exist,” he said. ‘Right to fight’ “This 60-year-old fight is the right of the Marathi people. Their wish to be part of Maharashtra should be respected. If the Kannada-speaking people on Karnataka-Andhra or Kerala borders wish to be part of Karnataka, their wishes, too, should be fulfilled,” he said. Mr. Raut was responding to a reported statement of Karnataka’s Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi that Belagavi will continue to be a part of Karnataka till the sun and moon exist. Maharashtra Congress Minister Satej Patil in a tweet in Marathi said, “Let people say anything they want. We have decided. Sanyukta Maharashtra [United Maharashtra] will be a reality with the inclusion of Belagavi.” State Rural Development Minister Hasan Mushrif tweeted that the State Cabinet ministers were sporting black bands and conducting their official duties to express solidarity with people in the border areas.  (With PTI inputs)    The inclusion of the Marathi speaking areas into Maharashtra will be a dream come true for the 12 crore population in the State Letter by STate Ministers Eknath Shinde and Chhagan Bhujbal
02 November 2020||Mumbai,||Musicians raise their voice against sexual violence||Over 15 musicians from across the country with a background in diverse genres have come together to bring out a new album, We Stand With Her, to raise awareness of women’s safety and show support to women facing sexual violence. The album, scheduled to be released on Tuesday, is a collection of fresh dissent-soaked compositions in various languages, including Hindi, English, Bengali, Tamil, Punjabi and Marathi, the organisers said. “The objective of the album is to create awareness and take a stand on the ever-increasing crimes against women in India, especially rape and violence. We hope that this will sensitise men especially and help bring about change,” the collective said in a statement. The album will be accompanied by a music video for the first single of the album in Hindi: ‘ Jawab Chahiye ’. The project is a creative collaboration by BeBetter Collabs, Little Sounds and Bluesanova. “The cases of violence against women have been relentless and what has been realised is that this is across age groups and regions. It shows that the country is apathetic towards this [issue] and there needs to be a greater push for security of women in our country,” the statement said. ‘Taking a stand’ “This is something that cannot continue and there is no option but to take a stand. This is not who we are” the collective said. According to the latest government data, an average of 87 rape cases were recorded in the country daily in 2019. Overall, there were 4,05,861 cases of crimes against women during the year, a rise of over 7% from 2018. Deeti Mehta, founder, BeBetter Collabs, said, “It could have been me. I am tired of being desensitised to sexual violence. I believe in changing the world one step at a time by nudging people to make better and informed choices through a social lens by creating honest and organic campaigns and shareable stories. This is the beginning of my mission to eradicate evil from society.” The album features lyricists Khushi Agarwal (Hindi), Karishma (English), Cizzy and Logarhythm (Bengali). The musicians include Aanchal Shrivastava (Mumbai/Gwalior), Tetseo Sisters (Kohima), Ananyaa Gaur (Mumbai/Delhi), Barkha Swaroop Saxena (Mumbai), Prashin Jagger (Ulwe), Cizzy (Kolkata), Mansi Multani (Mumbai/Delhi), Nibu Baby(Tamil Nadu), Logarhythm (Mumbai); and Karishma aka K o k u m (Mumbai). The creative photography is by Romel Dias, team photography by Prashin Jagger, styling by Deeti Mehta and makeup by Smita Chadda. The album will be available on all major music platforms and video platforms such as YouTube, Spotify, Gaana, JioSaavn and Apple Music.
02 November 2020||Mumbai,||196 held from bar, pub for violating lockdown norms||The Mumbai Police arrested 196 people from a bar and a pub in Andheri in the wee hours of Sunday for allegedly violating lockdown guidelines, a police official said. Acting on a tip off, the city police’s Social Service Branch raided the bar and the pub located in Sakinaka. The police arrested 196 people, including 171 male and female customers, 19 workers, two owners of the facilities, three managers and a cashier. An FIR was registered under Sections 188 (disobeying order duly promulgated by public servant), 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant provisions. The State government has been easing restrictions to contain the spread of COVID-19 in a phased manner. Restaurants and bars were allowed to operate at 50% seating capacity from October 5.
02 November 2020||Nagpur,||BJP workers booked||An FIR was filed on Sunday against Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) workers who held a protest over the arrest of Twitter user Sameet Thakkar, who posted objectionable comments against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son and State Minister Aaditya. An official of the Sadar police station said the activists protested at the Akashwani Square on Saturday evening without police permission. They carried flags of the BJYM, the BJP’s youth wing. The protesters booked include Shivani Dani Wakhare, whose Twitter bio describes her as BJYM’s State general secretary. The others booked are Parendra Vickey Patel, Yogesh Ruprao Pachpor, Rahul Khangare, Alok Pande and 40 others. A court in Nagpur on Friday extended Mr. Thakkar’s police custody till November 2.
02 November 2020||Pune,||Free online classes for FYJC students from today: SCERT||The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) in Maharashtra on Sunday said online classes for first year junior college (FYJC) students will begin from November 2. The FYJC admission process stands suspended due to COVID-19 and the Supreme Court stay on reservations for Marathas in jobs and education. The decision to start online classes free of charge from Monday for FYJC arts, science and commerce students was in order to avoid “academic loss” till colleges start functioning normally, an SCERT official said. “Schools and colleges in the State are shut due to COVID-19 outbreak. Besides the pandemic, the admission process for FYJC is suspended due to the ongoing Maratha quota issue. In order to avoid academic loss, we decided to start free online classes for arts, science, commerce students through YouTube,” said SCERT director Dinkar Patil. “Students can register at http://covid19.scertmaha.ac.in/eleventh/Register.aspx. On registration, students will get a timetable and other details on their mobile phones. Principals of schools and colleges should make students aware of the initiative,” Mr. Patil said.
02 November 2020||Pune,||Army recruitment racket busted; three detained||In a joint operation, the Southern Command Liaison Unit (Military Intelligence) and the Pune Police’s Crime Branch on Sunday busted a fake Army recruitment racket during a written examination, a police official said. The racket was busted during the common entrance exam held at the Army Institute of Physical Training. Three people, including a serving Army jawan, were apprehended, the police said. “We had received information regarding the Army recruitment scam for Sunday’s common entrance exam from military authorities. Acting jointly, we detained the suspects — Havildar Jaidev Singh Parihar, who works in the recruitment office; and Vel Singh Rawat, a tout — and interrogated them,” Bachchan Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime), said. “These people had promised jobs in the Army to 17 aspirants and had also roped in one Ravindra Rathod to tutor them. He has also been detained,” Mr. Singh added. The suspects had planned to take Rs. 1.5 lakh from each successful student, Mr. Singh said. An offence is being registered at Wanwadi police station and involvement of these suspects in other recruitments. The role of more people is being probed by the Crime Branch, he added.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Sparks of hope||
02 November 2020||Washington,||In final stage, focus is on swing States||With hours to go until Election Day, both presidential candidates and their star campaigners were engaged in hectic campaigning across battleground States, with Democratic candidate Joe Biden leading U.S. President Donald Trump in key States and nationally. The messaging and campaign style of both camps reflected a deeply polarised electorate and the candidates’ contrasting approaches to the coronavirus pandemic, which continues to rage across the country. Mr. Biden and Mr. Obama made their first joint campaign appearance in Michigan on Saturday with Biden events scheduled in Philadelphia for Sunday. Mr. Trump held four campaign rallies on Saturday in Pennsylvania alone and had a packed schedule on Sunday with rallies planned in Michigan, Iowa, North Carolina, Georgia and Florida. An unprecedented 90 million Americans or 43% of all registered voters had voted early or by mail by the end of Saturday with over 50 million voting by mail. Popular vote Going into the elections, national polls, which are indicative of how the popular vote will go, showed Mr. Biden with an average lead of 7.2 percentage points as per polling aggregator Real Clear Politics. Both campaigns have their eyes on Pennsylvania with its potential harvest of 20 Electoral College votes. Mr. Trump won the State narrowly in 2016, but Mr. Biden is leading in polling by an average of 4 percentage points in recent polls. [State polls, on the whole, got it wrong in 2016. While pollsters say they have corrected for deficiencies of the past, 2020 is unique in several respects — such as the unprecedented levels of early voting — and there may be new factors impacting the predictive power of pre-election polling this year]. “Hello Pennsylvania. Let’s go Pennsylvania. We have to do the same thing we did four years ago,” Mr. Trump told supporters at a rally in Butler. Mr. Trump won Butler County by a large margin in 2016. In the final days of the campaign, Mr. Trump has talked about his economic record, portraying the elections as a choice between a “Trump super recovery” and a “Biden depression”. Mr. Trump has claimed to voters that Mr. Biden will “quadruple” their taxes and “ship your [their] jobs to China.” The President also has made allegations of corruption against the Biden family, especially his son, Hunter Biden. Mr. Trump has also misrepresented the Biden-Harris position against fracking and fossil fuels and questioned Mr. Biden’s mental acuity. The President, who has an unconventional style of campaigning, has also sought to remind voters that he is not a Washington insider. “If I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not,” he said in Montrousville, Pennsylvania, on Saturday. Under a Biden presidency, the country would be plunged into chaos, Mr. Trump has said, seeking to portray Mr. Biden as a puppet of the “radical left”. Mr. Trump called Mr. Biden’s running mate, Kamala Harris, the most liberal Senator in the U.S. “Kamala, Kamala Harris. You have to pronounce her name exactly right, or she gets very upset with you,” Mr. Trump said on Saturday about the Democratic vice presidential nominee who is of Indian and Jamaican descent. On Saturday, Ms. Harris campaigned in Miami-Dade county in Florida — a crucial State that has been won by the winner of the presidency in the last six elections: Mr. Trump won the State by 1.2 percentage points in 2016 but Mr. Biden currently leads the State. Ms. Harris focussed on the Trump administration’s mishandling of the coronavirus, racial injustice, the state of the economy and the climate crisis during her remarks.  In Flint, Michigan, Mr. Obama urged voters to turn out at the polls. “Because we need everybody, not just some people. We got to get everybody out there,” he said. Mr. Trump flipped the State in 2016 and Democrats are hoping to win it back this year. Mr. Biden leads the State by eight points as per a New York Times /Sienna Poll. The former President compared Mr. Biden’s and Mr. Trump’s characters, saying Mr. Trump was not interested in the presidency and treated it like a reality show. Obama on Trump  Mr. Obama, who has taken to teasing Mr. Trump in his campaign speeches, said the current President was jealous of the media coverage COVID-19 was getting and had an obsession with crowd size. “Did no one come to his birthday party when he was a kid? Was he traumatised?” Mr. Obama asked. He talked about how Mr. Biden would control the pandemic and create clean-energy related jobs, themes Mr. Biden himself spoke about at the rally. “We’re done with the chaos, the tweets, the anger, the hate, the failure, refusing to take any responsibility,” Mr. Biden said in a speech which criticised Mr. Trump’s handling of the pandemic and as well as his character. Mr. Biden’s messaging has included his plan for controlling the pandemic and the economy. He says he intends to roll back tax cuts for the rich — not raise taxes for anyone earning less than $4,00,000 a year and to create jobs from clean-energy and infrastructure investments (which he says will be paid for by increasing taxes for higher income individuals). Both Mr. Obama and Mr. Biden have talked about their economic record versus Mr. Trump’s as part of their closing arguments. “Look, Donald Trump keeps telling us what a great job he’s done as President. Oh, man. Well, did you know President Obama and I …created more jobs in the last three years of our administration that he did in the first three years before the pandemic?” Mr. Biden said on Saturday.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||More ups than downs in India ties||President Donald Trump has ended his first term in office with a big push for ties with India, sending his Secretary of State Mike Pompeo for talks just one week before the election, and holding two rallies with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in Houston and in Ahmedabad, in the past year. Four years ago, however, the victory of Mr. Trump in the U.S. Presidential elections had struck a sense of foreboding for officials in the Modi government. India’s newly appointed Ambassador to Washington Navtej Sarna landed in the U.S. capital just three days before the election results, at a time the expectation was that Hillary Clinton, who was well-known to the Indian establishment, had worked closely with New Delhi as Secretary of State, would enter the White House. It was no secret that India’s top diplomats had to knock many doors, enlist the help of prominent Indian-Americans, as well as businessmen in order to reach out to Team Trump. Within a few months, Mr. Trump delivered a few blows to India’s expectations from the U.S., including a decision on visa restrictions, a hard-hitting speech on India as the “tariff king”, and clubbing India and China both on trade and on receiving an unfair advantage on climate change, which he said was one of the reasons the U.S. was walking out of the Paris climate accord that his predecessor, Barack Obama had ratified just months earlier. However, the invitation to PM Modi to the White House in June 2017 turned things around, and Mr. Trump’s South Asia policy, and the U.S.’s decision to revive the Quad and rename its Pacific Command as the ‘Indo-Pacific’ Command set into motion a more positive foreign policy framework for India. “Over just three or four months in 2018, we saw the Strategic Trade Authorisation (STA)- 1 categorisation for India; the first 2+2 dialogue; the signing of the COMCASA in a shape acceptable to us; the approval by Congress for a general waiver provision in the CAATSA; a (temporary) waiver for India on Iran oil purchases and Chabahar... A very impressive list of strategic gains,” Mr. Sarna recounted to The Hindu . China and Pakistan More importantly, given the 2017 Doklam conflict with China and continuing cross-border attacks by groups from Pakistan, Mr. Trump’s policy towards both India’s biggest headaches became the U.S.’s most important foreign policy shift. One big marker was when on January 1, 2018, Mr. Trump tweeted that the U.S. would end aid to Pakistan that had given the U.S. “nothing but lies and deceit” and “safe haven to terrorists”. Subsequently, the U.S. suspended its military assistance payments, military sales and led the way on Pakistan’s grey-listing at the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to designate more terrorists at the UN Security Council, including those that targeted India. On China too, after two years of reaching out to Xi Jinping, Mr. Trump made a turnaround, and the U.S. offered India moral and military support to counter Chinese aggression, led its own attack on China’s Belt and Road Initiative and its 5G telecom push and vowed (not yet realised) a counter to China’s loans to countries in the Indo-Pacific region. Regardless of the positives, several Trump decisions have come as a shock to the Modi government. His decision to forge talks with the Taliban, in concert with concessions to Pakistan in Afghanistan, has run counter to his administration’s other promises. Just a day after Mr. Modi swore in his new Cabinet last year, Mr. Trump announced he would withdraw India’s Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) status for exporters. “The U.S. has treated India far more gently than Mr. Trump has treated China, or even U.S. allies, and despite several opportunities to train his guns on India, other than the removal of the GSP, he didn’t do very much on penalising India,” said noted analyst Ashley Tellis at a seminar organised by Carnegie India this week. Unpredictable attacks The biggest challenge, say officials, is the unpredictability that has accompanied Mr. Trump, particularly in his tweets, where he had relayed private conversations with PM Modi publicly. These include his mimicry of Mr. Modi’s accent when he suggested the Prime Minister made an offer to reduce Harley Davidson tariffs; details of a conversation he said he had with the Mr. Modi over China’s transgressions at the LAC this year (which the MEA curtly denied); a crudely worded threat from Mr. Trump over India’s ban on exports of the drug HCQ; and even Mr. Trump’s bizarre claim last year that Mr. Modi asked him to “mediate” between Pakistan and India on Kashmir. On each occasion, the government has chosen to side-step the verbal “landmines” Mr. Trump delivered, in favour of a more stable bilateral relationship. Where that has paid off the most is in Mr. Trump’s reciprocal restraint while commenting on India’s internal affairs, and unlike many other countries, and leaders in the American opposition party, Mr. Trump has not raised objections to the Modi government’s decision on Article 370, the arrest of leaders and telecom ban in Kashmir, or on the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Even when Mr. Trump landed in Delhi amidst some of the worst communal violence the city has seen in decades, he carefully avoided any mention of it. When asked what a second Trump administration will mean for India, many diplomats say it will probably be “more of the same, only more unpredictable”. “A victorious second term will have no stakes in the system. We will have to put on seatbelts, speed on the straights and hold on at the curves. India will have to roll with the punches on immigration and racialism, take the sting out of the trade issues by being a step ahead. It will also mean navigating for advantage in a divided world, with the U.S. ceding space — a world where multilateralism will be without U.S. leadership,” said Mr. Sarna.
02 November 2020||New Delhi,||America beyond election day||The election season in the U.S. is drawing to a close, and through all the acrimony and confusion, it has also generated some pointers regarding the country’s immediate direction, regardless of who wins the election. There are at least three points of wide agreement and three points of heightening conflicts in the U.S. that this year’s campaign has brought forth. Points of agreement There is an increasing consensus in the U.S. that the Big Tech, the clutch of big companies that dominate commerce and information, is causing a lot harm to the country’s democracy and it needs to be regulated. But the Democrats and the Republicans do not agree on the reasons for regulation and how it should be done. Democrats, who had not long ago hoped that social media would take democracy to all dark corners of the world, now accuse these platforms of being tools of foreign adversaries who they allege are wrecking the U.S. democracy. The Republicans accuse social media platforms of censoring conservative content and pushing a radical left agenda. Concerns related to privacy, national security and business models thriving on data harvesting are besides the questions of democracy and freedom of expression. Both sides converge on the point that Big Tech must be brought under some sort of oversight and this idea will move forward in the next administration and Congress. There is an increasing agreement between the Democrats and the Republicans that national manufacturing has to be protected. The devastation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic questioned the logic of trade-driven efficiency and the unending search for competitive advantage. Trade deals had contributed to overall economic growth in the country, even as communities in particular economic sectors and locations bore the brunt of its negative impact. President Donald Trump’s policies disrupted the global trade order. Now, he and his Democratic opponent Joe Biden both make the promise of manufacturing revival in the U.S. Mr. Trump’s long-held position that trade is a national security question has wider acceptance after the outbreak of the pandemic. Mr. Biden, once a champion of mega trade deals, is now all for reviving manufacturing in the U.S., pushed by the left within his party and by Mr. Trump’s politics. Whether manufacturing can return to the U.S. at any significant scale is an open question, but economic nationalism is not a Trump preserve any longer. Mr. Biden has focused majorly on the White working class voters, who were condemned as “deplorables” by his party in 2016. A key aide of President Barack Obama had said in 2016 that the U.S.-China cooperation was the critical to solving any problem of the world. Mr. Trump emerged on the scene with guns blazing against China, this politics aged well with the outbreak of COVID-19, which emerged in Wuhan. During his presidency, the U.S. trade deficit with China increased but  Mr. Trump accuses his opponent of being a Chinese sympathiser, and Mr. Biden is trying to counter such accusations. The intensity might be different between Democrats and the Republicans, but a wider agreement appears to have emerged with regard to China as the main adversary of the U.S. It is not that there will be no exploration of an agreement with China by the incoming President, Mr. Biden or Mr. Trump. Divergent approaches While these three points of broad agreement are themselves riddled with divergent approaches of both parties on each of the topics, at least three other issues will deepen the fissures and mobilise angst and diatribe, post election. The first is the challenges the election system in the world’s oldest democracy faces. In the absence of a central authority or uniform rules that run across the country, like in India, conflicting and chaotic election rules in various jurisdictions have become a source of a political battle. Unlike India, where there is a universal requirement of voter identity cards, and in a country that has millions of documented and undocumented non-citizens, the integrity of the election can be easily called into question. The familiar argument is that there is no evidence of large-scale election fraud, but there can be no evidence when it has not been the subject an investigation. There is no meeting point between the two parties on streamlining, securing and improving the credibility of the process, while encouraging higher voter participation. Regardless of who wins, the question mark over the process will continue to loom large. A second divisive question that will outlast the election is the role of expertise in public debates and policy-making. It turns out that the news about the resurrection of expertise in the aftermath of the pandemic was highly exaggerated. The evolving science of the pandemic has become a politically partisan topic. Its entailment with the questions of liberty — can mask wearing be mandated? — is far more immediate and knotty than the science and politics of climate change. The hope that a question of immediate life and death would force politicians towards a common ground of science appears to have been premature. A third and the most fundamental division in the U.S. that will continue into the next presidency and beyond is that of American self. “Success is going to bring us together. We are on the road to success,” the 74-year-old President said. “…what is on the ballot here is the character of this country. Decency, honour, respect, treating people with dignity,” said Mr. Biden. The loser will get a minimum of 40% of votes, of people who have an idea of America different from those who have voted the winner. That is not a question that lends itself to easy answers. This election could more sharply define all these questions.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||For China, a lose-lose election||Chinese Internet users have taken to referring to the American President with a nickname, “Chuan Jianguo”, that translates into “Trump building China”. The message is in their view, the four turbulent years of the Donald Trump presidency, as unpredictable as they have been for China’s relations with the United States, have in the broadest sense only hastened China’s ascendancy, a perception that has been deepened by the Trump administration’s botched handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. The dilemma This fairly predominant view hints at a dilemma China finds itself in ahead of the U.S. election, as it confronts the prospect of either four more years of a President who Beijing is still struggling to figure out, or of a more predictable candidate who, many in China believe, will be far more effective in repairing America’s image abroad and rebuilding relations with its allies. As one recent article in the Global Times , the hawkish Communist Party-run tabloid, put it, reflecting this ambivalence, “...if Biden wins, the U.S. will remain tough on China”, but “tactically, the U.S. approach would be more predictable, and Biden is much smoother to deal with than Trump.” This is a far cry from four years ago, when although prospects of a Trump presidency appeared slim, policymakers in Beijing were openly batting for a Republican win. Hillary Clinton was widely disliked in China, and the fear was she would be vocal on issues such as human rights. Mr. Trump, on the other hand, was seen as a businessman and “dealmaker” who Beijing’s Mandarins, in hindsight, completely underestimated. Their envoy in Washington was dispatched to court the Trump family, with the impression that throwing a few deals their way would lead to smooth relations. Four years on, Beijing is still grappling with the continuing impact of a bruising trade and technology war. Mr. Trump has shattered the myth that economic interdependency between the world’s two biggest economies would be both an inevitability and a guarantor of stability. Now, the prospect of outright confrontation is being debated openly on both sides of the Pacific, and the belief among some in Beijing is that four more years would push a relationship that is on the brink into the abyss. “Given the polarized political dynamics at home,” wrote strategic expert Zhao Minghao, a fellow at the Charhar Institute in Beijing and a member of the China National Committee of the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, “Trump may continue on his path of confrontation and hostility against China. If elected to a second term, Trump would continue to push for economic decoupling from China and has promised to ‘end U.S. reliance on China’.” Yet for all the bluster, Mr. Trump has only achieved mixed results on the trade front. As the Wall Street Journal reported on October 26, he “didn’t achieve the central objective of reversing a U.S. decline in manufacturing” through his trade and tariff war. The trade deficit with China has risen this year and is now back to where it was when he took office. He has, however, pushed Beijing to make concessions on trade that it had never done before. Tariffs remain on about $370 billion worth of Chinese goods following the ‘phase one’ trade deal. Mr. Trump has clipped the wings of China’s soaring tech giants, some of which are now floundering without access to critical U.S. technology. Domestic industries have been given greater protection, although, as the Wall Street Journal noted, gains have been offset by higher costs thanks to tariffs imposed by China in retaliation, which have also resulted in some factory job losses in the U.S. Two great services Beyond the heavy costs of the trade war, in the view of some Chinese thinkers, Mr. Trump has still rendered China’s rulers two great services. His unsteady rule, and particularly the administration’s handling of COVID-19, has not only given China a huge propaganda win at home — and for the Communist Party helped rewrite the narrative following its own botched response to the outbreak at Wuhan — but has also more broadly, as the scholar Julian Gewirtz wrote recently in Foreign Affairs , deepened the perception within China “that the United States is rapidly declining and that this deterioration has caused Washington to frantically try to suppress China’s rise.” As he says, Mr. Trump has turned “a long-term risk into an immediate crisis that demands the urgent mobilization of the Chinese system”, and in many ways, has consequently emboldened Chinese leaders to double down on policies that sparked the great divergence in the first place, from accelerating State support to Chinese companies in a renewed quest for self-reliance, to taking a harder line on Hong Kong, Taiwan, Xinjiang and perhaps on China’s periphery as well. View on Biden No one in China expects a potential Biden presidency to reverse any of these trends, which most people are aware go beyond Mr. Trump and now have a bipartisan resonance in Washington. As Diao Daming, a scholar on China-U.S. relations at Renmin University in Beijing, put it recently, “the Democrats have accepted the fundamental stance of great power competition laid by the Republicans” and can “only make tactical-level adjustments”. Where Mr. Biden may offer some relief, in the view of Li Haidong at China Foreign Affairs University, is that “he is definitely smoother to deal with”, and as he told the Global Times , will likely lead an administration quite similar to what Beijing was familiar with during the Obama years. At the very least, he expects, there would be “more effective communication” and Mr. Biden would seek some common ground on issues such as climate change. There is, however, little doubt that Mr. Biden will still pursue many of the same Trumpian positions on China, be even more vocal on human rights issues, and as Wei Zongyou, a scholar at the Center for American Studies of Fudan University, argued recently, “possibly form an international united front against China” working more closely, for instance, with Europe, “instead of acting alone or deserting U.S. leadership”. The concern in China is he may hence be even more effective in pursuing American goals, and doing so “without resorting to self-defeating, unilateral tariff wars.” So regardless of who emerges on top on November 3, the consensus in Beijing very much seems to be this is an election that promises no good outcome.   ananth.krishnan@thehindu.co.in
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The shifting trajectory of India’s foreign policy||The Third India-U.S. 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue between the Foreign and Defence Ministers of India and the U.S. Secretaries of State and Defence took place in Delhi on October 26-27. The build-up to the talks was extraordinary to say the least, with the U.S. Defence Secretary, Mark Esper, stating that “India will be the most consequential partner for the US in the Indo-Pacific this Century”.  The strategic focus The outcomes were, however, on predictable lines. The thousand pound gorilla in the meeting rooms on both days was China, with the U.S. Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, making an all-out attack on China and the threat it posed to democratic nations. The centrepiece of the dialogue was the signing of the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) for Geo-Spatial Cooperation, which marked India’s entry as a full member into the select category of nations entitled to receive highly classified U.S. defence and intelligence information. The two-day meeting also discussed steps to take existing bilateral cooperation, including ‘military to military cooperation, secure communication systems and information sharing, defence trade and industrial issues’, to a new level.  With the signing of BECA, India is now a signatory to all U.S.-related foundational military agreements. India had signed the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA), in 2016, and the Communications, Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA), in 2018. By appending its signature to BECA, India is in a position to specifically receive sensitive geo-spatial intelligence.  Welded together, the foundational military pacts effectively tie India to the wider U.S. strategic architecture in the region. This is the reality, notwithstanding what sections in the country may believe. Previous governments had resisted attempts to get India to sign these agreements on the ground that it would compromise India’s security and independence in military matters. The present dispensation argues that there are enough India-specific safeguards built into the pacts, and there is no reason for concern.  An advantage, but at a price Indisputably, access to this kind of highly classified information is an advantage. At the same time, it must be recognised that the information comes with a ‘price tag’ which would not be inconsiderable. Built into the agreements are provisions for a two-way exchange of information and, while India prides itself on maintaining strategic autonomy, it would be evident with the signing of these agreements, that India’s claims of maintaining strategic autonomy will increasingly sound hollow. The U.S. makes little secret of the fact that the primary push for getting India to sign the foundational agreements was the threat posed by China, and by appending its signature India has signed on to becoming part of the wider anti-China ‘coalition of the willing’.  It is a point worth considering whether by signing on to BECA at this juncture, India has effectively jettisoned its previous policy of neutrality, and of maintaining its equi-distance from power blocs. It may be argued that the new policy is essentially a pragmatic one, in keeping with the current state of global disorder. It could even be argued that an ideologically agnostic attitude is better suited to the prevailing circumstances of today. The danger is that it could equally be viewed as highly opportunistic. India’s Foreign Minister, S. Jaishankar, in his latest book, argues that ‘because global fluidity is so pervasive, India must address this challenge by forging more contemporary ties on every major account’. This may have triggered the current flurry of agreements, but it could equally push the nation into a quagmire.  Impact on China, regional ties Any number of other cases can be cited. For instance, after having distanced itself from the Quad for years, on account of its security and military connotations and anti-China bias, India has more recently waived its objections, even as the Quad has become more anti-China in its orientation. The invitation to Australia to participate in the Malabar Naval Exercises this year, to which the other two Quad members had already been invited, further confirms this impression. Too close an identification with the U.S. at this juncture may not, however, be in India’s interest. China-India relations have never been easy. Since 1988, India has pursued, despite occasional problems, a policy which put a premium on an avoidance of conflicts with China. Even after Doklam in 2017, India saw virtue in the Wuhan and Mamallapuram discourses, to maintain better relations. This will now become increasingly problematic as India gravitates towards the U.S. sphere of influence. Even as the U.S. makes no secret of its intentions to contain and check Chinese ambitions, India’s willingness to sign foundational military agreements with the U.S., to obtain high grade intelligence and other sensitive information, would suggest that India has made its choice, which can only exacerbate already deteriorating China-India relations.  It may pay India better dividends if policy planners were to pay greater attention at this time to offset its loss of influence and momentum in its immediate neighbourhood (in South Asia), and in its extended neighbourhood (in West Asia). Several of India’s neighbours (Sri Lanka, Nepal and Bangladesh), normally perceived to be within India’s sphere of influence, currently seem to be out of step with India’s approach on many issues. At the same time, both China and the U.S. separately, seem to be making inroads and enlarging their influence here. The Maldives, for instance, has chosen to enter into a military pact with the U.S. to counter Chinese expansionism in the Indian Ocean region. Again, while India has been complacent about improved relations with the United Arab Emirates (UAE), it needs to ensure, through deft diplomatic handling, that the latest UAE-Israel linkage does not adversely impact India’s interests in the region. India must also not rest content with the kind of relations it has with Israel, as Tel Aviv has its own distinct agenda in West Asia. Furthermore, India needs to devote greater attention to try and restore India-Iran ties which have definitely frayed in recent years.  Afghanistan and also NAM Meantime, India must decide on how best to try and play a role in Afghanistan without getting sucked into the Afghan quagmire. India had subscribed to an anti-Taliban policy and was supportive of the Northern Alliance (prior to 2001). The new policy that dictates India’s imperatives today, finds India not unwilling to meet the Taliban more than half way — partly, no doubt, since even countries such as the U.S. are not unwilling to enter into negotiations with it. India must decide how a shift in policy at this time would serve India’s objectives in Afghanistan, considering the tremendous investment it has made in recent decades to shore up democracy in that country.  India, again, will need to try and square the circle when it comes to its membership of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), considering its new relationship with the U.S. Reconciling its present fondness for the U.S., with its full membership of the SCO, which has China and Russia as its main protagonists — and was conceived as an anti-NATO entity — will test India’s diplomatic skills. Likewise, even though India currently has a detached outlook, vis-à-vis the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), and has increasingly distanced itself from the African and Latin American group in terms of policy prescriptions, matters could get aggravated, following India’s new alliance patterns. It would be a rude awakening for India, if it is seen as no longer a stellar member of NAM.  The Russian link Finally, the impact of India signing on to U.S.-related foundational military agreements, cannot but impact India-Russia relations, which has been a staple of India’s foreign policy for more than half a century. Admittedly, India-Russia relations in recent years have not been as robust as in the pre-2014 period, but many of the edifices that sustained the relationship at optimum levels, including annual meetings between the Russian President and the Indian Prime Minister have remained. It is difficult to see how this can be sustained, if India is seen increasingly going into the U.S. embrace. Almost certainly in the circumstances, India can hardly hope to count on Russia as a strategic ally. This, at a time, when Russia-China relations have vastly expanded and a strategic congruence exists between the two countries. This is one relationship which India will need to handle with skill and dexterity, as it would be a tragedy if India-Russia relations were to deteriorate at a time when the world is in a state of disorder. M.K. Narayanan is a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The Kamala moment in Indian American politics||The media attention on Indian Americans is disproportionate to their numerical strength due to their mobilisation by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The spotlight became sharper with the rise of Kamala Harris, as the vice-presidential candidate of the Democratic Party. Mr. Modi raised the tempo of Indian American politics to unprecedented highs; the rise of Ms. Harris shows the limits of India’s diaspora politics. A red shift, but more blue Mr. Modi’s camaraderie with U.S. President Donald Trump, in isolation, could be considered tactical. When taken together with India’s refusal to engage with the Indian American lawmakers on the Democratic side, it became a public signalling of preference for the Republicans over the Democrats. Surveys suggest a shift of Indian Americans from the Democratic camp to the Republican side, though an overwhelming majority continues to be with the first. Around 22% of Indian Americans support Mr. Trump, according to the Indian American Attitudes Survey (IAAS), while 68% (or 72% of the registered voters in the study) support Democrat Joe Biden. Compared with the 2016 post-poll National Asian American Survey (NAAS), Mr. Biden is at nine points lower than Hillary Clinton’s 77%; and Mr. Trump is at six points higher than his 16% in 2016. The 2020 Asian American Voter Survey shows Mr. Trump at 28% among Indian Americans, a 12 point jump from the 2016 post-poll survey. The ambiguity towards Ms. Harris is louder. Only less than half, 49%, are “more enthusiastic” about the Democratic ticket because of her candidacy, while 15% are “less enthusiastic” because of her candidacy; and only 45% Indian Americans are “more likely” to vote because one among them is a candidate. All this in a cohort in which support for Democrats is overwhelming otherwise. Diaspora activists, groups Whether this is an outcome of any campaign by Hindutva diaspora groups is a more complicated question. Only 51% of Indian Americans are Hindus; and the support for Mr. Trump is highest among the 18% Christians. A survey among 520 randomly selected Indian Americans by Prof. Amitabh Mattoo suggests everything else being equal, up to 40% would vote for a candidate endorsed by Mr. Modi, while 20% disagreed with the idea. Indian American politics has elements of nostalgia and grievance (the self-perception of being exiled by appeasement politics) with regard to India, and victimhood (racist experiences) and exceptionalism (claims of ‘the model minority’) in the U.S. Diaspora politics of Hindutva groups has reinforced these sentiments since 2014. Simplistic and ignorant American views of India as Hindu, vegetarian and a place ruined by socialism of the past are lapped up and relayed back by Hindutva diaspora activists. Indian American politicians, both Democrats and Republicans, are difficult to fit in the Hindutva straitjacket. On the Republican side, Nikki Haley and Bobby Jindal are Christians and the former also ‘white.’ Democrats Ro Khanna and Pramila Jayapal are practising Hindus but critical of Hindutva. The same groups that were celebrating the fact that Ms. Jayapal took oath of office on the Bhagavad Gita in 2017 now oppose her for expressing concerns regarding Indian policies; Ms. Harris was attacked for a poster that depicted her as a Hindu goddess, though Indian leaders routinely appear as gods and goddesses.  Hyphenated identities The IAAS shows younger Indian Americans have more liberal views than their parents. Keeping the new generation on a tight leash is a key focus of Indian American activism, across all religious groups. At the World Hindu Congress (WHC) in Chicago in 2018, an exhibition that was pulled out after outrage, was titled ‘Interfaith marriages: Silent Holocaust of Hindus’. It warned youngsters of the dangers of such marriages — a topic that triggers intense reaction among cultural warriors at home and abroad. Ms. Harris was born to parents who married interfaith, and she herself has married interfaith. India’s official policy has also leaned towards narrowing ‘Indian American’ to ‘Hindu American’, going against the grain of the Democratic Party which prefers wider categories to negotiate a landscape of increasing diversity. The Democrats underscore Ms. Harris’ identities as African American and South Asian, a category that Hindutva groups abhor. ‘Indian American’, as a typical hyphenated American identity, assumes a certain homogeneity across diverse linguistic and religious groups from India, and adds respectability to dual national loyalties, which is an accusation against minorities in India. However, double hyphenated identities throw not only diaspora politics but even India’s visa policy into a tailspin. Ms. Harris is African-Indian-American, or African-South Asian-American. American citizens of India-Pakistan mixed parentage find it impossible to travel to India, due to visa restrictions put in place during the United Progressive Alliance government, after the David Headley episode. The efforts to tap diaspora resources for advancing India-U.S. ties, also sought to streamline the community as an extension of the domestic cultural nationalism, by emphasising its Hindu identity. The Indian Embassy in Washington DC stopped celebrating Muslim festivals. The Chicago WHC had the Vice-President of India in attendance and the wholesome participation of Indian missions in the U.S. It is damaging at two levels at least. First, it accentuated the pre-existing divisions within the Indian American community on religious, caste and generational lines, in part mirroring trends within India, besides pushing it to delink from the larger south Asian identity. Second, the attempts by groups to corner Indian American lawmakers on Hindutva questions and the India-Pakistan conflict have created a self-defeating dynamics. If their careers are harmed, it is a net loss for the community. If they come to power, there is damage control to be done. At any rate, American-born Indian Americans appear to be taking a hard look at developments in India in light of the nativist politics around them. A soft touch might work Indian Americans may well be culturally rooted, but that does not automatically make them puppets of Hindutva cultural politics in the U.S. Those who might gladly support cultural nationalism in India need cultural diversity in the U.S. for self-preservation, and ally with the Democrats. Biden supporters are largely Modi supporters too. They might occasionally find common cause with the Republicans on the question of Islam, but will remain suspects in the highly Judeo-Christian world. In an inverse situation, Christians who are unlikely supporters of the majority cultural politics in India, appear to be enthusiastic about it in the U.S. Engagement with the diaspora can be beneficial for India, but aggressive efforts to navigate it can be counterproductive. Indian Americans will increasingly be like Kamala Harris — impossible to fit in any straightjacket. varghese.g@thehindu.co.in
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Queries, complaints and allegations||In my columns, I generally explain how I handle a specific complaint. In this column, I am compelled to break this norm and discuss two different complaints. This is because I had to skip writing a column on October 25, Ayudha Puja, as there was no edition on October 26. While addressing complaints, I see whether it is within my remit to do so or if there would be an overreach in my doing so.  Advertisement policy A complaint about an advertisement fell in the grey area between remit and overreach. Some readers, including K. Balakesari, former member, Railway Board, asked about the newspaper’s policy on accepting advertisements. They were uncomfortable with the publication of a full-page ad on behalf of the People’s Republic of China celebrating its national day on October 1. Mr. Balakesari asked: “Was it necessary for the paper to needlessly wade into a controversy by accepting an ad at this juncture from a country with which relations at present are far from normal, also knowing fully well that hardly anyone has the patience and time to wade through what is essentially propaganda?” He further asked: “Will the paper publish an ad from Pakistan on the eve of its national day extolling its achievements? Will you accept an ad from the RSS on the eve of its founding day?” I must also record the fact that Mr. Balakesari’s mail came on October 18, and subsequent mails complaining about the Chinese ad that was published on October 1 came after October 19. As my remit ends with the editorial content of the newspaper and does not extend to advertisements, I am not familiar with the advertisement policy of the newspaper. I will talk to the management team and find out the advertising policy in place and share it with the readers as early as possible. In a polarised political environment, the dominant ideology always seeks to not only suppress other views but also obliterate the inherent nature of a plural society. In its desire to become exclusive, it tends to create a frighteningly monochromatic imagination that erases the multiple hues that make a society inclusive. With the series of electoral successes of strong leaders across nations, the binary between ‘an exclusive society’ and ‘an inclusive society’ becomes stark and the information ecosystem is not immune to this virus. Mails from a reader from Tiruchirappalli, S. Pushpavanam, are always critical and the tone and tenor of his missives are generally harsh. Misogynism in texts Mr. Pushpavanam did not approve of the report “VCK buoyed by response to ‘ban Manusmriti’ campaign” (Tiruchirapalli edition, October 29). He asked what happened to the fact-check which I often mention in my column. His other arguments were: “This correspondent has not cited a single quote from the other side. It seems he is oblivious to the fact that there is another side. This is, by no standards, balanced journalism. The so-called buoyancy is from his own party men and from a Professor who is unheard of. The VCK leader’s speech has created disgust and aversion among the reading public. The correspondent has acted as a PRO of VCK. This is shoddy journalism and it could be a planted news item.” I am not sure what is the other side Mr. Pushpavanam is referring to. If he means representing the votaries of Hindutva, which is vastly different from Hinduism, what he suggests is a false equivalence. Feminist scholars over the last five decades have documented the overt and covert patriarchy in the texts of various religions — be it Hinduism or Christianity or Islam. There is rich literature about the misogynism in the theocratic texts. I was puzzled when he attached a letter in Tamil by a person whose opening line was: “I know neither Sanskrit nor Manusmriti” and who then cited Tamil translations of verses about women in the Manusmriti. Mr. Pushpavanam must realise that Dr. B.R. Ambedkar burnt the Manusmriti on December 25, 1927. The erudite scholar who gave us our Constitution read multiple translations of the text before coming to the conclusion that the “Manusmriti dehumanised the Sudras, untouchables, and women, ruled the Hindu psyche for centuries and created the greatest obstacle to any serious attempt at eradicating the caste system.” readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Signs of easing||After reporting over 97,650 novel coronavirus cases on September 11, the largest number ever reported on a single day by any country till then (the U.S. registered 99,780 cases on October 30), India has been witnessing a steady fall in daily fresh cases reported since mid-September. Since October 25, there have been fewer than 50,000 new cases every day, except on one. More importantly, the reduction in daily cases has continued despite no appreciable drop in overall testing numbers, a trend quite pronounced in States that bore the brunt of the pandemic — Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu. It is quite clear that the pandemic has peaked by spreading through the major densely populated cities, leaving lakhs infected and thousands dead, but there is a definite slowing down in these areas. Since August, cases had already started to pile up beyond urban areas in rural districts. It is unclear whether the drop in daily cases and deaths registered in the urban areas is playing itself out similarly in rural areas as well, as unlike urban areas, the protocols for testing, treatment, isolation are not as diligently followed because of gaps in the rural health infrastructure across States. This is something State Health Departments need to follow up on. There is evidence from other disease surveillance in the past that States with better primary health and sentinel infrastructure across topographies, urban or rural, have recorded diseases better. For example, the reporting of HIV cases in Maharashtra and the southern States resulted in the recording of more cases while Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and a few other north Indian States reported fewer cases. The absence of evidence is, after all, not the evidence of absence and Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and others must not become complacent about the drop in cases, and must continue to increase their respective testing rates to keep pace with the rest of India. While peaking and a reduction in cases is a good sign that could ease the strain on the health infrastructure, the danger the virus poses is still real. The dip in cases may turn out to be just a statistical blip, with a second surge and heightened spread waiting to happen in the winter, particularly as people partake in the festive season. States have started to ease restrictions on schooling, commercial activities and have even allowed theatres and malls to open to spur the consumption economy severely affected by the lockdowns. The easing was unavoidable as the economic strain was becoming as much of a problem for people as COVID-19 was to their health. Citizens must not get complacent about the drop in cases and should continue to observe norms of social distancing, mask wearing and hand hygiene till vaccines made available prove their efficacy.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A fierce contest||With less than two days until voting ends in the 2020 U.S. presidential election, the results of opinion polls gauging voter preferences between the Republican incumbent, President Donald Trump, and his Democratic challenger, former Vice-President Joe Biden, almost uniformly show that the latter is holding onto a firm lead. A leading poll of polls puts Mr. Biden ahead by a solid 7.8%. A well-regarded data-driven website running statistical models on polls simulated 40,000 possible outcomes to find that Mr. Biden won 90 times out of 100. However, an analysis of politics since January 2017 reveals how voters might regard Mr. Trump’s performance, disregarding what they may have said in response to opinion surveys. He came to power on what was essentially a nativist call to purportedly put “America First”, to fight for the middle-class workers losing jobs to foreigners or immigrants. The divisive rhetoric that his 2016 campaign employed to this end continued to yield rich political dividends for him until early 2020. However, all this changed with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, an epidemiological challenge that the White House was unable to meet. This was part bungling, the result of a chaotic executive decision-making, and part apathy, borne of Mr. Trump’s disdain of masks, social distancing and lockdowns. Even in this approach, however unscientific, he may have won voter sympathy, perhaps because some appreciated his desire to reopen the economy, regardless of COVID-19. It is this sentiment that might prove to be Mr. Biden’s undoing as vote tallying comes to a close in the days and weeks, ahead. Therein lies a major force likely to shape the denouement of this election: the pandemic has resulted in a massive shift in the balance of voting methods toward early voting, mail-in voting and absentee voting. Mr. Trump has attacked mail-in voting with factually unfounded claims regarding potential for fraud and a Democratic conspiracy. Given that well over 90 million votes have been cast already through the latter channels, and that far more Republicans and Trump supporters are likely to vote in-person on November 3, the early results will likely show a significant lead for Mr. Trump. If, as is likely, the scales start tipping toward Mr. Biden as the mail-in votes are tallied, the stage will be set for Mr. Trump to formally allege voting fraud and escalate the matter to the Supreme Court — a Court that did not hesitate to rule on the 2000 election favouring Republican George W. Bush. Given that the Republican-controlled Senate recently rushed to fill an empty seat on the Court with conservative judge Amy Coney Barrett, the 6-3 majority on the Court favouring conservatives may well have a bearing in such an eventuality. Only a strong performance by Mr. Biden on election day to add to the early-voting leads will obviate this possibility.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A secure future for platform workers||The Code on Social Security Bill, 2020, for the first time in Indian law, attempted to define ‘platform work’ outside of the traditional employment category. It says: “Platform work means a work arrangement outside of a traditional employer-employee relationship in which organisations or individuals use an online platform to access other organisations or individuals to solve specific problems or to provide specific services or any such other activities which may be notified by the Central Government, in exchange for payment.” While the long overdue move to recognise platform work has been made, the Code has drawn criticism from platform workers’ associations for failing to delineate it from gig work and unorganised work. A categorical clarification could ensure that social security measures are provided to workers without compromising the touted qualities of platform work: flexibility and a sense of ownership. An ongoing global conversation on platform workers’ rights has been around the misclassification of platform workers as ‘independent contractors’; adjudications and emerging amendments to labour laws in Ontario and California have shown a move towards granting employee status to platform workers, thus guaranteeing minimum wage and welfare benefits. This is the view propagated by international agencies in the EU, including the European Trade Union. Flexibility of the platform The ostensible preference for employment status stems from the fact that while platform work promises workers flexibility and ownership over delivery of work, they are still largely dictated by mechanisms of control wired by the algorithm. This affects pricing per unit of work, allocation of work, and hours. Additionally, entry into on-demand platform work like ride sharing and food delivery are dependent on existing access to vehicular assets. The average Indian worker on a ride-sharing platform has limited access to such capital. Thus, to enter the platform economy, workers rely on intensive loan schemes, often facilitated by platform aggregator companies. This results in dependence on platform companies, driven by financial obligations, thus rendering flexibility and ownership moot in the short- to middle-term investment cycle. However, contrasting evidence suggests that for specific categories of workers with basic access to capital, the flexibility of the platform is a significant attraction. Smallholder agrarian labour migrants with access to vehicular assets and capital hailing from peri-urban areas rely on the low barrier of entry and flexibility of platform work to accumulate wealth that they invest back into farm work. The Code states the provision of basic welfare measures as a joint responsibility of the Central government, platform aggregators, and workers. However, it does not state which stakeholder is responsible for delivering what quantum of welfare. To mitigate operational breakdowns in providing welfare services, a tripartite effort by the State, companies, and workers to identify where workers fall on the spectrum of flexibility and dependence on platform companies is critical. The role of platform workers amidst the pandemic has presented a strong case to attribute a more robust responsibility to platform aggregator companies and the State. As argued by Aditi Surie, platform workers were responsible for delivery of essential services during the pandemic at great personal risk to themselves. They have also been responsible for keeping platform companies afloat despite the pandemic-induced financial crisis. This has cemented their role as public infrastructures who also sustain demand-driven aggregators. The dependence of companies on platform workers merits a jointly assumed responsibility by public and private institutions to deliver welfare measures. A way forward for platform workers is through a socio-legal acknowledgement of the heterogeneity of work in the gig economy, and the ascription of joint accountability to the State and platform companies for the delivery of social services. Lakshmee Sharma is Senior Research Associate, Aapti Institute
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||To every Englishman in India||The following appeal of Mr. M.K. Gandhi, published in “Young India”, is a challenge to every Englishman in India: Dear Friend, Let me introduce myself to you. In my humble opinion, no Indian has co-operated with the British Government more than I have for an unbroken period of twenty-nine years of public life in the face of circumstances that may have turned any other man into a rebel. I ask you to believe me when I tell you that my co-operation was not based on the fear of the punishments provided by your laws or any other selfish motives. It was free and voluntary co-operation based on the belief that the sum total of the activity of the British Government was for the benefit of India. I put my life in peril four times for the sake of the Empire — at the time of the Boer war when I was in charge of the Ambulance corps whose work was mentioned in General Bullet’s dispatches, at the time of the Zulu revolt in Natal when I was in charge of a similar corps, at the time of the commencement of the late war when I raised an Ambulance corps and a result of the strenuous training had a severe attack of pleurisy, and lastly, in fulfilment of my promise to Lord Chelmsford at the War Conference in Delhi, I threw myself in such an active recruiting campaign in Kaira District involving long and trying marches, that I had an attack of dysentry which proved almost fatal.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Centre on development in cities||The Union Government favours “intensive development” of cities and towns within the existing municipal limits so that they can easily absorb more population. This principle of “high density development” as in the case of Hongkong, Singapore and the cities in Japan, has been advanced by the Centre in order to discourage horizontal expansion of towns and cities and to encourage their vertical development. The Ministry of Works, Housing and Urban Development in a note has suggested to State Governments to plan housing patterns in cities and towns with a view to accommodating more population into the sparsely populated areas so that maximum use could be made of the civic facilities already available there. The note points out that in a large majority of India’s cities and towns approximately half of the total areas within the formal municipal limits are in an underdeveloped state and the average gross density is less than 20 persons per acre.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Treat yourself to healthy options||Starting October 1, the Indian health insurance industry has seen a major revamp, resulting in health insurance policies becoming far more customer-centric than earlier. Over the last few months, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has announced several modifications to health insurance norms, a process initiated keeping in mind the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. These changes have now come into force both for new and existing policies. Impact of standardisation The implementation of the new guidelines has had a a positive impact on customers. Standardisation of the policy wordings for inclusions, exclusions, waiting periods and most importantly, the terms and conditions, have made health insurance easier for customers to understand and choose a suitable plan. Standardisation is a great initiative by the regulatory body as it would help customers gain better clarity on what the insurer is covering under the plan they wish to buy. Moreover, the move would bring about uniformity and promote transparency in health insurance plans, which was earlier a major concern for consumers. The inclusion of consultations over telemedicine in policies that cover consultations under OPD is another major milestone as, during tough times such as today when everyone is trying to avoid stepping out of the house unnecessarily, tele-consultations have become prevalent. With revamped products already available in the market, out-of-pocket expenses of customers are also going down as the insurance firms are now not allowed to recover any expenses towards proportionate deductions other than the defined associated medical expenses. And for customers worried that standardisation would result in an increase in premiums, the regulator has decided to cap the impact of the changes on premiums. Key changes In an attempt to ensure that policyholders get the best available healthcare facilities and treatment across India, the IRDAI has mandated that customers are eligible for all modern treatment methods through a health policy. Under the revamped products, modern procedures shall be covered either as an inpatient or as part of domiciliary hospitalisation or day care treatment in a hospital. Some prominent procedures for which you can now take treatment for include deep brain stimulation, robotic surgeries, uterine artery embolisation and HIFU, oral chemotherapy and stem cell therapy. As per the guidelines issued by the regulator, going forward, insurers will not be allowed to recover any expenses towards proportionate deductions other than the defined associated medical expenses from the customers. Expenses that would now not be a part of the associate medical expenses category include the cost of pharmacy, cost of implants and medical devices and cost of diagnostics. Also, insurance firms have been directed not to apply proportionate deductions in respect of hospitals that do not follow differential billing based on the room category. Going forward, the definition of pre-existing diseases (PED) has also been modified as per the needs of the customers. As per the issued guidelines, any disease or ailment that is diagnosed by a physician 48 months before the issuance of the health cover will be classified under PED. This means that all ailments will be covered under a health insurance cover by serving a waiting period of maximum 48 months. Moreover, the IRDAI has even mandated that insurers must only include permanent exclusions after due consent of the customers. The exclusions shall only be allowed in the category of cases where the policyholder may be denied coverage as per underwriting rules. The regulator has given customers the provision of paying the premium in easy monthly instalments. This provision, for now, is only available for people who are buying a fresh cover. The premium payment method may vary among monthly, quarterly, half-yearly or yearly payments and a provision is just an option provided to the insurer and not mandatory for all insurers to implement. Apart from this, policyholders can now even avail of treatment for mental illness under their cover. As per the guidelines on covering mental illness under health cover, insurers cannot deny coverage to policyholders who have used opioids or anti-depressants in the past. Also, insurance companies cannot deny coverage to people with a proven history of clinical depression, personality or neurodegenerative disorders, sociopathy and psychopathy. While inpatient hospitalisation for mental disorders will be covered under the regular plans, outpatient counselling or therapy will be covered under the OPD benefit.  (The author is Health Business Head, Policybazaar.com)   The inclusion of consultation via telemedicine in policies that cover consultations under OPD is a major milestone
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Getting it right, step by step||You may have watched the ‘Mutual Fund Sahi Hai’ investor initiatives that attempt to spread awareness about mutual funds. One such initiative suggests you should buy overnight funds as ‘net practice’ before investing in other (read equity) funds. Here, we discuss why you cannot get ‘net practice’ for investing to achieve your goals. Routine versus non-routine Like most individuals, you may be good at grocery shopping, typically grabbing a discount when you see one. But there is a reason why your skill at grocery shopping cannot be replicated in your investment decisions. We are typically good at taking decisions for routine issues because good decision-making comes out of experience. And, experience comes from learning (including taking bad decisions). So, if you buy groceries every fortnight and make bad decisions (buying a day or two before the store offers discounts), you can eventually understand the store’s discount policy and accordingly adjust your future purchases. Unfortunately, it is not often that you buy a house. And, you retire only once. You may rightly point out that all of us pursue several goals during our lifetime. Suppose you are investing to achieve two goals — buying a house five years hence and funding your child’s education with a 10-year horizon. Also, suppose you make mistakes in managing down payment-for the house. Can you learn from these mistakes and manage your child’s education portfolio better? Not necessarily. Why? Not all goals you pursue at any point in time will have the same priority. For instance, funding your child’s education portfolio may be more important than buying a house. So, the risk you are willing to take and, therefore, your choice of investment products to achieve high-priority goals, will be different compared to your choice of products for low-priority goals. Of course, this does not mean that you cannot learn from your investment experience. But, you have to appreciate that no two investment experiences will be the same. There is another way to convince yourself to invest in equity funds. Suppose you decide to invest only in bank fixed deposits to achieve a life goal. Imagine the amount of money you have to save every month, given that your post-tax return on bank deposits is less than 4%. Higher savings, an option? Would you like to cut your current consumption and save more? Or, do you want to stick with current consumption and invest in high-expected-return-investments such as equity funds? From a behavioural perspective, cutting your current consumption is more painful than the likelihood of suffering losses on your equity investments in the future. Also, there is a possibility of regret if you do not save enough to achieve your life goal. So, think of investing in equity funds as a requirement to achieving your goal. To test the waters, you could, perhaps, invest in index funds before you are ready to invest in active funds. Finally, remember this: you (typically) only invest once for each life goal.  (The author offers training programmes for individuals to manage their personal investments)
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Declines likely in price of gold and silver futures||The consolidation in price witnessed in September spilled over to October, with precious metals being confined to a narrow trading range. The firm trend in the U.S. dollar, along with the news flow pertaining to the spread of COVID-19 and the hopes for an economic stimulus in the U.S., played a key role in influencing the price of precious metals in October. Comex gold closed 0.8% lower in October to settle at $1,879.9 an ounce. Comex silver eked out a marginal gain of 0.7% to settle at $23.65 an ounce. In the domestic market, MCX gold futures rose 0.7% to Rs. 50,699 per 10 gm. MCX silver futures climbed 1.6% to Rs. 60,685 per kg. Comex gold was confined to a narrow trading range. There is no change to the short-term outlook for gold. Comex gold is expected to rule weak and a decline to $1,825-1,840 appears likely. The price has to move past $1,980 to indicate resumption of the long-term uptrend. Until then, the premise is that the short-term cool-off phase is at play and a drop to $1,825-1,840 is a likely outcome. Comex silver too was confined to a trading range. Comex silver is likely to drift lower in the near-term. A fall to $21.5-22 an ounce appears likely. MCX gold too has been consolidating in a tight range of Rs. 49,000-51,500. This is likely to persist until the price gets past Rs. 51,600 per 10 gm. A fall below Rs. 49,000 would impart weakness; the price could then drift to Rs. 47,000-47,500. Until the price rises above Rs. 51,500, a slide to Rs. 47,500 would be the short-term outlook. MCX silver prices are likely to remain rangebound; a breakout from Rs. 56,000-64,200 would set the tone for the next big move. Above Rs. 64,200, MCX silver could rally to Rs. 68,000-69,000. Below Rs. 56,000, the price could slip to Rs. 51,000-51,500.  (The author is a Chennai-based analyst and trader. This is not meant to be trading or investment advice)
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Urgent eye operation Q.My mother is a State government employee in Kerala. She is 53 years old. Is it possible to start a health insurance policy right now and get a claim now itself for an eye operation? T. K. Vineeth Parameswaran A.Hospitalisation policies do not cover pre-existing conditions for an initial stated period and no claim will be entertained for the first 30 days of coverage except in the case of hospitalisation following an accident. Some procedures like cataract surgery are covered after two years of unbroken insurance. Having seen that, how to fund your mother’s eye operation is the question. Two options that may be available are as follows. Being a State government employee, your mother is likely to be covered already under an employer’s scheme. Please check eligibility under the scheme. State government employees are also usually eligible for treatment in government hospitals free or at very nominal costs. Surrender, or take a loan? Q.I am a retired professor (84) living with my wife (83). We have no children. We have 14 LIC policies, eight in my name with my wife being the nominee. The others are in my wife‘s name with me being the nominee. We are not willing to name anybody else as our nominee. We want to realise the policy money ourselves within our lifetime. There are four different policies — Whole Life, Varishtha Pension Bima Yojana, Jeevan Akshay IV and Jeevan Shanti. I am also aware of the surrender facility. Can we surrender these policies before maturity? Dr. M. R. Santhanam A.Policy surrender rules differ from policy to policy and LIC, and other companies, change them periodically. To give a broad idea, a whole life policy can be surrendered after three years of being in force and you will get 30% of the premiums paid, excluding the first-year premium. If it is a single premium policy, then 90% of the premium is the guaranteed surrender value. That is a minimum. You will have to read up your policy bond or approach the LIC to work out the actual surrender value. Jeevan Akshay IV is an immediate annuity plan and has no surrender value. If you have taken a deferred annuity plan under Jeevan Shanti, surrender is possible whether it was single life or joint life with your spouse. The quantum will be worked out by the insurer for you on request. If it was immediate annuity, surrender would be possible only if the option you chose was annuity for life with return of purchase price, both in the case of individual or joint life. Varishtha Pension Bima Yojana is a social security scheme of the government administered by LIC. Under this, there is no option for surrender. Except for the last policy, if surrender is not possible, you should explore loan options with the LIC to unlock your policies financially during your lifetime as per your preference. Please take care to explore these only with your insurer and not those unrelated.  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Morgan blitz, Cummins’ spell keep KKR alive; CSK eliminates KXIP||Rajasthan Royals may have chased down some stiff targets this season, but not on Sunday night. Its chase for place in the playoffs was over too after the 60-run loss to Kolkata Knight Riders at the Dubai International Stadium. Captain Eoin Morgan and Pat Cummins were KKR’s heroes. The skipper's brilliant unbeaten 68 off just 35 balls (5x4, 6x6) helped the team recover from 99 for five and post a formidable 191 for seven while the pacer’s spell with the new ball broke the back of Royals’ strong top-order. The chase had started in sensational fashion as Cummins’ first five balls went for 19, but off his sixth, he had Robin Uthappa flicking to Kamlesh Nagarkoti at deep square-leg. In his next over, he had Ben Stokes stunningly caught behind by Dinesh Karthik — the airborne wicketkeeper diving to his left to pluck the ball out of thin air — and Steve Smith playing on to his stumps. Sanju Samson and Riyan Parag also snicked to the ’keeper, off Shivam Mavi and Cummins respectively, in the next two overs. Morgan’s decision to give Cummins a third over paid off as he got rid of Parag. After bowling the most expensive first over of the season, Cummins finished with four for 34. With half the Royals side back in the dugout for 37 inside five overs, a lot depended on Jos Buttler (35, 22b, 4x4, 1x6) and Rahul Tewatia (31, 27b, 2x4, 1x6). However, neither lasted long enough to pose a serious threat. Earlier, Morgan could not have timed his first half-century of the season better. After the 72-run second-wicket stand between Shubman Gill (36, 24b, 6x4) and Rahul Tripathi (39, 34b, 4x4, 2x6), KKR lost wickets in a cluster before the skipper unleashed some breathtaking shots. Andre Russell’s cameo (25, 11b, 1x4, 3x6) helped too.   Royals 66 for five  Royals were 66 for five in nine overs, with Buttler (22) and Tewatia (11) at the crease. Uthappa (6), Stokes (18), Smith (4), Samson (1) and Parag (0) were dismissed
02 November 2020||MANCHESTER,||Arsenal ends barren run at United||Arsenal won away at Manchester United in the Premier League for the first time in 14 years as Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang’s penalty earned a 1-0 win for the Gunners on Sunday, while Newcastle stopped Everton returning to the top with a 2-1 victory. Liverpool’s 2-1 win over West Ham United on Saturday had put it on top of the table. Cristiano Ronaldo came off the bench to score a brace on his return from coronavirus as Juventus got back to winning ways in Serie A with a 4-1 victory against Spezia.  Important results: Premier League: Manchester United 0 lost to Arsenal 1 (Aubameyang 69-pen); Newcastle 2 (Wilson 56-pen, 84) bt Everton 1 (Calvert-Lewin 90); Aston Villa 3 (Mings 62, Watkins 90+3-pen, Grealish 90+6) lost to Southampton 4 (Vestergaard 20, Ward-Prowse 33, 45, Ings 58).   LaLiga: Real Betis 3 (Sanabria 7, Tello 29, 56) bt Elche 1 (Fernandes 60); Celta Vigo 1 (Aspas 77-pen) lost to Real Sociedad 4 (Silva 24, Oyarzabal 34, Willian Jose 54, 81).   Serie A: Udinese 1 (De Paul 48-pen) lost to AC Milan 2 (Kessie 18, Ibrahimovic 83); Spezia 1 (Pobega 32) lost to Juventus 4 (Morata 14, Ronaldo 59, 76-pen, Rabiot 68);   Saturday: Premier League: Liverpool 2 (Salah 42-pen, Jota 85) bt West Ham 1 (Fornals 10).   LaLiga: Athletic Bilbao 2 (Muniain 76, Sancet 86) bt Sevilla 1 (En-Nesyri 9); Osasuna 1 (Budimir 80) lost to Atletico Madrid 3 (Felix 43-pen, 69, Torreira 89); Alaves 1 (Rioja 31) drew with Barcelona 1 (Griezmann 63).   Serie A: Inter Milan 2 (Brozovic 64, Perisic 90+2) drew with Parma 2 (Gervinho 46, 62); .
02 November 2020||Sharjah,||Terrible feeling to lose three in a row: de Villiers||Royal Challengers Bangalore star A.B. de Villiers has described losing three matches in a row as a “terrible feeling” with a dip in form towards the end of the league stage jeopardising the team’s playoff spot.  The South African, however, promised that his side would give its best in the do-or-die match against Delhi Capitals in Abu Dhabi on Monday. Anything can happen “It’s a terrible feeling to lose three in a row. But that’s the nature of the tournament. Anything can happen. If you lose three in a row, you can win three in a row as well,” de Villiers said. de Villiers said the turning point of the match came when he and opener Josh Philippe were dismissed in quick succession. “That cost us 20-30 runs, that was unfortunate. But, that might not have been enough in any way. The field got wet in the second innings which changed the conditions quite a bit. Maybe 140 would have been short,” he said. The SRH bowlers put his side under a lot of pressure throughout the match, he said. “We were initially talking about 160, which I think was a bit high. Then we thought 140 would be a good score. But credit to them. They bowled exceptionally well from the word go. “They didn’t give us many boundary balls, their seamers particularly started well in the PowerPlay. They didn’t make a lot of mistakes and it didn’t get easier when Rashid Khan came on, he didn’t bowl any bad balls either. They put us under a lot of pressure.” de Villiers said SRH played a quite “boring” game, but that was required on the Sharjah wicket.
02 November 2020||Sharm El Sheikh,||Rutuja triumphant on return to circuit||Rutuja Bhosale returned to the professional circuit in style as she won the singles title beating Anna Siskova of the Czech Republic 6-3, 7-5 in the final of the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament on Sunday. It was the third singles title in the professional circuit for the 24-year-old Rutuja, who had played a significant role in helping India qualify for the Fed Cup World Group play-off in Dubai in March. Her last two titles had been won in 2017. Playing her first tournament after the lockdown, Rutuja won all her matches in straight sets except for the semifinals against Romana Cisovska of Slovakia. “I expected her to play well, as she has been training well. Physically she is sharp and fresh for matches. We trained from July after the lockdown. Then she got married and came back for training. “She is going to be playing a few weeks of tournaments now. A trainer is with her. I am confident that she will continue to have good results,” said coach Hemant Bendrey.   The result: Final: Rutuja Bhosale bt Anna Siskova (Cze) 6-3, 7-5 .
02 November 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Aswin Hebbar impresses||Aswin Hebbar scored an impressive unbeaten 62 (45b, 3x4, 3x6) to help Champions XI record a five-wicket win over Chargers XI in the KarbonnCity ACA T20 league cricket championship at Anantapur on Sunday. Chargers XI scored 167 for three in 20 overs with wicketkeeper-batsman Srikar Bharat (80, 54b, 5x4, 5x6) playing with authority. In reply, Champions XI romped home in 19.4 overs after U.M.S. Girinath (30, 23b, 4x4, 1x6) provided the early momentum. In another match, M. Dheeraj Kumar cracked a stroke-filled 80 (28b, 3x4, 9x6) to help Kings XI score a 38-run win over Warriors XI. Batting first, Kings XI posted 196 for three in 20 overs with Dheeraj being the top-scorer. Warriors XI was restricted to 158 for seven in 20 overs.  The scores: Chargers XI 167/3 in 20 overs (Srikar Bharat 80, Nitish Kumar Reddy 38) lost to Champions XI 168/5 in 20 overs (U.M.S. Girinath 30, Aswin Hebbar 62 n.o.). MOM: Aswin Hebbar; Kings XI 196/3 in 20 overs (P. Tapaswi 30, M.A. Praneeth 53, M. Dheeraj Kumar 80) bt Warriors XI 158/7 in 20 overs (P.P. Manohar 36). MoM: M. Dheeraj Kumar .
02 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Alloysius, Soundarya elected VPs of Telangana Hockey||In a significant move, Telangana Hockey nominated former internationals — Alloysius Edwards and Y. Soundarya — as vice-presidents of the State body at the annual general meeting here on Sunday. Telangana Hockey secretary Alphonse Lazarus said the meeting was specifically called to give affiliation to all the 31 districts, but could complete the process for 21 districts as some technical issues have to be resolved for the remaining units. “The best part of the meeting was that it was attended by most of the members, including triple Olympian N. Mukesh Kumar, who was also made the chairman of the selection panel today,” Lazarus told The Hindu . “The whole objective is to give the players a bigger role in the promotion of sport. For long, Alloysius has been waiting to be given some responsibility and I am glad he accepted this,” he said. Dual role for Soundarya Interestingly, Soundarya, who is the only women hockey player from the State to have represented in more than 100 internationals, will also don the role of a coach with a more pro-active role, according to Lazarus. “We are confident of giving a new direction as there is immense potential in the districts to be tapped,” Soundarya told the gathering. Fifty-two-year-old Alloysius said he was immensely pleased to be given the huge responsibility. “Frankly, with Mukesh joining the efforts I am sure hockey will be given a new direction in the State,” he said, adding that his first objective was to start at the earliest, once the pandemic crisis eases, to host an inter-schools tournament. Making access easy “Well, one of the first big tasks is to have a hockey ground in the city itself as the Gachibowli hockey complex is far off for the players in different age groups to have access and play daily,” he said. “It would be great if we can get back the Begumpet Police Stadium which was the first to have astro-turf in the and hub of hockey activity in the city,” he added Interestingly, the meeting also resolved to ensure that women representation in all district bodies too as per the norms of Hockey India.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||SRH remains in the hunt||Sunrisers Hyderabad took control of its IPL destiny, beating Royal Challengers Bangalore by five wickets at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Saturday. Now all it needs is a victory over Mumbai Indians on the final day to make the playoffs. RCB, too, has its fate in its hands, despite squandering three opportunities to record the solitary win it needs. Monday’s game against Delhi Capitals will likely be a shoot-out. Chasing 121, Manish Pandey (26, 19b, 3x4, 1x6) and Wriddhiman Saha (39, 32b, 4x4, 1x6) carried SRH to 58 for one in the PowerPlay. Yuzvendra Chahal broke through in the seventh over by having Pandey caught by Chris Morris running in from long-on. But the burly Jason Holder came up with an unbeaten 10-ball 26 that contained three maximums, all on the leg-side and all off the backfoot, to finish it in style.
02 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||AFI finally gears up to get off the blocks||Forced to repeatedly reschedule its calendar and delay competitions due to COVID-19, the Athletics Federation of India (AFI) is now gearing up to finally get off the block, backed by the hosting of several events across the world. With World Athletics president Sebastian Coe virtually addressing on the second day of the AFI AGM here on Sunday, Planning Committee chairman Lalit Bhanot admitted it was time to return to competitive mode. “Offices are all open, trains and other transport is open. “The athletes are in training, we cannot sit idle forever and have to get into competition mode. “There is not much time left, we need to learn to live with COVID-19. We can start at state and district levels and then begin competition at the national level,” Bhanot said. First senior event The first senior event as per current schedule is expected to be the 1st Indian Grand Prix on February 12 in Trivandrum. Coe, meanwhile, expressed optimism over Tokyo Olympics 2021 and encouraged AFI to begin serious preparations. “I recently returned from Tokyo, the first international federation to do so, and I can safely say there is a cast-iron determination among all officials and stakeholders I met to stage the event next year. “There will probably be adaptations, the conditions may be different and demand more of your teams than we have seen at Olympic Games before, but please assure your athletes of the same and tell them to get into final preparations,” he said. Pat for anti-doping work Admitting an uncertain future made planning difficult, Coe nevertheless hoped to use lessons learnt during the pandemic — including hosting events at short notice despite restrictions — going ahead and appreciated the AFI for work on anti-doping and India’s improving performances. “None of the bravery of World Athletics would have counted if our federations did not back it up with their support and efforts. “I cannot remember a time more challenging for all of us (but) we take comfort that we have managed our way through this difficult year (and) hope to take the lessons learnt into not such a challenging year,” he added.
02 November 2020||BENGALURU:,||Salazaar claims Rajyotsava Trophy||Salazaar (Anjar Alam up) won the Rajyotsava Trophy, the chief event of the opening day’s races here on Sunday (Nov. 1). The winner is owned by Blazing Saddles (PF) rep. by messrs Niraj Tyagi & Vikas Sachdeva and trained by Irfan Ghatala. BTC chairman pleased Speaking to The Hindu after the day’s programme, BTC chairman Vinod Sivappa said “the opening day’s races went off very well and we are thankful to the Karnataka Government for giving us the permission to conduct the races. All Standard Operating Procedures were strictly followed.” “The online betting application is getting ready and should be ready for commercial use in mid-November” he added. The BTC has announced there will be four more race days in November (7, 14, 21 and 28) and the prospectus for the remainder of the season will be announced later.  KENTUCKY PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): MISTLETOE (Antony) 1, Forever Together (Suraj) 2, Watchmystars (Trevor) 3 and Arabian Mist (Neeraj) 4. 1-3/4, 5 and 4. 1m, 24.28s. Favourite: Watchmystars. Owner: Mr. Ajith Vittal Shetty. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar.  INAUGURATION PLATE (1,200m), rated 00 to 20: ESTELLA (J.H. Arul) 1, Iconic Princess (Trevor) 2, Roc Girl (Jagadeesh) 3 and Air Force One (Rayan) 4. 2-1/4, 2-1/4 and Lnk. 1m, 14.91s. Favourite: Iconic Princess. Owner: Mr. A.K. Jaiswal. Trainer: Mahmood Khan.  AL TENBURG PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o & over: HIGH PRIESTESS (Trevor) 1, Cameleons Image (A. Imran) 2, Sun Splash (S. Shareef) 3 and Desert Combat (Ashhad Asbar) 4. 5-3/4, 4-1/2 and 1-1/4. 1m, 25.57s. Favourite: Cameleons Image. Owner: Mr. C. Aryama Sundaram. Trainer: S. Pamanabhan.  RANGANATHITTU PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): MANIFEST (D. Patel) 1, Cavallini (A. Imran) 2, Impeccable (Suraj) 3 and Papal Decree (Trevor) 4. Not run: Prerana. 4-1/4, Nk and 2-3/4. 1m 12.40s. Favourite: Cavallini. Owners: Mr. A.C. Muthiah & Ms. Ameeta Mehra. Trainer: S. Ganapathy.  VIDHANA SOUDHA CUP (1,200m), rated 60 & above: MALWA (Trevor) 1, Attorney General (S. John) 2, Commodus (Neeraj) 3 and Mongolian King (P.P. Dhebe) 4. 3/4, 3/4 and 3/4. 1m 12.46s. Favourite: Malwa. Owners: Mr. Marthand Singh Mahindra & Mrs. Rina Mahindra. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  RAJYOTSAVA TROPHY (1,400m), 3-y-o & over, (Terms): SALAZAAR (Anjar Alam) 1, Cosmic Ray (Zervan) 2, Shesmyscript (T.S. Jodha) 3 and Cavallo Veloce (A. Imran) 4. 2, 1-1/2 and 2-1/2. 1m 21.81s. Favourite: Multifaceted. Owners: Blazing Saddles (PF) rep by. M/s. Niraj Tyagi & Vikas Sachdeva. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala.  BELGAUM PLATE (1,400m), rated 30 to 50: BORN QUEEN (Suraj) 1, Classic Charm (Darshan) 2, Astral Force (Chetan K) 3 and Baltimore (Antony) 4. Not run: Queen Of Sands and Schafenberg. 2, 2-3/4 and 3/4. 1m 24.88s. Favourite: Born Queen. Owner: United Racing and Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: S. Narredu.  ALTENBURG PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o & over: SAINTHOOD (Antony) 1, She's Innocent (Chetan K) 2, Chantelle (R. Marshall) 3 and Marco Polo (J.H. Arul) 4. 4, 1-1/2 and Snk. 1m 26.37s. Favourite: Chantelle. Owner: Mr. Ajith Vittal Shetty. Trainer: Neil Devaney.
02 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Natarajan a different bowler now: Sandeep||Sunrisers Hyderabad’s Sandeep Sharma says left-arm pacer T. Natarajan is a totally different bowler now, after the two of them played crucial roles in the emphatic win over Royal Challengers Bangalore on Saturday. “When I started bowling, it was a bit sticky. It’s coming nicely, it’s got cooler here, so it’s helping. Knuckle ball “I have been bowling the knuckle ball, Jonny (Bairstow) has been helping me. It took around three or four months to get it right,” Sandeep said at the post-match media conference. Sandeep said he has known Natarajan from the days they played together for Kings XI Punjab. “He is a totally different bowler now. He has worked hard on his variations, especially yorkers," he said. “His execution is a treat to watch. It is very important for us to have someone like him. He is an integral part of SRH's bowling attack,” Sandeep said. “We have to go and just express ourselves. We have nothing to lose and with the same attitude, we are going to go into the next game against Mumbai Indians on Tuesday,” said Sandeep, who dismissed Devdutt Paddikal and Virat Kohli.
02 November 2020||Abu Dhabi,||DC and RCB in a battle for top-two finish||Delhi Capitals and Royal Challengers Bangalore will need to find a way to arrest their rapid slides and secure a top-two finish. DC has lost four games on the trot while RCB has endured three successive defeats. Monday’s loser can still make the playoffs, but will have to wait till the Sunrisers Hyderabad-Mumbai Indians game on Tuesday. With KKR breathing down the necks of DC and RCB, a heavy defeat can potentially hamper chances. For DC, the high-flying Dhawan has managed just six runs in the last three games, while Prithvi Shaw and Ajinkya Rahane are out of form. RCB’s bad run has reignited the debate over the team’s dependency on Virat Kohli and A.B. de Villiers.
02 November 2020||BENGALURU,||Lifetime award for Shantha Rangaswamy||Cricketers Mayank Agarwal and Veda Krishnamurthy were among eight sportspersons chosen for the 2019 Ekalavya awards. Former India captain Shantha Rangaswamy will be bestowed with the lifetime achievement award along with Sanjeeva R. Kanaka in Kho kho. Rahul in 2018 list K.L. Rahul was named in the Ekalavya list announced for 2018, along with the Olympic-bound Fouaad Mirza, swimmer Srihari Nataraj and hockey player Nikkin Thimmaiah. The awards are set to be given away on Monday in the presence of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa.  The list:   2019: Ekalavya: Abhinaya Shetty, Abhishek N. Shetty (athletics); Mayank Agarwal, Veda Krishnamurthy (cricket), Venkappa Kengalaguthi (cycling), Pulinda Lokesh Thimmanna (hockey), Khushi Dinesh (swimming), Punith Nandakumar (para swimming)   Lifetime achievement: Shantha Rangaswamy (cricket), Sanjeeva R. Kanaka (kho kho).   Kreeda Rathna (to promote rural and traditional sports): Anitha Bijakatti (atya patya), S.K. Pallavi (ball badminton), S. Rakshitha (kabaddi), Sudarshan (kho kho), Anupama H. Kerakalamatti (mallakambha), Praveen (kambala), H. Manjunath (throwball), Sathish Padathare (kushti), Anisha Manegar (tennikoit).   2018: Ekalavya: G.K. Vijayakumari (athletics), H.M. Bhandavya (basketball), K.L. Rahul (cricket), Megha Googad (cycling), Fouaad Mirza (equestrian), Nikkin Thimmaiah (hockey), Geetha Danappa Gol (judo), Srihari Nataraj (swimming), Sakhina Khathun (para power lifting).   Lifetime achievement: C.M. Karumbaiah (hockey), R. Manjunath (kabaddi).   Kreeda Rathna: Sampath Nagappa Eragatti (atya patya), Suresh Shetty (kambala), H.N. Shivakumar (kho kho); Kiran Kumar (tennikoit), Mallappa Gowda Patil (kushti), Yamanappa Mayappa Kallolli (mallakamba), B.D. Lavanya (ball badminton).   2017: Ekalavya: S. Reena George (athletics), Mithula (badminton), Avinasha Mani (swimming), Arjun Hallurki (kusthi), B.K. Anil Kumar (basketball), N. Usharani (kabaddi), V. Khushi (table tennis), M.S. Ponnamma (hockey), Vinayak Rokhade (volleyball), M. Deepa (rowing), Raju Adiveppa Bhati (cycling), N. Varsha (billiards & snooker), K. Tejas (shooting), Shekar Veeraswamy (para tennis).   Lifetime achievement: M. Fredricks (hockey), Dr. Patel Mohammed Iliyas (volleyball).   Kreeda Rathna: Mahesh R.Eremani (atya patya), G. Jayalakshmi (ball badminton), K.S. Kausalya (kabaddi); Gopalakrishna Prabhu, Srinivas Gowda (kambala), M. Veena (kho kho), H.S. Anushri (kushti), Bheemappa Hadapada (mallakambha), Mani Kandan (para climbing), Chandrashekar H. Kallaholada (shotput), M. Ranjitha (throwball).   Karnataka Kreeda Poshaka Prashasthi : Swarna Football Abhivridhi Samsthe (Mandya), V.R. Deshpande Memorial Trust (Haliyal, 2018-19), Mangalore University (2019-20), Siddaganga Mutt (Tumakuru), Manikaprabhu Sports Academy (Manikanagara, Bidar) (2020-21) .
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||His grace confers jnana||The name ‘Tondaradipodi’ is eponymous of the inherent nature of this Azhwar which is to serve the bhagavatas and bhaktas of God. Though his original name is Vipranarayana, this name has come to stay. ‘Tondar’ is a devotee and servant of God, ‘adi’ is the feet of the devotee and ‘podi’ is the dust from the devotee’s feet. The swabhava which makes one respectful to not only God but to show the same respect to all His devotees is central to bhagavata dharma, pointed out Sri A.K. Sundarrajan in a discourse. This bhava that sees no difference between serving God or His devotees takes root in one who has internalised the truth that the Lord is equally present in all aspects of the entire creation that includes the ‘chit’ and the ‘achit.’ Tondaradipodi Azhwar’s life and his two famous hymns, the Tirumaalai and the Tirupalliyezhuchi, show his eagerness to make all jivatmas devotees of God. In the Tirumaalai, he alternates between the mode of self talk and direct conversation with Lord Ranganatha. For instance, he explains in a hymn how all beings endowed with the jnanendriyas, karmendriyas and a mind are not able to see this as God’s gift to them to be used to realise Him. Instead, they get involved in worldly matters and are caught deep in samsara. They only seek to be born in this world while the chance to realise God is available if only they can at least chant the name ‘Ranga’ or Srirangam. This Divya Kshetra is the residence of the Supreme Lord of Vaikunta, the Jagat Rakshaka, and the sole cause of all existence. Proficiency in the sastras may have its own value, but does not guarantee realisation. But the state of God realisation, jnana, is possible only by the grace of the Lord, says Azhwar as he himself has experienced it in his own life.
02 November 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Jagan Mohan elected HFI president||Telangana’s A. Jagan Mohan Rao was unanimously elected as president of the Handball Federation of India (HFI) at Lucknow on Sunday. Jagan Mohan is the first official from the State to head the federation. “We will hunt for talented youngsters and make them train with expert coaches. “The goal will be to produce Olympic medallists,” Jagan Mohan said in a statement.
02 November 2020||New Delhi:,||Sachin and Riya triumph||Sachin Chauhan and Riya Yadav claimed the honours in the 19-24 age category of the inaugural 54-hole World Amateur Golf Ranking (WAGR) event at the Jaypee Greens course.  The results: Boys: 19-24 years: 198: Sachin Chauhan, 210: Arjun Gulati, 217: Anand Sapral; 15-18: 198: Aryan Kaila, 200: Gautam Potdukhe, 202: Amal Jha; 13-14: 208: Sukhman Singh, 210: Parth Raman Sood, 214: Suryaansh Gulati.   Girls: 19-24 years: 203: Riya Yadav; 15-18: 207: Kriti Chowhan, 218: Gia Lamba, 224: Sriya Machiraju; 13-14: 212: Ragini Navet, 215: Amritha Mandav, 216: Srihitha Mandava.   Combined nett scores: Boys: 180: Ashwin Varma, 187: Amal Jha and Suryaansh Gulati.   Girls: 179: Riya Yadav, 187: Srihitha Mandava, 191: Simar Bal .
02 November 2020||NEW DELHI:,||Sona Polo wins title||Sona Polo beat Jindal Panther 12-10 in the final of the Indian Masters 14-goal polo tournament on Sunday. The teams were 8-8 at the end of the fourth chukker before Siddhant Sharma, Jack Richardson and Sunjay Kapur struck to tilt the balance in favour of Sona. Simran Shergill top-scored for Jindal Panther with six goals.  The results (final): Sona Polo 12 (Siddhant Sharma 5, Jack Richardson 4, Sunjay Kapur 3) bt Jindal Panther 10 (Simran Singh Shergill 6, Abhimanyu Pathak 2, Naveen Jindal, handicap 1) .
02 November 2020||Rawalpindi,||Pakistan wins series||Spinner Iftikhar Ahmed grabbed a maiden five-wicket haul while Babar Azam notched up a half-century as Pakistan beat Zimbabwe by six wickets to win the second ODI and take a 2-0 lead in the three-match series on Sunday. Spinning a web Iftikhar spun a web around Zimbabwe’s batsmen with figures of five for 40 to wreck them for a paltry 206 before Azam knocked an attractive unbeaten 74-ball 77 to chase down the target in 35.2 overs. The win gave Pakistan an unassailable 2-0 lead. The final match is also at the same venue on Tuesday. The series is part of the One-Day Super League, the first qualifying round for the 2023 World Cup to be held in India.  The scores:   Zimbabwe 206 in 45.1 overs (S. Williams 75, Iftikhar 5/40) lost to Pakistan 208/4 in 35.2 overs (Babar Azam 77 n.o., Imam-ul-Haq 49).
02 November 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Definitely not’||Chennai Super Kings skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni laid to rest to any speculations about his IPL future saying that he will play in the 2021 edition. When asked by commentator Danny Morrison at the toss if it was his last IPL game, Dhoni said, “Definitely not”. There had been doubts whether Dhoni would lead the side next year after CSK failed to qualify for the playoffs. Recently, CSK CEO K.S. Viswanathan had said he was confident that Dhoni would continue next year.
02 November 2020||Dubai,||Jio named title sponsor of Women’s T20 Challenge||The BCCI on Sunday announced Jio as the title sponsor of the Women’s T20 Challenge, to be held in Sharjah from Nov. 4 to 9. Three teams — Velocity, Supernovas and Trailblazers — will play each other once to decide the finalists on November 9, a day before the IPL final. No Australians are taking part in the competition as it is clashing with the Women’s Big Bash, but the event has attracted players from England, West Indies, Bangladesh and Thailand.
02 November 2020||New York,||NY Marathon cancelled, but runners stride on||In Central Park or along the Hudson River, runners will complete the storied New York City Marathon — just not along the same course. The annual race, originally set for Sunday, was one of many events cancelled due to COVID-19, but die-hard runners are not missing their shot in what would have been the marathon's 50th year. Organisers offered runners the option of completing the 26.2 miles between Oct. 17 and Nov. 1 — anywhere in the world. A smartphone app measures distance covered, allowing the competitor to log an official time and — if they finish — get the finisher's medal.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||CSK eliminates KXIP, finishes on a high||Kings XI Punjab was eliminated from the IPL 2020 playoff race after suffering a comprehensive nine-wicket defeat to Chennai Super Kings at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium, Abu Dhabi on Sunday. CSK, the first team to exit the playoff race, ended its campaign on a positive note, recording its third successive win. Opener Ruturaj Gaikwad once again showed his mettle, scoring his third half-century in as many games. His unbeaten 62 off 49 balls (6x4, 1x6) helped CSK chase down 154 with ease. The young opener showed great composure and awareness, even preferring to play second fiddle when Faf du Plessis (48, 34b, 4x4, 2x6) went after the Punjab bowlers. The duo added 82 for the opening wicket. Calm innings Gaikwad kept things simple by picking boundaries without taking risks. His innings saw some exquisitely timed drives through cover and some deft cuts behind square against the two leg-spinners – M. Ashwin and Ravi Bishnoi. Earlier, put in to bat, KXIP squandered a good start from openers KL Rahul (29) and Mayank Agarwal (26) and lost the plot in the middle phase of the game. Only Deepak Hooda’s 30-ball 62 salvaged things and ensured a total of 153 for six. Agarwal and Rahul went after CSK pacers Deepak Chahar and Sam Curran before Lungi Ngidi struck in quick succession by rearranging both openers’ stumps. While Agarwal dragged a slower one on to his wicket, Rahul tried to sweep a slow full delivery and missed it completely. From 48 for no loss, KXIP slumped to 72 for four. From the eighth to the 13th overs, KXIP could not find a single boundary. Imran Tahir stood out in this phase, bowling a 3-0-12-1 spell. Late onslaught Hooda, however, gave Punjab hope with some sensational hitting. The Baroda batsman was especially harsh on Ngidi, smashing him for three sixes and a boundary. The South African tried to bowl wide outside off-stump and was taken to the cleaners. However, the momentum lost in the middle-overs was too much for Hooda to bridge.
02 November 2020||BENGALURU,||Somashekarappa passes away||Former Secretary General of the Karnataka Olympic Association, G.S. Somashekarappa, passed away on Friday. He was 82 and is survived by wife and daughter. The KOA condoled his death.
02 November 2020||ADELAIDE,||Harris, Pucovski share biggest First Class stand in Australia||Test batsman Marcus Harris and rising star Will Pucovski combined to record the biggest batting partnership in the history of Australia’s Sheffield Shield domestic First Class competition. The pair put on 486 in an opening partnership for Victoria against South Australia, breaking the 30-year-old record set by brothers Steve and Mark Waugh. The partnership finally ended when Harris was out for 239 on Sunday.AP
02 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||AQI ‘very poor’ despite rise in wind speed||The city’s air quality index (AQI) remained in the “very poor” category on Sunday with the 24-hour average recorded at 354, based on data from 35 monitoring stations. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) revealed that Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad were also in the same category with AQIs recorded at 384, 388, 384 and 354, respectively. Meanwhile, Gurugram’s air was slightly better with an AQI of 306 — at the lower end of the “very poor” category. Government-run monitoring agency — System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) — ,in its forecast, said Delhi’s overall AQI remained in the higher end despite the improved wind conditions and did not improve as per forecast. It was due to a high stubble-related intrusion and trapping of pollutants during the night due to a low winter-time boundary layer height. It added that the highly favourable conditions for fire-related intrusion in Delhi are expected to continue. “The SAFAR-synergised stubble fire counts over Punjab, Haryana, U.P., Uttarakhand, and neighbouring areas impacting Delhi’s air, stood at 3,216 on Saturday. Stubble burning share in PM2.5 has increased and is estimated at 40%, which is the highest of this season,” SAFAR said in its daily bulletin. In its forecast, SAFAR has said that its model predicts that the AQI is likely to improve only marginally (within “very poor” range) on November 2 but it will depend on the number of stubble fire episodes. “It is set to marginally deteriorate on November 3. The increased local surface wind speed with faster dispersion conditions is counteracting on 2 counts, namely, increased fire-related emission and accumulated intrusion mass load. Increased fire-related emission than existing conditions may lead to deterioration of AQI,” SAFAR said. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. Weather check Meanwhile, nights in the Capital have become cooler with the minimum temperature on Sunday falling to 11.4 degrees Celsius — the lowest this season. The temperature was five degrees below normal for this time of the year. The temperature on November 2 is expected to stay between 30 and 11 degrees Celsius, respectively.
02 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Baroda bypoll: a battle of prestige||Less than a year after the voters in Haryana gave a fractured mandate paving the way for the formation of a coalition government, the State is again in the grip of election fever with the Baroda Assembly seat in Sonipat falling vacant due to the demise of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda earlier this year. Though the result of the bypoll is unlikely to have any bearing on the stability of the State government, the battle in Hoodas’ bastion — the Jhajjar-Rohtak-Sonipat belt — is being seen as a prestige battle for the family. While a decisive win here would, no doubt, reassert Hoodas’ firm grip over their stronghold, any adverse result, close on the heels of the defeat for the father-son duo in the Lok Sabha election last year, would sure be a political setback. Opportunity for BJP Sounding cautious, the Bharatiya Janata Party maintains that the bypoll is an “opportunity” for them and a “litmus test” for the Congress, which has been holding the seat for the past 15 years. Though an addition to the BJP’s tally would push it a step closer to the simple majority mark in the Assembly, it could be a cause for concern for its coalition partner, the Jannayak Janta Party. The caste composition of the voters, around 50% are Jats, worries the BJP and the coalition is trying hard to prevent the division of votes along caste-lines to stand any chance in the election. However, a heavyweight Jat BJP rebel, Kapoor Narwal, withdrawing his nomination as an Independent in support of the Hoodas has tilted the scales in favour of the Congress. The JJP could make a dent in the Congress’ Jat vote, but the party may not be very keen on transferring its votes to the BJP for obvious reason. The JJP candidate had stood third in the previous Assembly election with over 32,000 votes and the Chautalas are in great demand for canvassing in the region. Besides, the Indian National Lok Dal and the Loktantra Suraksha Party are also in the fray along with 20 other candidates, but it is expected to be a direct contest between the two national parties. Being held in the backdrop of the protests over the farm legislations in the State, the Congress has weaved a narrative around the discontent among the peasantry in this predominantly rural Assembly segment and the “failure” of the government on various fronts, including employment, crime, and development, also occasionally appealing to the regional sentiments with a call for “pride of Baroda”. The Hoodas, seeking votes for party candidate Induraj Narwal, say the result would herald a new course of politics in the State and be a referendum on the present government. Sanctions projects The BJP, with the advantage of being in the power, has sanctioned projects worth Rs. 165 crore over the past four months and has accused the Hoodas of neglecting the region during the Congress rule as a major poll plank. Chief Minister Manohar Lal also promised a “participation in the governance” for the region hinting at a ministerial berth for the party candidate in case of a win. The coalition also hopes to benefit from the popularity and stature of its wrestler candidate Yogeshwar Dutt, an Olympic medallist, calling the Congress candidate “dummy” and “non-entity”. However, senior coalition leaders making personal attacks on the Hoodas, who have been spearheading the Congress campaign, in their speeches make it a contest between the government and the latter more than an electoral battle between the two parties.
02 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||AAP accuses Central govt. of targeting Panjab University||With the four-year term of Panjab University’s highest governing body, the senate, being completed on October 31 and no clarity so far over fresh elections amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, Punjab’s principal opposition, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) , has accused the Centre government of attempting to destroy democratic structure of the university. While hitting out at the BJP-led Central government, AAP leaders have accused the government of attempting to destroy the premier institute of State. They have also urged Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to clarify his stand on the issue.  Joint statement Senior party leader and MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Baljinder Kaur in a statement alleged that Panjab University in Chandigarh was another target of the Centre, after several assault on Punjab, one after the other. “The Modi-led BJP government’s proposal to set up a central board in place of the democratically-elected senate of the Panjab University, was an attack on the democratic system,” they said. The leaders said it was important that Captain Amarinder should clarify his stand over the matter. “The premier temple of learning would be allowed to suffer if the Union government had its way,” they said. Out of the 91-member senate, six are ex-office members while 49 members are elected between professors, associate professors, assistant professors, principals of colleges and graduates of the university. 36 members are nominated by the Chancellor of the university.
02 November 2020||Guwahati,||Election-bound Assam allots medical seats for three groups||The Bharatiya Janata Party-led alliance government in poll-bound Assam has announced reservation in medical seats for students belonging to three communities that have been demanding the Scheduled Tribe (ST) status. The reservation of 17 medical seats for students from the Koch-Rajbongshi, Ahom and Chutia communities will be from the State’s quota for the Other Backward Class (OBC) that had been raised from 15 to 27% some time ago. These three communities comprise more than 25% of Assam’s electorate with the Morans, Mataks and “Tea Tribes” — the other three communities demanding the status. “The State government had promised reservation in educational institutions to the six ethnic communities pending their declaration of tribal status. Accordingly, we have reserved eight seats for Koch-Rajbongshis, five for Ahoms and four for the Chutia community in the medical colleges,” Education Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. The Morans, the Mataks and the “Tea Tribes” already have reservations in the State’s medical colleges. Dr. Sarma said the reservation was possible after the Medical Council of India approved 100 seats at the newly established Diphu Medical College where the first session will begin from 2021.  OBC quota “The other reserved categories will not be affected as the 17 seats for the three communities will be out of the OBC quota.” The reserved seats, officials said, will be spread across seven medical colleges. These colleges together have 1,000 seats.
02 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||SIC senses corruption in waste projects, demands investigation||Sensing a “huge corruption involved”, the Haryana State Information Commission ordered the Director General of Urban Local Bodies Department to conduct a probe into the delay in furnishing information under the RTI Act with regard to solid waste management projects for Gurugram-Faridabad and Sonipat-Panipat clusters. The report is to be submitted within two months. The Commission also imposed a fine of Rs. 12,500 each on two Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) officials for not supplying information to the appellant, P.P. Kapoor, a Panipat-based RTI activist, saying the State Information Public Officers (SPIOs) are “not serious in implementing the RTI Act in true spirit and they have made mockery of the RTI Act”. The Commission has also directed the MCG Commissioner to pay the compensation amount of Rs. 10,000 to the appellant as ordered on July 2 without further delay. Failed to act Hearing the matter in pursuance to its July 2 order, the Commission, in its latest order, found that the SPIOs did not provide information to the appellant within a fortnight as directed despite show-cause notices and rejoinders. The MCG Commissioner also failed to pay Rs. 10,000 compensation to the appellant within a month as directed by the Commission. The Commission in its order directed that penalty amount be recovered from SPIOs Rishi Malik, chief sanitary inspector, and Bijender Sharma, senior officer, within 60 days. Mr. Kapoor said he had filed an RTI application at Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Panipat municipal corporations on November 18, 2019, seeking information about the solid waste management project in the four cities. Mr. Kapoor said the municipal corporation was yet to provide details on the amount of fine imposed on the concessionaire Ecogreen Energy, the resolutions passed by the House of Municipal Corporation, and the Rs. 25 lakh fine imposed by Chief Minister Manohar Lal.
02 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||New virus cases still over 5K mark||The Capital reported 5,664 new COVID-19 cases, 51 deaths and 4,159 recoveries in a 24-hour period, according to a health bulletin issued by the Delhi government on Sunday. The spike in cases, over the past week, has taken the number of active cases in the city to 34,173. The bulletin added that 44,623 tests were conducted in the same period with a positivity rate of 12.69%. The death rate which is based on the data of the last 10 days is 0.83%. The cumulative figures now stand at 3,92,370 cases, 6,562 fatalities and 3,51,635 recoveries. The cumulative positivity rate stands at 8.30% and the case fatality rate at 1.67%. There are a total of 3,359 containment zones. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the number of cases here was rising due to the aggressive contract tracing policy of the government. He said earlier, authorities were tracing and testing 6-7close contacts of a positive case but now, it has increased to 15. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, asking him to convene an all-party meeting to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the city and make arrangements on how to deal with it. “In last 2-3 days, more than 5,000 cases have been identified. This is a worrisome situation,” Mr. Bidhuri said. He expressed concern over the number of beds available. Mr. Jain said out of 2,900 ICU beds reserved for COVID-19 patients across Delhi, around 1,200 ICU beds were unoccupied.
02 November 2020||Agartala,||Tripura virus situation improves||Though the COVID-19 situation has improved in Tripura, a senior government official has predicted a spike in the number of infections during the winter. The State health department meantime has readied a block of GBP Hospital here to lodge virus patients. The overall pandemic situation has improved in the State over the past week with fewer cases and deaths reported. Only three patients have died during the period, a significant fall from daily fatalities of five to six persons. Health officials said less than a hundred people tested positive in the daily rapid antigen tests conducted in past three days. They added that the number of tests would be increased next week to find spread of the disease during the Durga Puja festival.  346 deaths Around 31,000 people have contracted the virus in the State so far and about 29,000 have recovered. 346 patients have died of the disease, according to the latest health bulletin. The health department has transformed the spacious Jayanti Ward of the GBP Hospital into a dedicated COVID-19 hospital. Wards which were earlier made into virus treatment facilities would be vacated. West Tripura District Magistrate Sailesh Kumar Yadav has predicted a surge in Coronavirus cases in coming weeks. Speaking to newsmen he appealed to the people to remain alert and strictly follow precautionary measures.
02 November 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Security forces unfurl Tricolour at ‘ideological HQ’ of CPI(Maoist)||The Border Security Force and the Odisha police have set up a Company Operating Base (COB) at Gurasethu, dubbed “ideological headquarter” of outlawed CPI (Maoist), in Swabhiman Anchal along the Odisha-Andhra Pradesh border. This is considered an important milestone in the fight against the Left wing extremists. The BSF and the Odisha police personnel unfurled the Tricolour in front of the CPI(Maoist)’s “Martyr Pillar” at Gurasethu in Malkangiri district. Experts said security forces managed to reclaim the area from the clutches of the CPI(Maoist). Gurasethu was once known to be the heartland of the CPI(Maoist). Remote location The ultras used to conduct training and other activities without any fear, as the place was not easily accessible to the forces. Security personnel had to trek to reach the place. “In a significant development, the Odisha police and the BSF solidly advanced up to Gurasetu in Swabhiman Anchal and the BSF will now maintain a camp there. This happened to be the ideological headquarters of the Maoists until recently,” tweeted Odisha Chief Secretary Asit Tripathy congratulating the security forces. DGP Abhay said a team of the BSF, the Special Operation Group and the India Reserve Battalion with the DIG of the BSF and the Malkangiri SP reached Gurasethu on Saturday to establish the COB for the BSF. “The joint efforts of the BSF and the Odisha police will bring smile to the people and they will soon taste the fruits of development,” said BSF commandant G. Sukumar Sarangi.
02 November 2020||November 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Blame game erupts over disbursement of civic body funds||After simmering for months, the war of words between the Delhi government and the three BJP-ruled Municipal Corporations culminated in a day-long dharna by the Mayors outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence. At the core of the dispute between the elected government and the corporations are funds amounting to thousands of crores, which each is demanding from the other at the earliest. While Mayors were demanding dues, which have allegedly piled up to Rs. 23,000 crore in taxes or payments over several years, the Delhi government claims the corporations owe over Rs. 8,600 crore to it and should ask the Centre to disburse Rs. 12,000 crore, their Constitutional due.  Both sides have dug in their heels, showing no inclination to relent, even as lakhs of employees, from doctors to sanitation workers, are struggling for livelihood.      Fund source  Apart from a grant from the Central government, which is routed to them through the Delhi government’s Urban Development Department, the civic bodies generate internal revenue through property tax, toll tax, parking charges, and taxes on advertisements among similar activities. They also get a share amounting to 12.5% of the taxes generated by the Delhi government as per the recommendations of the Fifth Delhi Finance Commission constituted to prescribe viable solutions related to the finances of local bodies such as the corporations.  Corporations’ claim    The corporations claim the Delhi government owes them Rs. 23,000 crore. The amount, they claim, has been arrived at by adding dues ranging from property tax which it has “never paid” for official buildings – including the Delhi Secretariat and offices from which different departments under the government operate among others – including interest compounded over “several years.” This also contains a share of taxes generated by the Delhi government, which it is supposed to share with the civic bodies over several years. The Delhi government has termed the amount “fictional.”  Delhi govt.’s counter  The Delhi government claims that it has, over the past many years, not only paid the civic bodies their due share of taxes, but also has paid a large sum as loan. According to Delhi Urban Development Department records, as on April 1, 2020, a loan totaling to Rs. 6,008 crore was outstanding over the three civic bodies. This, according to the Delhi government, includes Rs. 1,977 outstanding from the EDMC, Rs. 3,243 crore from the North body and Rs. 788 crore from the SDMC. The Delhi government also contends that the three civic bodies collectively owe Rs. 2596.32 crore in arrears to the Delhi Jal Board, which is administered by the elected government, towards water bills.  Dues as per civic bodies    According to the civic bodies, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has received only Rs. 157.40 crore of the Rs. 1,677 crore due, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) got Rs. 472.39 crore out of Rs. 1134 crore and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation Rs. 612.02 crore of the Rs. 2090.52 crore due to it so far this year.  Amount disbursed    For the financial year 2020-21, as per the Fifth Delhi Finance Commission calculations, the Delhi government claims that a total of Rs. 1965.91 crore was due to the three civic bodies until October 26. Of this total amount, the Delhi government states, Rs. 1752.61 crore has been already paid to them while the rest is in the process of being disbursed.  Government’s solution    According to the Delhi government, the Central government has not paid the due amount to the corporations to the tune of Rs. 12,000 crore. It argues that the Centre provides grants to all the Municipal Corporations of the country based on their population. For every person residing in the city,Rs. 488 per head is given as municipal development fund totalling to Rs. 2,87,636 crore to all cities across the country except the civic bodies in Delhi. The government argues that based on Delhi’s population, this amounts to a total of Rs. 12,000 crore over the last ten years and should be disbursed by the Centre to assist the civic bodies.  Civic bodies’ solution  According to the Municipal Corporations, Delhi’s Union Territory status does not entitle it to funds based on calculations similar to those for the grant of municipal development funds for other cities in the country. But the Centre provides enough financial assistance to them which is not routed to them by the Delhi government on time. On the other hand, the fact that Delhi is the National Capital Territory ensures significant expenditure on it by the Centre on various sectors ranging from public transportation to health among others. The civic bodies believe the elected government needs to disburse funds in a timely manner as well as be forthcoming in sharing taxes according to Fifth Delhi Finance Commission calculations apart from paying “past financial dues” related to the recommendations made by preceding finance commissions.
02 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Resolve Punjab goods train suspension issue’||Concerned over the continued suspension of goods trains by the Railways even after easing of the blockade by the farmers, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday wrote an open letter to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president J.P. Nadda, calling for collective will and statesmanship to resolve the situation. Reacting to recent statements of various BJP national and Punjab leaders on the farmer’s protests, particularly the continued suspension of goods trains, the Captain Amarinder stressed that this was neither the time nor the occasion to indulge in political confrontation. “What is needed at this critical moment is for all of us to put aside any temptations we may be harbouring to promote our political interests,” he said. Citing the repercussions the continued suspension of goods trains services would have for national security, in addition to the critical shortages faced not just by Punjab but also Jammu-Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh, the Chief Minister said that the armed forces were likely to be badly affected with the onset of winter, as they could run out of supplies and other requisites once the snowfall blocks the roads to Ladakh and the Valley. “These are dangers that neither the Central government nor any political party, including the BJP, can choose to ignore,” he said, adding that “the onus lies on all of us….We need to all liaise together, with the common goal of solving the contentious issue, in the interest of the country.” ‘Critical losses’ Capt. Amarinder said every day of the continued suspension of goods trains meant critical losses to the industry, agriculture and overall economy, in view of shortages of power (coal), urea and DAP stocks. The Chief Minister expressed surprise over the reason of “uncertainty and safety of train operations” cited by the Railways to not allow goods trains’ movement through Punjab despite the easing of blockade by farmers. He described the Railways’ decision as an apparent case of trust deficit of the Central government viz-a-viz farmers of Punjab and other States.
02 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anti-dengue campaign a success, no deaths: govt.||The government on Sunday said the 10-week anti-dengue campaign launched by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was a success as no one died of the disease here this year. Mr. Kejriwal tweeted: “Today is the 9th Sunday of the ongoing campaign against dengue. I changed the water that had accumulated in my house. The cases of dengue have reduced even more and no dengue-related death has taken place in Delhi this year. Delhi has again defeated dengue.” He has been asking Delhiites to spent 10 minutes every Sunday to change the clean stagnant water collected at home/shops/offices/surroundings as a dengue mosquito thrives in clean stagnant water.
02 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Campaigning ends for Balasore, Tirtol bypolls||The campaigning for Balasore and Tirtol Assembly by-election in Odisha came to end on Sunday with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) locked in a close contest to retain their respective seats. The by-elections are being held following death of former BJP MLA of Balasore Madan Mohan Dutta and veteran BJD leader Bishnu Charan Das who represented Tirtol constituency. Both BJP and BJD have fielded sons of deceased leaders in order to draw sympathy votes. Nine candidates are in fray for the Tirtol Assembly segment where Bijay Shankar Das son of Bishnu Charan Das is locking horn with BJP candidate Rajkishore Behera and Congress aspirant Himansu Bhushan Mallick. Mr. Das, whose father was known for his organizational skill, is trying to take advantage of the sympathy factor, while BJP and Congress are highlighting corruption and lack of development in BJD regime.  Greenhorns in the field In Balasore, while Manas Mohan Dutta was fielded by BJP, the BJD and the Congress have also pushed greenhorns to battlefield. Swarup Kumar Das, who had earlier won a civic body election, is banking on BJD’s organizational strength while Mamata Kundu of Congress is trying hard to consolidate party’s traditional voting blocs. Though the outcome of by-elections will have little impact on equation in State’s politics, these electoral battles are being fought in the shadow of COVID-19. Large gathering and mass mobilisations were out of questions during the campaigns.
02 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana CM opens flyover on NH-48||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Sunday inaugurated the U-turn flyover near DLF Cyber City on National Highway-48 here through videoconference in Karnal, coinciding with Haryana Day. Mr. Lal, on the occasion, said that U-turn flyover was another step towards making Gurugram traffic-free. While inaugurating the three-lane flyover, Mr. Lal said the structure was constructed at a cost of around Rs. 52 crore and would provide a big relief to the people of Gurugram and commuters coming from outside. “This will help in preventing traffic congestion and facilitate U-turn movement for vehicles coming from Delhi and DLF Cyber City and going to Udyog Vihar. Besides, it will also help in reducing accidents, pollution caused by traffic jams and save commuters’ time”, he said. The Chief Minister said the Haryana government was solving the traffic problems of Gurugram one-by-one. He added that a four-lane U-turn underpass was being constructed on NH- 48 near Ambience Mall and was in the final stage of construction.
02 November 2020||New Delhi,||AUD announces MA entrance dates||Ambedkar University, Delhi, on Sunday announced entrance schedule for applicants seeking admission to its various MA courses. The entrance examinations are scheduled between November 6 and November 8. The university said the details of the assignment of examination centres will be uploaded shortly. It added that the entrance examination for those courses that have not been announced will be held in phase -II, the dates of which will be out soon.
