03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||China made significant deployment: Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday acknowledged that China had moved troops in “significant numbers” in the ongoing stand-off on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). There was an important dialogue between the two countries scheduled on June 6 to resolve the issue, he said. Separately, sources said a dialogue was held on Tuesday at the Major General level. “It is true that there have been differences on the border at this time. A significant number of Chinese troops have come in. India too has done what it should,” Mr. Singh told CNN News18. “As of now, negotiations are going on at the military level. On June 6, there will be talks between senior military officers. I discussed about this with the Army chief today,” he said. Dialogue between military commanders had been going on daily, sources said, including at the level of Majors General on Tuesday too. No concrete resolution had been achieved, it had been learnt and the talks would continue, the sources said.   Mr. Singh observed that China should also think seriously in this regard so that the issue was resolved completely. Asked to comment on reports of Chinese troops moving inside Indian territory, he said without getting into specifics, “India will not infringe on anyone’s sovereignty and at the same time, India will not let anyone infringe on its sovereignty.” On the differences in perception on the alignment of the LAC, he said there was something constantly going on between India and China regarding the border. “There will hardly be a year when there is no face-off on the border between both the Indian Army and the Chinese Army,” Mr. Singh said. Sometimes there had been such tensions that firearms had been snatched, he noted. For close to a month now, Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in stand-offs at several locations along the LAC after Chinese troops moved into Indian territory at Pangong Tso, Galwan Nalah, Hot Springs in eastern Ladakh and Naku La in Sikkim.
03 June 2020||Mumbai/ new delhi,||Nisarga barrels towards Mumbai||Maharashtra and Gujarat on Tuesday geared up for Cyclone Nisarga, which is expected to make landfall on Wednesday evening near Alibaug, south of Mumbai. With the India Meteorological Department declaring a red alert in Mumbai for the first cyclone that has formed near the city on the Arabian Sea in a long time, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, in a televised address, advised people to remain indoors. All activity that was set to resume from Wednesday in the State would remain suspended for two more days, he said. “Let us fight this challenge with the same fortitude and presence of mind that we showed with COVID-19,” he said, urging people to keep their belongings secured and follow official news sources for cyclone updates. The Chief Minister, who spoke with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and held a video-conference with Home Minister Amit Shah, said besides the State administration, the National Disaster Response Force, Army, Navy and Air Force were on standby. Along with IMD’s red alert, a storm surge warning for Mumbai was also issued. “Storm surge of 1-2 metres above astronomical tide is very likely to inundate low-lying areas of Mumbai during the time of landfall,” the warning read.
03 June 2020||Thiruvananthapurtam,||In a single-day surge, 86 test positive||A steady rise in COVID 19 cases and new deaths due to the disease on a daily basis are slowly ceasing to be a surprise in Kerala, where the true picture of the epidemic is beginning to emerge with the graded lifting of lockdown restrictions. The State chalked up 86 positive cases and one death on Tuesday. While 72 were cases imported by people returning from abroad and other States, 12 persons are believed to have developed the disease through contact with known or unknown sources of infection. Yet another health worker in Palakkad contracted the disease. On Tuesday, COVID-19 was confirmed in a 77-year-old priest who died while under treatment at Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, where he had undergone neurosurgery following a road accident nearly a month ago. The State reported the recovery of 19 persons on Tuesday. The new cases are as follows: Malappuram 15; Alappuzha 10; Kasaragod 9; Kollam 8; Thiruvananthapuram 7; Kottayam, Thrissur, and Wayanad 6 each; Palakkad, Kozhikode and Kannur 5 each; Ernakulam 3 and Pathanamthitta 1. The total number of active cases in the State now is 774 with 11 deaths. So far, 627 persons have recovered from the disease. A total of 1,47,010 persons are under State surveillance for COVID-19, with 1,45,670 of them put in home or institutional quarantine and 1,340 with symptoms, isolated in hospitals. One more region in Malappuram was declared hotspot, taking the number of hotspots to 122.
03 June 2020||Guwahati,||21 killed in Assam landslips||Twenty-one people were killed and seven injured in a series of landslips due to incessant rain in the Barak Valley of southern Assam early on Tuesday. Many of the victims died in their sleep. The dead included 10 minors, the youngest being three years old, and four women. Eight were killed in Hailakandi, seven in Cachar and six in Karimganj, officials said. The landslips occurred almost simultaneously in eight locations across four revenue circles in the three districts that make up the valley. “The affected areas are about a two hours’ drive from Silchar [district headquarters]. Seven of a nine-member family died there, while a woman from a nearby area was admitted to hospital in a serious condition. She is now stable,” Deputy Commissioner, Cachar, Keerthi Jalli said, adding that the district administration had handed over a cheque for Rs. 28 lakh to the survivors of the seven deceased. State Environment Minister Parimal Suklabaidya, who hails from the Valley, had earlier announced an ex gratia of Rs. 4 lakh for each of those killed. “This is a sad day for us,” Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said. Apart from shifting the injured, personnel of the National Disaster Response Force and the State Disaster Response Force evacuated 11 people from vulnerable areas. Hailakandi’s Additional Deputy Commissioner R.K. Dam said the houses of two families bore the brunt of the landslips at two locations in the district. Four of the dead were minors. Till Monday, floods across 11 districts in Assam’s Brahmaputra Valley had killed nine people. There was no casualty on Tuesday. Two people also drowned in Meghalaya in May. A landslide had killed three people — a woman and her two children — in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley district more than a week ago.
03 June 2020||Srinagar,||Uneasy frontier robs Ladakh’s herders of pastures||The Chinese Army’s intrusion in Chumur and Demchok since January has left Ladakh’s nomadic herding Changpa community cut off from large parts of summer pastures. The People’s Liberation Army has taken over 16 kanals (two acres) of cultivable land in Chumur and advanced around 15 km inside Demchok, taking over traditional grazing pastures and cultivable lowlands. This has destabilised the movement of over 2,000 members of the nomadic community. In a cascading effect, this has resulted in a sharp rise in deaths of young Pashmina goats this year in the Korzok-Chumur belt of Changthang plateau in Ladakh. “Over 16 kanals of cultivatable land in Chumur’s Chabiji pasture has been inaccessible since January this year due to the aggression and incursions of Chinese Army there, destablising the annual seasonal migration of our livestocks, including yaks and Pashmina goats (also known as Cashmere). Timely migration is essential for their survival,” Gyurmet Dorjey, councillor from Korzok constituency bordering China, told The Hindu over the phone. The much-valued wool from the Ladakh herds is essential for the prized Pashmina shawls woven in Kashmir and famous for their intricate hand work. Since 2017, the vital winter grazing grounds of Guntcsay Phu-Tagapank Nak low-lying belt has witnessed heightened tension between the Indian and Chinese armies. “Already 35 metres of grazing range has been encroached in the belt by the Chinese Army this year,” said Mr. Dorjey. The PLA, according to the villagers, has already stopped the centuries old nomadic movement to low-lying winter pastures on the otherwise fluid border or Line of Actual Control (LAC). “The Chinese army used helicopters to maintain a vigil on grazers in Chuchol-Gunso belt. Even the food stocks kept in shelters for seasonal migration was taken away. There is already a motorable road constructed opposite Chumur with a nallah (stream) in between,” he added. The villagers claim the shrinking of grazing pastures is impacting their prized Pashmina herds this year and the mortality among the newborns has gone up. “Around 70-80% of the kids are finding it hard to survive,” Mr. Dorjey said. The Chushol-Demchok-Chumur belt border areas are home to the maximum number of Pashmina goats, which graze at altitudes above 13,000 feet, and the belt contributed 25 to 30 tonnes out of 45-50 tonnes of the finest wool produced annually in Ladakh.
03 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||SSC exams: only 10 to 12 students in one room||Adherence to social distancing norms in the seating arrangements made for the SSC (10th class) Board exams scheduled from July 10 in the State has increased the number of exam centres from 2,882 to 4,154. The exams were postponed, first because the dates overlapped with the local body elections and later because of the spread of the Coronavirus resulting in complete lockdown. “In each room, only 10 to 12 students will be made to sit and write the exam,” said Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh, at a review meeting he held with the department officials on the SSC examination on Tuesday. Students would be given masks and sanitisers, while teachers in the exam centres would be provided with gloves. The Minister said nearly eight lakh masks and 4,500 thermal scanners would be made available at the centres. He said utmost care had been taken to ensure that no exam centre was located in a containment zone. Even if a ‘positive’ case would surface in a place where an exam centre is located, it would be immediately shifted to another venue, he said. Open school exams would also be conducted in a similar way with all precautions in place, said the Minister, adding that the number of exam centres in this case too had gone up from 580 in the past to 1,022 now.  Mr. Suresh directed the officials concerned to complete the first phase of works related to Naadu-Nedu by July-end.
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||Notices to four private hospitals for inadequate COVID-19 beds||The State government has served show cause notices to four private hospitals — Bombay, Jaslok, Hinduja and Lilavati — for not providing adequate hospital beds to COVID-19 patients and flouting guidelines issued to tackle the pandemic, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday. Mr. Tope made an impromptu visit to private hospitals on Monday night, following several complaints against them. “The Maharashtra government has acquired 80% beds in private hospitals in Mumbai and Maharashtra. In addition, the government is providing free healthcare through the Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya scheme. Despite reserving 80% beds, the government has come to know of instances where hospitals denied beds to patients claiming full capacity,” the minister said. Going beyond the notices, the State Cabinet has decided to appoint an official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation at every private hospital to ensure the plan to use 80% beds for patients works smoothly, an official said. Mr. Tope said he observed that hospitals had not put up dashboards showing the availability of beds and the rate chart. “This is a violation of government rules, especially during a pandemic,” he said. Dr. Sudhakar Shinde, chief executive officer of the State Health Assurance Society, who issued the notices, said they had paid surprise visits to the four hospitals and found that the number of operational beds was less than their actual capacity. “There may be other hospitals in the city that are flouting the norms as well. Our surprise visits will continue,” he said.
03 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||Release those who have completed quarantine time, HC tells U.P. govt.||The Allahabad High Court has directed the Uttar Pradesh government to ensure that those who have completed their quarantine period and tested negative for COVID-19 be released forthwith from quarantine centres. “Persons who have completed their quarantine period and have tested negative cannot be further detained in the centres against their wishes. It would be in violation of personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution,” the court said. The court further observed, “As a guardian of the Constitution, this court has a duty to interfere whenever there is an abuse of power or usurpation of a right conferred by the Constitution.” A Division Bench of Justices Shashi Kant Gupta and Saurabh Shyam Shamshery passed the order on May 30 on a PIL filed by Shaad Anwar, a Delhi-based lawyer. Mr. Anwar had sought the release of Tablighi Jamaat members who were quarantined in U.P. after their return from the Nizamuddin event in Delhi on March 5.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Trump invites Modi for G-7 summit||U.S. President Donald Trump on Tuesday invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the next G-7 summit to be hosted by the U.S. Both the leaders also discussed the current tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) near Ladakh and the COVID-19 pandemic. “President Trump spoke about the U.S. Presidency of the Group of Seven, and conveyed his desire to expand the ambit of the grouping beyond the existing membership, to include other important countries including India. In this context he extended an invitation to Prime Minister Modi to attend the next G-7 Summit,” said a government press release. Sources here indicated that India is studying the gesture and will examine if the invite is aimed at making India a permanent part of the global high table at the G-7 or its redesigned shape as G-11. In the next three years, India is expected to play a key role in global diplomatic arena because of its three-year term at the executive board of the World Health Organization which is a crucial responsibility because of the COVID-19 pandemic.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,||State sees biggest spike||Karnataka recorded its biggest spike of COVID-19 cases on a single day on Tuesday, with 388 people testing positive. With this, the total touched 3,796. As many as 363 of the new cases are returnees from Maharashtra. Two districts — Udupi and Kalaburagi — recorded 150 and 100 cases, respectively, the highest on a single day. Udupi now has the highest number of active cases at 346. Kalaburagi follows with 270 active cases. According to the State’s health bulletin, the total number of cases in Udupi and Kalaburagi have crossed 400 now. All those who tested positive on Tuesday from these two districts are Maharashtra returnees. Udupi was in the 18th place and had just three cases from March-end to May 15. The numbers started going up from May 17 when the first returnee from Maharashtra tested positive in the district. Among the cases on Tuesday, 51 are from Belagavi district, 16 from Raichur district, 12 from Bengaluru Urban, and 10 from Bidar district.
03 June 2020||UDUPI,||Udupi records 150 cases in a single day||As many as 150 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Tuesday. This is the highest spike in COVID-19 cases in a single day in the district. According to the district administration, all the 150 persons have travel history from Maharashtra. The number of COVID-19 cases has more than doubled when compared to June 1, when the district recorded 73 cases. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said here that of the 150 persons who tested positive, 120 were male and 30 female. This also included nine children aged less than 10. All these persons had been shifted to the designated hospitals for treatment. With 150 cases on Tuesday, the total number of persons who have tested positive in the district since March has touched 410. There are 345 active cases.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Phased reopening of schools proposed||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has proposed to start schools in a phased manner from July 1. However, a final decision will be taken only after consultations with all stakeholders. It has proposed that classes four to seven will commence from July 1, while classes one to three and eight to 10 can resume on July 15. Pre-primary classes have been tentatively slated to start on July 20. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar at a meeting on Tuesday said that the opinion of parents will be collected between June 10 and June 12. Many parents, however, had recently signed a petition that schools should not be reopened until there are no COVID-19 cases. “If a majority of parents do not agree with the dates proposed, they can suggest reopening dates they are comfortable with,” said K.G. Jagadeesha, Commissioner for Public Instruction.
03 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagan’s Delhi visit cancelled||Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s scheduled visit to New Delhi on Tuesday was cancelled at the last minute. According to information, Mr. Jagan was supposed to leave by a flight from Gannnavaram airport near here at 10 a.m. but a change in Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s schedule prompted him to drop his plans. He was also scheduled to meet other Union Ministers, including Gajendra Shekhawat holding the Jal Shakti portfolio, during his visit.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||More structural reforms on the anvil, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said India would get its growth back, and promised more structural reforms that would change the “course of our country”. “Our government considers the private sector to be the partner of the country’s development journey,” he said at a CII session. “Your every need related to a self-reliant India campaign will be taken care of. I request you [industry] to come up with a detailed study of every sector. Build consensus. Develop concepts, think big. We will together take up more structural reforms that will change the course of our country.”
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,||‘KSBC needs to act against troubling advocates’||The Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday said that the Karnataka State Bar Council (KSBC) will have to initiate disciplinary action against a small number of advocates who are creating trouble in the smooth operation of courts, as per the Standard Operating Procedure issues for containing COVID-19.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 affects projects at KIA||The construction of Terminal II at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) will not be completed by April 1, 2021 as planned. Work on the project had come to a halt on account of the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown. With migrants heading to their hometowns, labour too may pose a problem.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,||RS polls: Cong., JD(S) to come together again?||The Congress and Janata Dal (Secular), which severed ties after their poor performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, are likely to forge ties once again in the elections to four Rajya Sabha seats, scheduled to be held on June 19. Sources in the Congress indicated that the party was considering the candidature of veteran leader M. Mallikarjun Kharge, given his vast parliamentary experience.
03 June 2020||New Delhi,||Capital sees record 1,298 COVID-19 cases||Delhi registered 1,298 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 22,132. This is the biggest single-day jump in the number of cases in the city so far. Also, 33 more deaths have been reported, pushing the toll to 556.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tahir Hussain incited Delhi riots: police||Delhi Police on Tuesday filed two chargesheets in connection with the north-east Delhi riots. In the first chargesheet, suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain has been accused of being the mastermind behind the violence; in the other, several Pinjra Tod members have been accused of causing and taking part in the riots.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC stays HC proceedings on Navlakha bail plea||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered a stay of proceedings on a petition for bail filed by civil rights campaigner Gautam Navlakha in the Delhi High Court in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon violence case.
03 June 2020||New Delhi,||Manu Sharma released three years early||Convict Manu Sharma, who was serving a life sentence in the 1999 Jessica Lal murder case, was released from Tihar jail on Monday after L-G Anil Baijal approved his premature release. Sharma’s term was till May 6, 2023.
03 June 2020||RAICHUR/YADGIR,||21 fresh COVID-19 cases in Raichur, Yadgir||As many as 21 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were registered in Raichur and Yadgir districts on Tuesday. Of the 21, 16 are from Raichur and the remaining from Yadgir. With the 16 fresh cases, the total in Raichur has gone up to 233. The total positive cases in Yadgir district has gone up to 290. All the 21 persons who tested positive in Raichur and Yadgir districts on Tuesday are Maharashtra returnees.
03 June 2020||RAICHUR,||Police station in Deodurg sealed||Deodurg Police Station was sealed after a police constable attached to the police station tested positive for COVID-19, Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy has said in a press release. Dr. Vedamurthy further stated that the entire police station was sanitised after the constable reported positive and the station sealed. The constable has been shifted to the designated hospital in Raichur. Efforts are on to identify the primary and secondary contacts, he added. Dr. Vedamurthy said that police station will temporarily function from a room nearby.
03 June 2020||Chennai,||We don’t get lab reports of patients, say doctors||Government doctors treating patients in COVID-19 wards have complained that they had no access to laboratory reports of patients. Many of them say that the result is communicated orally or sent as messages on mobile phones by heads of departments or deans, and a copy of the result was not available in the wards.
03 June 2020||Thoothukudi,||Ship with 713 Indians arrives from Sri Lanka||Maharashtra reported another spike of 2,287 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday to take the State’s cumulative tally to 72,300. The total number of fatalities rose to 2,465 with 103 more deaths. Mumbai recorded 1,117 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, pushing its tally to 42,216. The city also recorded 49 fatalities, the third-highest jump in a day, taking its death toll to 1,368. State Health Department officials said of the total cases in Maharashtra, only 38,493 were active. As many as 1,225 patients were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total so far to 31,333. The State’s recovery rate currently stands at 43.33%, they said.
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||Cyclone to disrupt train, airline operations||In the wake of Cyclone Nisarga, several special trains reaching or leaving the city on Wednesday will be diverted or rescheduled. Trains that will be diverted include Tuesday's Ernakulam-Hazrat Nizamuddin special, Thiruvananthapuram Central-LTT special, and New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Central special. Wednesday's LTT–Thiruvananthapuram Central special is rescheduled to leave at 6 p.m. Flight operations are also likely to be affected, with Mumbai airport likely to limit arrivals and departures. Airport authorities convened a meeting with stakeholders to devise preventive measures to tackle potential adversities accompanied by the cyclone.
03 June 2020||Chennai,||State has sufficient COVID-19 test kits: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday denied DMK leader M.K. Stalin’s allegation that the government had provided misleading information on the availability of COVID-19 testing kits. Addressing the media, he said: “There has been no wrongdoing. The government has adequate test kits.”
03 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||As States begin to unlock, five die of virus||As lockdown curbs eased, Kerala reported 86 new positive cases of COVID-19 and one death on Tuesday. While 72 were imported cases - people returning from abroad and other States - 12 people reportedly caught the virus through contact with known or unknown sources of infection. Another health worker in Palakkad also contracted the disease. Karnataka recorded its biggest spike of COVID-19 cases for a single day on Tuesday, with 388 testing positive. With this, the total touched 3,796. Returnees from Maharashtra made up 363 of the new cases. In Kerala, a 77-year-old priest who died while under treatment at Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, was confirmed to have had COVID-19. He originally underwent neurosurgery following a road accident. Kerala also reported the recovery of 19 people from COVID-19 on Tuesday. The new cases in the State were distributed as follows : Malappuram 15; Alappuzha 10; Kasaragod 9; Kollam 8; Thiruvananthapuram 7; Kottayam, Thrissur, and Wayanad 6 each; Palakkad, Kozhikode and Kannur 5 each; Ernakulam 3 and Pathanamthitta 1. There were 774 active cases and 11 deaths in all. So far, 627 persons had recovered. In other data, it was officially stated that 1,47,010 persons were under State surveillance, with 1,45,670 in home or institutional quarantine and 1,340 isolated in hospitals. On Tuesday, 200 persons were hospitalised. COVID-19 cases in A.P. more than doubled in a month between May 2 and June 2 from 1,525 to 3,200. Over the month, cases in Srikakulam, East Godavari shot up four-fold and in Visakhapatnam, Chittoor and Anantapur, there was a two-fold rise. Nellore had a spike of 190% while in West Godavari and Vizianagaram, cases doubled. At least eight of the 13 districts witnessed more than 100% increase during the same period. As of June 2, the district wise cases excluding foreign returnee and migrant returnee cases were: Kurnool (728), Guntur (519), Krishna (481), Chittoor (264), Nellore (261), East Godavari (243), Anantapur (223), West Godavari (123), Kadapa (105), Prakasam (80), Srikakulam (28) and Vizianagaram (26). Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh added 115 COVID-19 cases of which 82 were of locals, an official bulletin said. The remaining 33 cases were those of migrant returnees and those from other states. Two Karnataka districts — Udupi and Kalaburgi — recorded 150 and 100 cases respectively, the highest on a single day. Udupi rose to top spot in active cases at 346. Kalaburgi followed with 270 active cases, sending Bengaluru Urban to third place. A State health bulletin said cases in Udupi and Kalaburgi had crossed 400. All those who tested positive on Tuesday in these areas were Maharashtra returnees. Among the new cases, 51 were from Belagavi, 16 from Raichur, 12 from Bengaluru Urban, and ten from Bidar. Tamil Nadu’s overall tally of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) cases tipped the 24,000-mark with another 1,091 being reported on Tuesday.The State’s toll rose to 197 with 13 fatalities.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Worst is yet to come, says Rahul on economy||Former Congress party chief Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said Moody’s Investors Service had rated Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the economy only ‘a step above junk’, and cautioned that the worst was yet to come. “Moody’s has rated Modi’s handling of India’s economy a step above JUNK. Lack of support to the poor and the MSME sector means the worst is yet to come,” Mr. Gandhi posted on Twitter, a day after the international ratings agency downgraded India’s sovereign credit rating to ‘Baa3’ from ‘Baa2’. In a separate online press conference, former Lok Sabha MP and the Congress’s Punjab chief Sunil Jakhar demanded that the the minimum support price (MSP) be made a legally binding right for farmers, asserting that the Centre’s announcements on MSP, including Monday’s, mostly remained on paper. Except for wheat and paddy, which were procured by government agencies, most farm produce was being sold at lower rates in the open market resulting in the farmers losing out, he said. “The intention of the government is doubtful. If it wants to help the farmer, give him the due price for his farm produce. If the MSP is declared and the farmer does not get it for his crops, then the Prime Minister’s promise of doubling farmers’ income will remain a pipe dream,” said Mr. Jakhar. He also questioned why the Centre was yet to notify the report of the Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP) on fixing the MSPs of various crops, and called it a ‘betrayal of farmers’. The Congress leader slammed the government’s logic of offering loans to farmers who were committing suicide because of debt burden, and urged the Centre to waive off their loans and provide them cash assistance.
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||Nisarga: patients shifted as precaution||The Brihanamumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) on Tuesday shifted nearly 250 COVID-19 patients from the temporary facility at Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) ground to the COVID centre at the NSCI Centre, a permanent structure in Worli as a precautionary measure ahead of the landfall of severe cyclone Nisarga on Wednesday. The facility had been built by the MMRDA to cater to non-critical COVID-19 patients and was handed over to the BMC last month. The 1,008 bed facility received its first set of patients on May 25. The cyclone is likely to intensify into a severe cyclonic storm with projected windspeeds of about 110 kmph by Wednesday afternoon as it makes landfall. Thereafter the system will weaken to a less severe ‘deep depression’ according to the IMD’s. This is the first cyclone to form near Mumbai in the Arabian Sea since 1882. Airport safety The Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) said special precautions have been taken for smaller and lighter aircraft typically used for general aviation as they are vulnerable to strong winds. Some aircraft have flown out of Mumbai until the cyclone passes while others have been asked to park inside the hangar. “The airport has ensured that minimum aircraft are parked on the apron. The airport is closely coordinating with IMD to monitor the progress/dissipation of adverse weather. Arrangements for 24/7 food to be available to passengers and setting up of a dedicated team has been made,” a spokeserson said. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation issued a circular to airlines and pilots on Tuesday, reiterating its guidelines on adverse weather operations. “Domestic aviation activities have recently been started after a period of two months. Operators and individuals have a challenge at hand in restarting flying after a prolonged period of non-flying and the associated weather at this time of the year across India,” said the DGCA. The circular was being issued to operators and pilots to reiterate some existing guidelines on adverse weather operations and suggested measures “to cater for the gap in flying of pilots”, it said. “Fuel uplift calculation should be done very judiciously and it should take into account enroute and destination weather and trend forecast,” the DGCA said.  (With PTI inputs)
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Depsang tensions echo 2013 stand-off||Reports of a heavy Chinese presence at Depsang, an area at a crucial dip (called the Bulge) on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), have increased tensions between Indian and Chinese troops, sources aware of the month-long stand-off at various points in Ladakh and Sikkim said. The ADGPI, the Army’s public relations wing, has declined to comment on reports over Depsang. According to the sources, PLA troops have pitched tents in the area in the past few days, while equipment, LAVs and a “large number” of tanks can be seen further back in area that China controls. The “Depsang plain” is one of the few places in the Western Sector where light armour (vehicles) would have ease of manoeuvre, so any Chinese build-up there is a cause for concern, military experts say. The build-up invokes memories of both the 1962 war, when Chinese troops had occupied all of the Depsang plains, and more recently, April 2013, when the PLA crossed the LAC and pitched tents on the Indian side for three weeks, before they agreed to pull out. Two-pronged strategy “In 2013, we managed to ensure the exit of Chinese troops using both diplomatic and political pressure,” former National Security Adviser Shiv Shankar Menon told The Hindu , speaking about the two-pronged measures that were used to push the PLA troops back over the LAC at the time. According to Mr. Menon, India insisted at the time that not only did the troops need to move back from the ‘stand-off point’, but they also verified the ‘end point’ of the withdrawal so as to avoid any repeat incursions. “We refused to negotiate until the status quo was restored at the LAC, and we were told exactly where the troops would move back to. Meanwhile, we stopped talking to the Chinese side about a planned visit by Chinese Premier Li, a message that if the standoff didn’t end, the visit would be off,” said Mr. Menon. He was the NSA and Special Representative (SR) for boundary talks from 2010-2014, and had spoken to the Chinese SR Yang Jiechi, while present External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar was India’s Ambassador to China and negotiated the Depsang crisis with his counterparts in Beijing. As part of upgrading defences in Ladakh, beginning 2014 India started deploying tank regiments consisting of T-72s in Eastern Ladakh. This comes from the bitter experience of 1962 war when six AMX-13 tanks were airlifted to Ladakh in AN-12 transport aircraft but they failed to make any significant impact as the crew were not acclimatised to the environment and the tanks were not equipped to operate in the rarefied atmosphere. One tank regiment was deployed in 2014 and another in 2016 with the eventual objective of having a full brigade. According to Mr. Menon, the present stand-off on the LAC would need to be negotiated differently, given changes in the current situation from 2013, as well as the fact that the stand-off has dragged on for more than double the time than it took to resolve seven years ago. In addition, there are at this point more than four areas where Indian and China soldiers are locked in the stand-off, including at the Galwan river valley, Pangong Tso (lake) and Naku la, while several other points on the LAC have seen significantly larger Indian and Chinese troop presence. Sources said most of the troops that were moved over the past few weeks have finished their acclimatisation and have been deployed to counter the Chinese build-up along the Galwan Valley, larger Hot Spring Area and the Finger Area of the Pangong Lake. When asked, Mr. Menon said the government’s current position of making no comment on the ongoing stand-off was conducive to negotiations, which had enabled the PLA withdrawal from Depsang in 2013. “The key to arriving at a successful outcome was keeping public rhetoric calm and steady, displaying strength, and giving the adversary a way out, which was our preferred solution,” said Mr. Menon, who is also the author of Choices: Inside the Making of India’s Foreign Policy , published in 2018.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP sets sights on M.P. byelections||The BJP’s announcement that Union Home Minister Amit Shah will kick off the party’s preparation for the Bihar Assembly polls (technically scheduled for October-November), on June 9 with a “virtual rally” has also focused attention on Madhya Pradesh, which is due to have bypolls to 24 Assembly seats, again, technically to be held by September latest. The 24 seats include 22 vacated by former Congress MLAs when former Union Minister Jyotiraditya Scindhia joined the BJP from the Congress. Two seats fell vacant on the death of sitting MLAs. Planning ahead “Technically, the polls have to be held before September and looking at the prep in Bihar, you can see that we are getting ready as though polls will be held on time in both places,” said a senior source in the State. “The Election Commission’s decision to hold Rajya Sabha polls to three seats in the State on June 19 has pushed back the Cabinet expansion, which was earlier supposed to be held this week,” said the source. The biggest problem for it, according to the BJP, has been that a majority of the seats going to bypolls are in the Gwalior area, an old stomping ground of the Scindia family. Politics in this area has been defined by where you stand with regard to the mahal or palace, that is, the Scindias’ traditional leadership. Despite Vijayaraje Scindia being one of the founders of the BJP, the party’s politics in the area has been largely antagonistic to the palace, specifically the Congress part of the Scindia family. The BJP, according to sources, moved strategically when it realised that Mr. Scindia wanted to join them. “From the beginning, we kept Narendra Singh Tomar (Union Agriculture Minister and MP from the area), and Yashodhara Raje (Mr. Scindia’s aunt and a former minister in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government), in the loop ... to ensure that no one felt insecure at this very high-profile — and for Madhya Pradesh a paradigm-shifting — induction,” said the source, adding, “the BJP being a cadre based party, the leaders were brought on board without too much issue.” The real problem, the sources said, would occur at the level of the rank and file, where cadre fights get more personal. Congress rebels will have to be given bypoll ticket and much heartburn was expected among the party’s old cadre and aspirants over this. “We have been talking to many of them and a message has been delivered [to the cadre] very clearly – if you work to defeat the party, the government will fall, and Congress may return, how will that help you?” said the source. Speaking to The Hindu , national vice president of the BJP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, who is also in charge of Madhya Pradesh, said: “... as a political party we are prepared to face them whenever they [the polls] happen.”
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||NDRF sends in reinforcements||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Tuesday deployed more personnel to tackle the possible devastation that Cyclone Nisarga could cause in the city. The Mumbai Police, meanwhile, issued fresh prohibitory orders forbidding any assembly on promenades and beaches in the city. The NDRF had on Monday placed three teams on standby in Mumbai, two each in Palghar and Raigad, and one each in Thane, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. On Tuesday, the teams on standby were deployed to various spots in their respective locations, while five more teams were added. Two more teams were sent to Raigad, one more to Thane and one each in Ratnagiri and one to Navi Mumbai. “Of the four teams in Raigad, three are deployed at Alibaug. One team is currently on reserve, while five more are on their way to Maharashtra from Vishakapatnam, which will also be deployed as soon as they reach. Provisions have been made to airlift extra teams from Hyderabad if the need is felt ,” NDRF Commandant Anupam Srivastava said. Special equipment The NDRF has provided all its personnel with special equipment to ensure zero direct contact with civilians in light of the COVID-19 protocols. The teams have already been briefed on precautions to be followed in this regard. The police issued ban orders under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The orders will remain in effect from Wednesday midnight to Thursday midnight.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Remdesivir cleared for ‘emergency use’||Antiviral drug Remdesivir has been cleared for treatment of COVID-19 patients “under emergency use,” the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday, adding that the decision was based on available evidence. The Ministry denied any under-reporting of COVID-19 deaths in the country. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) scientist Nivedita Gupta said India was still far from reaching the peak. “There is no gross under-reporting of deaths in India. We have been good in terms of reduction in mortality, compared to other countries. It is not fair to attribute every death to COVID.” The Health Ministry said that with the number of cases rising, “each State government has been given an estimated case surge based on analysis of the COVID trends across India and States have been asked to prepare their medical infrastructure accordingly”. “Our focus is to increase the number of beds with oxygen support as very few patients need ICU and ventilator support,” said Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry. 8,816 new cases The country on Tuesday topped the two-lakh mark, registering 8,816 new cases, according to data from the State Health Departments. The overall tally now stands at 2,07,057, of which 1,02,989 are active cases, while 98,244 people have recovered from the disease. The death toll rose to 5,824, with 220 new fatalities. According to the ICMR, the total number of samples tested on Tuesday was 1,28,868, going up from 1,00,180 on June 1, when India recorded 7,643 cases. To a question on where the country stood in terms of community transmission, Dr. Gupta said: “Instead of the use of the word ‘community transmission’, we need to understand the extent of the spread of the disease. ICMR is conducting sero survey to determine the extent of transmission of virus. About 34,000 individuals are being tested and the results are expected to be out within a week or so.” Recovery rate improving The Ministry noted that recovery rate was improving and the fatality rate was going down. “Ten per cent of India’s population accounts for 50% of the COVID-19 linked deaths,” noted the Ministry. It added that the recovery rate was more than 48% now. “Wrong conclusion is being drawn when we say that in terms of number of cases, our country is in the seventh place worldwide. Comparison should be made primary in terms of our population size,” said Mr. Agarwal.
03 June 2020||Ahmedabad,||Nine districts in Gujarat put on alert||Seven districts in south Gujarat and two in Saurashtra region have been put on high alert with the deployment of 11 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams to deal with cyclonic storm Nisarga which has formed in the Arabian Sea. The State authorities have asked fishermen to avoid venturing into the sea while all beaches have been closed for public. In addition to the NDRF teams, the State government has also deployed five teams of SDRF while more teams with equipment have been put in standby mode in nearby districts to deal with any eventuality. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had a video conference with Chief Minister Vijay Rupani about preparations being done by the State authorities. The government has directed coastal districts to evacuate people from low-lying areas and those residing near the coastline. Indoors is best As the cyclone is likely to hit the coastal areas of the State on June 3, the administration has appealed to people particularly in districts of Surat, Navsari, Valsad, Bharuch in south Gujarat and Bhavnagar and Amreli in Saurashtra to stay indoors and not go near the sea. Several parts of the State, including Bhavnagar and Ahmedabad, witnessed light showers and thunderstorms on Monday night.
03 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||HC notice to U.P. on post-testing norm||The Allahabad High Court has directed the Uttar Pradesh government to ensure that those who have completed their quarantine period and tested negative be released forthwith from quarantine centres. “Persons who have completed their quarantine period and have tested negative cannot be further detained in the centres against their wishes. It would be in violation of personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution”, the court said. The court further observed, “As a guardian of the Constitution, this court has a duty to interfere whenever there is an abuse of power or usurpation of a right conferred by the Constitution”. A Division Bench of Justices Shashi Kant Gupta and Saurabh Shyam Shamshery passed the order on May 30 on a PIL filed by Shaad Anwar. Mr. Anwar, a Delhi-based lawyer, had sought the release of Tablighi Jamaat members who were quarantined in U.P. after their return from the Nizamuddin event in Delhi on March 5. The court also directed the Chief Secretary to set up three-member committees in every district to “ensure smoother, greater and more effective functioning” of the quarantine centres. They would see that the centres were properly maintained, controlled and administered. They would provide help and guidance in the wake of difficulties and problems faced by the inmates and ensure that those who had completed their quarantine period were released forthwith.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Attach special bogies for migrant workers: High Court||Coordinate with the railways to enhance number of Shramik Special trains for migrant workers of not just neighbouring States but to that of Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh as well, Telangana High Court on Tuesday instructed the State government. If more Shramik trains are not available, request the authorities to attach four bogies specially for migrant workers to the special trains being operated by the railways. ‘Use buses’ Issuing directions in two public interest litigation (PIL) petitions over plight of migrant and brick kiln workers, the Telangana High Court bench made it clear that labourers travelling in Shramik trains should not be charged any fares in compliance with the Supreme Court’s recent directions. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy also told the Telangana government to “seriously consider the use of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) buses to transport migrant workers from different parts of the State to their respective States. Guest workers willing to reach their destinations by buses plied at inter-State level also should not be charged any fare as per apex court directions,” the Telangana High Court bench said. Since the non-local workers were illiterate and cannot understand local Telugu language, the government should make registration process simpler along with data collection for their journeys through Shramik trains, special trains or buses, the High Court bench ordered the State government. ‘Evolve a policy’ “Evolve a comprehensive policy to deal with the migrant workers, both at present and even in the future, since a disaster can strike the State or nation unannounced,” the Telangana High Court directed the State government. Referring to the plight of non-local labourers working at brick kilns, the bench instructed all deputy commissioners of labour to visit brick kilns in their respective jurisdiction, ascertain how many are working there and those wishing to return to their native places. The Principal Secretary of Labour Department should identify brick kiln workers wishing to go back to their places, bring them to city or any nearest convenient places and house them comfortably in shelter homes. “Their food, water, shelter, hygiene and medical requirements” should be met with adequately, the High Court directed the State government.  Serve migrants well  Provide nutritious food to pregnant women, lactating mothers, children and elderly persons at shelter homes for migrant workers. Coordinate with and inform neighbouring States about arrival of migrant workers at border check-points. Advocate General to submit a report on steps taken by government on HC directions.
03 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Proposed BSF firing range in fresh row||A proposed firing range for the Border Security Force (BSF) has become the trigger for unrest in northern Tripura’s Kanchanpur Subdivision over the rehabilitation of Bru tribal people displaced from adjoining Mizoram. Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga has also waded into the standoff by pointing out to his Tripura counterpart that settling the Brus in Mizo-inhabited areas of Tripura would have “repercussions in Mizoram” and defeat the very purpose of the January 16 rehabilitation agreement. On May 29, members of Nagarik Suraksha Mancha – a Bengali organisation – prevented a government team from going to the Manu-Chailengta area for surveying 15 hectares of land to be diverted for the proposed largest firing range for paramilitary forces in the Northeast. “Certain groups don’t want the BSF firing range that would have brought in associated development and blocked a corridor for extremists. We cannot let the Brus be settled until our people victimised over the years and forced to live in relief camps locally are given back their lands,” said Ranjit Nath, the president of the Mancha. The Mancha has formed the Joint Movement Committee with the Tripura Mizo Convention, the organisation representing the Mizo tribe in Jampui Hills within the subdivision. The Convention leaders said their protest will continue till the government looks beyond their area for the rehabilitation of some 35,000 Bru refugees across seven relief camps. Leaders of the Joint Movement Committee were called by North Tripura District Magistrate Raval H. Kumar on Wednesday. But the meeting has been postponed after a person at Naisingpara tested positive for COVID-19. The All India Chakma Social Forum has asked Mr. Zoramthanga not to disturb the delicate communal harmony in Tripura.
03 June 2020||KOCHI,||Malayalam producers not keen on film release on OTT platform||Only three Malayalam film producers have expressed their wish to opt for a straight-to-OTT (over-the-top) release instead of waiting for cinemas to reopen amidst the current pandemic crisis, according to a poll held by the Kerala Film Producers’ Association (KFPA). They figure among the 48 producers who responded to the poll as of Tuesday. Nearly 20 movies were ready for release when the COVID-19 outbreak hit normal life two months ago and cinema halls were forced to down shutters. More than 30 movies were at various stages of post-production. “I would not like to reveal the names of the producers or the movies as it may affect their chances of securing an OTT release. Any digital platforms have not yet approached them. All the three movies have been made on a low budget,” KFPA president M. Renjith told The Hindu . “A majority of the producers are ready to wait till the situation turns normal. We had earlier taken a position that OTT release was an option for producers who wanted to tide over the financial crisis in this unprecedented situation by going for a direct-to-digital release,” said KFPA treasurer B. Rakesh. The KFPA had sent letters to the producers of over 50 movies who were not able to release their works owing to the pandemic crisis asking them whether they would like to opt for digital release or wait till the cinemas reopen. Exhibitors had opposed the straight-to-OTT release stating that it would dent their prospects. The differences between the producers and exhibitors on the issue were resolved following a meeting convened by the Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce on May 27. The war of words over the OTT release emerged after the makers of Sufiyum Sujathayum announced on May 15 that the film would skip its theatre release and go for a direct-to-digital premiere on Amazon Prime Video. It figured among seven Bollywood and regional movies acquired by the OTT platform in this COVID-19 situation.
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||Railways keeping a close watch||The Mumbai divisions of Western Railway and Central Railway have taken a series of precautions in the city in light of Cyclone Nisarga. While no trains have been cancelled yet, officials said they were monitoring the situation closely and would take call on regulating or short terminating trains if the need arose. The Railways on Monday had partially resumed timetabled long-distance services to several parts of the country with many trains either starting from Mumbai or being routed via the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. According to the protocols laid down by the WR, which runs parallel to the coast from Mumbai to Gujarat, trains would be allowed to operate as long as wind speeds remain under 72 kmph. Senior WR officials said that wind speeds were being monitored using two anemometers at Bhayander and Vaitarna stations, which had been calibrated and were being monitored continuously. Chief Public Relations Officer, WR, Ravinder Bhakar, said that they were in constant touch with the India Meteorological Department and civic agencies. “We are closely monitoring the situation. We have staff patrolling sections,” he added.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||KCR confident of speedy resolution of pending issues||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao exuded confidence that long-pending issues faced by people of Telangana, which formed the basis for the struggle for separate statehood, are heading for speedy resolution after the formation of Telangana State. Farming sector which was in dire straits in erstwhile united State improved significantly and the State was leading the country in terms of agricultural productivity. Problems pertaining to drinking water have been resolved with innovative projects like Mission Bhagiratha while the State was making rapid strides in different sectors. The Chief Minister made these remarks after unfurling the national flag to mark the sixth State Formation Day at Pragathi Bhavan on Tuesday. Mr. Rao earlier paid tributes at the Martyrs' memorial at Gun Park. The State Formation Day celebrations were on a low key with no large gatherings allowed in view of the COVID pandemic. The Chief Minister expressed satisfaction that the State made rapid strides in education, health, Information Technology and industrial sectors while it achieved several milestones in the irrigation sector. The State was progressing on expected lines ever since it was carved out and it was expected to achieve accelerated progress on different fronts in the coming days, he said. Mr. Rao greeted people on the State Formation Day and said the government would rededicate itself for the all round progress of the people in the coming days. Legislative Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy hoisted the national flag at the legislature premises and garlanded the statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar on Tuesday morning. Speaking on the occasion, he said Statehood for Telangana could be achieved after decades-long struggle and the movement launched by Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao who remained unrelenting till the dream was fulfilled. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar led the administrative machinery in celebrating the State Formation Day. Accompanied by special chief secretaries, principal secretaries and other senior officials, Mr. Kumar hoisted the tricolour at the BRKR Bhavan, the State secretariat.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC stays Delhi HC proceedings on Navlakha bail application||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered a stay of proceedings on a petition for bail filed by civil rights campaigner Gautam Navlakha in the Delhi High Court in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon violence case. A Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra passed the stay order merely a week after a Single Judge Bench of Justice Anup Bhambhani of the Delhi High Court questioned the “inexplicable, frantic hurry” with which the National Investigation Agency (NIA) shifted Mr. Navlakha out of Delhi to Mumbai. The NIA officer had explained that its “hurry” to get production warrants was done in the background of the uncertainty surrounding the lockdown and availability of inter-State flights. The High Court had asked the NIA to file an affidavit and a “complete copy” of the proceedings for Mr. Navlakha’s production warrant before the Special Judge (NIA), Mumbai. The High Court had fixed the hearing for June 3. Following this development, the NIA urgently challenged the May 27 order in the Supreme Court. On Tuesday, in a virtual court hearing, the top court issued notice to Mr. Navlakha and listed the case after 15 days.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,||H.K. Patil to hold meeting with Speaker to resolve hurdles||The State legislature’s Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairman H.K. Patil has decided to hold a one-to-one meeting with Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri to overcome hurdles on the proposed committee’s visit to various health facilities and probe into alleged corruption in the procurement of COVID-19 equipment. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Patil said the PAC held a meeting with its members and discussed various options before it to convince the Speaker about his order on stalling the PAC’s probe into alleged siphoning of public funds in the procurement of devices and protective equipment to fight COVID-19 by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. A few days ago. Mr. Kageri issued an order to stop PAC’s probe into alleged corruption in the procurement of COVID-19 equipment by government agencies. In a letter to the Speaker, Mr. Patil alleged that Mr. Kageri’s order was “tantamount to promoting corruption and curtailing rights and privileges of legislators and members of the PAC”. However, the Speaker’s office said that the visit was stopped in the wake of lockdown and spread of the contagious disease. Former Assembly Speaker and panel members K.R. Ramesh Kumar (Congress), K.G. Bopaiah (BJP), and A.T. Ramaswamy (JD-S) were among the members who attended the meeting that authorised committee’s chairman to hold the meeting with the Speaker to resolve the differences.
03 June 2020||Malappuram,||Death of Class X girl triggers protests||The suspected suicide of a Class X girl student hailing from an impoverished Dalit family in Malappuram on Monday has triggered a political controversy in the State. The incident has raised questions whether the government commenced online classes in haste on June 1 without ensuring that students from the lower rungs of society have the means to access the digital method of remote learning. Opposition student organisations confronted the government with the charge that the victim, daughter of a daily wages labourer financially ruined by the current lockdown, had committed suicide as she could not attend classes remotely. The family had no smartphone and their television was faulty. Law enforcers caned Muslim Student Federation (MSF) activists who marched to the office of the Deputy Director of Education (DDE) in Malappuram on Tuesday demanding that the government suspend the online classes till the State ensured that every child had equal access to e-learning. (DDE K.S. Kusumam said out of eight lakh students in Malappuram, the most populated district in the State, 64,000 currently did not have facilities for online classes.) The Kerala Students Union (KSU) and the Fraternity Movement held separate protests in Kozhikode. The Youth Congress attempted to lay siege to the Malappuram Collectorate. ‘Leave none behind’ Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala termed the suicide shocking. District Police Chief U. Abdul Kareem said primary evidence indicated that the girl had set herself ablaze between 3.30 p.m. and 5.30 p.m. near an unoccupied house a little away from her home at Irimbiliyam, near Valanchery. Her parents reportedly told the police that their daughter had been upset that she had missed the online classes on the school-reopening day. Neighbours and school friends testified that the victim was a brilliant student. A photo of her accepting an award for academic brilliance still hung on the wall of her house.
03 June 2020||PEDDAPALLI,||Four killed in blast at Singareni collieries||Four contract workers were killed and three others sustained serious injuries in an explosion at the Open Cast Project-1 of Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) of Ramagundam-3 division under Ramagiri police station limits on Tuesday. Ramagundam Commissioner of Police V Satyanarayana said the workers were drilling holes at around 10.30 a.m. to fill it with slurry (gelatine) to explode them for removal of over-burden earth from the OCP. Out of 80 holes, they had drilled 33 holes and filled slurry and the blast occurred while they were fixing the detonator. As the slurry was having high explosive content, four persons standing very close to the holes died on the spot and three sustained serious injuries. The deceased have been identified as Bandari Prem Kumar (38), S Ramesh from Godavarikhani, Billa Rajesh (42) and Anjaiah (41) from Kamanpur died on the spot and their bodies were mutilated beyond recognition in the powerful blast. Three others workers Bandi Shankar (31) from Julapalli, K Venkatesh from Kamanpur and Bheemaiah from Ratnapur sustained serious injuries and were shifted to Singareni area hospital. Venkatesh was shifted to a corporate hospital in Karimnagar town as his condition worsened. Incidentally, this is one of the worst accidents in OCP-1 in the Ramagundam coal belt region. The police have registered a case under the the Explosives Substances Act and IPC 304 sections and launched an investigation. They have seized the detonators and sent them for explosive analysis. Peddapalli MP Venkatesh Netha, Ramagundam legislator Korukanti Chander, trade union leaders Kengerla Mallaiah (BMS) Janak Prasad (INTUC) and others visited the Singareni area hospital to console the bereaved family members and the injured workers. Trade union leaders alleged that the management was responsible for the explosion as there was no supervision by the safety officer and others concerned while placing the explosive materials for taking up blasting of boulders to excavate the coal. They staged a dharna at the hospital demanding compensation of Rs. 1 crore each to the bereaved family and Rs. 50 lakh each to the injured. They also demanded employment to a member of the bereaved family and an open inquiry by the Directorate General of Mine Safety (DGMS).
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Scientists identify second most common coronavirus type in India||Scientists at multiple CSIR laboratories have identified a type of coronavirus that may be the second most prevalent in India, and may comprise 3.5% of the genomes globally. The most dominant coronavirus clade in India is the A2a, and of 213 genomes analysed by the group, 62% of them were A2a. The newly identified type, that the scientists have christened A3i, comprised 41% of those analysed. With this, there are 11 SARS-CoV-2 types identified globally, with at least six of them identified in India. The coronavirus type, or clade, is a cluster of SARS-CoV-2 viruses that share evolutionary similarities. Such classifications are useful in establishing whether certain strains are particularly virulent, spread more easily, how they are likely to evolve over time and whether some could be less vulnerable to certain kinds of vaccines. Previous studies indicate that while type O was the first ancestral family of the virus identified from China, it’s the A2a type that has emerged dominant the world over because of a mutation in its genes that allows that coronavirus’ spike to more efficiently infiltrate the lungs. “Epidemiological assessments suggest that the common ancestor [of this subtype of viruses] emerged in the month of February 2020 and possibly resulted in an outbreak followed by countrywide spread,” say the scientists from the CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in their paper that’s not yet peer-reviewed but available on the bioRxiv pre-print server for scientific criticism. So far, there is no evidence that A3i is more virulent — that is, it’s linked to more deaths. “It is too early to comment about the virulence right now. We are in the process of acquiring more data...” said Divya Tej Sowpati, a co-author of the paper.
03 June 2020||MYSURU,||Monsoon build-up in Kodagu district||There are signs of the timely onset of Southwest Monsoon in Kodagu district parts of which had extensive cloud cover and received light to moderate rains on Tuesday. The Indian Meteorological Department has forecast the monsoon to hit the State around June 5 and the build-up seem to indicate it. According to the local authorities, the district had received 6.63 mm of rainfall for the 24-hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday. for May 31 and June 1, it passed off without any significant downpour. However, the district administration has braced for the worst-case scenario as Kodagu was devastated by floods and landslides in 2018 and again in 2019. A National Disaster Response Force team has already reached the district.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Release those who have completed quarantine’||The court also directed the Chief Secretary to set up three-member committees in every district to “ensure smoother, greater and more effective functioning” of the quarantine centres. They would see that the centres were properly maintained, controlled and administered. They would provide help and guidance in the wake of difficulties and problems faced by the inmates and ensure that those who had completed their quarantine period were released forthwith.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Explain arrangement of aid to construction workers’||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the State Welfare Board to explain whether arrangements of medical facilities had been made for registered construction workers and their dependents in case they contract COVID-19. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the direction during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by former MLC Ramesh Babu. The Bench noted that Section 22 of the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996, facilitates the Board to grant financial assistance to registered workers to meet medical expenses for treatment of major ailments of a beneficiary or dependent. The Bench also directed the Board to state what efforts had been made to ensure that building and construction labourers are registered as per provisions of the Act in Karnataka. One-time relief Meanwhile, Additional Advocate General M. Dhyan Chinnappa pointed out that the Chief Minister had announced Rs. 5,000 as a one time COVID-19 relief to each registered construction worker and so far payment had been made through bank accounts to 12.39 lakh registered workers. Efforts were being made to identify the remaining. Following this, the Bench asked the government to make all endeavour to pay Rs. 5,000 to the remaining around 9 lakh workers and inform the court abut the efforts made in this regard.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Notices to four private hospitals in Mumbai||Dr. Shinde said hospitals are facing a peculiar situation due to shortage of staff. Many healthcare workers are infected with the SARS-CoV-2, while others face difficulties in reaching their workplace due to the lockdown. “We have been requesting private hospitals to oblige as much as possible because of the emergency that we are facing. They have to contribute much more in such a situation,” Dr. Shinde said. A statement from Hinduja hospital said, “Currently, we are in adherence to all the provisions laid down by the State health regulators and are in the process of replying to the notice issued suitably.” It said the hospital fully supports the government in the fight against the pandemic and has built suitable facilities for COVID-19 treatment. Dr Gautam Bhansali from Bombay Hospital said, “We are in the process of meeting all the points highlighted by the Health Minister after his surprise visit. On Tuesday, we have added 15 more ICU beds for COVID-19 patients taking the total ICU beds to 42.” Jaslok and Lilavati hospitals did not respond to queries from The Hindu .
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||LAC row robs Ladakh’s herders of pastures||Since 2017, the vital winter grazing grounds of Guntcsay Phu-Tagapank Nak low-lying belt has witnessed heightened tension between the Indian and Chinese armies. “Already 35 metres of grazing range has been encroached in the belt by the Chinese Army this year,” said Mr. Dorjey. The PLA, according to the villagers, has already stopped the centuries old nomadic movement to low-lying winter pastures on the otherwise fluid border or Line of Actual Control (LAC). “The Chinese army used helicopters to maintain a vigil on grazers in Chuchol-Gunso belt. Even the food stocks kept in shelters for seasonal migration was taken away. There is already a motorable road constructed opposite Chumur with a nallah (stream) in between,” he added. The villagers claim the shrinking of grazing pastures is impacting their prized Pashmina herds this year and the mortality among the newborns has gone up. “Around 70-80% of the kids are finding it hard to survive,” Mr. Dorjey said. The Chushol-Demchok-Chumur belt border areas are home to the maximum number of Pashmina goats, which graze at altitudes above 13,000 feet, and the belt contributed 25 to 30 tonnes out of 45-50 tonnes of the finest wool produced annually in Ladakh.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||21 killed in Assam landslips||“We have asked the district authorities to leave no stone unturned to provide relief for the survivors and others who have been affected,” Mr. Sonowal said. Apart from shifting the injured, personnel of the National Disaster Response Force and the State Disaster Response Force evacuated 11 people from vulnerable area Hailakandi’s Additional Deputy Commissioner R.K. Dam said the houses of two families bore the brunt of the landslips at two locations in the district. Four of the dead were minors. Till Monday, floods across 11 districts in Assam’s Brahmaputra Valley had killed nine people. There was no casualty on Tuesday. Two people also drowned in Meghalaya in May. A landslide had killed three people — a woman and her two children — in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley district more than a week ago.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||China made significant deployment: Rajnath||“There will hardly be a year when there is no face-off on the border between both the Indian Army and the Chinese Army,” Mr. Singh said. Sometimes there had been such tensions that firearms had been snatched, he noted. For close to a month now, Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in stand-offs at several locations along the LAC after Chinese troops moved into Indian territory at Pangong Tso, Galwan Nalah, Hot Springs in eastern Ladakh and Naku La in Sikkim. Chinese troops have set up tents and brought in equipment inside at some places while also building up presence close to Indian positions on their side of the border. Mr. Singh later said on Twitter quoting the interview that India’s negotiation with China was on and so he “would not like to express doubts.” “If the issue is resolved through dialogue then what else can be a good thing,” he said and added that the ‘forehead of India’ would not bend under any circumstances.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump invites Modi for G-7 summit||While the invite from President Trump is for the upcoming summit, which has been postponed from June, sources indicated that they will argue for not just a change in G-7 but also at other multilateral platforms to reflect India’s concerns. Mr. Modi had attended the G-7 summit at Biarritz in France last year after being invited by President Emmanuel Macron. The release did not clarify if the G-11 will be launched in the upcoming summit for which President Trump has extended the invite. Earlier Mr. Trump had described the G-7 as “outdated” indicating that he wanted the inclusion of Russia, India, Australia, and South Korea in the group. Significantly, despite India's claim about holding bilateral talks with China to reduce tension along the Line of Actual Control near Ladakh, Mr. Modi on Tuesday discussed the issue with Mr Trump.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||More structural reforms on the anvil, says PM||“Build consensus. Develop concepts, think big. We will together take up more structural reforms that will change the course of our country,” Mr. Modi said through a video link. The Prime Minister called on industry leaders to conduct a detailed study of every sector to chalk out a road map for a self-reliant India, while also taking on a new role to facilitate the recovery of domestic industries, assist the next level growth, and expand market globally. “Trust me, getting growth back is not so difficult,” he said, adding that indigenous industries have a clear path of self-reliant India ahead of them. A self-sufficient India would be fully integrated with the world economy, but it also meant that the country would not depend on anyone in strategic areas. “It is about creating strong enterprises in India. Enterprises that can become global forces. It is about generating employment. It is about empowering our people to come out and create solutions that can define the future of our country. We now have to invest in building a robust local supply chain that strengthens India's stake in the global supply chain,” he stated. Mr. Modi asserted that there was need to make products in the country for the world and industry should set new goals keeping in mind how to reduce the country's imports and increase productivity in all sectors. “Yes, we will definitely get our growth back. While COVID-19 may have slowed down our speed, India has entered into Unlock Phase one,” he said.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||France committed to deliver Rafale: Rajnath||France has affirmed its commitment to ensuring the timely delivery of Rafale fighter jets to India despite the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday after a telephonic conversation with his French counterpart Florence Parly. “We discussed matters of mutual concern, including COVID-19 situation, regional security and agreed to strengthen the Bilateral Defence Cooperation between India and France,” Mr. Singh said on Twitter. “We also appreciated the efforts made by the armed forces of India and France in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic,” he stated. As reported by The Hindu , the first batch of four Rafale jets, which were originally scheduled to arrive in India in May, will now arrive by July-end due to the lockdown and restrictions. Mr. Singh welcomed French chairmanship of the Indian Ocean Naval Symposium (IONS) from 2020 to 2022, the Defence Ministry said in a statement. “The two Ministers agreed to work together to fulfil the India-France joint strategic vision on the Indian Ocean Region of 2018,” it stated. Chief of the Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria in a recent interview to The Hindu said the delay would be covered up in subsequent deliveries of the Rafale jets. There is still about 8-9 weeks of training left for the IAF team currently in France and also some logistic support and test equipment that has to be flown to the Ambala air base before the jets can come in.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||KCR confident of speedy resolution of issues||Problems pertaining to drinking water have been resolved with innovative projects like Mission Bhagiratha while the State was making rapid strides in different sectors. The Chief Minister made these remarks after unfurling the national flag to mark the sixth State Formation Day at Pragathi Bhavan on Tuesday. Mr. Rao earlier paid tributes at the Martyrs' memorial at Gun Park. The State Formation Day celebrations were on a low key with no large gatherings allowed in view of the COVID pandemic. The Chief Minister expressed satisfaction that the State made rapid strides in education, health, Information Technology and industrial sectors while it achieved several milestones in the irrigation sector. The State was progressing on expected lines ever since it was carved out and it was expected to achieve accelerated progress on different fronts in the coming days, he said. Mr. Rao greeted people on the State Formation Day and said the government would rededicate itself for the all round progress of the people in the coming days. Legislative Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy hoisted the national flag at the legislature premises and garlanded the statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar on Tuesday morning. Speaking on the occasion, he said Statehood for Telangana could be achieved after decades-long struggle and the movement launched by Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao who remained unrelenting till the dream was fulfilled. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar led the administrative machinery in celebrating the Telangana Formation Day. Accompanied by special chief secretaries, principal secretaries and other senior officials, Mr. Kumar hoisted the tricolour at the BRKR Bhavan, the State secretariat.
03 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Congress leaders arrested||The sixth Formation Day of the Telangana on Tuesday saw the Congress leaders across the State either put under house arrest or shifted to police stations in an apparent move by the police to foil the Jala Deeksha programme planned by them at all the pending projects on the Krishna river. Police placed vehicles and men early in the morning at the residences of all the senior leaders, including Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, Congress Legislature Party leader Bhatti Vikramarka, TPCC working presidents A. Revanth Reddy and Ponnam Prabhakar, MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy, AICC secretaries A. Sampath Kumar and Ch. Vamshichand Reddy, former PCC presidents Ponnala Lakshmaiah and V.Hanmanth Rao in the city and in the districts. Some of them were picked up from their home and moved to police stations while some were arrested on their way to the projects citing restrictions. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy, Mr. Venkata Reddy and Mr. Jana Reddy were placed at Chintapalli police station on their way to Srisailam Left Bank Canal (SLBC) while Revanth Reddy was arrested from his residence in Kodangal. Sampath Kumar was picked up from his residence in Jogulamba Gadwal. Mr. Vikramarka sat on a dharna at the Khammam DCC office itself. MLAs Seethakka and Podem Veeraiah too were detained. When he was not allowed to move out of his residence, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy warned the police that he would approach the judiciary for infringing on his rights and later he went to Gandhi Bhavan to unfurl the National flag to celebrate the Telangana Formation Day. The arrested leaders were released in the evening. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy sought an explanation from the police on the detentions.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Glories of Acharyas||Sage Saunaka, in his Vishnu Dharma, tells King Sataneeka about different types of daana. We usually tend to give away things we do not need, and then we are very happy that we have done a daana. But giving away what we do not need is not daana. We should give to others what we like. But apart from material objects that are given away, daana can be of other types too. Saunaka talks of Saraswathi daana. This means we must impart to others the knowledge we possess. While it could be worldly knowledge, it is more meritorious to teach people about the Supreme One and about Acharyas, said Velukkudi Krishnan in a discourse. Andal, while talking about daana in Her Thiruppavai, speaks of ‘ayam,’ and ‘pichai.’ Both mean daana. If that were so, then why is She using both words? Because each refers to a different kind of daana. Ayam can be taken to refer to enlightening a person about the Paramatma. Pichai can be taken to mean telling a person about the greatness of Acharyas. In his Kanninun Siruthambu, Madhurakavi Azhvar talks only about his Acharya — Nammazhvar. It is more important to talk about Acharyas than about the Lord. If we talk of the greatness of Lord Narayana, people will listen willingly. But when we talk about Acharyas, they will question why they should listen to a mortal being extolled. They assume that because an Acharya is a human being like them, he is not any different from them. So, getting them to listen to the glories of Acharyas becomes essential. That is why Madhurakavi Azhvar says that he will speak of the greatness of Nammazhvar, so that his words are heard in all eight directions. If we point out to people how, despite being mortals, Acharyas conquered their ego and their senses, then people will be motivated to emulate them.
03 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘MSP increase not enough’||Terming the increase in the Minimum Support Price for kharif crops by the Central government as inadequate, farmer outfits and political parties in Haryana on Tuesday said the move has exposed the anti-farmer stance of BJP yet again. The All India Kisan Federation rejected Rs. 53 per quintal increase in the MSP of paddy, describing it as insufficient and non-remunerable in comparison to rising cost of production and cultivation. “The Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices is oblivious to the ground situation as it is not represented by farmers,” said AIKF leaders in a joint statement. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) president Gurnam Singh termed the decision “betrayal” by the BJP government. The farmers also demanded separate budget for agriculture. State Congress president Kumari Selja said the Centre has failed to take effective steps to help farmers overcome the difficult situation due to COVID-19.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Cong., JD(S) likely to come together again||The Congress and Janata Dal (S), which severed ties after their poor performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, are likely to forge ties once again in the elections to four Rajya Sabha seats, scheduled to be held on June 19. Though nearly half a dozen senior leaders, including former MPs and retiring Rajya Sabha members, are lobbying hard for ticket to enter the Upper House, sources in the Congress indicated that the party was considering the candidature of veteran leader M. Mallikarjun Kharge, given his vast parliamentary experience. The JD(S) seems to be banking on the support of the Congress if it fields a candidate. Apparently, “talks are under way” in the Congress to extend support to former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, on the condition that the JD(S) agrees to extend its support to the party in the elections to seven seats of the Legislative Council from the Assembly, also scheduled to be held this month. The alliance is likely to be limited to these polls. With its 68 members in the Assembly, the Congress could easily ensure the victory of one candidate. The minimum required votes to win for each candidate is 44. With its 34 members, the JD(S) is short by 10 votes. Given this scenario, the JD(S) is expected to seek the support of the Congress, which will be left with 24 surplus votes if it fields only one candidate. Besides Mr. Kharge, sources said, former MPs S.P. Muddahanume Gowda, M. Veerappa Moily, K.H. Muniyappa, as well as M.V. Rajeev Gowda and B.K. Hariprasad, who are set to retire on June 25, are lobbying with the party high command. Mr. Muddahanume Gowda “sacrificed” his seat to Mr. Deve Gowda in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in Tumakuru. Apparently, former Congress national president Rahul Gandhi and AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal had promised him that he would be given the Rajya Sabha ticket. Mr. Deve Gowda, who left his traditional stronghold of Hassan to his grandson Prajwal Revanna in last year’s Assembly polls, had contested from Tumakuru and lost. Council polls In the elections to seven seats of the Council, the BJP has the strength to ensure victory of four candidates, while the Congress and JD(S) can ensure the victory of two and one candidates, respectively. The Congress and JD(S) are likely to swap support in the RS and Council polls. If they support each other, the Congress can bag three seats in the Council. In such a scenario, T.A. Sharavana, JD(S) MLC, will not get ticket to retain his seat in the Council. The term of seven MLCs will end on June 30 and the Election Commission is expected to announce the calendar of events soon.
03 June 2020||Hyderabad,||UoH professor elected to IAMCR||Usha Raman, senior faculty in the Department of Communication, University of Hyderabad (UoH) has been elected as the vice-president of the International Association for Media and Communication Research (IAMCR) for a four-year term (2020-2024). She was elected through in-voting held among 2,700 members across the world and will be starting her position from July 17, 2020. Before entering academia in 2010, Prof. Usha Raman worked as a freelance journalist and health communicator for over three decades. She writes for The Hindu among other publications, and edits a monthly magazine for school teachers, Teacher Plus . She received her doctorate in mass communication from the University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia, U.S.A. The IAMCR is a global professional association of media and communication researchers based in the U.S.A.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Six more Rajya Sabha polls on June 19||Elections to six Rajya Sabha seats that are set to be vacated in June and July would be held on June 19, the Election Commission of India (ECI) said in a press note on Monday. The counting of votes in three States would be held the same day. On Monday, it said elections to 18 Rajya Sabha seats, that had been deferred in March due to the COVID-19 lockdown, would be held on June 19. The seats in Karnataka held by Prabhakar Kore, B.K. Hariprasad, D. Kupendra Reddy and Rajeev Gowda M.V. are set to be vacated on June 26. The term of Arunachal Pradesh MP Mukul Mithi will end on June 23 and of Mizoram MP Ronald Sapa Tlau on July 18.
03 June 2020||New Delhi,||Left slams ‘measly’ MSP hikes||The Left parties on Tuesday slammed the Union cabinet’s announcement of hikes in MSP for kharif crops, with CPI (M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury calling it a ‘measly’ increase, In a series of tweets, Mr Yechury said, “The claim is that MSP is increased by an unprecedented 50%. Truth is Increase is measly, less than inflation costs. Burdens on our Annadatas will double...” A table comparing the MSP rates, that he posted with his tweet, reveals that the MSP hike for paddy common is only 2.92%, while it is just just 1.8% for grade A paddy. CPI general secretary, D. Raja, said the hike was pointless if the government doesn’t procure the produce directly from farmers, who are unable to sell because of the lockdown.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,||MHA relaxes business visa norms||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Tuesday opened the door to foreign nationals — businessmen, healthcare professionals, engineers, health researchers and other specialists — to visit India. The MHA said in an order that the travel relaxations would apply to foreign businessmen coming on a business visa (other than on B-3 visa for sports) in non-scheduled commercial/chartered flights.   The foreign travellers would have to obtain a fresh Business Visa or Employment Visa from Indian Missions/Posts abroad. Foreign nationals holding a long term multiple entry Business Visa (other than B-3 visa for sports) would have to get the visa re-validated from the Indian Missions/Posts concerned.
03 June 2020||New Delhi,||Telecom dept. takes stock of preparedness||The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has taken stock of the readiness and arrangements made by telecom companies for ensuring network connectivity in Maharashtra and Gujarat, ahead of cyclone Nisarga. “All our infratructure provider (IP) members have taken necessary steps to ensure connectivity 24/7 in the areas which are likely to be affected by the cyclone and all the background arrangements like additional DG sets, battery banks, spare parts, stocking of diesel are taken care of,” T.R. Dua, Director-General, Tower and Infrastructure Providers Association (TAIPA), said in a statement. IPs have also deployed additional rescue teams which are kept on standby mode for all major districts likely to get impacted during Nisarga, he said.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC mulls physical court hearings||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it will explore the feasibility of physical appearances of advocates in the court while adhering to physical distancing norms amid the COVID-19 pandemic. In its short circular, the court indicated that it was open to the possibility of physical court hearings, provided advocates and parties who come in-person to present their cases give a joint consent.
03 June 2020||New Delhi,||Manu Sharma released from Tihar jail||The Home Department of the Delhi government has ordered the release of 19 convicts, including Siddhartha Vashishtha also known as Manu Sharma, who was serving a life sentence in the 1999 Jessica Lal murder case, on the recommendation of the Sentence Reviewing Board (SRB). According to Sandeep Goel, the Director-General of Tihar Prison where he was lodged, Sharma was released on Monday evening. His term was scheduled to end on May 6, 2023. The recommendations of the SRB were approved by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal. According to the Home Department’s order, only one of the 19 life convicts whose release was ordered had served the full sentence. Of the remaining, as many as 14 were to serve their respective sentences till the 2026 and one each till 2024, 2025 and 2027.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No misinformation on test kits, adequate stock available: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday refuted DMK leader M.K. Stalin’s allegation that the government had provided misleading information on the availability of COVID-19 testing kits. Addressing the media, Mr. Palaniswami said that the government had issued orders for the procurement of 15.45 lakh RT-PCR kits. A total of 2.71 lakh kits had been sent to 43 COVID-19 testing laboratories across the State, he added. Mr. Stalin had alleged that the Chief Minister had provided misleading data on RT-PCR kits, pointing to a mismatch between the number of kits used for testing and those available with the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation. Mr. Palaniswami said that the Opposition leader had failed to understand that a number of kits had been sent to laboratories across the State. “There has been no wrongdoing. The government has adequate kits for COVID-19 testing,” he said.  Containing the spread “We are testing a large number of people to contain the spread of COVID-19. All government employees, including police personnel, doctors, nurses and sanitary workers have dedicated themselves to COVID-19 containment activities. The Opposition leader has been spreading misleading information to attract publicity,” the Chief Minister added. “Tamil Nadu has received 11.51 lakh RT-PCR kits so far. The Central government has provided 50,000 testing kits. The State has also received 53,516 kits donated by various agencies. Around 5.03 lakh RT-PCR kits have been used for testing. TNMSC has 4.59 lakh kits,” he said. Pointing to the rise in COVID-19 cases linked to incoming passengers from other States, Mr. Palaniswami said that the State government had identified 1,620 such passengers who had tested positive for COVID-19. “The number of positive cases among passengers shows the level of testing in other States. I am not blaming anyone. We are just doing our duty,” the Chief Minister said. Testing ramped up According to him, the government had ramped up testing to save the poor, who were relatively more vulnerable to the disease. “We are testing more people and saving lives. A total of 23,495 persons have tested positive and 56% of the patients have been cured of the infection. Chennai has readied 17,500 beds for COVID-19 care. We have readied 75,000 beds for COVID-19 care across the State,” he said. Government hospitals in the State have 2,741 ventilators, while private hospitals have 620. The State has the highest number of ventilators in the country, he said. Stressing the need to promote the wearing of masks, he said that the government was planning to distribute masks in all ration shops. He requested residents to follow physical distancing norms, wear masks and promote hand washing to contain the spread of COVID-19.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation cracks whip on violators, begins sealing shops||With relaxation of lockdown norms, a number of commercial establishments have reported instances of crowding in the past two days, increasing the risk of COVID-19 spread. The Greater Chennai Corporation sealed around 100 shops and issued show-cause notices to 10,000 shops in each of the three regions — south, north and central — of the city. Cumulatively, this accounts for sealing of 300 shops and issuance of 30,000 notices. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash warned that shops violating personal distancing norms would be sealed for four months. Residents in a few neighbourhoods complained to the GCC requesting more community intervention to create awareness among traders and customers on promoting safety during the pandemic. R.B. Saravanan, a resident of Kamarajapuram in Nungambakkam, said some customers were spitting on the road, not wearing masks or maintaining physical distancing. “The civic agency should continue to create awareness in every street every day. Residents who obey rules are at risk because of others who violate norms,” said Mr. Saravanan. Former GCC councillor S. Mangala Raj said at least 5% of shops in each streets were unable to manage crowding. “Markets and large provision stores and meat shops are crowded in a few areas. We have to regulate the traders but also have to safeguard their livelihood,” he said. Containment zones The GCC on Tuesday ordered the closure of all shops in M.G.R. Nagar and K.K. Nagar after more than 50 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the localities. At least 1,257 houses in the area with a population of over 10,000 have been declared containment zones. In five zones in Chennai South Region, covering areas such as Adyar, Valasaravakkam, Alandur, Perungudi and Sholinganallur, notices have been issued to 11,929 shops. “We have sealed 77 shops,” an official said. In Chennai North Region, covering areas such as Royapuram and Tondiarpet, officials sealed 114 shops for violating physical distancing norms. The north regional officials even started collecting fines for spitting. “We have collected a fine of Rs. 2,500 for spitting. We also ensure that customers and traders are not harassed because of the regulations,” an official said. The GCC North Regional Deputy Commissioner P. Akash said they were initiating plans to bring down the incidence of COVID-19.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Low footfall leaves textile retailers a worried lot||The owners of textile and clothing brands, who recently reopened their showrooms after weeks of lockdown, have been witnessing minimal footfall and negligible business. Even the branded stores along the busy Usman Road wore a deserted look on Tuesday. Many shops kept their trial rooms under lock and key and informed customers that purchased goods could not be exchanged. A few brands that have decided to allow trials are steaming the clothes before placing them back on display. Ramesh Pothy, managing director of textile chain Pothys, said footfall was very low in all three stores in Chennai, adding that he was confident that it would gradually increase. K. Sivakumar, managing director, RmKV Silks, said that since many weddings had been postponed till January 2021, walk-ins had not been encouraging. But with smaller weddings taking place, the firm expects sales to pick up in the coming days. At RmKV, customers were being allowed to try on the new clothes only after billing. The situation was quite different at Naidu Hall 1939, where 10 people were standing in a queue, waiting for their turn to make payment. Chief executive officer Aravind Rama Naidu said business had been good. Many customers visited clothing stores wearing gloves, and made it a point to ask the salespeople whether the clothes and the premises were sanitised. Billing counters were being wiped after each purchase. Smaller textile shops were the worst hit. According to them, unless public transport resumes, they will not see any sales. The owner of a small textile shop said, “People come to my shop from various parts of Chennai on trains. With no trains, my business has been zero.”
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Boy from Singapore treated for brain tumour in city hospital||An eight-year-old boy from Singapore, diagnosed with brain tumour, was successfully treated at the Apollo Proton Cancer Care Centre, doctors said. The Vietnamese-origin boy was diagnosed with a Grade IV tumour, medulloblastoma, in February in Singapore. The patient underwent surgery to remove the tumour but unless it was complemented with irradiation and chemotherapy the tumour could return, affecting the child’s spinal cord, said Rakesh Jalali, Medical Director of Apollo Proton Cancer Centre (APCC). Surgery was just one part of the treatment, the doctor explained. The outcome depended on the amount of residual tumour in the brain. Since the microscopic cells from the medulloblastoma tend to circulate in the cerebrospinal fluid, the entire spinal axis needed to be given radiation therapy. After being cleared by infectious disease experts and observing the mandatory week-long quarantine due to COVID 19, the child underwent MRI and simulation for radiotherapy. Initially, he needed sedation during therapy that was discontinued after a week when he got acclimatised. He completed the entire 31 sessions of therapy in the first week of April and is now waiting for international air travel to resume. The family wished to stay back in APCC for response evaluation and adjuvant chemotherapy. The post-treatment MRI on April 30 showed that there was complete response to the treatment, Dr. Jalali said. The boy was now completely cured of the tumour, the specialist added.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No access to lab reports, complain doctors||Government doctors treating patients in COVID-19 wards have objected to the the lack of access to laboratory reports of patients. Many of them say that the result is communicated orally or sent as messages on mobile phones by heads of department or deans, and a copy of the result is not available in the wards. Inquiries with a number of doctors on COVID-19 duty in various government medical college hospitals have revealed that a majority of them do not have access to COVID-19 laboratory reports of patients in wards. A doctor on COVID-19 duty said that both assistant professors and postgraduates posted in the wards do not get a copy of the test result. “We have no direct access to the report. It is available only with the dean or the professor/head of department. We do not get a printed copy of the laboratory report. This is not the case with other investigations such as blood sugar levels or X-rays,” said another doctor, on condition of anonymity. Several doctors said that COVID-19 laboratory reports were not provided in a transparent manner. “Reports are only shared through WhatsApp and are not given in hand with any authentic seal. If we get a printed copy of the laboratory report, we can attach them with case sheets. We only receive a message about whether a patient is positive or negative, and at times, only if we ask what their status is,” another doctor said. An assistant professor added that the COVID-19 swab test was the only test under the control of senior hospital authorities. At the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, COVID-19 reports are dispatched as soft copies to e-mail IDs of department staff or as messages on WhatsApp groups. These are accessed by the chief-in-charge who declares the result and it is then entered on a case sheet, another doctor said. Not just for patients, this is also the case for doctors who get tested. “When we go for COVID-19 testing, they tell us that we will get a phone call if we test positive or negative. We are not shown the lab report,” a senior doctor from RGGGH said.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Departing flyers outnumbered arrivals in the first week of operations in city||Passengers flying out of Chennai outnumbered those arriving at the city airport in the first week after domestic flight services resumed amid the lockdown. Data showed that only 7,745 passengers arrived in the city last week (May 25 to 31), whereas around twice the number - 14,843 – flew out of Chennai during the period. In total, only 22,588 passengers have travelled through the airport in the last one week. Prior to the lockdown, the number of passengers taking domestic flights was around 18,000-20,000 a day. Since the resumption of domestic flight services, airlines including IndiGo, SpiceJet, Air India and TruJet have been running services to various destinations. The airport has been handling a mere 40-50 flights a day, compared to 500 in pre-COVID-19 times. On the first day (May 25) of resumption of services, the airport saw 852 incoming and 1,805 outgoing passengers. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said that on an average, 1,000 people were landing at the airport and nearly 2,000 flying out of the city. “Though people have been coming here from various cities, we have noticed that a majority of them are from Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. As far as departures are concerned, passengers are travelling to Delhi, Kochi, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Guwahati and Visakhapatnam,” an official said. AAI officials said there will be a spike in the number of passengers only when the cap on arrivals is lifted in the coming weeks. “But for us to witness normal passenger traffic, it may take 10-12 months or even more. It will also depend on when international flights resume operations from the city,” an official said.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lake revived, opening put on hold||After years of neglect, Ambattur lake, one of the major waterbodies in the city’s western parts, has been revived as an eco-park but its operation has been deferred due to the lockdown. Spread over 440 acres, the lake was one of the three water bodies, including Retteri and Korattur, taken up for a Rs. 59.18 crore eco-restoration project a few years ago. Officials of the Water Resources Department (WRD) said a 1,500-metre-long walkers’ track was created along the lake bund. Visitors would also have access to another path in the park. “We have employed someone to maintain the plants there. The lake area also has an outdoor gym and children’s play area,” an official said. Pollution, a major issue plaguing the lake, was addressed to some extent, with the quality of water improving compared to last year. However according to the department, more effort was needed to make the lake a viable drinking water source. “We have reduced the sewage discharge into the lake by 80% and have plugged four drains. The lake receives sewage from a few areas such as Moondru Nagar and Thirumullaivoyal. Once the sewage treatment plant operated by the Avadi municipal corporation becomes operational, the issue will be sorted,” another official said, and added that nearly 120 encroachments were removed. WRD has sought Rs. 21 crore to increase the lake’s storage capacity by 25% for better groundwater recharge in the neighbourhood. The lake can currently store about 500 million cubic feet of water. “We also plan to provide mud flats in the lake for nesting birds,” an official said. Welcoming the initiative, residents noted that sewage discharge must be completely stopped and boating arrangements should be made.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,091 new cases reported in T.N.||Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases surpassed the 24,000-mark with 1,091 new cases recorded on Tuesday. The State has reported 1,000-plus cases for the third day running. As on date, the State has 24,586* cases. Of the fresh cases, 809 (806 indigenous and three imported cases) are from Chennai. With this, the city’s tally climbs to 16,585. Another 536 persons were discharged from hospitals on Tuesday, taking the total number of persons discharged so far to 13,706. There are a total of 10,680 active cases in Tamil Nadu. The State’s toll increased to 197 with 13 fatalities. All 13 persons — 10 men and three women — were aged above 50. Two women — aged 50 and 55 — died at ESI Medical College, K.K. Nagar. The 50-year-old woman with diabetes and systemic hypertension was admitted on May 22 with complaints of breathing difficulty for a day, fever for four days and nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea for five days. She died on May 28 due to respiratory failure. A 74-year-old man with diabetes, systemic hypertension, chronic kidney disease and anaemia was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on May 30. He died within nine hours after admission and his sample returned positive for COVID-19 on Monday. With Chennai topping the table in terms of COVID-19 cases, Health Department officials said that they were tracing and testing all cases of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) in the seven affected zones of the Greater Chennai Corporation.  “In these zones, every 100 houses will have one surveyor. They are visiting all houses and looking for persons with symptoms of ILI such as fever and cough, and all persons with symptoms are being tested. In the last three to four days, these surveyors have been able to pick up several such cases. We are strengthening this measure in the city,” an official said. Health inspectors from the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine have been deputed to the Greater Chennai Corporation, and they are supervising the surveys in the zones. The city’s neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur continued to witness a surge in cases. There were 82 new cases in Chengalpattu and 43 in Tiruvallur. With the new cases, Tiruvallur’s tally of cases rose to 1,025. Thoothukudi had 31 new cases, while Kancheepuram had 15 and Tiruvannamalai had nine cases. Of the 1,091 new cases, 55 persons had returned from other States by air and road. While 40 were from Maharashtra, eight were from Karnataka, three from Andhra Pradesh and two each from Kerala and Delhi. With a further 11,094 samples tested, the State has so far tested 5,14,433 samples, while the number of persons tested stood at 4,90,804. The Government District Headquarters Hospital in Nagapattinam has been approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are a total of 73 testing facilities in the State. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
03 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||MTC buses to introduce cashless ticketing system||The Metropolitan Transport Corporation on Monday launched the trial run for a cashless ticketing system on two bus routes bound for the Secretariat — one from T. Nagar and another from Todd Hunter Nagar in Saidapet. While Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar tweeted that a cashless payment system will be introduced in all MTC buses, it remains to be seen how popular the move will be among commuters. A senior official of MTC said a commuter could purchase tickets using any mobile payments apps including Paytm, Google pay or Amazon pay, by scanning the QR code fixed in a few places in the buses. The official said cashless ticketing would be expanded on more routes once complete bus services were allowed in the city, especially on the IT corridor.
03 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||262 died in accidents during the lockdown||As many as 262 people died as a result of 251 road accidents across the State in April and May — peak lockdown months. The deaths were part of the 2,375 deaths reported in road accidents between January and May. Data from the Traffic and Road Safety Cell revealed that the fatalities occurred as a consequence of 2,197 road accidents. Interestingly, most of the accidents during the lockdown occurred due to speeding, as the roads were empty, officials explained. Fewer vehicles “During the lockdown, obviously there were fewer vehicles on the road. Yet, accidents occurred because the roads were free and people indulged in speeding. However, there were not too many incidents of collision. Mostly vehicles crashed against roadside railings or electric posts,” a senior official said. On Monday alone, 17 deaths were reported from 16 road accidents in the State and, in most cases, involved two-wheelers. January saw 771 deaths from road accidents. The figure dipped to 732 in February and to 610 in March. In April and May, the deaths were lower — at 119 and 143, respectively. Promodh Kumar, Inspector General of Police, Traffic and Road Safety Cell, said, “We have taken a lot of efforts to bring down accidents. It is a coordinated effort by police, transport and other departments. We are constantly reviewing black spots.”
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 50 lakh solatium sought for matron’s kin||The Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association and the Tamil Nadu Government Nurses’ Association have issued a joint statement urging the State government to grant Rs. 50 lakh as solatium to the family of Priscilla, a matron at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) who died last week. Days after the State government announced Rs. 5 lakh as solatium for her family, the associations, in a representation to the government, said that the family should be given Rs. 50 lakh, along with insurance and a government job for a family member. They urged the government to provide the same amount to the family of Jayamohan, a doctor attached to a primary health centre in The Nilgiris district, who died while on COVID-19 duty, and Kumudha, a nurse attached to the Dharmapuri Medical College Hospital, who died in an accident while she was returning home after COVID-19 duty. They wanted the families to get the assured solatium and benefits as was the case with employees of other government departments. Separate block The associations also demanded a separate block with individual rooms in every district for doctors, nurses and other medical personnel who test positive for COVID-19 and are asymptomatic/show mild symptoms. They added that details of doctors and nurses who test positive should be provided on a daily basis to associations in every district. The associations also urged the government to grant the assured ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh for affected doctors, nurses and other hospital staff.  Details of doctors and nurses who test positive should be provided on a daily basis to associations in every district  Associations
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM calls on Governor||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami called on Governor Banwarilal Purohit at Raj Bhavan on Tuesday evening and submitted a report on the precautionary measures taken against COVID-19 and relief measures undertaken during the lockdown. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, DGP J.K. Tripathy and Health Secretary Beela Rajesh were present.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PM, Governor, condole death of K.N. Lakshmanan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, senior leaders of the BJP and other political leaders condoled the demise of former Tamil Nadu BJP president K. N. Lakshmanan. In a tweet, Mr. Modi said Mr. Lakshmanan was at the forefront of serving the people of Tamil Nadu and expanding the BJP organisation in the State. Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit too, expressed his condolences. “His demise is an irreparable loss to the people of Tamil Nadu and particularly the BJP,” he said. In a message, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the deceased BJP leader was a warm and pleasing personality. DMK president M.K. Stalin said though Lakshmanan’s political ideology was opposite to the DMK’s, he was very fond of former DMK president, the late M. Karunanidhi. PMK founder S. Ramadoss also condoled his death. BJP president J. P. Nadda, Telengana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and T. R. Paarivendar, founder president, IJK, expressed their condolences.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Six-day work week for court||The Madras High Court has introduced the system of six-day working week not only for its Registry but also for the offices of the subordinate courts across the State and Puducherry.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC criticises State govt.||Justice N. Kirubakaran of the Madras High Court on Tuesday criticised the State government for “blowing hot and cold” on issues related to seven convicts who had been languishing in jail for last 28 years for having assassinated former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. The judge wondered why the government, which had taken the “extreme decision” of releasing all seven convicts, was now not allowing two of them, S. Nalini and her husband V. Murugan alias Sriharan, to even talk over the phone to their relatives in Sri Lanka and London. He raised the question during the hearing of a habeas corpus petition filed by Nalini’s mother seeking permission for the duo to make video calls to the latter’s mother and sister.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ilaiyaraaja to launch OTT app soon||Music maestro Ilaiyaraaja announced on his birthday that his ‘Isai OTT’ application will be launched soon and promised the app will contain much more than just his songs, like behind-the-scenes trivia about how each of his songs were conceived, produced, delivered and collaborations with other musicians. In a video, Mr. Ilaiyaraaja said, “I will share my experiences about how each song came to be — inspirations, what happened and how hard we all worked to create each song through this app.... Also, other musicians will talk about their experiences and perceptions about me.” Further more, the Isai OTT application will feature composing sessions, live classrooms, making of a song, background scores, ‘Master Classes’, competitions, cover versions, instrumentals and live performances.
03 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Uber starts limited services||Taxi-aggregator Uber resumed services in a limited manner on Monday in the city. UberGo, Uber Premier and Uber XL will be available to riders, a press release from the company said.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers can now decide where to sell their produce||The Governor has promulgated an ordinance, amending The Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act, 1987, allowing farmers to market their produce in any recognised private market within the State without auctioning them in nearby regulated markets. According to an official release, the farmers can choose to market their produce in regulated markets, recognised private markets, recognised warehouses or cold storage facilities, or can directly market the produce to recognised traders. It also stated that marketing charges should not be levied on the farmers. Though the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act, 1987, provides for the regulation of buying and selling of agricultural produce and proper administration of markets, it was felt that “it is now necessary to provide for geographically restriction-free trade”. An extraordinary government gazette notification said that the ordinance was aimed at “giving freedom to agriculturists to sell their produce across time and space, to enhance transparency in trade options and to promote the emergence of multiple channels to competitive marketing”. A senior officer explained: “The ordinance will give farmers the freedom to decide where they want to market their produce. Earlier, they had to market them in regulated markets where their produce would be auctioned. Now, they can get a better price for their produce.” The officer said that the ordinance was part of a series of reforms in the sector.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. creating manufacturing clusters’||Tamil Nadu is developing new manufacturing clusters, an investment policy and a relocation package for companies, especially in electronics and hardware manufacturing, said Industries Minister M.C. Sampath, during a webinar on Tuesday. Speaking at the “Invest India” webinar on electronics system design and manufacturing, Mr. Sampath also emphasised the State government’s aspirations and plans on further development of the electronics manufacturing ecosystem, an official release stated. Along with representatives from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Haryana, over 63 international companies from participated. Industries Secretary N. Muruganandam highlighted the diversified manufacturing base in the State, its vibrant ecosystem and timely clearances through a single-window system, and invited the gathering to explore investing in the State.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai school students||Students from Velammal Vidyalaya, Paruthipattu, stitched and donated 5,000 masks to be distributed to front line workers working against COVID-19. They were given to Tiruvallur Collector Maheshwari Ramkumar.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai police invoke stringent sections of law to arrest three men after boy is injured by kite’s maanja||Police arrested Prabhakaran, Srinivasan and Aravindan after a three-year-old boy’s throat was slit by a maanja thread in Choolaimedu on Sunday. They seized 240 kites, 8,000 m of thread and maanja making equipment.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man makes hoax call to police control room, says bomb will explode at Chief Minister’s residence||Police have gone to Villupuram in search of a man, who reportedly made a hoax call saying that there would be a bomb blast at the Chief Minister’s residence and at the Secretariat, on Tuesday.
03 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||First Vande Bharat repatriation flight to Coimbatore from Dubai||A repatriation flight from Dubai with 180 passengers is scheduled to arrive at Coimbatore International Airport in the early hours of Wednesday. This is the first repatriation flight under Vande Bharat Mission that was to land in Coimbatore. Coimbatore airport director R. Mahalingam said that all arrangements were made by various departments to handle the passengers after their arrival. Majority of the passengers are from Tamil Nadu and a few from Puducherry and Karnataka, he said. A source with Air India said that the flight was ready for departure from Dubai International Airport around 7.30 p.m. IST on Tuesday. The source added that the flight was scheduled to land around 12.05 a.m. here. An official with Health Department said that swab samples of all the passengers will be collected on arrival at the airport. Samples will be subjected to PCR-based test for COVID-19. Seven days of institutional quarantine was must for all the passengers, agreement for which was reportedly signed by them prior to the travel. The institutional quarantine will be a paid one and the passengers were given options to choose hotels of their choice. If any passenger tests positive for COVID-19, he or she will be shifted to hospital. Passengers who test negative for the disease will have to follow strict home quarantine for a week after institutional quarantine.
03 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Redefining MSMEs expected to benefit more industries in State||The revised criteria for classification of industries as Micro, Small or Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) is expected to bring more businesses in the State under this category. According to data available on the Tamil Nadu government website, the State has 6.89 lakh registered MSMEs, constituting 15.07 % of MSMEs in the country. With the revised criteria, the number of MSMEs will only increase, say industry and official sources. An official said that overall, it was a good move as more industries would become eligible for benefits given to MSMEs. Earlier, there were several industries that did not fit under the MSME category and were not eligible for benefits extended to large-scale industries too as their turnover did not fit in both the categories. Now, these units would be covered under MSMEs. However, the financial allocation by the Central and State governments for MSMEs under various schemes might have to be increased as more number of units would be eligible, the official said. According to R. Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, there are advantages and challenges to the MSME sector with the revised definition. While it is a welcome move that more number of industries and those in the service sector will get the benefits, the micro and small-scale units will have to compete with relatively larger ones for orders and government support. If a Public Sector enterprise was looking at outsourcing jobs to MSMEs, the medium-scale units were more likely to get the orders. These industries with investment up to Rs. 50 crore and annual turnover not exceeding Rs. 250 crore would have more resources. They would be able to provide all the documents. The micro and small-scale units might not be able to compete with these units, he said. J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, said there were several clusters in the State that had cottage industries. “There are unit with just Rs. 10 lakh investment. Units with just one or two CNC machines will have slightly more investment. In Coimbatore district alone, there are at least 10,000 units with just Rs. 10 lakh or Rs. 20 lakh investment. These are all in the micro category and need more support from the government,” he said. Mr. Ramamurthy and Mr. James said the fund allocation for MSMEs by the governments should now be separate for micro and small-scale units.
03 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||T.K. Market to remain shut today||T.K. Market in Coimbatore city will remain closed till Wednesday night as the traders had decided to “go on leave” for two days – Tuesday and Wednesday, said the traders’ association president M. Rajendran at a press meet held here on Tuesday. During the leave, the association would apprise Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on the Coimbatore Corporation not allowing all the 450-plus traders to resume business and permitting only 50 or 70 traders to sell vegetables. It has sought the Minister’s intervention as the issue concerned livelihood of all the traders. With the Corporation shutting down the makeshift vegetable markets in the Gandhipuram Town and Central bus stands and allowing only 50 or 70 traders at T.K. Market, the traders were put to untold hardship. “Perhaps our suffering and cooperation has gone unnoticed,” Mr. Rajendran, pointing out that the association had extended complete cooperation to the Corporation during the lockdown. Depending on what the Minister had to say and how the Corporation responded, the association would take a call on reopening the market on Thursday, Mr. Rajendran said.
03 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||NASS award for Ganga Hospital research team||A research team of Coimbatore-based Ganga Hospital has won the Outstanding Paper Award of the North American Spine Society (NASS) in basic science category for 2020. The research was a molecular level study probing the cause for lumbar disc degeneration, main cause of lower back pain, and attempts to identify molecular targets for biological repair of damaged discs. The research, “Uncovering molecular targets for regenerative therapy in degenerative disc disease: Do Small Leucine-Rich Proteoglycans hold the Key?” won the award, instituted by NASS and the society’s official research publication The Spine Journal . Social impact The study, a pointer to regenerative interventions for lumbar disc degeneration in future, gains significance as lower back pain significantly reduces the quality of life of nearly 70% of the patients worldwide, causing a considerable economic and social impact, said the research team head S. Rajasekaran, chairman, Department of Orthopaedic and Spine Surgery at Ganga Hospital.
03 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Female elephant found dead||A female elephant was found dead in a reserve forest area of Mettupalayam forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division here on Monday. The carcass of the elephant aged between five and seven was found in a gorge and post-mortem findings indicated that the elephant could have died of fall from a height of about 20 feet. According to Forest Department officials, a patrol team sensed foul smell from a gorge at Iruttuppallam beat coming under Kallar reserve forest area of Mettupalayam forest range on Monday morning and found the carcass. Rajesh Kumar, assistant veterinary officer from Thekkampatti, autopsied the carcass in the presence of Forest Range Officer S. Selvaraj and representatives from two non-governmental organisations.
03 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DIC calls for applications||The Coimbatore District Industries Centre (DIC) has sought applications for three employment generation schemes - New Entrepreneur Cum Enterprise Development Scheme (NEEDS), Unemployed Youth Employment Guarantee Programme (UYEGP) and Prime Minister Employment Guarantee Scheme (PMEGS). According to the DIC general manager B Karthigaivasan, the district-level task force need not approve the applications for these schemes. If the applicants provided the required details, the applications will be sent to the banks for sanction. There will be no interview or training for the candidates for the NEEDS and UYEGP. With regard to PMEGS, there is exemption till June 30.
03 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNAU extends deadline||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has extended to June 15 the deadline for submission of application forms for the ‘agripreneurship’ programme conducted by its Technology Business Incubator. A release from the University it had earlier fixed May 31 as the last date for submission of application forms.  The release said the details of the orientation programme were available athttps://sites.goolge.com/a/t nau.ac.in/tbiorhttps://tbitnau.comorhttps://www.tnau.ac.in
03 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reduces fleets||The Coimbatore Division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) decreased the total number of buses operated across four districts due to low patronage on Tuesday. While 992 town and mofussil buses were operated across Coimbatore, Tiruppur, the Nilgiris and Erode districts on Monday, only 798 buses were operated on Tuesday. TNSTC officials said that this was an effort to improve passenger occupancy per vehicle as fewer people seem to be opting for buses. A total of 310 buses were operated across Coimbatore district on Tuesday, as against 375 buses on Monday. Tiruppur district saw the operation of 126 buses on Tuesday. The Nilgiris and Erode districts saw 127 and 235 buses being operated respectively.
03 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two air passengers test positive||Two passengers, who landed at the Coimbatore International Airport on Monday, tested positive for COVID-19 said sources with the Health Department. A 62-year-old transgender who came from Delhi and a 24-year-old man who came from Bengaluru tested positive for the disease. Swab samples from passengers who landed here from New Delhi, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad on Monday were taken for testing and the results of the two passengers returned positive on Tuesday. Sources said that the transgender belonged to Coimbatore. The 24-year-old man travelled from Bengaluru to Coimbatore for business purpose. Both persons were admitted to Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, added sources. The hospital had 21 COVID-19 patients belonging to various districts and other States as of Tuesday. As per Tuesday’s COVID-19 media bulletin of the Department, Coimbatore district had five active cases with 151 persons tested positive for the disease so far.
03 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||One more DMK man held||The Coimbatore Rural Police on Tuesday arrested DMK’s Kinathukadavu union secretary A. Durai (52) in connection with the alleged blocking of police vehicle near Forest Department check post at Aliyar and releasing of Keerthi Anand, personal assistant of party’s Coimbatore south district secretary ‘Thendral’ Selvaraj, from custody on May 30. The Aliyar police said Durai and around 60 others were involved in the incident.
03 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Two from Erode district test positive||A man and a woman, who were native of Erode district, tested positive for COVID-19 and were admitted to hospitals in Coimbatore and Vellore districts here on Tuesday. Health department officials said that the 28-year-man, native of Perundurai, arrived at Coimbatore airport from Chennai on Monday. He was admitted to the E.S.I. Hospital. Sources said that his marriage is scheduled to be held in Coimbatore next week. Likewise, a 40-year-old woman, a native of Chennimalai, had visited her sister at Chengalpattu, and is staying there. Her sister tested positive and was admitted to the government hospital there. Swab samples were lifted from the 40-year-old woman who also tested positive and was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday. With this the number of active cases reported in the district stands at four while the total number of cases reported so far is 74. A man from Maharashtra, who is undergoing treatment at Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai, is not added to the district tally and included in the list of returnees from other States.
03 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Commuters in Erode seek more town buses||Though resumption of bus services from Monday has brought much relief to the people, operation of less number of town buses is causing hardship to the commuters as they have to wait for hours at the bus stand.  On the second day of operation of buses, more commuters thronged the Corporation Central Bus Stand and bus stops at various points in the city. However, they have to wait for longer time as only a few buses were operated in each route. “I am waiting for over an hour to board a bus to Modakurichi to reach the work place”, said Pushpa, who works at a construction site. Commuters wanted additional buses to be operated in important routes and also wanted the private and mini-bus services to resume service.
03 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Shifting of vegetable market in Erode to be delayed||With works to establish 450 vegetable and fruit shops at the V.O.C. Park Grounds is yet to be completed, shifting of the market that currently functions at Corporations Central Bus Stand would take another week. After the lockdown was announced, shops in the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruits Market was shifted to the bus stand as adequate space is available and personal distancing can be ensured for the people. While the wholesale market functions from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. for shopkeepers, retail market functions for the public from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. every day. The fruit market functions at the rear side of the bus stand. With the State government relaxing restrictions in a phased manner, the corporation decided to shift the market to the grounds were adequate space is available. Though work commenced two weeks ago to establish the shops, work is yet to be completed that delayed the shifting of shops. Since, 50% Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) buses were operated from Monday, shops that functioned in first and second bays were shifted to bays where town buses were operated. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that works to establish shops has been expedited and would be completed within a five days. “Since only 50% buses were operated and no private and mini buses were operated, adequate space is available on the premises”, he added.
03 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery stolen||Seventy-five sovereign gold jewellery and Rs. 2 lakh were reportedly stolen from a house of a businessman on Tuesday. According to police, the burglary allegedly took place at the house of Vasudevan of Sivan Nagar at Thindal Sengodampalayam when he had gone to his daughter’s house at Tiruchengodu in Namakkal district with his family and had returned to Erode on Monday. He found the front door lock broken and jewellery and cash missing.Finger print experts were pressed into service.
03 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Buses find very few takers on Day 2 in Krishnagiri||Public response to the start of bus operations fizzled out on Day 2, with buses waiting for hours together for passengers to trickle in at Krishangiri new bus stand on Tuesday. While Day 1 saw a warm response, albeit in few numbers given the clear instructions on minimal bus services and reduced passenger intake, Day 2 had a different story. Buses waited it out for passengers to fill in, even as buses were required to ply only 60% of its passenger strength. For those passengers, who had boarded the bus, it was an arduous wait until the buses filled up to the limited passenger strength. Even those buses that were bound to Hosur with a workforce were seen waiting for longer than usual. Earlier, the Dharmapuri division of Tamil Nadu State Corporation had announced services for Krishnagiri with 243 buses for towns and rural areas with limited capacity. Under this, bus services were envisioned with 50% bus services and 60% passenger intake. This entailed 178 town route services and 65 rural route services. In Dharmapuri, a total of 208 buses were pressed into service for town and rural routes on Monday.
03 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Weavers pushed to the wall as lenders disregard RBI norms||Members of women’s self-help groups (SHGs) from Nilaiyur, who are handloom weavers, have alleged that private financial institutions were pressuring them to pay their debts with interests, despite the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) giving a three-month moratorium on repayment of loans. K.M. Umadevi, president of an SHG, said that around 500 families belonging to the Saurashtrian community had procured loans through the groups and were weaving saris to earn their livelihood. They get orders from agents to weave cotton and silk saris that are later sold in other parts of the country. However, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been no orders for them for nearly three months, said Ms. Umadevi. “Recently, we held talks with our suppliers and they who told us that they would give each family one paavu (hank) to weave saris. This will fetch us a meagre income of Rs. 3,000. Earlier, we used to get four paavus to weave every month. But unfortunately, the demand for saris has come down due to the pandemic,” she pointed out. Against this backdrop, collection agents from private financial institutions have been knocking on their doors for the past week, seeking repayment of loans, complained R. Durgadevi, another weaver. “Despite pointing out the moratorium announced by the RBI, the agents threaten us and say that they will not leave our houses until we repay the amount. They warn us that they will seize our Aadhaar cards and smart ration cards and list us as defaulters,” she added.  Madurai District Collector T.G. Vinay said that the administration had instructed all banks and non-banking financial institutions not to seek repayment of dues and interests from borrowers until August 31. “We have warned them that action would be taken if they violated RBI norms,” he said.
03 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Elderly couple attempt suicide; man dies||An elderly couple, who left their son’s home after he refused to take them to their daughter’s house in view of COVID-19 lockdown, were found lying with their throats and wrists slashed near Kottampatti in Madurai district on Tuesday morning. While the man, K. Pandiarajan (63), died, his wife Kamalam (56) has been rushed to Government Rajaji Hospital here in a serious condition. Police said the couple had left their home in Singampuneri in Sivaganga district on May 30 as their son Sathish Kumar allegedly refused to take them to their daughter’s house for a function. While Pandiarajan had slashed his throat and left hand, his wife’s throat was also found slashed. The police suspect it to be a suicide attempt. However, the facts could be ascertained only after the woman spoke after recovery, they said. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on State’s health helpline 104 and Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
03 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man dies on CPO premises||A casual worker, Kannan, 50, who was involved in fogging on the City Police Office premises, died on Tuesday. Police said the worker was carrying out disinfection work when he suddenly collapsed and was declared dead at the government hospital.
03 June 2020||Mayiladuthurai,TAMIL NADU||Driver arrested for impregnating minor daughter||A car driver who had sexually assaulted and impregnated his minor daughter was arrested and remanded in judicial custody on Monday. The Mayiladuthurai All Women Police arrested the man under Section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act based on a complaint lodged by his wife. The girl aged 14 years had been assaulted multiple times over the last few months by her father under threat of harm, police sources said. On Tuesday, the police had the girl admitted to the Government Hospital, Mayiladuthurai, for medical termination of pregnancy. After the medical procedure, the girl will be taken under the care of District Child Protection Unit and admitted in another school for continuation of studies, official sources said.   In another case involving two minors in Mayiladuthurai limits on Tuesday, also handled by the All Women Police, a 16-year-old boy was arrested for sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl in his neighbourhood. The boy was admitted to the Government Observation Home, Thanjavur.
03 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||6 test positive||Six healthcare workers at Jipmer have tested positive over the last three days. This comes in the wake of a resident doctor who had worked in the Covid block of Jipmer, testing positive after 14 days had elapsed since duty. However, her contacts have been quarantined and have tested negative, a press note said.
03 June 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Girl’s murder turns out to be human sacrifice||In a suspected case of human sacrifice, a man, who allegedly murdered his minor daughter on the advice of a woman soothsayer near Gandharvakottai recently, was arrested by the Pudukottai police on Monday. Special police teams arrested the 13-year-old victim’s father K. Panneer, 41, and his relative P. Kumar, 32. The soothsayer, S. Vasanthi, Panneer’s second wife Mookayee (who has died since), and another woman M. Murugayee have also been arraigned in the murder case. The girl was found lying unconscious inside a eucalyptus grove by her mother last month and taken to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, where she died. The Gandharvakottai police which initially registered an attempt to murder case on a complaint from Paneer’s first wife Indira, subsequently altered it to a murder case. Eight special police teams were constituted by the Superintendent of Police P.Ve. Arun Sakthi Kumar to probe the murder. Mr. Kumar told journalists that Panneer had two wives — Indira with whom he had three daughters and a son and Mookayee, who had two daughters. Panneer and Mookayee knew Vasanthi of Pudukottai for over four years and consulted her to tide over their family problems. Vasanthi had allegedly advised Panneer that if he offered, in human sacrifice, any of his children, he would become wealthy and be rid of all problems. “Believing her, on May 17 night, the five accused conducted a pooja. The following day, when the girl went to fetch water, Panneer allegedly strangulated his daughter, aided by Kumar and Mookayee,” the SP said. Assuming that the girl was dead, they left her and later tried to make it appear to be a case of sexual assault. However, sensing that his game was up, Kumar surrendered before a Village Administrative Officer on Monday. A confession statement was obtained from him. Subsequently, Paneer was arrested and his confession was also obtained, the SP said. Meanwhile, Mookayee died on May 30, during the course of investigation due to ailments. The soothsayer and Murugayee would be arrested soon, the SP said. Panneer and Kumar were remanded.
03 June 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Mill worker murdered||A rice mill worker was hacked to death at Jameen Kollankondan near here on Monday night. The body of P. Kannan, 45, was found near the rice mill with cut injuries. Police said a watchman and a lorry driver were on the mill premises at the time of the incident. Virudhunagar SP P. Perumal inspected the scene of crime. A CCTV network at the site was non-functional. The motive of the murder was yet to be established.
03 June 2020||S. Sundar,TAMIL NADU||Less patronage, more personal distancing||Lesser patronage for train services is helping Southern Railway enforce COVID-19 safeguards onboard like ensuring personal distancing and wearing of face masks during the current lockdown. “With trains not connecting Chennai, crowds are unlikely to fill all the coaches in the near future,” a Travelling Ticket Examiner (TTE) said. For instance, the number of passengers travelling on Madurai-Villupuram special train marked only a marginal increase on Tuesday. The patronage was only around 25% on Madurai-Villupuram intercity express on Monday, and it went up slightly but stood less than 50% of the capacity on Tuesday, according to railway sources. The railways has laid down a series of safety measures like thermal scanning for passengers before entering platforms and allowing only asymptomatic passengers to board trains. Masks are made compulsory for all. A team of ticket checking staff checks tickets of passengers before allowing them into platforms, and also guides them to the right coaches. As a result, only two TTEs are manning this train up to Villupuram and back. For the TTEs, the railway administration has provided masks, face shields, gloves and hand sanitisers. “Only the young and willing TTEs have been deployed in onboard duties,” said a TTE. With lesser number of passengers, social distancing is, by and large, possible inside trains, said a TTE. Further, only packed food items like biscuits, cool drinks and water bottles are sold by pantry car staff. “The passengers have been advised to carry their own food,” an official said. A railway official said people should make train trips only during emergencies and important occasions. They can book tickets online. Children and aged people should not be made to travel for their own safety.  Refunding of ticket fares Madurai Division of Southern Railway started refunding of ticket fares for trains cancelled after March 22 from Monday. Passengers can get refunds from counters in Madurai, Tirunelveli, Dindigul and Virudhunagar. A statement said 100% refunds would be made for all cancelled trains up to 180 days from the date of journey. Refunds would be made available in a staggered manner to minimise crowds. Refunding for tickets booked for journeys between March 22 and 31 began on June 1. For tickets booked for journeys between April 1 and 14, refunding would begin on June 6; for journeys between April 15 and 30 would begin on June 11; for journeys between May 1 and 15, refunding would begin on June 16; for the journeys from May 16 and 31 refunding would begin on June 21; and for journeys between June 1 to 30 it would begin on June 26. Refunding at other stations would be disbursed later. Refunds of ticket fares are being granted on line atwww.irctc.co.infor tickets booked on the website.
03 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Leaders pay last respects to former BJP State chief||Leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party and regional leaders of various other political parties paid their last respects to former BJP State president K.N. Lakshmanan who passed away at the age of 90 here on Monday. BJP leaders C.P. Radhakrishnan, Pon. Radhakrishnan and L. Ganesan were present during the funeral procession. DMK legislator R. Rajendran, DMK leader A. Raja also paid their respects. Lakshmanan died of illness at his residence in Shevapet on Monday night. He is survived by his wife, son and daughter. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP national president J.P. Nadda, Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, and Governor Banwarilal Purohit condoled his death.
03 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Nine cases in Salem||Nine positive cases have been reported in Salem on Tuesday. Among them, six persons have travelled to Salem from Maharashtra and Karnataka, one person is from Chennai and two cases from different parts of Salem district. The patients are undergoing treatment at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital.
03 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Homecoming for 713 Indians as ship brings them from Sri Lanka||It was homecoming for 713 Indians who were stranded in Sri Lanka since the beginning of the COVID-19 lockdown in March, as Indian Navy ship INS Jalashwa berthed at the VOC Port on Tuesday. They were repatriated from the island nation’s capital Colombo under the Centre’s ‘Samudra Setu’ programme. Of the repatriates, 693 are from Tamil Nadu, three from Kerala, two from Karnataka and one from the Union Territory of Puducherry. The 173.7-m-long naval ship left Colombo shortly after 7 p.m. on Monday and was docked at the VOC Port’s refurbished coal jetty at 10 a.m. on Tuesday. District Collector Sandeep Nanduri and chairman of VOC Port T.K. Ramachandran received them cordially. After the repatriates disembarked from the ship, all the while following physical distancing norms, they were taken for medical screening. Their baggage were disinfected. After the screening, Immigration and Customs formalities were completed and they were taken in 25 TNSTC buses to their home districts. Blood samples and throat swabs were collected from 58 passengers from Thoothukudi before they were taken to ‘isolation camps’.
03 June 2020||Thoothukudi/Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||51 test positive in Thoothukudi, 12 in Tirunelveli, six in Kanniyakumari district||Thoothukudi district witnessed sharp rise in positive cases on Tuesday with 51 more patients — 31 indigenous and 20 imported — taking the tally to 277. The district now had 126 ‘active cases’ after 149 patients were discharged, while two others, including a 72-year-old woman, succumbing to the viral infection. Tirunelveli district had 12 more patients, including 11 imported cases, that took the district’s total number of infections to 366. Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital now had 89 patients under treatment. Kanniyakumari district reported six indigenous cases and an imported case, taking the tally to 76. It now had 36 active cases undergoing treatment in Kanniyakumari District Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam. Tenkasi district had two cases, takign the total to 90 cases, and 22 were under treatment. In Virudhunagar, one more health inspector was among three, who tested positive. The Health Inspector of Amathur was involved in conducting tests for a group of people from Perali who came out positive in the last few days. The other two were also contacts of a couple who recently tested positive after their return from Chennai. With this, the total number of positive cases in Virudhunagar touched 127: 36 indigenous and 91 from other States and districts. However, the total number of active cases was 65. After four persons got discharged on Tuesday, the total number of patients discharged so far touched 62. Nine discharged The total number of positive cases in Madurai district remained at 269 on Tuesday. Nine persons were discharged from hospital, leaving 92 active cases.
03 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Work on phase-III of UGD project is set in motion||More than three years after technical sanction was granted by the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department, the Tiruchi Corporation has completed the tender awarding process for the much awaited phase-III underground drainage project. L&T has bagged the project and it will be implemented at an estimate of Rs. 336 crore under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). Of the total project cost, Rs. 132 crore will be contributed by the Central government and the State Rs. 52.82 crore. The Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund (TNUDF) will extend Rs. 49.96 crore through the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the capital grant from Project Sustainability Grant Fund will be Rs. 54.69 crore. The Tiruchi City Corporation will contribute the remaining Rs. 40.78 crore with public contribution from the users. Formation of sewage line for 331 km and construction of pumping mains for 21.50 km were part of the phase-III UGD project. It is aimed at providing UGD connection to 32,000 households in the city. It will bring wards 37, 39 and 41 fully under the sewer system and wards 31, 35, 36, 38, 40, 42, 43, 45, 52, 53, 60 and 63 will be partially covered. It has been proposed to build pumping stations at Indira Nagar, Lourdu Nagar, Kulavaipatti, Muthukumarasamy Nagar, Panjapur, Arasu Colony and Natchathira Nagar. Lifting stations will come up at seven locations. The project was originally planned to be implemented at a cost of Rs. 321 crore. Technical sanction for the project was given in May 2018. The civic body had floated tenders for the project in Sempteber 2018. But, the international competitive bid had received only a single bid. Moreover, a Kolkata based company quoted Rs. 60 crore more than the estimated cost of the project. As the bid cost was about 26% more than the estimated cost, the civic body called the bidder for price negotiation. But, even after three sittings, the company did not agree to bring down the quoted price. Following this, the first tender process was cancelled and a re-tender was floated a few months ago after clearance from ADB. After a long process, the Corporation has completed the tendering process and awarded the contract to L&T. S. Sivasubramanian, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation, told The Hindu that it would be a major infrastructure development project after the ongoing phase-II underground project. Tender agreement would be signed within a few days. It had been planned to start construction soon and the project would be completed within 2 years. The sewage treatment plant (STP) at Panjapur would be used to treat the sewage being collected from the households. To accommodate more inflow, the STP would be rejuvenated, Mr. Sivasubramanian added. S. Amuthavalli, City Engineer, said that elaborate arrangements were being made to minimise public inconvenience during the construction period. The residents concerned would be intimated in advance.  This will be a major infrastructure development project and it will be completed within two years S. Sivasubramanian Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation
03 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi records first COVID-19 death||Tiruchi recorded its first death due to COVID-19 after a 70-year-old woman from Alwarthoppu in the city died at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Tuesday. She was admitted to the GH on May 27 with breathlessness and cold, officials here said. The woman,who had been suffering from comorbid conditions, including asthma and hypertension, was brought to the Tiruchi GH in a serious condition, R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, MGMGH said. She was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit on May 27. A team of doctors fought to resuscitate the woman until Tuesday morning when she died. The woman is Tiruchi district’s first COVID-19 death. However, speaking to The Hindu , M. Nooruddin, the woman’s grandson, said that the patient was first taken to a private hospital in the city as she was suffering from cold. At the private hospital, the woman was monitored by doctors for a day after which they asked the family to shift the patient to Tiruchi GH, he said. The woman was reportedly under the care of a home nurse. The woman’s body was buried on Tuesday afternoon at a burial ground near Palakkarai.
03 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Golden Rock Railway Workshop begins functioning with full strength||Having resumed operations with restricted workforce early last month in view of the COVID-19 lockdown, the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here began to function with full strength of its employees on Tuesday. A detailed set of guidelines and instructions relating to COVID-19 management have been issued to the employees including frequent sanitization of the entire workplace. The over 80-year-old workshop has a total workforce exceeding 4,000. Having remained shut for over 40 days owing to COVID-19 lockdown, the workshop resumed operations with 33 per cent of its total strength initially from May 7 onwards after obtaining permission from the District Collector. Subsequently, the workshop started to function with 50% of its total staff strength from May 20 with single shift consequent to further relaxations announced by the State government. A workmen’s special train was being operated from Thanjavur to Tiruchi and back with stoppages en-route exclusively to transport workshop employees and those serving in the Tiruchi Railway Division residing at Thanjavur. Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram told The Hindu on Tuesday that the workshop had begun to function with 100 % of its employees from Tuesday following further relaxations announced by the State government. Barring those who resided in containment zones and pregnant women who have been advised to stay at home, there was full attendance at the workshop, Mr. Shyamadhar Ram further said.  Mr. Shyamadhar Ram said a senior workshop official had been nominated as the nodal officer for COVID-19 to inspect various shops inside to ensure that the COVID-19 related instructions and guidelines were being adhered to. The official would also conceive a plan for every shop in case of emergency situation.
03 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers leave for West Bengal||Migrant labourers who had been working in the central region boarded a Shramik special train from the Tiruchi Railway Junction on Tuesday afternoon for their hometown in West Bengal. The train, arranged by the Southern Railway departed from the station at around 1.30 p.m. and would reach New Jalpaiguri Junction Railway Station in Siliguri which is the last stop on Thursday. The train had on board 873 workers who had been employed in four districts in the central region with the largest group travelling from Tiruchi. The train originated from Thanjavur and therefore had passengers on board when it stopped at Tiruchi. Of the 873 workers, 516 had been working in Tiruchi, while 80 worked in Ariyalur, 156 in Perambalur and 121 in Pudukottai. The workers had expressed an interest to make the trip and had applied for it with their district administrations. The respective districts arranged special buses for them to reach Tiruchi Railway Junction in time to board the train. However some workers were forced to hitch rides or hail auto rickshaws to reach the railway station. “We were not given any help to reach the junction. We have no money and are forced to pool money to take a rickshaw,” a worker said. At the junction, Tiruchi District Collector S. Sivarasu handed each of the travellers some food, water and snacks for the journey before sending them off.
03 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||17 more test positive in central region||Seventeen persons from the central region tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. While seven of the 17 patients hailed from Tiruchi, three each were from Nagapattinam and Thanjavur, two from Tiruvarur district and one each from Perambalur and Pudukottai. In Tiruchi, two patients hailing from Kottapattu tested positive in Chennai. The patients belong to the district but have not come here since the lockdown. The infection was contracted in Chennai itself, official sources here said. Meanwhile, four family members of a Tiruchi Corporation Bill Collector and two family members of the staff nurse, who tested positive on Sunday, have also tested positive. All patients have been admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital where they are undergoing treatment. In Nagapattinam, three patients hailing from Vedaranyam, Nagore and Mayiladuthurai, all travellers who returned to the district from Chennai have tested positive for the virus. The patients are undergoing treatment at Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital. Two patients in Thanjavur and one in Tiruvarur have also tested positive. The patients are stable and are undergoing treatment, officials here said. In Pudukottai district, a 23-year-old man, the son of a patient who died of COVID-19 in the district last week has tested positive. He has been admitted to the Ranees Hospital where he is undergoing treatment. Tests for other family members returned negative, hospital sources here said. The sole patient who tested positive in Perambalur is a 35-year-old man from Alathur. The man has been admitted to the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital.
03 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hostels to open on June 11||All hostels of Backward Classes and Most Backward Classes in the district will reopen on June 11, exclusively to accommodate Plus One and Class X students so as enable them write public examinations. There are 52 BC and MBC hostels in the district. Of them, 14 hostels are meant for accommodating college students. Except them, the other 37 hostels will be open from June 11 to June 25. “All arrangements had been taken to ensure safety and personal hygiene measures at the hostels. The hostel wardens were instructed to contact the students to inform the reopening of hostels. During their stay, transportation will be arranged for them to reach the examination centres and bring them back to their respective hostels,” Collector Sivarasu said.
03 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||A 24-year-old man was murdered and another person sustained head injury after they were attacked by a gang at Sangupettai in neighbouring Perambalur town on Tuesday. Police said the crime was committed when a group was playing volleyball. A wordy quarrel erupted leading to the attack on R. Pandi. He died on the spot and Surya sustained head injury. Further investigations were on. The Perambalur Police is on the look out for the gang.
03 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Police constable helps reunite mentally ill woman with family||A police constable with the Tiruppur City Police helped reunite a mentally ill woman with her family on Monday. The woman had gone missing in Tiruppur. R. Suresh, a head constable at the Tiruppur rural police station in Nallur, said that he came across a young woman while patrolling in Kasipalayam on Friday. “It was raining and she was getting drenched without finding any shelter,” he recalled. He offered her tea and biscuits at a nearby tea shop but she refused to eat or drink anything. Upon realising that she was mentally ill, Mr. Suresh admitted her to a private home for persons with disabilities at S. Periyapalayam on Friday night. As she was unable to clearly convey any details about herself, Mr. Suresh posted a picture of her on social media platforms along with his contact number on Saturday, requesting those with any relevant information to contact him. The next day, A. Salim, a resident of Sarangadu, happened to see this post and recognised that it was his younger sister, who had gone missing from the house on Friday. He immediately contacted Mr. Suresh, who asked him to bring documents to prove that she was his sister. Upon verifying the details on Mr. Salim’s Aadhaar card and ration card, the head constable contacted the home on Monday and she was sent to her residence. “He [Mr. Suresh] even arranged a vehicle for us to our residence,” Mr. Salim told The Hindu . Tiruppur City Police posted on social media platforms on Monday about this incident and noted that Commissioner of Police Sanjay Kumar and Deputy Commissioner of Police V. Badri Narayanan congratulated Mr. Suresh for this deed.
03 June 2020||TIRUPPUR/CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central Institute of Classical Tamil gets new director||The Central Institute of Classical Tamil (CICT) will take up comparative studies of Tamil with other classical languages, such as Greek and Latin, said R. Chandrasekaran, who has been appointed the first permanent Director of the Institute. An assistant professor of Tamil at Government Arts and Science College at Mullipuram, Kangeyam, Mr. Chandrasekaran said, “This (the Director post) is an important task to demonstrate the richness and depth of the Tamil language on the world stage.” Other proposed projects for CICT include deciphering ancient Tamil inscriptions, promoting Tamil studies in countries with substantial Tamil population and creating Tamil chairs in leading universities across the world, Mr. Chandrasekaran told The Hindu over phone from his residence in Erode. He hoped to carry out these projects with the support of the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD) and the State government. In an effort to kindle interest in Tamil among school and college students, conferences and other activities would be held by CICT in educational institutions in the State, he said. Task in hands Completion of the construction of the permanent building for the CICT and resolving the issue of appointment of permanent employees are immediate concerns the Institute’s first permanent director Prof. R. Chandrasekaran will have to deal with, Tamil Development Minister ‘Ma Foi’ K. Pandiarajan said. Mr. Pandiarajan said that the appointment was much delayed and it was of concern to the State government. “It was more a procedural delay. We will work with him closely,” he said. The Minister said the construction of the building at Kancheepuram is nearing completion, but another Rs. 6.5 crore has to be disbursed. “They have been delaying this saying that a permanent director has to be appointed. Now that he has been appointed, we want this work to be completed quickly,” Mr. Pandiarajan added. He also said another key issue was the appointment of permanent staff to the Institute. Mr. Pandiarajan said the employees who had been working on a contractual basis for the past 10 years have approached the courts seeking that they be made permanent. “Now that they have worked for 10 years, they want to be made permanent. That is also an issue to be resolved by the director,” he said. Apart from these, the Institute’s awards for Tamil scholars have been pending for a few years now. “We have to quickly decide these and award them. The Kalaignar M. Karunanidhi Classical Tamil Award also has to be given,” he said.
03 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tribal communities concerned over proposed fibre optic project in MTR||Tribal communities and activists in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) have asked the district administration to hold gram sabha meetings before giving approval to the fibre optic cable project. According to Forest Department officials, Reliance Jio had filed an application with the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change seeking approval to lay fibre optic cables in around 15 km of the tiger reserve encompassing Theppakadu, Masinagudi and Moyar. “The Forest Department is of the opinion that the project will have no impact on the environment, and as such the department has not objected to the project being implemented in the reserve,” said a top official from MTR. Since the cables would be laid underground, there would be no hindrance to the movement of wildlife or any environmental impact, the official added. However, tribal communities living in the reserve said they had not been consulted about the project. They fear that if it is approved, it will set a precedent for approval of future projects. M. Senthil Kumar, general secretary of the Mudumalai Pazhangudiyinar Nala Sangam in Bokkapuram in MTR, said the Forest Rights Act of 2006 clearly stipulated that diversion of forest land for electric and telecommunication lines could only be undertaken if these projects fulfilled certain conditions which include local gram sabha consent for the clearance of the project. “It is our belief that any certificate issued in favour of the project violates the Forest Rights Act, 2006,” he said. “None of the tribal communities even knew of the project. They learned about it from in a newspaper article,” said Mr. Kumar. Proper procedures should be followed and forest people’s protection ensured before giving approvals to the projects that could threaten their livelihoods, he said. When contacted, Nilgiris district Collector J. Innocent Divya said the file for the project had not yet reached her and so she was not fully aware of the project. Forest department officials said they did not hold any grab sabha meetings or seek the consent of local communities as the project implementation area was outside the jurisdiction of the gram sabhas. C.R. Bijoy, from the Campaign for Survival and Dignity, a nation-wide coalition of Adivasi and forest dwellers organisations, said that for forest diversion to take place, it must first have been ascertained whether the claims made by the communities living in the reserve had been settled. “Unless all individual claims and community claims have been settled, it will be impossible to even ascertain whether the project area incurs into the gram sabha’s jurisdiction,” he said.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||1,091 new COVID-19 cases reported in Tamil Nadu||“In these zones, every 100 houses will have one surveyor. They are visiting all houses and looking for persons with symptoms of ILI such as fever and cough, and all persons with symptoms are being tested. In the last three to four days, these surveyors have been able to pick up several such cases. We are strengthening this measure in the city,” an official said. Health inspectors from the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine have been deputed to the Greater Chennai Corporation, and they are supervising the surveys in the zones. The city’s neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur continued to witness a surge in cases. There were 82 new cases in Chengalpattu and 43 in Tiruvallur. With the new cases, Tiruvallur’s tally of cases rose to 1,025. Thoothukudi had 31 new cases, while Kancheepuram had 15 and Tiruvannamalai had nine cases. Of the 1,091 new cases, 55 persons had returned from other States by air and road. While 40 were from Maharashtra, eight were from Karnataka, three from Andhra Pradesh and two each from Kerala and Delhi. Testing facilities With a further 11,094 samples tested, the State has so far tested 5,14,433 samples, while the number of persons tested stood at 4,90,804. The Government District Headquarters Hospital in Nagapattinam has been approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are a total of 73 testing facilities in the State.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)   In the affected zones in Chennai, surveyors are visiting all houses and looking for persons with symptoms of ILI Official
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||Till June 2   Coimbatore district  No. of persons tested +ve so far: 151 No. of persons recovered: 145 No. of persons died: 1 No. of active cases: 5   Tiruppur district  House quarantined: 1,572 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on June 2) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Back to pushing, shoving?||In stark contrast to images of near-empty buses the previous day, mofussil routes witnessed a huge surge in commuter traffic on Tuesday and the TNSTC fleet became inadequate to meet the demand. When operation of public transport resumed on Monday, only a few passengers could be seen travelling in buses from Tirunelveli to destinations such as Thoothukudi, Tiruchendur, Tenkasi, Papanasam, Valliyoor and Sankarankovil. Ditto with city buses. The poor occupancy was attributed to uncertainty over whether the buses would be operated late in the evening for return trips. Moreover, there were no buses to Kanniyakumari district. On Tuesday, operation of buses to Nagercoil turned the situation upside down. A large number of commuters travelled on the route and physical distancing went for a toss. At Venthankulam new bus stand, more than 75 passengers vied with one another to get into a TNSTC bus to Nagercoil in the morning. The bus crew repeatedly warned them that they would operate the vehicle only with 30 persons in order to ensure physical distancing. However, none of the travellers were in a mood to disembark. The conductor informed higher officials in Nagercoil of the situation and the bus left the terminus after a 40-minute delay — with 70 passengers. Heavy rush Buses to and from Tirunelveli and Tiruchendur also witnessed heavy rush. Around 8.30 a.m., when a TNSTC bus from Tiruchendur entered Venthankulam bus stand, more than 60 passengers boarded it. “Since the number of buses operated now does not match the demand, all buses are witnessing big crowds. Officials should take appropriate action to operate adequate number of buses,” a senior TNSTC officer said here.
03 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. has plans to reach out to students deprived of classes’||The State government has plans to reach out to students who have been deprived of online classes due to poor mobile network or lack of smart phones, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said in Belagavi on Tuesday. “We will ask teachers to hold classes in large public buildings or houses in remote villagers to teach small groups of students who attend nearby schools. We can also depute teachers to visit houses of some students who do not have smart phones or are unable to study due to network problems or other such issues. The model has been successfully tried in Chikkodi,” he said. He said that the State government had not yet decided on the date of reopening, though the High Court of Karnataka had allowed it to reopen schools after wide consultation with parents, teachers and other groups. “When schools will reopen, they will do so with all precautions such as social distancing, sanitising and wearing of masks. We are also considering running schools in shifts,” the Minister said. No final decision has been taken on any of these issues till now, he said. He said that the Education Department would hold SSLC and PU examinations with the cooperation of Home and Health Ministries on the scheduled dates. Teachers are using several technical tools, including WhatsApp, Zoom, and YouTube, along with classic tools such as community radio. This will continue at least for the next 15 days, he said.
03 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||The politics behind Jarkiholi’s new post||Three days after Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi announced that he could prompt five more Congress MLAs to switch sides to the BJP, he has been made Minister in charge of Belagavi, his home district. His follower Mahesh Kumathalli, who quit the Congress to join the saffron party with him but was denied a ministerial berth, has been appointed chairman of Karnataka Slum Development Board. These are seen as measures to “reward” Mr. Jarkiholi and help him manage the party in the district, which is facing a rebellion of sorts from senior leader and ministerial aspirant Umesh Katti and his younger brother and Rajya Sabha aspirant Ramesh Katti. However, there is another section of leaders in the BJP that sees this as a “balancing act” by the party, which seems to have empowered the Katti faction by reducing the clout of Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi. They are upset that Mr. Savadi, who was defeated in the Assembly polls, was made Deputy CM and given important portfolios, while eight-times winner Mr. Umesh Katti was left out. The friendship and political goodwill between the Jarkiholi brothers and the Katti clan is well-known and said to date back to their Janata Parivar days. Five years ago, the Katti and Jarkiholi brothers got together to deny Mr. Savadi chairmanship of the district central cooperative bank by one vote. The Katti brothers are said to have sided with Mr. Jarkiholi when he campaigned for Mr. Kumathalli, who defeated Mr. Savadi in the 2018 Assembly polls. A BJP leader pointed that one ofthe Jarkiholi brothers, Balachandra, attended a meeting of Mr. Katti and others. “While abrother attends a pro-Katti meeting, another gets promoted as the district in-charge Minister to exert more control on the administration and the district partyunit,” he said.
03 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||51 new cases in Belagavi||As many as 51 persons tested positive in Belagavi district on Tuesday, in what was the highest single-day spike in cases. Except two, who are contacts of earlier positive cases, the others are Maharashtra returnees. This has pushed the tally to 212. They are all from Belagavi, Athani and Hukkeri taluks. They are all admitted in the district designated COVID-19 hospital and are responding to treatment. Meanwhile, the total number of those discharged from the designated hospital reached 126. There are only 85 active cases in hospital now. An old woman with co-morbidities died before her results were out early in April. There are 13 containment zones in the district till Tuesday morning.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||96% of active cases in State asymptomatic||With 96% of the total 2,026 active cases in Karnataka being asymptomatic, the State government is now contemplating reverting to its earlier decision to test and quarantine asymptomatic persons as well, especially from high prevalence States. The Health and Family Welfare Department had last week done away with the mandatory COVID-19 test for asymptomatic individuals. Moreover, asymptomatic individuals had been exempted from institutional quarantine, barring Maharashtra. However, with asymptomatic cases having become a cause of concern among the community — given that they can spread while showing no symptoms and move freely — some experts are now of the opinion that irrespective of symptoms, returnees from high-risk States should be quarantined institutionally. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar has said that he will discuss the possibility of reintroducing mandatory testing and 14-day institutional quarantine with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The suggestion has come not only from experts but also elected representatives after the State witnessed sudden spike in cases after a large number of people, mostly migrant workers, returned from Maharashtra. C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is the nodal officer of labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said irrespective of symptoms, all returnees from Maharashtra should be tested. “Migration from high-risk States is the precipitating factor and cases are peaking now. Mandatory testing and quarantine is a must at least for those returning from Maharashtra,” he said. As on June 1, of the total 3,408 positive cases since the virus entered Karnataka in March, 90% have been asymptomatic. According to data from the Karnataka COVID-19 war room, only 75 persons of the 2,026 active cases are symptomatic and being treated in designated COVID-19 hospitals. Overall, 330 cases have been symptomatic.  Transmissibility low? Some experts argue that the transmissibility through asymptomatic cases is low. A senior member of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee cited a position statement by the National Centre for Infectious Diseases and the Chapter of Infectious Disease Physicians, Academy of Medicine, Singapore, to make this point. “The infectious period of SARS-CoV-2 virus in symptomatic individuals may begin as early as two days before the onset of symptoms and persists for about seven to 10 days after the onset of symptoms. However, in asymptomatic cases, the transmissibility is negligible or low. Hence, the focus should be on symptomatic cases,” the member argued.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Act against home quarantine violation: CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday directed Deputy Commissioners, zilla panchayat CEOs, and Superintendents of Police to camp at taluk centres and take all action to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. He said vigilance committees must be formed at every village and at ward levels in cities, and officials should ensure that these committees are active and FIRs are registered in case of violation of home quarantine. Since the restrictions will be lifted from June 8, the district administrations must take all precautionary measures and strictly follow the guidelines, he told senior officials. The Chief Minister held a video conference with DCs,CEOs and SPs of Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Udupi, Yadgir, Raichur, and Belagavi. As there has been a spike in COVID-19 cases because of the return of people from Maharashtra, all district administrations must guide people in home quarantine to carefully follow the instructions, he said. Task forces at the gram panchayat level should actively monitor those in home quarantine and police constables must be deployed to guard them. The GPs have been given training in this regard and booth-level teams must submit daily reports on the matter, the Chief Minister said. He also said districts must keep vigil on the State’s borders and prevent illegal entry of migrants. Dead bodies must not be allowed into the State, he added.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bar council needs to act against troubling advocates: Chief Justice||The Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday said that the Karnataka State Bar Council (KSBC) will have to initiate disciplinary action against a small number of advocates who are creating trouble in the smooth operation of courts, as per the Standard Operating Procedure issues for containing COVID-19. Pointing out that a few advocates created a scene at the entry of the High Court again on Tuesday at around 9.30 a.m. demanding that they be allowed to enter the premises without authorisation, the Chief Justice said the KSBC must step in to take action against such advocates.  “Majority of the advocates across the State are well mannered and are cooperating in keeping courts partially open as per SOP. The main problem is in the capital city. A small number of advocates causing trouble...,” the Chief Justice told the advocates representing KSBC and Advocates’ Association, Bengaluru (AAB).He made the remarks while he was, on a Division Bench with Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty, hearing a PIL petition filed by the Karnataka State Level Advocates’ Clerks Association, Bengaluru, seeking directions to State to lend financial help to registered clerks in view of COVID-19. Counsel for KSBC assured the Bench that it would take action against the advocates. Meanwhile, the Bench, noticing that both the KSBC and AAB could not create a fund by taking donations from senior advocates to help clerks despite suggestions made by the court, said that it would appeal to senior advocates to generate fund. The Bench asked Additional Advocate General M. Dhyan Chinnappa to request 10 senior advocates to participate in the proceedings of the PIL through video conference on the next date of hearing. Meanwhile, additional police were deployed at the entry points of the High Court and City Civil and Sessions Court Complex in Bengaluru on Tuesday.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||4 train passengers from Mumbai flee in autos||The first train from Mumbai, a COVID-19 hotspot, pulled into Bengaluru’s Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Railway Station with 644 passengers, including 52 children, on Tuesday morning. However, chaos reigned at the station as several passengers were unhappy with the long process of deboarding and medical checkups. Four passengers left the railway station premises in autorickshaws even before being screened in an attempt to escape the mandatory institutional quarantine. Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao appealed to them to report back to the station or be charged. But in the end, police and civic officials tracked them down using information on the reservation list and the vehicle registration numbers of the autorickshaws. The process took several hours, but all four were traced, subjected to a medical examination, and sent to institutional quarantine facilities. Mr. Rao told The Hindu that a criminal case would be booked against them under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Senior civic officials said that the people who came in contact with them, including the autorickshaw drivers who ferried them, will be monitored. Initially, officials tried to deboard passengers from each bogie, but the system soon unravelled as passengers refused to wait for their turn. A train from Delhi that arrived around the same time added to the chaos. In the rush, social distancing was ignored. Several passengers took objection to the long wait. With an over 12-hour journey and large number of children among the passengers, the lack of food became a bone of contention as deboarding procedures extended into the afternoon. Eventually, officials organised food at the railway station. What added to the confusion was that several passengers had boarded Udayan Express, the train from Mumbai, in Kalaburagi and other stations in the State, who claimed they need not go into the mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine for those coming from Maharashtra.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Courts will continue to operate partially: HC||The Karnataka High Court has clarified that all district courts, family and labour courts, and industrial tribunals will continue to function partially as per the Standard Operating Procedure. The notification, issued on June 2 extending closure of these courts till July 6, is only for extension of period of limit prescribed under the Limitation Act for approaching the courts, it said. “The notification issued extending closure is only for the purposes of extension of limitation. The SOP issued for High Court and district courts will remain unaffected. Courts will continue working as notified,” stated a notification issued by the Registrar-General of the High Court on Tuesday evening. Confusion over notice The clarification was issued after the notification issued in the afternoon had created confusion among some circles of legal fraternity that the courts would be closed till June 6.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Containment zones up to 39||With new COVID-19 positive cases being reported in BBMP limits, the number of containment zones has increased to 39. According to the BBMP’s war room report, all the new cases are from five different wards coming under the West zone. One case each has been reported from Subhash Nagar, Azad Nagar, Nayandahalli, Subramanya Nagar and Rayapuram wards.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Further relaxation for liquor sale||In a further relaxation on sale of liquor in the State, the Excise Department on Tuesday extended the timing for sale in outlets from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. It also allowed bars and restaurants to take fresh stock. The move comes in the light of relaxation issued by the Union government for Unlock 1.0 in which the curfew timing has been revised to 9 p.m. In a relief to over 3,500 bars and restaurants across the State, the government has allowed lifting of fresh stock, and sale of sealed bottles for sale at MRP. Earlier, the government had allowed bars to sell bottles that were in stock in the bar before the lockdown. The Federation of Wine Merchants Associations, Karnataka, which had urged the government to allow them to take fresh stock, welcomed the decision. All license holders, including clubs and bars in boarding and lodging establishments, have been allowed to lift fresh stock to be sold at MRP to customers.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP’s move||With its 117 Assembly members, including Speaker, the ruling BJP has enough strength to ensure the victory of its two candidates in the Rajya Sabha elections. Sources said the BJP might field a third candidate only if the Congress and JD(S) do not field M. Mallikarjun Kharge and H.D. Deve Gowda, respectively.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Only 250 of 550 HOPCOMS outlets working||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has directed officials to take disciplinary action against absentee staff of Horticultural Producers' Co-operative Marketing and Processing Society (HOPCOMS). Speaking at a review meeting of Agriculture, Horticulture, and Sericulture departments, the Chief Minister said that out of 550 HOPCOMS outlets in the State, only 250 were working now. He instructed officials to take strict disciplinary action against those not reopening shops. He also directed officials to cancel all deputations in the Agriculture and Horticulture departments. Noting good rainfall and absence of drinking water problem, he instructed officials not to grant permission to drill new borewells. Mr. Yediyurappa said scientists have assured the authorities that Karnataka would not be affected by locust swarms. He also directed officials to reclaim encroached government lands after the drone survey with regard to mulberry plantation area is completed. On the occasion, he released Rs. 666 crore as relief for maize and flower growers.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Deve Gowda is not keen on backdoor entry’||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Tuesday said the Janata Dal (S) had not yet decided on its candidate for the Rajya Sabha elections, even though JD(S) and Congress sources indicated that it could be the party supremo H.D. Deve Gowda. “Mr. Gowda has always been one of the people and has always fought for their cause. He has been elected by the people, so he is not keen to take a backdoor entry,” Mr. Kumaraswamy told reporters at Channapatna on Tuesday. To a question on a coalition with the Congress, he asked, “Where is the coalition?” While JD(S) member Kupendra Reddy is among the four legislators retiring from the State, the party, with its strength of 34 in the Legislative Assembly, cannot win a seat on its own and will require Congress support. JD(S) sources said though Mr. Gowda was not keen to contest, he had been convinced to do so. “The Congress high command and local leaders have indicated their support if he contests,” a source said. “It is also felt that leaders like Mr. Gowda and M. Mallikarjun Kharge should be in Parliament.” On the other reasons for Mr. Gowda not being keen to contest, sources said it would be difficult for the JD(S) to fight the Congress in its traditional Old Mysore base if he took support from the party, especially with another Vokkaliga leader D.K. Shivakumar helming it in the State.
03 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Schools dependent on fees can collect amount: Suresh Kumar||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said here on Tuesday that the State government has issued clear instructions to all schools and colleges against hiking fees this academic year on humanitarian grounds. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, Mr. Suresh Kumar said that the instructions have been issued in the wake of the COVID-19 situation. Schools have been directed not to collect fees till further orders but some schools are dependent on fees to pay salaries to teachers. Hence, such schools have been told to accept fees from only well-to-do parents and this amount should be used only for payment of salaries for teachers. Help desks have been opened at Block Education Offices and parents can approach these officials if any school brings pressure asking them to pay fees, he added. On Right to Education seat fee reimbursement, the Minister said that some private schools have approached the State government asking it to clear the RTE fee reimbursement for the last two years. A sum of Rs. 1,040 crore fee reimbursement is pending with the government. To protect the interest of such schools, the government may release the first instalment shortly, he added. On reopening of schools, Mr. Kumar said that the government has decided to hold parents meeting in every school on June 10, 11 and 12 to invite suggestions from them on restarting schools. A comprehensive report on suggestions made by parents would be given to the Union government in July to take a final decision in the matter. Some academics and parents have suggested that high schools can be started on shift basis or on alternate days after August. But, the government has not given its commitment to any of these suggestions, he added. On the appointment of PU lecturers, Mr. Suresh Kumar said that a notification to appoint new lecturers was issued in 2015 and in 2018, examinations were conducted. The results were announced in 2019. The process of documentation of certificates of those selected has started and counselling would begin on June 18 after which the appointment orders will be issued, he said. About preparations for SSLC examinations, he said that all preventive measures have been taken in the designated examination centres to ensure the safety of students. Bharat Scouts and Guides and Indian Red Cross Society have taken the responsibility of providing two sets of masks to every student. This apart, thermal scanners will be installed in every examination centre and every student will be screened before he is allowed to enter the exam hall. If any student is sick, he will be allowed to write the exams in isolation. Each one of the examination centres will have two rooms isolated for such candidates, he said.
03 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Plasma therapy: KIMS doctors taste success||Doctors of Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences and Hospital (KIMS) have claimed success with plasma therapy on a 65-year-old COVID-19 patient in Hubballi. Director of KIMS Ramalingappa Antaratani and Medical Superintendent Arunkumar C. told presspersons in Hubballi on Tuesday that the patient’s condition had “turned to normal from critical”. Dr. Ramalingappa said the male patient (P-2170) was on oxygen support when they began plasma therapy on May 28. “We counselled the other COVID-19 patients who have been discharged from the hospital. A male patient from Hubballi (P-373) agreed to donate plasma for treatment. We took the help of Dr. RB Patil Cancer Institute at Navanagar, Hubballi, for extraction of plasma. Subsequently, 200ml of plasma was given twice to the patient.” The patient responded well to the therapy and his condition had improved drastically. To a query, Dr. Ramalingappa clarified that plasma therapy was not the first line of treatment and would be given to only specific cases of moderate to severe symptoms. The doctors were contemplating to administer the same on severe cases from other districts. “But we need donors and that’s why we are trying to counsel cured patients.” He clarified that the donor and receiver would be under regular observation.
03 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Arrangements being made for movement of students’||Arrangements are being put in place to allow movement of teachers, students, government employees and others between Mangaluru and Kasaragod of Kerala, said Dakshina Kannada District in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary here on Tuesday to a delegation of District Congress leaders. Reacting to the demand for facilitating movement between the two States, Mr. Poojary said that he has placed in writing before Chief Secretary Vijay Bhaskar about the need for facilitating the movement of people between the two States that have a history of co-existence. Mr. Poojary said that he suggested recognition of identity cards already issued to those crossing the border or, at the same time, issuing new identity cards to such people. “Mr. Bhaskar called me today to say that an arrangement is being put in place. It will be announced shortly,” Mr. Poojary told the delegation. The delegation, led by District Congress president K. Harish Kumar, Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader and MLC Ivan D’Souza, met Mr. Poojary at the Circuit House. On the demand for re-opening the Government Wenlock Hospital for treating Non-COVID-19 cases, Mr. Poojary said that a decision will be taken shortly. “I have asked District Health and Family Welfare Officer Ramachandra Bairy to look for a place (on the hospital premises) where OPD services can start,” he said. Mr. Poojary said that non-COVID-19 patients were shifted from the hospital to private hospitals in the city in the last week of March following fears that the infection can spread from COVID-19-infected persons being treated at the hospital. The delegation said that the State government should direct private city bus operators to pay an amount to drivers and conductors for a couple of months to compensate the reduction in their income because of reduced seating capacity. It also sought an increase in the duration of institutional quarantine for inter-State travellers and fixing of a rate for private laboratories to conduct RT-PCR test for these travellers.
03 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||No positive cases today in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada district did not report any COVID-19 positive case on Tuesday even as 13 affected persons, including a 40-year-old woman with co-morbid symptoms, were discharged from the designated hospital after testing negative for the disease. A bulletin from the Deputy Commissioner here said that results of 113 persons received on Tuesday were all negative. Reports of 80 persons were awaited while 50 samples were sent for test during the day. In all, the district has 61 active patients who are undergoing treatment at the District Government Wenlock Hospital. Among the discharged, two were aged over 60. The youngest among the discharged was an 18-year-old female patient, the bulletin said.  NDRF team arrives With the onset of monsoon, a team of 25 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel arrived in Mangaluru. It would assist the administration in tackling rain-related natural disasters. The team is stationed at the Pilikula Scouts Bhavan, the Deputy Commissioner said. Meanwhile, district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary on Tuesday visited areas that were prone to sea erosion in and around Ullal and Someshwara. He said that the Rs. 230-crore Someshwara Beach Protection Project was in full swing. Mr. Poojari said that the government would make every effort to safeguard the life and property of people.
03 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Banner proclaiming ‘Veer Savarkar flyover’ found||A banner proclaiming “Veer Savarkar flyover” was found placed at the Pumpwell Flyover here on Tuesday evening. Later, the police removed it. Some people had placed on the embankment of the flyover the banner which also had “Bajrang Dal” written on it using a paint. An image of this has gone viral on the social media.
03 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fire at BSNL exchange, landline services hit||Landline and 2G internet services of BSNL were affected following a fire that broke out at the telecom exchange in Deralakatte here on Tuesday morning. According to Karnataka Fire and Emergency Services, the fire broke out at around 10 a.m. It was because of a short circuit at the place where the air conditioner was installed. It took more than an hour for the firemen to put out the fire. BSNL General Manager G.R. Ravi said that equipment related to landline and 2G services were damaged. “We have restored a part of it. We will complete the restoration work by Wednesday,” he said.
03 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Health facilities to be ramped up in Udupi||In view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases, the district administration has decided to increase the number of beds to treat those who had contracted the disease, in Udupi district. Speaking to presspersons at Kundapur on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that there were 120 beds to treat COVID-19 patients at the Taluk Government Hospital and 65 beds at the Adarsha Hospital in Kundapur. It had been decided to shift the entire Taluk Government Hospital in Kundapur to the Community Health Centre in Kota. The entire Taluk Government Hospital in Kundapur with 200 beds would treat COVID-19 patients from Kundapur and Byndoor regions.  Byndoor taluk alone had received 2,500 persons from Maharashtra. Hence, it had been decided to create a COVID-19 Hospital at the Lalitambika Guest House at Kollur. The COVID-19 hospitals in Kundapur and Kollur would treat asymptomatic COVID-19 patients. Critical cases and pregnant women would be treated at the Dr. T.M.A. Pai Hospital, the designated COVID-19 hospital in Udupi.
03 June 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Homoeopathy medicine distributed in Yadgir||The District AYUSH Department distributed tablets to journalists to help improve their immunity in Yadgir on Tuesday. After distributing the tablets, District AYUSH Officer Vandana Gali said that the department has planned to distribute tablets of Ayurveda, Unani and Homoeopathy to help improve immunity among people. Officials distributed Arcenicum Album , a homoeopathy tablet, Samshamani Vati , an Ayurvedic tablet, and Arak Ajeeb , a Unani medicine. In another such event, K.S. Souhard Sahakar Niyamita and AYUSH Federation of India distributed these tablets to 1,000 people free.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Dependence on online learning exposes deepening ‘digital divide’||Eleven-year-old Shreyas S., a class five student of a CBSE school, uses his mother’s smartphone to log into online classes at 8.30 a.m. On Tuesday, he attended classes for science, mathematics, English, and one for physical education. “I spent the day learning about prepositions and the composition of food, and also managed to do some sit-ups. But I find it difficult to understand the concepts. There’s also interruptions in the internet network and a lot of disturbance in the background at home,” he said. Hitha Shravani, a class 10 student in a private school, also squints into her parents’ mobile phones to attend classes, all the while aware that her performance in the board exams will determine her future. She had to miss a few classes when her parents stepped out of their home with the phone. “We have six classes of 40 minutes each. If there are power cuts, then I cannot attend them. The audio clarity is poor and I face a lot of network issues,” she said, adding that although her teacher makes an effort to ensure that the presentations are easy, she and many of her classmates find it hard to grasp new concepts. While Hitha and Shreyas are struggling, others like Raunak (name changed) and his sister find themselves enjoying online learning. They have a laptop, a PC and a tablet at their disposal. If the power goes off, the UPS kicks in. “And if the Internet does not work, we use mobile phone hotspots to reconnect, though there can be a lag due to buffering,” said Raunak who started class nine last week. Online classes have exposed the divide between the privileged and those who don’t have access to broadband, smart phones or laptops. In some instances, parents are shelling out their savings to either buy or rent laptops or tablets for their children. But many students are missing out on lectures despite paying the tuition fees. Several academicians and experts have pointed out that online learning is deepening the “digital divide” among students. According to data collected by the Department of Public Instruction (DPI), 90% of the 80 lakh students in the State who were surveyed, were found to have access to TV, while only 62.5% had smartphones, laptops or tablets. Only 53.75% had Internet facilities. The department is yet to collect data from 15 lakh students. Parents are worried that this will affect learning outcomes. Srinivas C., a driver whose child is admitted under the RTE quota in a private school, said, “There is a lot of disturbance in the online classes. I have observed that my son finds it difficult to follow what the teacher says. We hope that the school just allows children to take a break and commences classes in schools when they are permitted to,” he said. Rishikesh B.S., associate professor at Azim Premji University, said that there was a need for school managements to first accept the reality and ensure that schools may not be able to reopen soon. “We strongly believe that going online is not an option and suggest that schools find other ways to engage with students. One of the key aims of education is to ensure the overall growth of one's personality, which can be encouraged in many creative ways. They can introduce small modules towards this and DSERT could be partnered with to relay through radio / satellite programs. Classes can be bunched together and have similar modules for students from different classes based on age groups,” he said. “We need to think of innovative ways to avoid online classes. Schools can even come up with novel ways of sending and picking up worksheets to students’ homes through their school bus network.” Based on a survey conducted by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar had written to Union Minister of Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar requesting three DD channels exclusively for the DPI. Government and aided schools are yet to start online classes.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 hits projects at KIA||The construction of Terminal II at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) will not be completed by April 1, 2021 as planned. Construction work on the ambitious project had come to a halt on account of the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. With migrants heading to their hometowns, labour too may pose a problem. Hari Marar, MD and CEO, Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), said that they anticipate a delay of anywhere between six and 12 months. “As far as rehabilitation of the old runway is concerned, it will be completed before this year-end as planned,” he said on Tuesday. Terminal II may not be the only project to be affected. Expansion of the roads will also get “progressively delayed” due to unavailability of labour. The BIAL is widening the 1.4-km main access road from Trumpet Interchange to the airport where the existing 2+2 lane road will be upgraded to 5 lanes on either side. Work had begun last year. “COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown has had an impact on our projects. Many of our labourers have gone back home. It will take us some time to get them all back. However, 2,300 labourers are working with us and construction is going on right now,” he added. No job loss at BIAL It has been a tough two months for BIAL, which saw almost no revenue since the lockdown. “However, we have not terminated any of our employees and we also encourage our partners not to lay off their employees,” Mr. Marar said. With the domestic aviation sector slowly taking off, Kempegowda International Airport is seeing some activity. BIAL officials said that at present KIA is handling 65 arrivals and departures a day as against the normal 350 arrivals and departures. AC buses from today Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) will resume its AC bus operations to KIA from Wednesday. BMTC plans to operate 23 Vayu Vajra (AC Volvo buses) buses to KIA from Kempegowda Bus Stand (KBS), Satellite Bus Stand on Mysuru Road, Banashankari Bus Stop, Electronics City, and BTM Layout. Contactless procedure Reduction or almost no physical contact, right from parking space to boarding the flight, is now the mantra at KIA. Following the new procedures, passengers were seen carrying e-passes or printed passes and scanning them at contactless self-service kiosks set up at every step, including check-in, to collect and affix baggage. All the counters are furnished with magnified glass screens and safe distance markers are placed on the floor. At the security check, body scanning is being done using Door Frame Metal Detectors (DFMD). Stamping of the boarding pass has been suspended. Meanwhile, according to a BIAL survey, 90% of passengers surveyed felt air travel to be a safe mode of transport while 87% felt that airports were safer than trains and bus stations. Around 60% of the passengers cited work as a reason for their travel.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Doctors concerned over safety precautions||When a child in the paediatric ward at Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) tested positive for COVID-19, the medical team treating the patient were concerned about precautions they would have to take. However, many doctors alleged that they were asked to report to work the next day. “There was no word about collecting samples for testing,” said one of the doctors. The doctor alleged that they do not have clarity on the number of medical professionals, nurses and staff members who were likely to have been exposed to the virus. “We fear spreading the infection to our loved ones when we go back home after duty,” the doctor said. Dean and principal V.T. Venkatesh refuted these allegations. “Primary contacts, among the medical professionals, had been asked to go on home quarantine for 14 days. We have taken all measures as per the protocol. The ward and the ICU where the patient was admitted were sanitised,” he said Soon after detection, the patient was shifted to Vani Vilas Hospital. “The patient was admitted for convulsions and was non-febrile at the time of admission. It was only on the third day of admission that the patient developed fever and respiratory issues. Medical examinations later revealed that the patient had COVID-19,” Mr. Venkatesh said, adding that as per protocol, the institute informed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, District Health Officer, and the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Interns demand stipend Interns at KIMS, who are roped in for COVID-19 duty, have demanded that they too be paid stipend like their counterparts in government medical colleges. According to sources in the institute, a few interns met with the Dean to discuss the issue on Tuesday. Mr. Venkatesh confirmed that the interns had submitted a formal proposal seeking stipend. “As per guidelines of the Medical Council of India, private medical colleges are required to pay stipend only to post-graduate students. I have forwarded their representation to the management, who will decide on the matter.”
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||PIL on setting fire to dwellings in slum||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday initiated suo motu PIL proceedings on the issue of setting afire to dwellings of migrant workers at Sunday Bazaar slum situated in Kacharakanahalli. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the order based on a letter written by city-based advocate Vaishali Hegde. It was pointed out in the letter that newspapers have reported that hundreds of migrant workers from Kalaburagi were living in these dwellings. Some anti-social elements had set fire to the dwellings during the last week of May 2020 when a majority of the workers had gone to their hometowns. “The incident would be a shock to any law-abiding citizen. It appears like a scene out of a movie where unlawful and rowdy elements take the law into their own hands and law enforcement agency remains a mute spectator...,” Ms. Hegde wrote in the letter.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Back home||
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Safety comes last||
03 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Royalty, MSP hike evoke mixed response||The State government’s decision to provide royalty for owners of cultivable paddy land and Centre’s nod for a hike in Minimum Support Price (MSP) for paddy have evoked mixed response among experts and farmers. The State government on Monday accorded administrative sanction for release of Rs. 40 crore for providing royalty of Rs. 2,000 per hectare to owners under the scheme Rice Development. G.S. Unnikrishnan Nair, a retired Additional Director of Agriculture, says giving royalty for owners of cultivable land of paddy is a welcome measure. But more field-level measures are required to increase paddy area and production so that cultivators get a premium price.  “We should go for a farming strategy involving lesser labour and input requirements that are highly productive. For this, the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) will be a good choice. Though the SRI is one of the components of the Rice Development scheme in the State, we are yet to take it up seriously. Up to 40% higher yield can be obtained by using the SRI,” he says. SRI practices include developing nutrient-rich and unflooded nurseries, ensuring wider spacing between rice seedlings, using compost or manure instead of synthetic fertilizers, and proper management of water to avoid saturation of the rice plant’s roots.  Premium varieties “These practices contribute to more fertile soil and healthier plants supported by greater root growth and the nurturing of soil microbial abundance and diversity,” Mr. Nair says. He says the other area the State should focus on is the production of premium rice varieties with high market value. “Medicinal, coloured and scented rice varieties are gaining good market the world over. Steps should be taken to revive padasekhara samitis and measures to make mechanisation more effective. Besides timely procurement, small-scale processing needs to be encouraged,” Mr. Nair says.  Meanwhile, some farmers have welcomed an increase in the MSP for paddy by Rs. 53 per quintal, while others have termed it a meagre hike given the soaring production cost. “It is a marginal rise. For farmers, it is not going to do much of a difference. Each passing season, the cost of production is spiralling,” says Renil Kumar K.K., secretary, Vavakkad North Padashekharam in Kuttanad. Vinod Kumar, a farmer, urges the government to provide the procurement price in a time-bound manner. The hike of Rs. 53 for 2020-21 will see the MSP of paddy (common) going up to Rs. 1,868 and that of paddy (grade A) to Rs. 1,888. With this, the procurement price of one kg of rice in Kerala will be Rs. 27.48.
03 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Cardamom e-auction suspended again||The cardamom e-auction was suspended on Monday after it was opened for a day at the Spices Park at Puttady on Thursday following a gap of 68 days. The main reason for the suspension of the e-auction was the restrictions on inter-State travel following COVID-19. The agencies conducting the auction were reluctant to participate in it in the absence of buyers from Tamil Nadu. K.S. Mathew, president, Vandanmedu Green Gold Cardamom Producer Company Ltd, which was scheduled to hold Monday’s auction, told The Hindu that there was no point in conducting the auction without the buyers. The main buyers were from Tamil Nadu and there was no actual buyer from the State. He said the auction should benefit the farmers. The Spices Board of India relaunched the e-auction on alternate days with only a single agency conducting the auction. Change in auction Earlier, there were two agencies conducting the auction in a single day except on Sundays. The auction on Thursday, held after the long gap, was noted for a steady fall in the prices. In addition to the Spices Park at Puttady, cardamom auction was held at the e-auction centre under the board at Bodinayakanur in Tamil Nadu. Sources at the e-auction centre said there were chances of starting the e-auction at Bodinayakanur on Wednesday after the Theni District Collector took a positive stand. The agency scheduled to hold the auction might take a stand to participate in it. Without the auction, there was no way of deciding the prices of cardamom. Since the new crop is set to arrive the markets by July/August, there is apprehension that the prices would considerably fall in the wake of surplus arrivals. Moreover, the farmers withheld a portion of the produce in the last season on the hope of a rise in prices.
03 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||New e-learning system for remote, hilly areas||The Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) has embarked on an alternative system of e-learning in the hilly and remote areas of the district. It will benefit 6,288 students studying from Class 1 to 12 who do not have facilities to follow the e-learning lessons given on the KITE Victers channel. D. Bindumol, SSK district coordinator, says there is a plan to download the lessons on pen drive and screen them with the help of local teachers. Educational volunteers will take laptops to the hilly areas and the lessons will be screened with the help of local schools, panchayat, and non-governmental agencies. She says there are 48 local knowledge centres in the remote areas to help the students get access to e-learning. Separate classes will be held using the communication facilities at settlements where four or five students could jointly learn the lessons. Survey  Sindhu S., SSK State programme officer, says a survey was held in Peerumade and Devikulam taluks that found that there were areas without mobile connection and even electricity supply. Basic facilities will be arranged in such areas. The SSK has already provided study materials to the students there. Hence it will not be a task if enough laptops are made available. Ms Bindumol says in border settlements like Aduvizhunthankudi, volunteers have collected details of the facilities and shortly, arrangements to align with the system will be taken.
03 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||No cause for concern over Idukki water level||District Collector H. Dinesan has said that there is no need for concern with regard to the water level in the Idukki dam reservoir. The water level on Tuesday was 2,338 ft whereas the shutter level of the dam was 2,373 ft.
03 June 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Suicide attempt by health worker: four held in Kannur||The police arrested four persons, including a health inspector and a village officer, in connection with the attempted suicide of a health worker at New Mahe on Tuesday. The arrest was made based on a note written by the health worker and a complaint by her father. New Mahe police station Sub Inspector J.S. Rathish said those arrested were junior health inspector K.T. Manoj, village officer Murali, Ajay Kumar and Anil Kumar. They were charged under Section 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code, and later released on bail. The woman had been admitted to the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital in a critical condition. She reportedly took the extreme step after a fake message went viral on social media. She was alleged of violating COVID-19 prevention norms by allegedly maintaining close contact with her younger sister who had returned from Bengaluru on May 19 and was in quarantine with her mother in another house. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104, Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline of Maithri — 0484-2540530, Thanal Suicide Prevention Centre — 0495-2760000 and Direction Interventions System for Health Awareness (DISH) — 1056.
03 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Advisory on infection control at State hospitals||The government has issued an advisory for performance assessment of non-COVID-19 disease management to ascertain the level of functioning of hospitals, their adherence to standard operating procedures and the best practices adopted to raise the level of infection control. The guidelines are issued as part of the COVID-19-prevention measures to be implemented in all hospitals. 40 parameters The assessment is to be done digitally by all hospital superintendents and involves a checklist containing over 40 parameters. These include measures such as taking a check on adequate stock of drugs and personal protection equipment, triage for screening of patients with respiratory issues at the first point of entry, whether facilities are available for patients and bystanders at the triage area, whether there is a system to ensure at least one-metre distance between staff and patients at the triage reception, whether there is a physical barrier of glass or plastic at the registration and reception areas to prevent close contact between triage staff and patients, whether there are adequate handwashing facilities, if there is a mechanism to regularly disinfect frequently touched surfaces in outpatient departments and corridors and whether these control checks are happening on a daily basis. Weekly report All primary health centres, family health centres, community health centres, taluk hospitals, district and general hospitals, and specialty hospitals and institutions under the Directorate of Medical Education managing non-COVID-19 services have been asked to fill the form by Saturday afternoon every week. Once the gaps are identified, efforts should be made to rectify them. Unresolved issues should be reported to the Director of Health Services, Director of Medical Education or Principal Secretary, Health, every Tuesday.
03 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi Corporation division declared COVID-19 hotspot||Perumanoor, Division 60 of the Kochi Corporation, has been declared a COVID-19 hotspot with effect from Tuesday midnight. The area has been categorised as a containment zone after it was found that the primary and secondary contacts of a 49-year-old Air India Express crew member who tested positive recently, were from the area. The employee was a Thevara native. Persons who may have had contacts with the employee will remain in quarantine and be tested. Further steps will be taken based on the test results. A full lockdown will be enforced in the area. Only essential services will function till further notice. The movement of vehicles and people will be restricted as per the lockdown protocol. Meanwhile, three more persons have been added to the list of COVID-19 patients in Ernakulam district, taking the total number to 36. Among the three new patients, two had arrived by the Abu Dhabi-Kochi flight on May 17. A Keezhmad resident aged 56, and a 35-year-old Chengamanad native were asymptomatic. They had moved to home quarantine after seven days of institutional quarantine. However, they were asked to get tested as many on the flight had tested positive for the disease. Both were moved to the Government Medical College, Ernakulam, after the disease was confirmed. The third person is a native of Alangad and is under treatment at the Anjarakandy COVID-19 care centre in Kannur. The 34-year-old had taken the Salala-Kannur flight on May 28. He was taken to the hospital the same day after showing COVID-19 symptoms. Seven new persons moved into hospital isolation on Tuesday in the district, taking the total number to 88, after 12 were discharged.
03 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Plan to desilt Periyar, Muvattupuzha rivers||A report will be prepared and submitted to the Union government for environmental sanction soon to clear the Periyar and Muvattupuzha rivers of silt and accumulated waste obstructing their flow. The decision was taken at a meeting of the District Level Expert Committee (DLEC) convened by District Collector S. Suhas. Carrying out any work in the major rivers requires the Union government’s approval. Reports of the Piravom municipality making arrangements for sand mining will be looked into, the Collector said.
03 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New case filed for CMDRF swindling||A new case has been registered on the charge of allegedly misappropriating Rs. 73.13 lakh from the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) meant for the 2018 flood-relief activities in Ernakulam district and an investigation is under way, the State government has submitted before the Kerala High Court. The submission was made by Amjad Ali, government prosecutor, when the bail petition filed by Nithin N.N. of Kakkanad, the sixth accused in an earlier case registered in connection with the misappropriation of the CMDRF funds, came up for hearing on Tuesday.
03 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Food kits donated||Ernakulam Round Table-214 has donated 130 food kits to front-line health workers. The kits, each of which contains essential supplies including rice, sugar, tea powder, coconut oil and salt, were handed over to 130 ambulance drivers in the presence of District Collector S. Suhas.
03 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||NH stretch to be developed||District Collector S. Suhas launched “Mission Highway” here on Tuesday to speed up the development of the National Highway stretch between Moothakunnam and Edappally, and complete the work in a time-bound manner. The Collector said the work involved increasing the width of the 25-km stretch from the existing 30 m to 45 m. For this, 38.52 hectares of land would be acquired. As per the timeline chalked out now, the survey of the land would be completed by July 25. By October 10, the landowners would be given the compensation amount.
03 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||AG issues show-cause notice to prosecutor||Advocate General C.P. Sudhakara Prasad has issued a show-cause notice to prosecutor C.K. Prasad, who allegedly concealed certain facts when a bail petition by an accused in a case relating to the rape and murder of a minor girl came up for hearing before the High Court.
03 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Woman died of head injury||The investigation into the incident in which an elderly woman was killed and her husband grievously injured by unidentified assailants at Parappadam here the other day has revealed that the woman died of a head injury caused by a blunt object. The woman, identified as Sheeba, was hit hard with a object, which could be either an iron rod or a piece of wooden furniture. The post-mortem examination revealed that she had sustained a fatal injury on the back of her head, said an official. Preliminary investigations revealed that the assailants also broke open a couple of vaults inside the house before escaping in a car stolen from the house. The police, however, were yet to ascertain the actual value of the lost items, if any, besides the number of people involved in the crime. The police recovered the CCTV footage of the assailants fleeing with the couple’s car towards Kumarakom at 10 a.m on Monday. Attempts are on to trace the vehicle. Earlier in the day, Deputy Inspector General Kaliraj Maheshkumar visited the crime scene. A special team led by Deputy Superintendent R. Sreekumar is probing the case. Abdul Sali, 65 and his wife Sheeba, 60, of Shani Manzil, Parappadam, were found lying in a pool of blood in their house here on Monday evening.
03 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||317 centres in Kozhikode to help students access online education||As many as 317 study centres will be opened in Kozhikode district to help students who do not have facilities at home to access ‘First Bell’, the online learning initiative launched by the State government on June 1. Libraries, educational centres in tribal hamlets, anganwadis, Akshaya centres, and centres of excellence will double up as learning centres from Wednesday, according to A.K. Abdul Hakeem, District Project Coordinator, Samagra Shiksha, Keralam (SSK). A meeting of the district education committee chaired by District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao on Tuesday asked local bodies to arrange equipment for these places. Teachers in primary schools would be in charge of learning and head teachers should ensure that no student was left out of its ambit. Assistant educational officers, block project coordinators, and academic coordinators were asked to monitor their functioning. The District Collector asked cable TV operators to ensure that Victers Channel, through which the online classes were being broadcast, was being aired across all platforms. ‘Rasakkudukka’ Meanwhile, the Kozhikode unit of SSK has devised a programme titled ‘Rasakkudukka’ to help differently abled students gain access to online learning. According to a release, students, teachers, and resource persons would be added to Telegram or WhatsApp groups through which lessons would be imparted. This is an extension of a programme earlier implemented in block resource centres in Feroke, Perambra, Mavoor, Panthalayani, and Vadakara. The effort would be to customise the lessons now being broadcast through ‘First Bell’ initiative launched by Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) and Victers channel for differently abled students and help those who do not have the facilities for online education. Facilities in schools The Deputy Director of Education (DDE), Malappuram, said on Tuesday that online facilities had been arranged for primary class students who did not have smart phones and television facilities at their homes. She said local libraries would also be made use of, if needed. However, she said that primary students should not reach their schools for online classes if they did not have facilities. Cluster coordinators would go to their homes with laptops and offer them digital classes, she said. Classes given through Victers channel would also be made available on Facebook and YouTube. “So there is no question of missing the classes,” she said. Ponnani Municipality officials said they had set up 28 centres for the children who did not have facilities for online classes.  In Thrissur T.N. Prathapan, MP, has said online learning facilities will be arranged for students in the 20-odd tribal hamlets in the district. People can donate used or new televisions and tablets. Film actor Tovino Thomas has offered 10 new tablets. There are tribal hamlets in Chalakudy, Kodakara, Pazhayannur and Wadakkanchery panchayats in the district. Panchayats, libraries and voluntary organisations have made arrangements for those who do not have such facilities at their houses. Teachers in respective areas give directions before each class.
03 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Waste management pact stirs up row||A proposal for extending the contract with Niravu Zero Waste Management, Vengeri, as the supporting firm for Haritha Karma Sena kicked up a heated discussion at the Kozhikode Corporation Council meeting on Tuesday. Opposition councillors K.C. Shobhita, P.M. Niyas, Mohammed Shameel and C. Abdurahman pointed out that the Corporation had been paying a monthly remuneration of Rs. 1.62 lakh to the consultancy though the firm did not have much to show as the result of its involvement. While Corporation Secretary Binu Francis explained the need for a consultancy, Mayor Thottathil Raveendran suggested that the contract could be restricted to six months and extended only if there were satisfactory results. Health standing committee chairman K.V. Baburaj said the continuation of the contract was necessary to ensure the proper functioning of Haritha Karma Sena. However, the opposition refused to relent and called for reconsidering the proposal. Later, the proposal was passed after it was put to vote. Councillors K.K. Rafeeque, Nambidi Narayanan and Mohammed Shameel drew the council’s attention to the need for more funds for cleaning activities.   Several councillors highlighted the need for more time to remit property tax with the Corporation. The Mayor said the issue had been brought to the attention of the minister concerned.
03 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||NRI families the worst-hit in the Gulf||K. Rafeek, a 42-year-old software developer in Dubai and residing in the neighbouring emirate of Sharjah, the UAE, is still convalescing from COVID-19 at his apartment. But now his homemaker wife is suspected of having contracted the disease though she had subjected herself to self-isolation in their two-bedroom flat. Their two children, aged 12 and 8, have also been quarantined in one of the rooms. “Only after three days surviving on paracetamol and antibiotics prescribed through phone by a doctor, a neighbour took her for a test. We are awaiting the results,” Mr. Rafeek said. The family, like other apartment residents, have been beseeched to stay indoors after an occupant tested positive for COVID-19 . “We have no option but to maintain communication via telephone or social media apps. We depend on neighbours and online stores to get groceries. Violators of preventive and precautionary steps are heavily fined in the range from Dh500 to Dh50,000,” he said. In Saudi Arabia, offenders of quarantine rules could be fined up to 200,000 riyals and face up to two years in prison, while those found to have intentionally spread the virus could face a fine of up to 500,000 riyals and up to five years in prison. The pandemic in Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations are giving a tough time to expatriates, especially Non-Resident Indian (NRI) families with schoolgoing kids. “Online classes have resumed in the Gulf nations. But many have no choice but repatriate their spouses and children back home after companies furloughed employees,” said Sujith Nair, a resident in Bahrain, where only bars, clubs and gyms are closed.  Shared spaces Most GCC nations are battling cases. The UAE has so far reported 35,788 cases with 269 deaths, Saudi Arabia 89,011 cases with 549 fatalities, Qatar 60,259 cases with 43 deaths, Kuwait 28,649 with 226 deaths, Oman 12,799 cases with 59 deaths and Bahrain 11, 871 cases and 19 fatalities. Non-Resident Keralites sharing bed-space in Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Kuwait and Qatar are coping with the new normal of physical distancing. “But it is a medical predicament when a person has contracted the virus. Testing for COVDI-19 is a laborious procedure. However, many prefer to go for paid testing and get hospitalised. Only a few companies reimburse the expenses,” Tommy Rozario, a structural engineer, said. The situation is alarming at the labour camps in the UAE, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait despite the health authorities working hard to deal with the pandemic. Oman has already cautioned its residents that loosening of restrictions did not mean the end of the outbreak.
03 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Case registered for bullying teachers on social media||Ironically, it was a class on a speech by European Central Bank president Christine Lagarde focussing on women empowerment that set off a swarm of trolls, videos, pictures, and comments on social media against the women teachers who helmed the session for Class 12 students of State schools on the first day of online classes in the new academic year on June 1. Another teacher who took a session for Class 1 students too was not spared. KITE chief executive officer Anvar Sadath said it was painful to see videos for the First Bell online classes being presented in an offensive manner . Mr. Sadath told The Hindu that they had submitted a complaint to Cyberdome nodal officer and Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham. Meanwhile, the cyber wing of the State police have traced those behind the social media abuse. Sources said the admin of the WhatsApp group was traced to Malappuram. 5 lakh hits Besides the viewership on the Victers channel, many of the online class videos had received 5 lakh hits. While unsolicited comments were expected, pages with objectionable names were making the rounds. It was to check these that action was being taken. Forwarding such content too was a punishable offence, he said. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said the bullying of teachers was a blot on the State’s culture. A case has been registered at the Cybercrime police station in the State capital on a complaint by Mr. Sadath. The Kerala State Women’s Commission and Kerala State Youth Commission have also taken a suo motu cases. In Kochi, the Eloor police on Tuesday seized the mobile phone of a juvenile found to have passed an offensive comment about a teacher who took class over Victers.
03 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Electricity board slams objections against K-FON||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has taken strong exception to the objections raised by the Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission (KSERC) in implementing the Kerala Fibre Optic Network (K-FON) project and cautioned it against frustrating the government’s intention to provide free Internet to 20 lakh indigent households. The commission, in a suo moto order, had questioned the decision to use the board’s right of way of the transmission and distribution network for the project which targets to provide free Internet to 20 lakh indigent households and at a rational rate to 30,000 government offices and educational institutions. A board letter to the commission past week, accessed by The Hindu , says the order which sought to stall the project aimed at empowering the underprivileged would only leave them at the “mercy of competing predators.” The government launched online classes for students from Monday and there is a clamour from across the Sate to provide the Internet to impoverished students in remote hamlets. Joint venture The commission order was issued 21 months after the formation of a joint venture company with the equity participation of the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited, the KSEB and the government in the ratio 49:49:2. The board had intimated the commission about the details of the project. The order issued after a lapse of 21 months, “after such serious procrastination, can prove lethal to projects of public importance,” the letter says. The board also rejects the commission’s contentions that its prior approval is imperative while engaging in businesses other than power generation using its assets. Ownership The board reiterats that the transmission and distribution network will be under its ownership and complete control and would not be in jeopardy as sounded by the commission. The joint venture pact does not put the board to any financial liability, the letter says. Moreover, the KSEB is already earning substantial non-tariff revenue by permitting several players for using its right of way as envisaged for K-FON and that revenue is being used to offset the burden on retail tariff. Still it has consented to file a petition as desired by the commission within a reasonable time.
03 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU exams get under way||The much-delayed final-year examinations of the University of Kerala got under way on Tuesday in strict compliance with the COVID-19 prevention protocol. The sixth-semester examinations of undergraduate courses, including BA, BCom and BSc, got under way in 163 examination centres across the State and Lakshadweep under the watchful eyes of the university authorities and police officers and invigilators. 99% attendance According to a preliminary assessment, nearly 99% of the registered candidates appeared for the examinations. Many utilised the opportunity to appear for the examinations from centres in their home districts. As many as 33,928 students had registered for the examinations and 801 among them opted for change in examination centres within the university’s jurisdiction that extends till Alappuzha. A total of 206 chose centres in other districts and Kavaratti in Lakshadweep.
03 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chief Secretary for people’s movement to combat virus||Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta, who assumed charge on Monday, has called for a people’s movement to combat the COVID-19 scourge. Immediately after assuming charge, Mr. Mehta said the police might find it challenging to assign an officer to every house that had people in quarantine. Members of the neighbourhood watch, volunteers and elected office-bearers of local self-government institutions should forge themselves as a bulwark against the spread of the virus. The fight against COVID-19 was far from over and might intensify with the resumption of land, air and sea travel. Severe challenge Kerala faced a particularly severe challenge in preventing the transmission of the disease, given the influx of arrivals from within the country and outside. Individual citizens should view wearing masks, maintaining physical distance and following the health protocol as part of their civic responsibility. The State also needed to tread cautiously so as not to cause new flare-ups when the economy opened up, free travel resumed, and life shuffled back to normalcy. Kerala also could not allow the pandemic to disrupt its priority projects. Pandemic prevention and the State’s development had to go hand-in-hand, he said. Tom Jose praised Mr. Mehta praised his predecessor Tom Jose for the resilience and administrative insight he had shown as Chief Secretary in the past tumultuous 23-month period. He hoped to continue from where Mr. Jose had left and would strive to live up to the legacy of his predecessor.
03 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||57.7 lakh saplings ready for World Environment Day||The Forest Department has readied 57.7 lakh saplings for distribution in connection with World Environment Day on June 5. As much as 47 lakh saplings will be distributed free of cost through the Local Self-Government Department. The saplings will be distributed to educational institutions, local bodies, government and quasi-government agencies, youth and religious organisations and media from June 5 till the Vanamahotsavam in July. The Social Forestry wing of the Forest Department will distribute 10.7 lakh saplings to tribal villages and Vana Samrakshana Samitsis/Eco-Development Committees as part of afforestation programmes.
03 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Trains for migrant workers||Railways will operate Shramik Special trains from Thiruvananthapuram to Lucknow for stranded migrant workers on June 3; to Odisha on June 4; and to West Bengal on June 6 and 8.
03 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police to crackdown on fake news||State Police Chief Loknath Behera has warned of stern action against those found to be circulating fake news among migrant workers through social media and SMS. He said such news was creating unrest among the workers.
03 June 2020||THIRVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Southern districts report 31 cases, one dies in capital||The six southern district of Kerala saw a huge leap in COVID-19 case count on Tuesday with 31 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus. The capital district recorded its third death with the passing away of a 77-year-old priest who tested positive just hours before his death. The day’s figure is over a 100% jump from that on Monday when 15 cases were reported from the region. The priest who died was a Nalanchira native who was initially admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here on April 20 with head injuries after he fell off a motorcycle. Following his treatment that lasted for a month, he was shifted to the Peroorkada District Hospital where he was placed under observation on May 20. However, he was referred to the MCH again after he complained of breathing difficulty. He was confirmed dead on Tuesday morning shortly before his throat swab test returned positive for the virus. The development has left authorities in the dark about the source of the infection. The capital reported six imported COVID-19 cases, taking the total cases here to 54. The patients included five men, aged 35 to 53, from Mariyanad, Kallara, Attingal, Beemapally and Venjaramoodu, and a 38-year-old woman from Puthenthope. While four were transferred to the MCH from the Thiruvananthapuram airport, two others were sent to institutional quarantine. 10 cases in Alappuzha One-third of the cases in the southern region was from Alappuzha. All 10 cases are imported ones — seven from foreign countries and three from other States. One of the patients, a youth from Pandanad, came from Dubai on May 27. Another from Muthukulam came from Abu Dhabi on May 17. The third patient, a man from Mannar, came from Kuwait on May 14. Four others flew in from Kuwait on May 26. They include a 51-year-old man from Mavelikara Thekkekara, a youth from Chingoli, and two women from Kadakkarappally and Mannancherry. A youth, from Thazhakara, came by a train from Maharashtra on May 27. The other two, a youth and a girl from Chengannur, came from Pune on May 26. Eight from Kollam Eight persons in Kollam tested positive on Tuesday. The patients include a 28-year-old woman and her one-year-old son who reached Kerala on AI-1596 Kuwait-Thiruvananthapuram flight on May 28. The others include a 39-year-old from Chavara who travelled on a Thiruvananthapuram-Abu Dhabi flight on May 26, a 50-year-old Mukhathala resident who came from Dubai on May 29, a 41-year-old Pathanapuram resident who came from Abu Dhabi on May 27, and a 32-year-old from Ayalamon who travelled on a Saudi Arabia-Thiruvananthapuram flight on May 31. Another patient, a pregnant Pattazhy resident who travelled from Dubai on May 31, is undergoing treatment at SAT Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. A 35-year-old woman who reached Kochi on INS Magar from the Maldives on May 12 also tested positive on Tuesday. Her sample was collected two times and while the first sample tested negative on May 29, the second sample taken on May 30 tested positive. COVID case in Kottayam The district witnessed six fresh cases of COVID-19 even as seven people were discharged from hospital after recovery. All of them came from abroad. The persons who tested positive on Tuesday included five women who came from Kuwait. Four among them — a 36-year-old and 30-year-old from Panchaikkad, a 32-year-old from Manjoor, and a 31-year-old from Erumely, landed on May 25 while the fifth person, a 27-year-old nurse from Pariyaram, reached here the next day. The sixth person, who was confirmed of the virus, was an 82-year-old man from Idayirikkapuzha. The people who recovered included a 79-year-old man and his 71-year-old wife from Nalukodi and a 30-year-old relative of the couple. Pathanamthitta The number of patients here has gone up to 53 with one more Non-Resident Keralite testing positive. Twenty one of them were cured as of Tuesday. The man who tested positive was a 30-year-old who came to Kannur on a special flight from Abu Dhabi on May 23. A total of 65 persons remained under observation at isolation wards in hospitals and 4,246 persons were quarantined.
03 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Weddings to be held at Guruvayur Sreekrishna temple from tomorrow||Wedding ceremonies will be conducted at the Sreekrishna temple at Guruvayur in accordance with norms from June 4. The Guruvayur Devaswom management committee decided to conduct the ceremonies after getting the green signal from the government. A meeting held at the Thrissur Collectorate on Tuesday prepared guidelines for conducting weddings. Ten persons, including the bride and bridegroom, may attend the wedding ceremony. Only 60 weddings will be allowed in a day from 5 a.m. to 12 noon. Each wedding ceremony will be given a time slot of 10 minutes. The Devaswom will arrange photographers, and other photographers will not be allowed at the venue. The mandapam will be sanitised after each wedding. Advance booking for weddings will begin soon. Non-quarantine history certificates from a medical officer and photo identity cards of those attending the wedding should be submitted at the time of advance booking. A booking counter will be opened at the book stall at East Nada from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. People attending the wedding should maintain COVID-19 safety guidelines, said Guruvayur Devaswom chairman K.B. Mohandas.
03 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Male nurse killed as ambulance overturns||In a third such accident in Thrissur district, a 32-year-old male nurse was killed after an ambulance overturned at Wadakkancherry on Tuesday. The ambulance, which was taking a woman from Palakkad to Thrissur Medical College Hospital, met with the accident near the Wadakkancherry railway station. There were six persons, including the driver, in the ambulance. The deceased was Jibu, 32, of Vakathanam, a male nurse with Palana Institute of Medical Sciences, Kannadi. The condition of the patient in the ambulance remains critical. Last month, a female nurse, Dona of Peringottukara, was killed when an ambulance belonged to the Primary Health Centre, Anthikkad, met with an accident. Another ambulance overturned at Paravattani, near Mannuthy, a few weeks ago.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Nine more test positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod||Nine more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod on Tuesday. According to District Medical Officer V. Ramdas, four of them returned from Maharashtra, three came from Kuwait, one returned from Chennai, and one person contracted the disease from an infected patient. Meanwhile, seven COVID-19 patients were discharged from Ukkunnadu Medical College Hospital after they recovered from the disease. The district currently has 98 persons undergoing treatment for COVID-19. In Kozhikode Three persons who returned from Chennai, and one each who came back from Abu Dhabi, and Mangaluru in Karnataka were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Tuesday. They are two 48-year-old persons and a 23-year-old from Kuttiady, a 24-year-old from Koorachundu, and a 43-year-old from Narippatta. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, two of those from Kuttiady had returned from Chennai by a private vehicle on May 14 and had been under surveillance. Their body fluid samples were sent for lab tests after one of their co-travellers was tested positive for the virus. The third patient, who hails from Kuttiady, had returned by bike from Mangaluru on May 18. His body fluid samples were tested after COVID-19 symptoms were noticed. The fourth patient, a native of Koorachund, had returned from Kodambakkom on May 21 and tested positive for the virus on May 29. All of them are undergoing treatment at the first-line treatment centre at Lakshadweep Guest House. The fifth patient had reached the Cochin International Airport from Abu Dhabi on May 28 and was under surveillance at the COVID care centre. The number of people under observation is 7,865, of whom 2,693 are expatriates. In Kannur Kannur also reported five new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. According to District Collector T.V. Subhash, three of them returned from other States and one came from Kuwait, while one person got infected through contact. District Medical Officer K. Narayan Nayak said that there were currently 9,459 persons under observation. Of them, 9,262 are in home quarantine. In Wayanad Six more persons, including four migrant workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Tuesday. A 55-year-old woman at Thalappuzha near Mananthavady and a 24-year-old pregnant woman at Krishnagiri near Meenangadi tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on the day. The body fluid sample of the 55-year-old woman was collected when she was admitted to the District Hospital for dialysis on April 29, R. Renuka, District Medical Officer, said. Four migrant workers, including three from West Bengal and a worker from Odisha, who were working at a construction site at Poolavayal near Sulthan Bathery, were also confirmed to have contracted the virus on the day. The body fluid samples of 10 workers at the site had been collected in a sentinel sample survey a few days ago. The results of the remaining workers are negative.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In homebound mode||
03 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Attempt to break open ATM fails||An attempt to break open the cash compartment of the Automated Teller Machine of ‘India 1 ATM’ at Vidapanakal village by some unidentified miscreants in the early hours of Tuesday in Anantapur district was unsuccessful. The accused persons unable to take out the cash, allegedly damaged the machine, threw it on the road and fled.
03 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four BS-III tippers seized by officials||The Andhra Pradesh Road Transport Authority(RTA) on Tuesday seized four large tipper trucks with BS-III engine in the district. Deputy Transport Commissioner N. Sivaram Prasad said the vehicles, reportedly belonging to Jatadhara Limited and C. Gopal Reddy and Co. owned by relatives of former Anantapur MP J.C. Diwakar Reddy, were registered illegally as having BS-IV norms. The official said that the RTA had information about 154 such vehicles allegedly purchased by the family members of Mr. Diwakar Reddy which were later sold off to different persons after re-registering them in A.P. in August 2018. In all, 101 of the 154 trailer-lorries of Bharat Stage-III version are operating in the State. So far, the Transport Department had been able to confiscate 57 such vehicles, while the remaining are yet to be seized. Out of the 154 vehicles, 53 are re-registered in other States after taking a NOC from A.P. These lorries were allegedly registered illegally at Kohima (Nagaland) and later transferred to A.P. and sold here as BS-IV vehicles with fake documents. The lorries were purchased in scrap (unregistrable ones) from Ashok Leyland in 2018. Later, fake documents were created to show that they were of BS-IV standard.
03 June 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land acquisition issues likely to delay six-lane NH project||The six-lane National Highway project from Anakapalle to Anandapuram, the work on which is scheduled for completion by July 2021, is likely to get delayed due to land acquisition issues. Progress of the work has already been affected by the lockdown imposed from the third week of March in the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19. Work on the ‘litigation-free’ stretches has begun with local workers, after the end of the fourth phase of lockdown. The return of migrant workers, involved in road work, who went to their native States, is expected to take at least a couple of months. The Rs. 2,000-crore project is meant to decongest the traffic on the National Highway (NH-16) stretch, which now passes through the city between Anakapalle and Anandapuram. There is a danger of the project being descoped due to cost escalations as a result of the delays. The six-lane bypass road will also enable heavy vehicles like trucks and trailers going from Vijayawada towards Bhubaneswar and Kolkata, and those coming from the places and going towards Chennai, to reach their destination without getting caught in the city traffic. “The pending land acquisition, pertains to about 90 hectares of private and assigned land, which is under dispute. They extend over a stretch of 5 km. The compensation for land acquired will be paid by the Union government but the acquisition has to be done by the State government,” Project Director, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Siva Sankar, told The Hindu .  Legal tangles “The disputed land falls at the major interchange points at Pendurthy, Sabbavaram and Anakapalle. It involves construction of flyovers, slip roads and ramps at these junctions, for which a lot of land is required. The work at the interchange points itself will require a year’s time. The legal tangles over the 5-km stretches can create problems in the smooth execution of the project. Failure to clear the legal hurdles and hand over the land, may result in the stoppage of the project,” he said.
03 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Contactless thermal screening introduced at Guntur rly station||In an attempt to check the spread of coronavirus, the South Central Railway (SCR) has introduced contactless thermal screening of passengers at Guntur station, apart from creating a database of those boarding and alighting trains. The Gutur division of SCR has procured a customised bluetooth IR thermal sensor boxes equipped with webcams, which are fitted to portable stands. The equipment are screening all passengers real time at the entry and exit points of the railway station. How it works All passengers need to place their palms in front of the device within a range of 10 cm. The images of passengers are also taken real time by the webcams attached to the equipment. The feeds with the details of body temperature and images of each passenger are stored in an isolated cubicle. The customised software makes a file of each passenger with the photo of their ticket and the necessary temperature threshold alerts. A CCTV camera network ensures recording the movement of passengers. The Guntur Railway Division began working on putting in place all safety measures days before the decision of resuming passenger train services was taken. Divisional Railway Manager Mohan Raja formed a team comprising staff of commercial, technical wings and Hyderabad-based M/S Timing Technologies for setting up customised contactless thermal screening equipment at the railway station. “During the concept building for the project, we kept in mind the safety of passengers and the railways staff while boarding and disembarking trains,” said a senior railways official. Speedy clearance The equipment has coloured LED lights for its instant visibility and speedy clearance of passengers at the checkpoints. Dual display big screens have been set up in the cubicles. Provision has been made for sanitising passengers standing in queues with the help of automatic contactless mist-based dispenser units. Arrangements has been made for steel chain barricading of the queuelines and foot marks to ensure social distancing of passengers.
03 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||23 persons test positive in Guntur||Just a day after the administration announced several relaxations in the lockdown norms, twenty three persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, the largest single-day spike the city has seen in weeks. Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha said that all the new cases have been traced to Kolli Sarada wholesale market on the Etukuru Road. A trader was believed to have contracted the infection and spread it to others. Ms. Anuradha said that the market was sealed off and that the officials have begun tracing contacts of the person. So far, 265 have been traced and 23 of them tested positive, she said. Out of 23 cases, four were from Sanjeeviah Nagar, five from Srinivasarao Thota, five from LB Nagar, one each from AT Agraharam, Nagarampalem, Sangadigunta, Potturivarithota, Kothapet and RTC Colony.
03 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tally crosses 300-mark in East Godavari||As many as 37 persons, including 27 migrants arrived recently from Mumbai, have been tested positive for COVID-19 at different quarantine centres in the East Godavari district on Tuesday. By Tuesday, the tally in the district is 303, said District Medical and Health Officer M. Mallik. The 27 migrants, who returned from Mumbai, have been staying in the quarantine centres in Rajole, Amalapuram, and Ravulapalem. Seven persons, who arrived from Vijayawada, have been tested positive for COVID-19. Three persons with the connection of Gollala Mamidada village have been tested positive. “A majority of them will be allowed to undergo the medical treatment if they have the isolation facility in their residence,” said Mr. Mallik. 5 cases in Vizag Visakhapatnam Staff Reporter adds Five more cases were reported from the Visakhapatnam district, here on Tuesday. According to the officials from the Health Department, among the five cases, two are foreign returnees staying at quarantine centres. While two more cases are from Kurmannapalem, one case is from Chinna Waltair. All the local cases are suspected to be contracted from the previous cases. According to officials, 33,893 samples have been tested from the district till date in which 32,140 have reported negative. A total of 1,633 reports are awaited. A total of 927 persons are in various quarantine centres and 67 persons are in isolation.
03 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water release from Dowleswaram Barrage to begin on June 10||The East Godavari district authorities are gearing up to release water from Dowleswaram Barrage from June 10 to enable farmers to prepare the fields for kharif operations. Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Tuesday asked officials from the Irrigation and Agriculture departments to make preparations accordingly and alert the farmers. They were also told to draw up the Godavari flood mitigation plan based on experiences of previous years. “The flood in the river Godavari is expected to be experienced in July in the district mostly in areas under the Etapaka, Rampachodavaram, and Amalapuram revenue divisions. The mitigation plan should meticulously be prepared in order to make available all the logistics support on the ground,” he said. “The irrigation officials should consider the water level at Kunavaram to issue flood alert and measure the intensity of the flood. The Kunavaram point should also be the base for evacuation measures. The families in the Polavaram project submergence area should be housed in resttlement and rehabilitation colonies by July,” he said.
03 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One drowns in Gowthami, another missing||One person drowned, while another was missing in the Gowthami tributary of the river Godavari at Baduguvani Lanka of Alamuru mandal in East Godavari district on Tuesday. The incident occurred while they were taking bath in the tributary. The two, identified as Gummadi Lovaraju (38) and Poolarowthu Srinu (28), were daily-wage workers. They belong to Veeravaram village in Kadiyam mandal. They went to the place along with their family members. According to Alamuru SI V. Sudhakar, while the body of Lovaraju was traced, search is on for Srinu. The police registered a case and the body was sent to a hospital for post-mortem examination.
03 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mother, infant discharged from COVID hospital||A 15-day-old baby boy, along with its mother, were among the 12 persons discharged from hospitals in the district on Monday night and Tuesday. A migrant worker from Nallamekalapalli village in Aspari mandal, a 21-year-old woman had returned from Mumbai last month. She was admitted to Vishwabharathi District COVID Hospital near Kurnool on May 12, but later shifted to the Government General Hospital here (a State COVID Hospital) on the advice of district Collector G. Veerapandian. The woman had tested positive during her pregnancy, but after delivery her baby tested negative. In the tests done for COVID-19 on Saturday and Sunday, the mother too rested negative and was discharged on Monday night from the GGH. “She has been sent home safely,” the Collector said, and congratulated the doctors for taking care of such patients too. This is the fourth such instance of a woman testing positive during pregnancy and getting discharged after delivery and treatment. With the 11 patients discharged on Tuesday from Santhiram COVID Hospital near Nandyal, the cumulative number of patients getting discharged is 627 in the district.
03 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srisailam tickets fraud: 27 arrested, Rs. 83.4 lakh recovered||The police on Tuesday arrested 24 persons accused of defrauding the Sri Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy Temple at Srisailam of Rs. 2.12 crore over three years and recovered Rs. 83.40 lakh from them. The police had earlier arrested three others in related cases. Four complaints were filed by the Executive Officer since July 2017. Giving details of the modus operandi of the accused, Special Investigation Officer and Atmakur DSP J. Venkata Rao told the media that Rupesh, an M.Tech graduate, and Darsely allegedly made use of outsourced systems operators in defrauding the temple of small amounts everyday, taking advantage of the loopholes in the software. The fraud occurred after ticketing procedure was made online through Temple Management System (TMS) software in June 2017. The then Executive Officer, Bharat Kumar Gupta, had reportedly detected in CCTV camera Rupesh, who had come to Srisailam from Vijayawada to operationalise the TMS, taking away some cash from a counter and complained to the police in December 2017. Police arrested one person on February 7 and recovered Rs. 14 lakh from him for fraud committed in issuing ‘VIP Darshan’ tickets. The modus operandi the operator used was closing the accounts at noon if his shift ended at 1 p.m. Tickets issued for one hour were not recorded in the returns he filed and money deposited with banks for six months till December 2017. When the Temple EO had a doubt, he called for the system backend report of a day and found a lot of discrepancy in the amounts actually collected and deposited with the banks. Another alleged fraud was by creating six fake IDs of non-existent operators at the donation counter and siphoning off Rs. 56 lakh. Two police cases were registered in April and two persons were arrested recovering Rs. 26 lakh from them. While the operators made bulk of entries in the genuine IDs, a small number was allegedly done with fake IDs daily giving no scope for doubt. While Rupesh was sent back in December 2017, Darsely took over from him. The bulk of the amount was allegedly taken out in the ‘Rs. 150 Entry Ticket’ and ‘Arjitha Seva’ counters.
03 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco growers threaten to stall auctions, seek govt. intervention||Upset over falling prices, farmers in the traditional tobacco growing areas have threatened to stall auctions from next week demanding intervention by the Union and State governments. The lockdown-hit farmers from different auction platforms, who took stock of the situation, urged Prakasam district Collector P. Bhaskar to take up their cause at a meeting on Tuesday. Collector talks tough The Collector asked the traders to bail out the farmers who would otherwise lose interest in growing the commercial crop. Action would be taken against those traders not entering the market after giving indent, he made it clear. The farmers had lost about two months of precious time during the peak of the marketing season, which coincided with lockdown. There had been no improvement in the market condition even after the farmers in the D.C. Palli area made a bonfire of a few bales of tobacco and resorted to road blockade stir last month, they lamented. “We were hoping for revival of the market when it reopened outside the containment zones. But traders have formed themselves into a syndicate to deny them a fair price for their produce, contending that they have not yet got firm orders from overseas buyers,” complained a group of farmers from the Southern Black Soil (SBS) region. “We will have no option but to press for crop holiday during the next cropping season if the Tobacco Board does not come to our rescue,” they made it clear. There has been a fall of about 30% over the rates prevailing before the lockdown for the export-oriented crop. “Each farmer will be forced to incur a loss of Rs. 3 lakh per barn if the depressed market condition continues,” said a farmer leader from Ongole II auction platform V.V. Prasad. “The unseasonal rains in January had affected productivity as also the quality of the produce, with low-grade accounting for about 50% of the crop,” said SBS Farmers’ Association president P. Narasimha Rao. Pressing for punitive action against the traders not entering the market after giving indent at the time of fixing the crop size, former Tobacco Board member P. Bhadri Reddy said it had become a habit for the traders to shy away from the market under one pretext or the other at the time of auctions. Now, coronavirus-induced economic slowdown was cited for bringing down the prices. ‘No takers’ “There are no takers for the low-grade varieties. The medium grades attract buyers at about Rs. 110 to Rs. 120 per kg,” explained a farmer leader, B. Ramanjaneyulu.
03 June 2020||Santosh Patnaik,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gangamma Jatara a low-key affair||The impact of COVID-19 lockdown was quite visible as the customary Gangamma Jatara observed by the fisherfolk before commencement of annual fishing season turned out to be a low-key event on Tuesday. The usual fanfare with many dancing to the drum beats and hit numbers from Tollywood was conspicuous by absence. The police warned of severe action if fisherfolk violated lockdown norms by indulging in dances and taking out processions in large numbers. Since long, fishermen sporting colourful dresses accompanied by women and children carrying coconuts, pots of water and milk laced with turmeric and vermilion go the sea and worship Gangamma, the goddess of water, with prayers for good harvest post-ban. This time, they went in small groups comprising three to five persons to offer the holy water and fruits to Gangamma, their presiding deity. The usual folk dances and celebration with a grand feast were missing. After the festival, about 30 to 35% of total 700-odd boats went on short voyage due to severe shortage of ice, Dolphin Boat Operators’ Welfare Association president Ch. Satyanarayana Murthy told The Hindu .  Season advanced The Centre advanced the fishing season by reducing annual fishing ban observed since April 15 to June 15 following a request from some States. Their contention was that the fishermen’s livelihood was already hit due to the lockdown which came into force from March 24, ahead of the ban period. Though the new season was permitted to start on June 1, the fishermen in Visakhapatnam, the largest fish landing centre in Andhra Pradesh with an estimated export turnover of over Rs. 8,000 crore, decided to commence venturing into sea from evening of June 2 (Tuesday) after observing Gangamma Jatara.  Ice shortage The sudden advancement caught the 20-odd ice plants unawares as they faced severe shortage of workers, who migrated back to their native places in Odisha leaving them little time to make preparation to make ice. “Most of those who went for voyage could get one tonne of ice each so as to take up fishing for one or two days,” Joint Director of Fisheries K. Phaniprakash said. Those going for voyage post-ban are expected to return with rich harvest of brown shrimp.
03 June 2020||Special Correspondent,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stoppages for special trains revised||The railways authorities have revised the stoppages of the special trains passing through Andhra Pradesh. The special trains will run with regular halts on June 3 and the revised stoppages will come to effect on June 4, the officials said. The passengers have been requested to take note of the changes and plan their journey accordingly. As per the revised list, 02805/02806 Visakhapatnam – New Delhi – Visakhapatnam A.P. Express (daily) will make halts at Rajahmundry, Eluru and Vijayawada. 02727/02728 Visakhapatnam-Hyderabad-Visakhapatnam Godvari Express (daily) will stop at Anakapalle, Rajahmundry, Eluru and Vijayawada stations, said G. Suneel Kumar, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, Waltair Division of East Coast Railway. 02245/46 Howrah-Yesvantapur-Howrah Duronto special trains (five days a week) will make halt at Vijayawada and Renigunta stations. 02704/03 Howrah-Secunderabad-Howrah Falaknuma Express (daily) will stop at Guntur, Vijayawada, Eluru, Rajahmundry, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam Road stations. 01019/20 CST Mumbai-Bhubaneswar-CST Mumbai Konark Express (daily) will make halts at Vijayawada, Eluru, Rajahmundry, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam Road stations.
03 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD gets the nod to open Balaji temple from June 8||The Andhra Pradesh government has accorded permission for the opening of the famed hill temple of Lord Venkateswara from June 8. Special Chief Secretary, Revenue (Endowments) JSV Prasad issued the orders following a request made by TTD Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal for conducting a trial run for the TTD employees and the residents of Tirumala. The TTD wants to study the crowd behaviour and inadequacies, if any, in implementing the mandatory health advisories issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) before throwing the temple open to the general public. The TTD has already drawn circles all along the darshan lines ensuring a distance of 10 feet between the devotees. It is proposed to initially limit the number of devotees to 7, 000 to 10,000 a day at the rate of 300 to 500 per hour. To ensure strict compliance of physical distancing, a zig-zag model of queue lines with protruding steel rods on both sides has been put in place which enables only a single person to pass through them at any given point of time. Initially, the TTD plans to permit its 21,000-strong workforce for darshan during the first three days followed by residents of Tirumala and later of Tirupati. The same guidelines will be implemented at all other temples under the TTD fold, including Tirupati and other districts. It is not immediately known whether the trekking routes leading to Tirumala will be opened to the public from June 8 or only after the end of the trial run.
03 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Annual fest at Tirumala from tomorrow||The three-day annual Jyestabhishekam festival is scheduled to commence at the temple of Lord Venkateswara from June 4. Immense significance is attached to the festival as the golden armour covering the idols of the processional deities which protect them from wear and tear are ceremoniously removed and replaced with diamond armour on the first day and the religious exercise is repeated with a pearl armour on the second day and finally with a golden armour on the final day. However, the august festival this year will be a low-key affair in view of the restrictions in place in the wake of COVID-19.
03 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP protests against article in ‘Sapthagiri’||Objecting to what it called ‘distorted portrayal’ of Rama’s son Kusa in the TTD magazine, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers staged a demonstration here on Tuesday. The dharna staged in front of the TTD’s Sri Kodandarama temple was against an article in the TTD magazine ‘Sapthagiri’ by an eighth standard student under the head ‘Balavakku’. The article that appeared in April 2020 issue mentions Lava as Rama’s biological son and Kusa as born out of magical powers of Valmiki, while Sita was staying at the latter’s hermitage. Leading the dharna, BJP State secretary and TTD former trust board member G. Bhanuprakash Reddy wondered how the magazine could spread such information among the devout. He demanded an explanation from the management and the magazine’s editor.
03 June 2020||VELERUPADU (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Villagers beat man to death suspecting sorcery||A tribal, Kurasam Seetaramudu (50), was beaten to death allegedly by a few residents at Vutukunta village on the charge that he was practising sorcery. A group of villagers allegedly attacked Seetaramudu with lethal weapons while he was sleeping in his house in the early hours of Tuesday. He died on the spot. The villagers accused Seetaramudu of being responsible for the ill-health of a few other villagers. They had bet him earlier on similar allegations. The police took a few suspects into custody and arranged a picket at the village.
03 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana asked to stop work on all Godavari projects||The Godavari River Management Board (GRMB), in a letter to the Telangana government, has ordered it to stop Kaleswaram and all irrigation projects it was taking up on the Godavari river. GRMB member P. S. Kutiyal in a letter dated May 30, asked the Telangana government not to go ahead with any new project on the river. Saying that the letter was being written as per the directions of the Ministry of Jal Sakthi (Water Resources), the GRMB asked the Telangana government not to go ahead with the new projects as they did not have the permission of the Apex Council as defined in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014. The GRMB mentioned in the letter that a complaint was lodged against Telangana State by the Special Chief Secretary, Water Resources, Andhra Pradesh. The A.P. government in its letter listed Kaleswaram Lift Irrigation Scheme (LIS), GLIS Phase-III, Sita Rama LIS, Tupakulagudem, Telangana Drinking Water Supply Project (TDWSP), Ramappa Lake to Pakhal Lake Diversion and three barrages on Lower Penganga River all utilising over 450 tmcft as new projects that were not approved by the Apex Council. Only one meet till date The Apex Council, consisting of the Chief Ministers of the Telugu States and the Union Water Resources Minister, has till now met only once when Uma Bharti was the Union Minister. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and the then A.P. Minister N Chandrababu Naidu attended the meeting. It may be recalled the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) wrote a similar letter to the A.P. government asking it not to proceed with the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation and a few other schemes it proposed upstream the Srisailam reservoir and near the Pothireddypadu Head Regulator on the Krishna River. The AP government then wrote letters to the KRMB, the GRMB and the Jal Shakti Minister about the projects Telangana government had been building without the approval of the Apex Council. As per the State Reorganisation Act, 2014, both the Telugu States can take up work only on those projects that were still incomplete at the time of the bifurcation of the State.
03 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coronavirus cases double in a month across State||The number of positive COVID-19 cases in the State has more than doubled in a month between May 2 and June 2 — from 1,525 to 3, 200. At least eight of the 13 districts witnessed more than 100% increase or doubling of cases during the same period. Interestingly, all the eight districts together have few cases compared with Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna districts which then accounted for more than 65%, according to the district-wise breakup available on the COVID online dashboard. The three districts now account for only 54% cases while the rest of the 10 districts account for 46% of the cases. In the past month, cases in Srikakulam, East Godavari have increased four-fold and in Visakhapatnam, Chittoor and Anantapur, there has been a two-fold increase. The top three Nellore witnessed an increase of 190% while West Godavari and Vizianagaram cases have doubled. The incidence of new cases was comparatively low in hotspot districts Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna where the rise in the number of cases was at 86%, 68% and 66% respectively. Kadapa and Prakasam witnessed only 43% and 31% rise in the number of cases respectively in the past month. As of June 2, the district-wise cases excluding foreign returnee and migrant returnee cases are as follows: Kurnool (728), Guntur (519), Krishna (481), Chittoor (264), Nellore (261), East Godavari (243), Anantapur (223), West Godavari (123), Kadapa (105), Prakasam (80), Srikakulam (28) and Vizianagaram (26). Meanwhile, the incidence of detection of cases outside existing containment zones has also increased. According to the information displayed on the dashboard, the number of hotspots in the State increased from 320 on May 20 to 383 on June 2.  Second-highest spike Meanwhile, State witnessed 115 new COVID-19 cases during the past 24 hours and 82 of them are of locals, according to the bulletin by the Health Department. It is the second-highest spike in daily fresh cases reported in the State for the second time. The remaining 33 cases are of migrant returnees and cases from other States. The cumulative tally has gone up to 3, 791 and the toll stands at 64 as no new deaths were reported. Among the new cases, 23 were reported in Guntur, 19 in East Godavari and 16 in West Godavari. Nellore district witnessed six new cases followed by Srikakulam (5), Krishna (4), Kurnool (4), Anantapur (3) and Chittoor (2). Meanwhile, 41 persons have recovered, taking the total recoveries to 2, 407. The number of active cases too increased given the increasing number of cases reported in the past few days. There are 1, 320 active cases at present. As many as 12, 613 samples, the highest number of tests conducted in a day so far, were tested in the past 24 hours. A total of 3.96 lakh samples were tested in the State and the tests per million ratio has gone up to 7,410.
03 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan asks officials to clear pending housing bills||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohaan Reddy has asked the officials to clear all the housing bills pending since the previous government’s tenure amounting to Rs. 1,323 crore and benefiting 3,38,144 people. At a review meeting on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the previous government had promised the poor that the amount spent on construction of their houses would be reimbursed. The beneficiaries had spent Rs. 1,323 crore hoping that it would be reimbursed. “These dues should be cleared. The housing scheme should be taken up on a large scale to benefit the poorer sections,” the Chief Minister said. The house site patta distribution programme would go ahead as per schedule on July 8 coinciding with the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, he said. ‘Maintain quality’ In the first phase, over 15 lakh houses would be taken up for construction in Visakhapatnam, Kurnool and Nellore districts, he said, adding, “The registration papers, in the name of the woman of the household, should be ready by that date.” The Chief Minister asked the officials to increase the number of houses and maintain quality in construction. He also enquired about the design of houses, and reiterated that standards should be maintained at any cost. The houses would have a living room, a kitchen, a bedroom, a toilet and a veranda. He insisted that the poor should not have any financial burden for getting the house. “Our mega housing programme should be transparent and of high quality and standards. Other infrastructure should also be taken into account in the colonies that would emerge with the building of houses,” he said. Minister for Housing Ch. Sri Ranganadha Raju, Principal Secretary Ajay Jain and other officials were present.
03 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jobs will be created in tune with aspirations of youth: Minister||Minister for Industries Mekapati Goutham Reddy has said the government wanted to create employment opportunities in line with the aspirations of the youth. Addressing a review meeting attended by the officials of the Departments of Industry, Skill Development and other allied wings on Tuesday, the Minister said village and ward secretariats should conduct a Statewide survey to know the aspirations of the youth. He wanted the officials to prepare reports on the initiatives being taken by government on job creation and self-help programmes. He said the village and ward volunteers would collect information about the youth and their categories based on educational qualifications. The school, college, university or even school dropouts would also be covered. The aspirations of each category should be identified. Skill development Mr. Reddy said skill development training is being imparted in accordance with the National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF), a competency-based framework that organises all qualifications according to levels of knowledge, skills and aptitude. He said the State Skill Development Corporation would play a catalyst’s role in training programmes being imparted through the SC, ST, BC, Minorities and other Backward Classes’ wings. The Minister said the survey would be followed by skill training and the departments should prepare a report on the facilities available in their respective wings. Informing that the government has been implementing over 2,600 training and other programmes, the Minister said the first set of people would be trained at the district level who in turn would train others. He wanted the officials to chalk out an action plan key issues such as identification of training partners and the facilities needed and job opportunities after completion of the training.
03 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One year YSRCP rule a black spot: TDP leader||TDP leader and former Minister K.S. Jawahar on Tuesday said the one-year rule of the YSRCP government would remain as a black spot in the history of the State. Addressing the media here, Mr. Jawahar said people were trolling Mr. Jagan for his statements such as “paracetamol to treat coronavirus.” Investors and bankers were shying away. The government had set a record by borrowing Rs. 87,000 crore in the last one year, he said. ‘Jagan should step down’ The one-year rule proved that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was not an able administrator, and it was high time he stepped down as Chief Minister, the TDP leader said.
03 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI asks govt. to take up SCS with Centre||The Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary K. Ramakrishna wrote a letter to Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday urging him to mount pressure on the Central government to release funds for backward districts in Rayalaseema and Uttarandhra regions of the State. Referring to reports of Mr. Jagan’s visit to Delhi, Mr. Ramakrishna said that the YSR Congress Party has been maintaining friendly relations with the Centre and supporting it on all issues. The YSR Congress has agreed to nominate Parimal Natwani to the Rajya Sabha. In this background, the State government has to use its good offices and see that the Centre released funds to the State and also, pursue the Special Category Status (SCS) to the State with Union Home Minister Amit Shah, he said. Mr. Ramakrishna said that there was dearth of funds for welfare schemes and the development has come to a standstill.
03 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polling for four RS seats in State on June 19||The Chief Electoral Officer of Andhra Pradesh has stated that polling and counting of votes in respect of the biennial elections to four seats of the Council of States, Rajya Sabha, will be conducted on June 19. Polling will be held from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Counting of votes will be taken up at 5 p.m. Referring to the Election Commission of India (ECI), the CEO said that the ECI reviewed the matter in detail considering all factors including the guidelines, dated May 30, issued by the Union Home Secretary. The ECI decided that the date of polling and counting of votes should be completed before June 22. The ECI earlier announced that the poll would be conducted on March 26 but later postponed in view of the COVID-19. The ruling YSRCP has fielded Deputy CM P. Subhash Chandra Bose and Marketing Minister M. Venkataramana, businessman Ayodhya Rami Reddy and industrialist Parimal Nathwani as its nominees. The TDP has nominated senior leader Varla Ramaiah. The ruling party is almost certain to win all the seats. Elections have been necessitated as the term of MA Khan (Congress), T. Subbarami Reddy (Congress), K. Keshava Rao (TRS), and Thota Sita Ramalakshmi (TDP ) was over.
03 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Archer Surekha tipped for Khel Ratna||The State government has recommended international archer V. Jyothi Surekha’s name for the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award 2020. It is the highest honour for athletes. Ms. Surekha, a recipient of the Arjuna Award, has been representing India at international tournaments for 10 years and won 33 international medals, including three world championship medals and two Asian Games medals. The government also nominated Rajani Etimarapu (hockey), Rayudu Arun Kumar (roller skating), Rokhaiyya Farheen Shaik (roller skating) and Riyam Tated (skating) for Arjuna Award. P. Padmaja Bala (kho-kho and kabaddi) and P. U. Bhaskar Babu (badminton) have been nominated for Dronacharya Lifetime Achievement Award.
03 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andhra University professor seeks action against Registrar||Professor from Political Science Department, Andhra University, P. Premanandam, and a few other professors and members of Dalit organisations staged a protest at the varsity demanding immediate suspension of Registrar V. Krishna Mohan. Prof. Premanandam alleged that Prof. Krishna Mohan had made derogatory remarks when he had asked for a signature on an order copy to claim his pending bills. He said in February, he conducted a university programme, for which he had to get an amount of Rs. 44,000. “I was made to go around by the Registrar for almost seven days for just one signature, but still he did not sign. When I questioned, he instructed the attender to push me out of his room. Just because I am a Dalit, the Registrar has made me to go around him for seven days,” he said. Recently, the professor had also submitted a petition on the issue to III Town police to take action against the Registrar. The police have not registered any case, but forwarded the petition to the court and are awaiting further instructions. It is learnt that Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy told them that he will look into the matter. Supporting the professor, TDP leader Nara Lokesh in his Twitter account criticised the State government’s attitude towards Dalits.
03 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Private hospitals forcing COVID-19 test on patients’||Alleging that many private hospitals are fleecing patients on the pretext of conducting COVID-19 test, social activist and former bureaucrat E.A.S. Sarma on Tuesday wrote to the government seeking action against the malpractice. In an email to Special Chief Secretary (Health) K.S. Jawahar Reddy, Mr. Sarma said that he had come across a case of a private hospital charging a patient from a low-income group Rs. 10,000 for carrying out COVID-19 test as a pre-requisite for a surgical procedure on him for a different disease. Giving details of the case, Mr. Sarma said the patient suffering from a kidney ailment was referred by the ESI to a private hospital here for a possible surgical procedure. “The doctors at the hospital told the patient that they would initially conduct a COVID test before going for the surgery to ensure that the patient had not got infected by the virus already,” said Mr Sarma. ‘Exorbitant charge’ The doctor also indicated that the patient had to pay Rs. 10,000 for COVID test and the patient belonging to the low-income group could not afford it. The expenditure to be incurred was not covered by Aarogyasri scheme. “It appears that many private hospitals in Visakhapatnam and the other cities are fleecing the patients in the name of COVID test. The hospitals are making it mandatory for the patients suffering from other ailments to undergo COVID test and charging exorbitant amounts for it. This calls for a quick government intervention,” he said. Mr. Sarma further said the case in question has been brought to the notice of Collector V. Vinay Chand, who has promised appropriate action.
03 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar today||A national-level webinar is being organised by the Visakha Government Degree College on “Measures for quality enhancement and sustenance in higher educational institutes” on June 3. College Principal S. Shoba Rani said that the webinar would focus on the sustenance of higher educational institutes in the time of COVID-19 pandemic. Experts from Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai and Delhi apart from the AP State Council of Higher Education are expected to participate in the national-level webinar.
03 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New tourism policy will be rolled out soon: Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said that a new tourism policy will be brought out soon to develop the sector in the State in a month or two. He said that Public Private Partnership (PPP) will be encouraged by conducting an investors’ meet in August. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, the Minister said that as per the Central Government guidelines, all the Tourism Department’s hotels, as well as private hotels and restaurants, can be opened from June 8. He said that guests can book rooms online at all the hotels run by the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC). “In one or two days, there will be a meeting with all tourism department stakeholders in Vijayawada to discuss and finalise the dos and don'ts at the food section and check-in and check-out counters, and the norms that will have to be followed when it comes to garbage disposal and room maintenance,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. He also said that tourism activities which have come to a halt in the past few months due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Andhra Pradesh will also be opened soon post the lockdown, on the condition that social distancing norms be strictly followed. He also said that in the last one year, a number of tourism festivals were organised in the State and the Tourism department also promoted the tourist spots in the State at major festivals in and around the country. He also said that pending tourism projects in the State will be taken up and completed soon. A few museums in the State are up for inaugural and some Shilparamams need repairs, he added. The Minister also said that the Tourism Department has inaugurated three restaurants at Erra Matti Dibbalu, Yarada and Araku. But due to a delay in tender works, they have not started functioning. The Lambasingi cottage works are also nearing completion, he said. Boating activities The Minister also said that in view of the tragic boat accident in East Godavari district last year, the State Government is setting up control rooms at nine locations where boating activities are taken up in the State, to monitor boating operations and to curb accidents. The control rooms will be monitored by the police and Mandal Revenue Officers (MROs). The control rooms will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy this month, he said. The Minister also said that an exclusive State Tourism Department app is being developed and will be launched by the Chief Minister soon.
03 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) demands aid for gas leak victims||The CPI (M) has demanded payment of Rs. 1 crore as compensation to Kanakaraju, a victim of the styrene monomer vapour leak, who died on Monday. They claimed that he died due to inhaling styrene monomer vapour, but it is to be confirmed as per government health officials. Party Greater Visakha City Committee secretary B. Ganga Rao decried the indifferent attitude of the officials towards the victims. He also alleged that P. Venkayamma had died a week ago due to the negligence of doctors. He sought that the dependents of both Kanakaraju and Venkayamma should be paid Rs. 1 crore as compensation. The government had also announced payment of Rs. 10,000 each to all those who were affected by the styrene vapour leak. A total of 5,000 persons were yet to receive the benefit.
03 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP seeks salary hike for village, ward volunteers||Former MLA and BJP leader P Vishnu Kumar Raju demanded an increase in salaries for village/ward volunteers working for the State government. Addressing a press conference here in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday, Mr Vishnu Kumar Raju said that the volunteers were not being paid in commensurate to the work being done by them. He said that the Government should consider paying them at least Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 12,000 per month, instead of Rs. 5,000. He also criticised the YSRCP government and questioned why the party members were celebrating on completion of one year. He said that the government has failed on all fronts, especially in providing succour to the poor. He said that Polavaram project seems to be delayed for almost a year. Anna canteens which were useful for the poor are closed. They might have come in handy for the poor, he said.
03 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trade body hails changed definition of MSMEs||The A.P. Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation has welcomed the upward revision in the definition of medium enterprises as MSMEs. Enhancing the turnover limit for medium enterprises to Rs. 250 crore from the originally announced limit of Rs. 100 crore would benefit many, said former president G. Sambasiva Rao. The Central government wanted to broaden the scope of MSMEs and announced bail-out package for the sector which is hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, he added.
03 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital celebrates sixth anniversary||The sixth anniversary of the Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre (HBCH & RC), was celebrated at the hospital premises at Aganampudi here on Tuesday. A pilot ECHO (Extension for Community Healthcare Outcomes) project to provide online training to nurses in cancer screening and prevention, in collaboration with ICMR – NICPR, New Delhi, was launched on Tuesday to commemorate the foundation day.
03 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Old students of AMC donate N-95 masks||The 1960 batch students of Andhra Medical College (AMC) donated 1,000 N-95 masks, worth about Rs. 3.5 lakh, to the doctors working in the forefront. These masks were handed over directly to the Post Graduate students of Pulmonary Medicine, General Medicine and Paediatrics departments. Dr. T. Venkateswara Rao, former DME, and Dr. J. Narayana Murthy, retired Professor and HoD of Anaesthesia, AMC, made the donation on behalf of the 1960 batch of AMC. P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, AMC, appreciated the gesture of the old students.
03 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uncertain future forces many migrant labourers to leave A.P.||Even as construction activities has begun after the relaxation of the lockdown norms, hundreds of migrant workers belonging to Bihar and Odisha continue to head to their native States from across the State. Many workers engaged by infrastructure companies in Vijayawada, Rajamahendravaram, Kakinda, Visakhapatnam are not keen to work in Andhra Pradesh as the fear of inadequate livelihood options continue to worry them. Migrant workers from Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Bihar are seen crossing the checkposts on the A.P.-Odisha border in droves on a daily basis. Lockdown blues “We are worried about our future here. We also know that earning livelihood will not be easy in our State. At least, we can work as farm hands there if jobs are not available,” said Ram Kumar from Bihar in Vizianagaram on Tuesday. He is among 44 persons who hired a lorry to reach their native places. “We used to earn around Rs. 8,000 a month and the situation changed after the announcement of the lockdown in March. Most of us have not got any work in the last few months. Managing food and shelter has been a daily struggle for us since then. So we do not have any option other than going home,” said another migrant worker. The workers strongly feel that the contractors would rather engage more locals as the migrant workers from Andhra Pradesh who were working in Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Maharashtra and others States have returned home. Local factor “With a lot of local workforce available in the State now, what chance we stand to get work regularly. We do not want to risk it. It is better to go home,” said a migrant worker from Odisha. Meanwhile, Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Raja Kumari asked the police officials to allow the migrant workers to continue their journey after a thorough verification. Verification at border The documents of vehicles transporting the workers are also being verified. Several people’s organisations are providing food packets to the migrant workers.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cooling off||
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Disinfection tunnels at Simhachalam||The Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Simhachalam will reopen for darshan on June 8. Devotees will be allowed for darshan from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. Several decisions were taken at a meeting chaired by the temple Executive Officer M. Venkateswara Rao on Monday. Devotees can enter the temple through the ‘Niladri’ gate. There will be free, special darshan tickets of Rs. 100 and Rs. 300. Devotees need to observe social distancing. Disinfection tunnels will be arranged at the entry points of three queuelines and 12 foot-operated sanitisers will be installed on the temple premises. Devasthanam buses will operate from the foothills to the shrine. Wearing masks has been made mandatory for the devotees.
03 June 2020||GAJWEL,TELANGANA||Gajwel town to get railway line before month-end||It’s a dream come true after relentless efforts. Gajwel town, the constituency represented by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is going to witness railway line before the end of the month. This is part of Manoharabad (Medak district)-Kothapalli (Karimnagar district) railway line stretching for about 151 km. The project was taken up at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,061 crore. The project was taken up in four phases — Manoharabad-Gajwel, Gajwel-Siddipet, Siddipet-Sircilla and Sircilla-Kothapalli. Initially, the work from Manoharabad to Gajwel was completed and the trail run has been taking place. The Gajwel railway station was constructed at a cost of Rs. 1 crore. Two more stations – Nacharam and Begumpet — were also developed between Manoharabad and Gajwel railway stations. “We have designed the railway track to run trains with a speed of 120 km. The internal trail run is being done and the authorities from Commissioner of Railway Safety will visit and test the track and they will fix the speed of the train. It may take place one week or 10 days. The green signal to run trains has been accorded by the authorities from Railway Safety wing. Local authorities will decide the date to run trains once the permission is accorded by the authorities concerned,” said D. Subrahmanyam, Deputy Chief Engineer, South Central Railway (SCR).
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||5 OMC post-graduates test positive, 151 negative||Osmania Medical College hostel in Hyderabad is turning into a new cluster, as at least five more junior doctors who stay there tested positive for coronavirus. Till Tuesday evening, 12 post-graduate students (junior doctors) were detected with COVID-19. Six of them are gynaecology course PGs who worked at Modern Government Maternity Hospital, Petlaburj. Though another person who stayed in the hostel too tested positive, he was the brother of one of the students. After increasing number of cases were detected among junior doctors who stay in the hostel located in Koti, officials started to test 280 house surgeons. Officials in the Telangana Health department heaved a sigh of relief as 151 house surgeons and PGs tested negative. Test results of at least 129 are awaited. The positive test results of PGs raised concerns about them becoming spreaders of the virus. Senior doctors in various government hospitals where non-COVID patients undergo treatment said that tests have to be conducted on them too to know if they have the infectious disease. This helps to prevent further spread to patients and their family members. “The house surgeons and PGs interact with senior doctors about the cases. They are integral part while performing surgeries. We too could have got the virus but remain asymptomatic,” said a senior doctor from the maternity hospital in Petlaburj. PPE quality Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) members said that poor quality of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), N95 masks, are provided to them on some shifts. They have been pointing out the issue for more than a month. “Good quality PPEs are provided most of the time. But it is sub-standard on some shifts or days. We did not raise complaints as it might be perceived that we are creating nuisance unnecessarily. But will coronavirus stay away when we wear sub-standard PPE for a shift?” a junior doctor questioned. TJUDA members would represent the issue with senior officials in the Health department. They have also requested that pregnant healthcare workers be excluded from COVID duties.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM opposes proposed changes in Electricity Act||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the amendments proposed in the Electricity Act highlighting the concerns of Telangana State. In a two-page letter addressed to the Prime Minister on Tuesday, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said the proposed amendments would take away certain functions and powers of the State government, including the provision to appoint State Electricity Regulatory Commission. “It is hitting on the core of the federal polity,” Mr. Rao said. Merely because a particular subject is in the Concurrent List of the Constitution does not mean that the Centre/Parliament would enact laws having direct and major influence on the functioning of a State government. On the provision for direct benefit transfer (DBT) of subsidy provided to consumers, particularly to agriculture and domestic sectors, would work against the interest of farmers and domestic consumers from the downtrodden sections. Free power Any proposal to modify the current statute on DBT was highly objectionable to Telangana government since it was providing 24x7 free power to farm sector. The provision for fixing tariff for all consumers without subsidy by the ERC would take away the cross-subsidy facility, he stated. The Telangana Chief Minister felt that any national renewable energy policy should be formulated with explicit consent of the State governments but not simply in consultation with them. “Each State in India has its own unique situations like potential for hydro, wind and solar power, land availability and others,” Mr. Rao said adding that States should have the flexibility to determine within the broad policy at the national-level without any penal provisions. Stating that one of the proposed amendments is to make National Load Despatch Centre all powerful in scheduling of power throughout the country, the Chief Minister said Telangana SLDC was implementing merit order despatch of energy satisfactorily. Grid discipline Although grid discipline is very important, it is not advisable to entrust NLDC with additional powers to order backing down of State thermal units and they would not be able to compete with central generating stations, he noted. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said the cost of generation of central power utilities such as NTPC and NHPC would be less and get priority in merit order despatch causing loss to State utilities and suggested that intra-State transmission decisions be left to the SLDCs only. The Chief Minister also opposed the provision to empower NLDC to enforce payment security and suggested that such commercial aspects be left to State ERCs and courts. Instead, NLDC should deal with only technical issues such as scheduling and grid stability. On free open access provision in the amendments, the Chief Minister said it would erode revenue of discoms with many consumers with more than 1 MW load could go for open access without any technical feasibility.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Corona mutes Telangana Formation Day celebrations||With the coronavirus threat looming large, the Telangana State Formation Day became a low-key affair on Tuesday. Officials across the State ensured that the number of persons attending the celebrations was limited. Similarly, there was no parade by the police and other department personnel exhibiting the achievements of the departments. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao hoisted the national flag at Siddipet followed by Home Minister Mahmood Ali at Sangareddy and Animal Husbandry Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav at Medak. Addressing a gathering, Mr. Harish Rao said the dreams of people of Telangana were coming true and as promised during the celebrations last year, Godavari water had reached Kondapochammasagar reservoir by scaling a height of 618 metres. In unified Adilabad district, after hoisting the tricolour, homage was paid to Telangana martyrs and statues of Telangana Talli and stalwarts like Professor K. Jayashankar were garlanded. Government whips Gampa Goverdhan, Arikepudi Gandhi and Balka Suman were chief guests at the function held at Adilabad, Kumram Bheem Asifabad and Mancherial districts. At Nirmal, Forest Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy hoisted the national tricolour. No distancing At the celebrations, however, social distancing norms were violated. Even chief guest Gampa Goverdhan, Boath MLA Rathod Bapu Rao, Adilabad MLA Jogu Ramanna, and ZP chairman Janardhan Rathod violated the norms. Minister for Roads and Buildings V. Prashanth Reddy and Assembly Speaker P. Srinivas Reddy unfurled the tri-colour flag at the Collectorate in Nizamabad and in Kamareddy respectively. They earlier led the officials and non-officials in paying homage to Telangana martyrs. In Kamareddy P. Srinivas Reddy garlanded the statues of Police Kistaiah and Chakali Ilamma. In Nalgonda Chairman of the Telangana State Legislative Council Chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy led the celebrations by placing a wreath at the Martyrs’ Memorial in the town. District Collector Prashant Jeevan Patil and Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath were present. In Suryapet Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy along with District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy and others participated in the celebration. In Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, Aler MLA and Government Whip G. Sunitha along with District Collector Anita Ramachandran led the simple celebration.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Health depart. yet to evolve new strategy as cases spike||As COVID-19 cases are increasing exponentially, people are speculating about Telangana Health department’s strategy ahead. Currently, new methods are not being conceived. Rather, officials are relying on existing strategies, including surveillance activities. Besides, there is heavy dependence on precautions taken by people such as wearing masks, and sanitisation measures after returning home from outside. Out of the total 2,792 cases till June 1, 872 COVID-19 cases were reported in the past one week, indicating the sharp spike. Senior officials from the department said that they would continue surveillance on deaths, people suffering from Influenza Like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). If there is spike in deaths or any of the respiratory problems in a locality, health officials and staff will take measures to know if coronavirus is spreading there. If more than 15 COVID-19 cases are detected, the locality will be detected as a containment zone to contain the spread of the infectious disease. Though contact tracing is going on, they said it has become a task with the high load of cases. “Besides the surveillance activities, we will increase Information Education and Communication (IEC) activities to make people aware about precautions that have to be taken,” said a senior official. As the chain of coronavirus transmission is becoming thick and long with increased movement of people post lockdown relaxations, the Health department officials are relying heavily on precautions taken by people who step out, to avoid the spread of the infection. This became clear as the main essence of a press meet held by Director of Medical Education Dr K Ramesh Reddy and Director of Public Health Dr G Srinivasa Rao on May 30 was that people have to take responsibility and follow measures to avoid transmission of the virus. They cited case studies of how recklessness of some people led to the virus spread. The officials stressed that people have to (1) wear mask (2) maintain physical distancing (3) maintain personal hygiene.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS should forge ahead in the field of higher education: Governor||Telangana Governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan said that Telangana State should lead the country in the field of higher education and stand in the forefront in its endeavours. The students of Telangana have many opportunities in higher education and no student in the State should be deprived of it , she said . She was addressing the winners in the ‘Connect- Chancellor’ programme at Darbar Hall, Raj Bhavan here on Tuesday and gave away prizes to the winners. A programme ‘Connect-Chancellor’ was conceptualised to provide an opportunity to the students of State Universities and encourage them to project their ideas. They were invited to send their entries for articles, short stories and poetry in English, Hindi, Telugu and Urdu languages on ‘COVID-19 pandemic’ as central theme. Divine coincidence   Dr. Soundararajan said the response from the students was overwhelming and about 7,000 students have participated. Telangana State Formation Day and her birthday on the same day (June 2) seemed to be a divine coincidence, the Governor said. On this occasion, to encourage rural economy as an objective, a Goshala was opened and fruit-bearing saplings were planted on the premises of Raj Bhavan. President Ramnath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Speaker of Legislative Assembly Pocharam Srinivas Reddy and several other prominent leaders greeted the Governor on her birthday. Secretary to Governor Surendra Mohan, Chairman of Telangana State Council for Higher Education Papi Reddy, Vice-Chairman Limbadri, and Prof. Venkata Ramana, Prof. Gopal Reddy, Registrar, Osmania University and Etikala Ravinder Reddy, CEO, New Edge Consultancy Services, and others participated.
03 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Deeksha held at OU on land issues||Alleging that the government was trying to weaken the State universities to encourage private universities, the OU Students and Unemployed Front chairman Chanagani Dayakar sat on a one-day deeksha on the State Formation Day. Former PCC president V. Hanmantha Rao and National Backward Classes Welfare Association president R. Krishnaiah offered lime juice to him to call off the deeksha . Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Krishnaiah said more than 9,000 vacancies in colleges and universities have hit the quality of education being offered in State universities while 50,000 teacher vacancies exist in schools. This only shows that the government was not keen on providing quality education to the poor and downtrodden who come to these institutions. Mr. Krishnaiah said more than 2.50 lakh vacancies exist in the government and the very formation of Telangana for which students fought was negated with these vacancies. He said 9 out of 11 varsities in Telangana are headless for the last one year and demanded that vice-chancellors be appointed immediately to ensure that the varsities’ academics are not affected. Mr. Dayakar alleged that the varsity lands were being encroached upon and the government was turning a blind eye and called for a students’ fight to save the OU lands. He said criminal cases be registered against all those involved.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Staff shortage to hit govt. hospitals?||Healthcare professionals being detected with COVID-19 opens the possibility of Telangana government hospitals operating with insufficient doctors and nurses. Such a situation is already being experienced at Modern Government Maternity Hospital, Petlaburj, where at least five junior doctors tested positive and results of more are awaited. As number of cases are exponentially increasing in the State, doctors and administrators at State government hospitals said that it is inevitable that they will attend asymptomatic COVID-19 patients at non-COVID hospitals without knowing about the patients infected. As monsoon will set in some weeks, people would develop fever or cold. More patients would visit hospitals. “This means more doctors and nurses might contract the infectious disease. They would be isolated at home or hospitals and contacts have to be quarantined. In such an eventuality, burden of attending to patients will be on uninfected healthcare professionals,” a senior doctor from a government hospital said on condition of anonymity. Highly placed sources in the State Health department said that they thought about the possibility of doctors attending to COVID-19 patients without knowing their infection status. Sources said that the State Health department officials did not yet communicate any contingency plan on how to manage the patient load if large number of healthcare professionals contract COVID-19 and stay away from duties. The concern of hospitals running on skeletal number staff was expressed by junior doctors too. House surgeons and post-graduates take significant load of work at government hospitals. As of now, as in private hospitals, patients are screened for fever and made to sanitise their hands before entering the hospital buildings. However, junior doctors said that it is not possible in emergency situations. As per guidelines, pregnant women coming from containment zones have to be tested for coronavirus. A senior doctor from the hospital said that it becomes difficult as some pregnant women are rushed to hospital when they develop labour pains. “They will undergo tests at private hospitals through all trimesters and get admitted at the Maternity Hospital in Petlaburj for delivery. If they get admitted a few days earlier, we can know their test results too before performing delivery,” the senior doctor said. Officials earlier said that they have asked doctors to use Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) if they are attending patients in wards where screening patients is not possible. Review meeting Meanwhile, Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajender, who held a review meeting in Hyderabad on Tuesday, has directed officials to chart separate action plan for safety of healthcare professionals in the wake of spike in cases. Mr Rajender asked them to include the safety measures, apart from existing ones, for staff working in hospitals and at village level. Besides, security of cancer patients also suffering from COVID-19 was discussed. The Health Minister said a separate ward would be established for such patients.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||99 fresh COVID cases in Telangana; 4 succumb||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana touched 2,891 as 99 more cases were detected on Tuesday. Of the 99 cases, 87 are people from the State and 12 migrants. Four more COVID-19 patients died taking the toll to 92. The four patients who died are a 70-year-old woman and 60-year-old woman with hypertension, 41-year-old man with known morbidity of thyroid, and a 42-year-old man with pre-existing cardiac problem. Of the 87 local cases, 70 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, seven from Rangareddy, three from Medchal, two from Nalgonda, one each from Mahabubnagar, Jagtial, Mancherial, Sangareddy and Siddipet. Of the 2,891 cases reported till Tuesday, 1,273 are active cases, 1,526 were discharged, and 92 died. The number of people who were discharged crossed the 1,500 mark on Tuesday, and constitutes 52% of the total cases. Of the total cases, 204 are migrants who came from various States. They were home-quarantined and district authorities monitor their health. If anyone shows symptoms, they are tested. Also, 212 out of 458 deportees who were airlifted tested positive for coronavirus. The last case among them was reported on May 30.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Railway Hospital conducts 50,000 hemodialysis||South Central Railway’s Central Hospital, Lallaguda, has surpassed the 50,000 mark in performing ‘hemodialysis’ since its introduction four years ago and the unit has been functioning even during the lockdown, undertaking as many as 2,791 procedures. General Manager Gajanan Mallya complimented the hospital administration and the entire team involved in handling the dialysis facility. Hemodialysis is an important component of patient care associated with acute and chronic renal failure as it involves a coordinated approach, requiring expert attention of doctors, technicians and nursing staff. The procedure takes about three to four hours with extensive monitoring of all parameters to keep the patient’s condition stable all through, said senior officers. Complications during the course of the procedure need to be attended immediately by a multi-disciplinary approach, hence dialysis units are considered as one of the critical care facilities in medical care. It was opened in 2017 summer by then Chairman of Railway Board A.K. Mittal. It has 15 dialysis machines serving the needs of around 130 serving/retired employees/dependent patients undergoing maintenance dialysis and also emergency cases. In the very first year itself, it took up 7,032 procedures or around 20 each day and now with expanded infrastructure, it is handling up to 50 cases per day. Cost savings per annum on account of the unit is estimated to be about Rs. 3 crore, informed an official spokesman. Additional chief health director Dr N.V.B.K. Sai holds charge of the dialysis unit.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Asifabad ryot gifts locally grown apples to CM||A farmer from Kumram Bheem Asifabad district gifted the first crop of apples grown for the first time in the State of Telangana to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at Pragathi Bhavan here on Tuesday. Farmer Kendre Balaji presented the apples and a sapling to the Chief Minister on the occasion of State Formation Day and conveyed his greetings. Chief Minister congratulated Balaji and said apple cultivation was an example to show that Telangana State had a variety of land mix suitable for cultivation of all kinds of crops. Balaji said that he cultivated HR99 variety of apples in two acres of land at Dhanora village in Kerameri mandal with great support and cooperation from the Horticulture Department.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Time for a second agitation: BJP chief||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party has exhorted the people of the State to get ready for another agitation, this time to get rid of the ‘monarch’ Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. “Telangana came into being due to sacrifices of many young persons and agitations over the years. But the fond hope of the people expecting justice by giving power to K. Chandrasekhar Rao has been dashed with the only the ruling family getting benefitted,” claimed party president Bandi Sanjay on Tuesday. Addressing partymen after unfurling the National flag at the State office on the occasion of the TS Formation Day, he charged that the KCR government has sought to “crush every section of society” and has “fooled them over the last six years with lies and false promises”. “Not a single election promise whether it is jobs for youth or filling up of vacancies in government departments or free seeds and fertilizers to the farmers or loan waiver or many others, has been fulfilled. Yet the people gave him a second chance last year but it has turned out to be the same in this term too,” he said. While youth and students had played a major role in Telangana agitation, the government has only sought to punish them and thrown the entire education and health sector into disarray. Rythu Bandhu scheme is not being made available to every farmer contrary to government claims. “Now, he is warning farmers against cultivating crops though they have the knowledge of agriculture that has been passed down through generations. What is the basis for his decision on changing crops? Have they done any soil testing,” he asked.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man jumps in front of CM’s cavalcade||There was a flutter near Gun Park on Telangana Formation Day on Tuesday when a man rushed to block the cavalcade of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in an attempt to seek the former’s attention to his grievance. The man has been identified as Hanumanth Naik from Nalgonda district. The incident took place in the morning as the CM was leaving Gun Park after paying tributes to the martyrs of the Telangana movement. Naik is said to be an outsourced employee of the GHMC and wanted CM’s intervention in getting his application for 2BHK cleared.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman killed in accident||A mother and son returning from grocery shopping on Tuesday were knocked down by a lorry which resulted in the former’s death. The Medchal police identified the victim as Banoth Renuka (37). She was travelling on a two-wheeler with her son Banoth Shashikanth. The duo went to Medchal market to buy groceries.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two held for possessing cocaine||Two Hyderabad based men who obtained an inter-State travel pass to Bengaluru, allegedly on the pretext of a business opportunity of face masks, were caught on their way back to the city with cocaine in their possession. The Prohibition and Excise Department sleuths who made the apprehension identified the accused as Taran Jyoth Singh, a resident of Panjagutta, and Amit Kumar of Lothkunta. The duo was apprehended in Saraswathi Nagar in Trimugherry, allegedly with 54 grams of cocaine in their possession. The sleuths said that the duo allegedly bought 70 grams of the narcotic from a Nigerian in Bengaluru and returned to the city on May 30. Based on credible information, they were intercepted. Apart from the contraband, three mobile phones and two four-wheelers were seized from their possession.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM greets Governor on her birthday||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao called on Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and conveyed birthday wishes to her. Chief Minister went to Raj Bhavan on Tuesday morning and presented a bouquet to the Governor and wished that she should lead a healthy and long life. The Governor too conveyed her wishes to the Chief Minister on the occasion of the State Formation Day. She said she was happy that her birthday and State’s Formation Day were on the same day. She said it was destiny that she became Governor of a State which was formed on June 2, the day she was born. On this occasion, issues pertaining to the State formation came up between the CM and the Governor. The Governor said that after the movement for independence of the country, movement for the Telangana statehood would remain the longest struggle in the country. Rajya Sabha members K. Keshav Rao, K. R. Suresh Reddy, Government’s Chief Advisor Rajiv Sharma, Advisor Anurag Sharma, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP Mahender Reddy, ACB DG Purnachandra Rao, Hyderabad City Mayor Bonthu Rammohan, GHMC Deputy Mayor Baba Fasiuddin, Rythu Bandhu State president Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, MLCs Karne Prabhakar, Srinivas Reddy, Planning Commission Vice Chairman Vinod Kumaraccompanied the Chief Minister.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Forest land for Sammakka barrage||Central government issued orders on Tuesday transferring 27.9 hectares (68.9 acres) of forest land to the State Irrigation Department. State government has decided to construct Sammakkasagar project (Tupakulagudem) on River Godavari to supply water continuously to Devadula project. This necessitated procurement of forest land in Eturunagaram and Venkatapuram forest divisions in Mulugu mandal. Along with this, the Centre gave the final environmental permission required for the construction.
03 June 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Police prevent MPs, leaders from going to SLBC in Nalgonda district||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, along with Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy and former Congress Legislature Party leader K. Jana Reddy, was detained at Chintapally police station, while they were proceeding to Srisailam Left Bank Canal tunnel project for Jala Deeksha on Tuesday noon. Tension prevailed at Godakondla near Mall in Rangareddy district, where the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board project is located, when MP Venkat Reddy staged a sit-in as police objected to his travel. The police, citing COVID-19 lockdown restrictions, said no permission was given to organise a protest. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy and Mr. Jana Reddy were also taken to the Chintapally police station and detained. While Bhongir MP Venkat Reddy described the Telangana Formation Day as “a black day”, for insulting people’s representatives and stifling their voice, the TPCC chief said all Congress leaders were following mandatory measures in view of COVID-19. “Although we act as per rules, you object. And when KCR violates all rules with some 2000 people at Kondapochamma, you arrange bandobust,” he said. Senior Congress leader K. Jana Reddy said the role of the Opposition in raising people’s issues and questioning the establishment was being sidelined under the TRS rule.
03 June 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||First explosion at OCP in Singareni||In the wake of accidents in the underground mines with the roof falling and other incidents, the management of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) had taken up the Open Cast Project (OCP) to reduce the accident rate and ensure safety of the miners, and increase coal production. Ironically, for the first time in the history of OCP of the company, an explosion took place owing to misfire of the slurry gelatine following its ignition by detonators at the OCP-1 of the Ramagundam region, claiming four lives and injuring three others seriously on Tuesday. Incidentally, the OCP-1 is the first open-cast project taken by Singareni and became operational in 1974. The OCP-1 has emerged a role model for all the mines of the Singareni with record coal production since it was launched. It is the first OCP to use the dragline and showel dumper technology for removal of over-burden (OB) earth. Following the completion of the excavation of the coal OCP-1 phase-1, the management had taken up phase-2 (expansion project) to excavate 59.21 million tonnes of coal. Accordingly, the management had given the OB works to private contractors. The explosion took place at OB site when the private contractor was carrying out explosion works with contract workers. The OCP-1 had won several prizes during the safety week celebrations in 2004-05, 2005-06, 2007-08, 2015-16 and 2017-18. It had secured an environmental award in 2014 also.
03 June 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||‘No safety measures’||Use of explosives in the mining operations by untrained private contractors is the main reason for the explosion which claimed four lives and injured three others at the Open cast project-1 of Singareni Collieries Company Limited in the Ramagundam region on Tuesday, allege trade union leaders. The Singareni management, which is encouraging private participation in the mining operations with the sole motto of earning more profits and increasing production, however is neglecting the safety aspect of coal miners, resulting in accidents in the mines, charged a recognised trade union leader of Telangana Boggu Ghani Karmika Sangham (TGBKS). He alleged that the Singareni management privatised the OB (over burden) work and there is no supervision. Besides, the management also failed to ensure that the private firms follow the safety norms as per the Directorate General of Mine Safety (DGMS) guidelines, he said. The management should provide compensation to contract workers also on par with the permanent employees, he said. The blasting work should not be given to the private contractors and it should be done only under the supervision of an expert, who holds a mining certificate, said Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh State president Kengerla Mallaiah. BJP State secretary and Singareni Struggle Committee chairman S Kumar alleged that several accidents are taking place in the coal mines with the miners sustaining major injuries. Only those accidents are made public in which major casualties happen, he said. AITUC secretary K. Sunil alleged that the management is encouraging private contractors to do OB work against the norms by flouting safety measures. He charged that the management is only striving for the welfare of contractors by neglecting the plight of workers. Meanwhile, the police seized all the detonators and sent them for explosive analysis. The police are also probing the role of the safety supervisors - whether they were carrying cellular phones and if their radiation caused the explosion.
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||All bases covered to tackle Cyclone Nisarga, says BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), stretched to the limit battling the spread of COVID-19 in the city, is now gearing up to face Cyclone Nisarga. BMC Commissioner I.S. Chahal held a meeting with assistant and deputy commissioners on Tuesday as the cyclone will be making a landfall on Wednesday. We are prepared: CM Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday, in a televised address, said, “We can only pray that its intensity decreases by the time it reaches us. But we are prepared. We have contacted all fisherfolk in the State and are bringing them back home.” He also warned of possible power cuts. He said, “Keep your belongings secured. Store drinking water. Charge all appliances that run on battery. Pay attention to announcements on Doordarshan and Akashwani.” Mr. Chahal has ordered officers to ensure that all COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs) are structurally stable. The BMC had created CCCs overnight to shift high-risk contacts or asymptomatic patients. However, after the BMC had to shift people out of the COVID-19 hospital at Bandra Kurla Complex, questions were raised about the structural stability of the jumbo facilities as well as other CCCs. Ashok Khairnar, assistant municipal commissioner of H East ward, said, “Even when we rapidly took over buildings for CCCs, it was not done blindly. In fact, we kept the monsoon in mind and selected buildings that are in good condition. Since a few of them are lying unused, I will be using them to shift people from low-lying areas.” Mr. Khairnar has created four disaster response teams in his ward and provided them with 10 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits each. The BMC has also instructed construction contractors to secure all under-construction sites to avoid incidents of scaffolding or cranes collapsing. “We have been asked to ensure the stability of hoardings,” said Prashant Sapkale, assistant municipal commissioner of K East ward. The BMC has also appealed to people to carry tools such as hammers when they venture out in their cars on Wednesday to avoid getting stuck inside on flooded roads. Last year, two people died after they got locked in. The BMC has kept officers on high alert through Tuesday night keeping in mind the collapse of trees, dilapidated structures and walls, flooding, short circuit or fire incidents. Guardian Minister for Mumbai, Aaditya Thackeray, who was present at the meeting, has asked officers to focus on parts of city that are prone to landslides, flooding and dilapidated buildings collapsing. He also sought provision of packaged food and water for migrants or homeless people. Staffers shifting COVID-19 patients will be provided with PPEs. “We have already started shifting people from landslide-prone or flood-prone areas,” said Mr. Chahal. When told that most municipal hospital generators can run only for four to five hours, Mr. Chahal simply said, “We are prepared.” The Mumbai Fire Brigade has stationed 93 lifeguards and 150 flood rescue members at fire stations.
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai goes past 42,000 cases||Mumbai recorded 1,117 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, pushing its tally to 42,216. The city also recorded 49 fatalities, the third-highest jump in a day, taking its death toll to 1,368. Of the latest victims, 34 were men and 14 were women, and 42 had co-morbidities. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials on Tuesday said patients are winning the battle against COVID-19 despite having co-morbidities and being advanced in age. They cited the example of three patients with hypertension — aged 72, 70 and 76 — admitted to Nair hospital, who recovered from the virus and were discharged. “They had acute respiratory distress. All three were given oxygen support along with antibiotics, steroids and other standard treatment,” said a BMC official. Drug proving effective In two other cases, including a healthcare professional with poorly controlled diabetes, proper treatment and management of symptoms led to their recovery. “The healthcare professional received an injection of tocilizumab and recovered in eight days,” said the official. Tocilizumab is an arthritis drug which has been repurposed for COVID-19 treatment. At Nair hospital, of the 120 patients who received the drug, 108 recovered. Officials said nearly 500 critical patients were admitted to the hospital between March and May. So far, the condition of 250 patients has improved and 110 have been discharged. Civic officials reiterated that all patients don’t need hospitalisation. “Patients with mild symptoms and without co-morbidities can remain in home isolation,” a BMC official said. BMC’s ward-wise break-up of cases issued on June 1 shows K East ward’s (Andheri East) tally has leaped from 2,292 cases on May 31 to 2,402. Cases in M East ward (Deonar, Govandi) rose to 2,047. The case growth rate in the city has dropped from 3.85% on Monday to 3.68% on Tuesday. The highest case growth rate has been observed in Dahisar (8.1%) and P North ward (6.9%), while E ward (Byculla) had the slowest growth rate at 2%. Dharavi reported 25 new cases on Tuesday, pushing its tally to 1,830. The area has reported 70 deaths so far. 3 deaths in Navi Mumbai Navi Mumbai on Tuesday reported 93 new cases, taking its tally to 2,377 cases. Three fatalities were reported, taking the death toll to 78. Panvel reported 23 new cases on Tuesday, pushing its tally to 565. Four deaths were also recorded, taking its death toll to 26. Panvel Rural recorded three new cases — one each from Karanjade, Palidevad Sukapur and Karanja Surkichapada — taking its tally to 371. With 14 recoveries, the tally has now touched 282.  (With additional inputs from Tanvi Deshpande and Raina Assainar)
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||COVID-19 patients shifted from BKC to Worli||Nearly 250 COVID-19 patients were being shifted from the facility at Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) to the COVID-19 care centre at the NSCI Centre in Worli as a precautionary measure, with Cyclone Nisarga approaching Mumbai. The facility had been built by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) to cater to non-critical COVID-19 patients and was handed over to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) last month. The 1,008 bed facility received its first set of patients on May 25. Indoor stadium Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary on special deputation to the BMC, said around 250 patients were being shifted as a precautionary measure. “The NSCI facility has the capacity to take more patients,” she said. The MMRDA facility is a field hospital that has been built under a German Tent, while the NSCI facility is within a massive indoor stadium. Gynaecologist Neeta Warty, working at the NSCI facility, said the patients were brought in buses. “Some of the patients were on oxygen support which was stopped temporarily and it was immediately restarted as they reached the NSCI,” said Dr. Warty, adding that each patient was evaluated, and their X-ray as well as ECG done as per the protocol designed in the NSCI facility. Another block On Tuesday, the NSCI facility had 300 patients. “Our capacity is of 600. So, we opened another block where the patients coming in from MMRDA were accommodated. We also have a holding area where suspected patients awaiting test reports are kept. Some of the patients coming from the MMRDA were admitted to the holding area,” said Dr. Warty. The process of shifting the patients went on till Tuesday night. The patients were also shifted in ambulances and BEST buses that had been converted into ambulances. “The hospital can sustain strong winds of up to 80-100 km per hour, but it is not designed for a cyclonic storm,” said R.A. Rajeev, Metropolitan Commissioner, MMRDA. He said they were taking measures to strengthen the facility and the second COVID-19 hospital, currently under construction next to the existing facility.
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||‘Overburdened’ resident doctors at KEM vent ire||Resident doctors at the civic-run K.E.M. Hospital took to social media on Tuesday to highlight the severe shortage of Class IV workers and nurses. The doctors posted a video from a ward stating that there were 35 critical COVID-19 patients and not a single nurse or Class IV worker to assist them. Class IV workers include ward boys, cleaners and labourers, among others. While some staff members have tested positive, others are off duty as they have comorbid conditions. Sources said some staff members are also not reporting to work due to fear of the infection. Resident doctors wrote on Twitter about the shortage, leaving doctors overburdened. In the video shot in ward No. 4 on Tuesday, a resident doctor said they have not had staff nurses and Class IV workers for several days. “None of the patients have relatives with them, none of them have any means to go to the washroom… only three residents are working here. We are unable to manage 35 patients on our own,” the resident doctor is heard saying. “I am helpless right now… I have no one to help me. People are dying in front of my eyes and I can’t let that happen. I am loading the drugs, I am intubating patients, I am doing all the work,” said another resident doctor in the video. The hospital’s dean Dr. Hemant Deshmukh said the video was misleading as it was shot when the shift was changing. “All the staff of K.E.M. Hospital are working 24 hours a day in three shifts. The patient service is running uninterruptedly,” said Dr. Deshmukh. Such videos can have a negative impact on staff working continuously, besides affecting the morale of patients and relatives, he said.
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||Another policeman dies||An Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of police died due to COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of fatalities in the Mumbai Police force to 19 and in Maharashtra to 29, according to an official. The ASI breathed his last at Sion hospital where he was admitted on Thursday. “The ASI, who was attached to general department of Santacruz police station, died due to coronavirus infection on Tuesday,” according to Santacruz police station Senior Inspector Shriram Koregaonkar. The ASI was a resident of Dharavi-Koliwada, one of the containment zones.
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||Western Naval Command teams gear up||With Cyclone Nisarga brewing in the Arabian Sea, the Western Naval Command has put its teams on alert and mobilised adequate resources for flood relief, rescue and diving assistance in the event of heavy rainfall in urban and rural areas. The Western Naval Command is coordinating with State governments on the western seaboard. It has loaded ships of the Western Fleet with humanitarian assistance and disaster relief bricks to provide relief to coastal areas likely to receive heavy rain. A spokesperson of the Navy said, “In Mumbai, the Maharashtra Naval Area will be on standby with five flood rescue teams and three diving teams throughout the monsoon. These teams are stationed at naval areas across the city to enable early response over a larger area. The teams are fully equipped and trained for rescue operations. Recce of flood-prone areas has been undertaken and necessary preparations are in place.” Similar arrangements have been made at Karwar Naval Area, Goa Naval Area, and Gujarat Daman and Diu Naval Area. Dornier aircraft and helicopters at Naval air stations at Mumbai, Goa and Porbandar are ready to ferry teams and rescue stranded personnel at short notice. “Area and Station Commanders are in touch with State authorities, National Disaster Response Force and State Disaster Response Force to respond to a crisis in the shortest time,” the spokesperson said.
03 June 2020||Pune,||2,287 new cases in State, tally crosses 72,000||Maharashtra reported another spike of 2,287 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday to take the State’s cumulative tally to 72,300. The total number of fatalities rose to 2,465 with 103 more deaths. State Health Department officials said of the total cases, only 38,493 were active positive. As many as 1,225 patients were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total so far to 31,333. The State’s recovery rate currently stands at 43.33%, they said. As per the State Health Department, 10 deaths each were reported from Pune district and Mira Bhayander civic body area in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Six deaths were reported from Raigad district, taking the count to 26. The death toll in Mira Bhayander has gone up to 29. Pune district’s death toll, as per State health department figures, has risen to 348 while district administration officials said the toll had already climbed to 357 with at least 12 deaths reported on Tuesday. While Solapur district in Pune division reported five deaths to take its total toll to 75, Pune Divisional authorities said that the district’s death toll was already 88. 67% with co-morbodities “Of the total deaths reported on Tuesday, 38 took place in the last couple of days while the remaining fatalities are from the period between May 1 and May 30. Of the reported deaths, 67% had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” said State Surveillance Officer, Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune district’s total tally, as per State Health department figures, was 8,196 with the district reporting more than 170 new cases on Tuesday. Besides Mumbai, Covid-19 cases continued to rise in Thane in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), with more than 160 people testing positive to take the district’s total tally to 4,827. Navi Mumbai too reported an increase of 158 new cases to take its tally to 2,887. “Till date, of the 4,83,875 laboratory samples, 70,013 have reported positive with around 12,000 samples across the State tested on Tuesday,” Dr. Awate said. He said, 5,70,453 people across the State were in home quarantine, and 35,097 in institutional quarantine facilities. There are 3,730 active containment zones in the State, said Dr. Awate.
03 June 2020||Pune,||High alert in Pune district||While the risk from Cyclone Nisarga to Pune district may be low as compared to Mumbai city and districts in the Konkan division, a number of tehsils in the district’s rural parts have been placed on ‘high alert’, said authorities on Tuesday. Ayush Prasad, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Pune Zilla Parishad, said preventive measures are being taken to ensure that there is no loss to life and minimal damage to property. Mr. Prasad said, “As per the projections, there is a ‘high alert’ warning issued for Bhor, Velha, Mulshi, Maval and Westen Khed areas in rural Pune for Wednesday, with an ‘alert’ for Purandhar, Haveli, Shirur, eastern Khed, Ambegaon and Junnar.” He said all officers in the rural areas have been instructed to hold meetings with sub-divisional officers, tehsildars as well as forest, irrigation and State electricity department authorities and identify the risky areas. Mr. Prasad said people living in villages in mountain passes in Sahyadri Hills and high wind-velocity areas are being shifted. “Preparatory meetings will be held with village authorities like the gram sevak, talathi and sarpanch via audio bridge. I have instructed them to move people living in houses with weak walls to safer locations,” Mr. Prasad said.
03 June 2020||Raina Assainar Navi Mumbai,||Evacuations in Raigad||Raigad district authorities started evacuating residents from coastal areas after the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast landfall of Cyclone Nisarga in Alibaug on Wednesday afternoon, with expected wind speeds of 100 to 120 km per hour. Teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and India Coast Guard have also been deployed. Alibaug, Uran, Murud and Shrivardhan — all shore-based talukas — are on high alert, while Pen, Panvel Mhasala and Tala, which are creek-based, are on alert. Raigad Collector Nidhi Chaudhary said, “Eight of the 15 talukas in Raigad district could be affected. Of these, four could face a bigger brunt and we are securing those talukas. Till Monday, the forecast was of landfall at Harihareshwar, at Shrivardhan. This was changed to Alibaug on Tuesday. In the short time that we got, we have identified 25 villages in Alibaug, which are on the coastline and would be affected the most, and also identified the number of people who need to be evacuated.” Ms. Chaudhary said schools, temples, and anganwadis are being used as shelter homes. “COVID Care Centers, where 200 beds are lying empty, are being used. All village panchayats have been alerted and life guards deployed,” she said.
03 June 2020||Bhopal,||New case in ‘containment-free’ Raj Bhavan||A day after the Madhya Pradesh Raj Bhavan declared part of its campus “containment-free”, without reportedly consulting the Bhopal district administration, a construction worker employed on the campus tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, said a Raj Bhavan official. On May 27, by when six residents had tested positive, a containment area was thrown around 10 employees’ quarters which curbed movement. Later, another four residents were confirmed positive, with three families being affected. “The worker lives outside the campus, and didn’t have contact with the infected residents. He worked in another part of the campus,” said the official. Until Monday, the Raj Bhavan had received 395 test reports, among them the Governor’s who was declared negative for the infection. A day later another 50 reports were received. The protocol prescribes an area could be declared containment-free only 21 days after the reporting of its last case. However, just a day after three residents tested positive, the area was declared containment-free on June 1. “There is no point in keeping the area under containment as the infected have been moved to hospitals, while seven other families in the area have been quarantined outside it,” said the official. “There is no human being in the area, so there is no chance of further spread which would have required containment.”  ‘No order issued’ The Bhopal district administration, steering the COVID-19 containment strategy locally, has not issued any order declaring the part containment-free, and still considered the area under containment. “The Raj Bhavan on its own has removed barricades, and declared the area thus, which they have no right to,” said a Bhopal district administration official. He further pointed out even if all residents were moved out of an affected area, the 21-day guideline should be followed. Speculation is rife that the unilateral and hasty decision by Raj Bhavan was taken to pave the way for the long-due expansion of the six-Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan Cabinet, requiring an oath-taking ceremony on campus. Keeping it under the containment zone would put off the expansion indefinitely. “This is not true. In any case, the main building and the auditorium where ceremonies are held were out of the containment zone anyway. So, the ceremony could be organised,” said the Raj Bhavan official.
03 June 2020||Bhopal,||Betul police issue censure, warning to policemen over attack on lawyer||The Betul Superintendent of Police has censured a Sub-Inspector involved in the thrashing of a diabetic lawyer on March 23 while he was on his way to a hospital for treatment. Based on the analysis of an inquiry report prepared by a Sub-Divisional Office of Police, D.S. Bhadoria, the SP, has also warned the former in-charge of the Kotwali police station under which the incident had occurred. The analysis was prompted by the release of an audio clip by lawyer Deepak Bundele, in which two officials are heard telling him he was beaten up as the police mistook him for a Muslim since he sported a beard. “We infer that Sub-Inspector Kapil Saurashtriya, named by the lawyer in his complaint, manhandled him and did not deal with the situation properly, whereas Inspector Rajendra Dhurve has been given a warning on record as he showed no control over the Sub-Inspector,” Hoshangabad Deputy Inspector General of Police Arvind Saxena told The Hindu .  ‘No initiative taken’ Mr. Saxena further said the Inspector had not taken any initiative to conduct an inquiry. “He is in-charge of the police station. So, he should have investigated the matter himself instead of handing it over to an Assistant Sub-Inspector. I will issue a show cause notice on him [the Inspector],” added Mr. Saxena. The Assistant Sub-Inspector in question, B.S. Patel, was suspended after he was heard making objectionable remarks in the audio clip when he visited the lawyer to record his statement on May 17. The police are going to chargesheet him for a departmental inquiry. Even the State Human Rights Commission, taking cognisance of the incident through media reports, had sought a report from the Betul administration over the attack and the remarks. The police has contended the incident was triggered after Mr. Bundele was questioned over not wearing a face mask. “However, we believe a case should not be registered against him as it was just preliminary stages of the pandemic then. We were sensitising people about wearing a mask at that time,” said Mr. Saxena.
03 June 2020||Bhopal,||Tribals accuse forester of burning down hut in M.P.||Tribal residents of a village in Burhanpur district have accused a forester of burning down a hut in a field, and threatening to burn down the rest. In a complaint to the police, residents of Siwal village demanded action under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, against Nepanagar Ranger Dinesh Vaskale, who they believe ordered the action on Monday afternoon, and later hinted on a phone call at further demolitions. “I was working on the other side of my 10-acre field, when foresters came in two jeeps and burnt down my hut. I slept there every night to guard crops, and had stocked grains inside,” said Sildaar Adivasi, 55. “By the time I could call others for help, they drove away.” Later, when Mr. Adivasi called up Mr. Vasakale to complain, he responded: “We will destroy all the tapris (huts). We will come there; don’t take tension.”  ‘Not locals’ Attesting to the remarks, Mr. Vasakale told The Hindu , “It was an encroachment. These people cut down forests and expand their territory, and create drama for no reason.” He further claimed the Barela tribals were not locals, and had migrated from Barwani district.
03 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Locust attack: high alert in nine districts of Odisha||Odisha on Tuesday put nine districts — mostly bordering Chhattisgarh — on high alert over locust attack. Chairing a high-level meeting, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik directed district authorities to keep a close watch on locusts. The meeting resolved to spray insecticide using fire tenders to control locust infestation. Both State and district-level control rooms have been set up for coordinated action to tackle the locust attack. More than 6.5 lakh farmers have been informed about locusts through 8 lakh personal messages sent by Agriculture and Farmers’ Empowerment Department. The districts which are likely to be affected by locusts include Nabarangpur, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Malkangiri, Koraput, Rayagada, Jharsuguda, Sundargarh and Bargarh. According to information shared at the meeting, locusts have returned to Madhya Pradesh after covering a few areas in Chhattisgarh. Senior officials and scientists attended the meeting.
03 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Community cases spike in Odisha||The trend of Odisha detecting a majority of COVID-19 positive cases in quarantine centres changed on Tuesday following detection of as many as 31 cases in the community. Of the 141 new cases that were reported from 18 districts, while 110 were found in quarantine centres, 31 were found in the community. The 141 cases took the State’s total to 2,245, according to the State Health Department. The quarantine centres have been set up at the gram panchayat-level across the State to keep the returnees in isolation before their entry into their respective villages. Of the 156 COVID-19 positive cases that were detected in the State on Monday, only three were found in the community.
03 June 2020||Gurugram,||800 migrants sent home in buses from Gurugram||Around 800 migrants from Bihar, stranded at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 38 here for more than 24 hours, were sent back to their home districts on Tuesday. Some 20-odd buses were pressed into service for this. A large number of migrants belonging to Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand were brought to Gurugram from neighbouring districts in State transport buses on Monday to be sent to their hometowns in a Shramik Special train. But the workers from Bihar could not be accommodated in the train and were forced to spend the night at the stadium. Sub-Divisional Magistrate Chinar Chahal said around two dozen buses were arranged to send the workers back to their hometowns during the day on Tuesday. She said the workers were also educated on the precautions to be taken and their health check-up was done.
03 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||15-year-old shot dead over bag of grain in U.P.||A 15-year-old youth was shot dead over a dispute regarding a bag of grain following which two of the accused persons were beaten to death by villagers in Baghpat on Monday evening, police said. Identified as Shekhar, the youth was shot dead after about two-dozen people, many of them armed with country-made weapons, confronted him over a dispute at Basauli village in Ramala. After he was shot, the villagers gathered around the accused persons, who fired at them, said SP Baghpat Pratap Gopendra Yadav. “The villagers then chased them and in the maar-peet (beating), two of them died,” said the officer. A day earlier, the youth had a small dispute with some people of his village over a bag of grain.  Altercation over bag The youth’s family crushed grains at their house and somebody had walked off with a bag of wheat from there, leading to an altercation with some people of the village, said the SP. The people in dispute with him then called some youths from nearby villages, who arrived with country-made weapons, said the officer. Inspector General, Meerut, Praveen Kumar said a detailed probe was being carried out.
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||ENT surgeon succumbs to COVID-19||A 61-year-old ear, nose, throat (ENT) surgeon from Mumbai succumbed to the SARS-CoV-2 early on Monday at the SL Raheja Hospital in Mahim. Despite his co-morbidities, Dr. Chittaranjan Bhave had resumed practice in May to help people during the ongoing emergency. He tested positive on May 19 and got hospitalised, but his condition deteriorated gradually, and he breathed his last at 2.45 a.m. on Monday. He is the seventh doctor in the city to die of COVID-19, including five alternative medicine practitioners. A diabetic, Dr. Bhave had also undergone an angioplasty procedure eight years ago. “He had stayed at home during most of the lockdown. But with the ongoing crisis and government pleas for doctors to start their practice, he decided to slowly resume work last month,” said his wife, Sujata. He was an alumni of the G.S. Medical College attached to KEM Hospital. While he had his private clinic in Mahim, he also consulted at SL Raheja and Maru Hospital in Parel. “We were closely following his health condition over the past several days. His death came as a shock to all of us,” said ENT surgeon Dr. Samir Bhargava, who is the national president of the Association of Otolaryngologists of India. Dr. Bhave had last worked at Raheja Hospital on March 3. “He had started seeing patients at his clinic and at the Maru Hospital last month,” said Dr. Sanjay Gala, who was his co-surgeon in an emergency procedure that they carried out on May 15, two days before he developed symptoms. “It was a patient with facial palsy. The patient did not have COVID-19. It is unlikely that the surgery triggered the chain of infection,” said Dr. Gala. He continued to follow up with the patient, who still has no infection. However, an operation theatre assistant who was in the team tested positive almost two weeks after the procedure. “We had taken all the necessary precautions while operating. Even while consulting patients, Dr. Bhave would wear the necessary protective gear like a mask and gloves,” he said. SL Raheja Hospital’s chief executive officer Dr. Hiren Ambegaonkar, who was Dr. Bhave’s batch mate, said he was doing fine in the first few days but started to get breathless from May 23. “He developed acute respiratory distress syndrome. We shifted him to the intensive care unit and put him on high-flow oxygen and prone ventilation. His renal function shut down, for which we also started him on dialysis,” said Dr. Ambegaonkar. Despite all interventions, Dr. Bhave’s condition did not improve. There were reports about Dr. Bhave not finding a hospital bed in time, but his family denied the allegations. Dr. Bhave’s wife and daughter have also tested positive and are in home quarantine.
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||Decision to cancel exams arbitrary, says Governor||Asserting that as Chancellor of Universities, he has the final authority over all university matters under the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday conveyed to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that a decision regarding holding examinations of final year students “shall be taken in consonance with the provisions of the Act”. The letter is yet another instance of the Governor being at odds with the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Earlier instances had prompted a political back and forth between the MVA and the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party. Terming Mr. Thackeray’s decision cancelling examinations “unprecedented” and “without any profound thinking on the legal repercussions,” Mr. Koshyari said it would jeopardise the future of students. In a letter to the Chief Minister, the Governor said he was surprised to learn through media reports that the CM had declared that no exams shall be conducted this year, while he was still awaiting a response to his letter on the matter. “The arbitrary decision has violated the basic principle that to obtain an identical degree, there cannot be two sets of criteria, one who has given examination and for the other who has obtained marks on average. The examinations cannot be made optional,” he wrote. The Governor said even though the committee of vice chancellors constituted by the Minister for Higher and Technical Education to explore options available to conduct the examinations had given its report to the Secretary, Higher and Technical Education Department, on May 6, it had not been presented to him till date. The Governor said that during his videoconference with vice chancellors, all of them had communicated to him their preparedeness to conduct their respective university examinations. Mr. Koshyari said he had clearly mentioned that the Chancellor’s office shall give further directions after accepting the recommendations of the committee, partially or fully, once he had received the report. Mr. Thackeray last week said final year examinations will be cancelled as it is not possible to hold them amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Students are to be given average marks of the previous seven semesters, and those who want to improve their score will be given a choice to appear for exams in October. The Governor said the Ministry of Home Affairs had given approval and issued guidelines to conduct examinations to various State boards, and that CBSE and ICSE are doing so. He said that if school boards can conduct examinations for children, then universities can do so too. He said the University Grants Commission (UGC) and other Central authorities are of the view that final year examinations should not be dispensed with. The State government should abide by UGC guidelines along with the provisions of the Maharashtra Universities Act, 2017, he said.
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||HC asks Centre to file affidavit on PM CARES||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Union Government to file an affidavit in a plea seeking declaration of funds received by Prime Ministers Citizens Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situation (PM CARES), a public charitable trust created amid the COVID-19 pandemic. A Division Bench of Justices S.B. Shukre and A.S. Kilor was hearing a petition filed by advocate Arvind Waghmare seeking a direction to the government to periodically declare funds received and their expenditure on its website. It sought that at least two members from Opposition parties be appointed or nominated to the trust for proper checks. The petition stated that “the PM CARES trust, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as its chairperson and ministers from departments of Defence, Home and Finance as its members, was created with the prime objective of dealing with the emergency or distress caused by the coronavirus.”  As per the guidelines of the PM CARES Fund, the chairperson had to appoint or nominate three more trustees. However, since its formation on March 28, no appointment has been made, the petition claimed.  Opposing the plea, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh said a similar petition against the setting up of the PM CARES fund had been dismissed by the Supreme Court in April. The Bench, however, said this petition was seeking different relief, and directed the Union government to file an affidavit within two weeks.
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||Notices to govt., media houses over job, pay cuts||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court has issued notices to the Union, and State government and media houses, seeking their response to a plea challenging termination and forceful resignation of employees of newspaper organisations. A Division Bench of Justices Sunil B. Shukre and Anil S. Kilor was hearing a petition filed by the Maharashtra Union of Working Journalists and Nagpur Union of Working Journalists. The plea has challenged terminations, reduction in salaries, forceful resignations, and pay structures contrary to the Working Journalists and Other Newspaper Employees (Condition of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act and Majithia Wage Board recommendations. The petition said, “Newspaper organisations have ignored the appeal made by the Prime Minister to protect interests of employees, and guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Labour Department and Chief Secretary.”  Respondents to the plea are the Union government through the Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs; State government through the Chief Secretary; Labour Department Principal Secretary; Indian Newspaper Society; Vidarbha Daily Newspaper Association; and managements of Lokmat , Times of India and Maharashtra Times , Sakal , Deshonnati , Nav Bharat , Dainik Bhaskar , Indian Express , Loksatta and Lokshahi Varta . The matter will be heard after four weeks.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Suspended AAP councillor hatched conspiracy to incite riots: police||Delhi Police on Tuesday filed two chargesheets in connection with communal riots that broke out in February this year. In the first chargesheet, the police have accused suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain of being the mastermind behind the riots; in the other, several Pinjra Tod members have been accused of causing and taking part in the riots. In the 1,030-page chargesheet filed against Mr. Hussain — FIR lodged under sections of rioting, obstruction of duty, dacoity, causing damage, mischief by fire, house trespass, promoting enmity between groups, criminal conspiracy; and under Arms Act — the police concluded that the ex-AAP leader hatched the conspiracy “of vast-scale riots” with former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Umar Khalid and ‘United Against Hate’ activist Khalid Saifi; and also arranged money for it. Financial help The police said Mr. Hussain made PCR calls during the incident to save himself and had gotten his pistol released from Khajuri Khas police station a day before the incident. In the document, the police have stated that Mr. Hussain admitted to his involvement in the riots and also that he was present on his terrace at the time of the incident. The police submitted that on January 8, Mr. Hussain met Mr. Khalid and Mr. Saifi at Shaheen Bagh during the anti-CAA protest where “Mr. Khalid told him to be prepared for something big/riots at the time of the visit of the US President” and also that he and other PFI members will help him financially. The police added that Mr. Saifi also gave Mr. Hussain money to prepare. They further claimed that Mr. Hussain transferred Rs. 1.1 crore from his company accounts to his fake firm accounts; and then further got that amount in cash, which was then distributed among anti-CAA protesters and his supporters. The police submitted that Mr. Hussain made six suspicious transactions but they are yet to establish the chain. Reacting to the claims, Mr. Hussain’s lawyer Javed Ali told The Hindu: “Mr. Hussain is a councillor, meeting anyone is not a ground for allegation”. The chargesheet stated that Mr. Hussain deliberately hid activities prior to and during the riots as recordings could not be retrieved from DVRs in his house from February 23-28. The police said that several CCTVs were found installed in his house-cum-office and four DVRs were also recovered but nothing was found. The police added that Mr. Hussain got his pistol released from Khajuri Khas police station on February 22, a day before the riots broke out. They said that Mr. Hussain had bought 100 live cartridges on his license out of which they recovered 64 live rounds and 22 used rounds. “He was unable to give any satisfactory answer regarding the remaining 14 live cartridges and use of 22 cartridges”. Responding to this, Mr Ali said: “Keeping a licensed pistol is not a crime”. The police further submitted that empty crates with glass bottles filled with liquid and cloth on their neck, which were used as “Molotov cocktails’, were recovered along with bricks, stones and three catapults. The police also mentioned that Mr. Hussain’s house remained untouched by the rioters. Mr Ali refuted the claim and said that the front door of Mr. Hussain’s house was broken and so were the glass windows. The police also submitted that six PCR calls were made by Mr. Hussain on February 24 and six on February 25 out of which only four were connected to the Police Control Room. However, the police claimed, officials could not reach at the time of the call but reached late night on February 24 when they found that he was present at his house and “no damage had been caused by rioters to Mr. Hussain’s house”. “It seemed that the accused persons were known to him and Mr. Hussain was present with the rioters at his house and he had deliberately made PCR calls to save his skin,” the document read. ‘No evidence’ Mr Ali said that the police have not been able to provide “single proof or evidence to show either direct or indirect involvement of Mr. Hussain”. In this case, Mr. Hussain’s step-brother Shah Alam, Mohammed Shadab, Mohammed Abid, Rashid Saifi and brothers Liyakat Ali and Riyasat Ali were also arrested. In the second chargesheet registered in connection with riots on February 25 in Jafrabad, the police submitted that the 12 accused persons, including Pinjra Tod members Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, were actively involved in conspiracy to cause riots near Jafrabad metro station. “They were also part of a larger conspiracy and were found to be connected to the ‘India Against Hate’ group and Mr. Khalid,” the document read. In the chargesheet, the police said that a message was found in one of the accused’s phone telling them what women in the house should do during the riots. ‘Keep a bottle of acid at home’ was allegedly one of the 10 suggestions.
03 June 2020||New Delhi,||Anti-CAA protest: court grants bail to Pinjra Tod activist||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita, arrested by the Crime Branch in connection with violence that erupted in Daryaganj during a protest against the amended citizenship law last year. The court noted that though Ms. Kalita participated in the protest, investigation revealed “no direct evidence, attributable to the accused, has been found to bring her for the offences under Sections 325/353 of Indian Penal Code”. Section 325 deals with punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt, while Section 353 provides for punishment for assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty. “CCTV footage also reportedly does not specifically show the accused to be involved in any violent activity,” Duty Metropolitan Magistrate Abhinav Pandey said, adding: “It is also not been indicated that any incriminating material was recovered from the laptop and the phone which was seized from the accused.” The court also took into account the fact that Ms. Kalita, an MPhil student at Jawaharlal Nehru University, was not a habitual offender or a previous convict. While granting bail to Ms. Kalita, the court ordered “stringent conditions”, including cooperation with the investigating agency. It also directed her to submit her passport with the court. Advocates Adit S. Pujari and Tusharika Mattoo, appearing for Ms. Kalita, said their client is ready to comply with the conditions imposed by the court. The Pinjra Tod activist was first arrested on May 23, along with fellow student Natasha Narwal, in relation with an FIR lodged on February 24 over a sit-in protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act at Jafrabad metro station. On May 25, a Delhi court had granted them on bail in connection with the anti-CAA protest in Jafrabad, but were moments later re-arrested by the Crime Branch in another case of rioting, murder and other charges related to the north-east Delhi riots. On May 30, the Crime Branch arrested Ms. Katila in a separate case relating to rioting in Daryaganj.
03 June 2020||Pune,||Pune district reports 12 deaths as toll climbs to 357||At least 12 more COVID-19 patients died, while over 170 people tested positive in Pune district on Tuesday as its death toll rose to 357, while its total case tally went up to 7,947, according to the district administration. Divisonal Commissioner Dr. Deepak Mhaisekar said only 2,861 remain active, while 4,729 patients (nearly 60% of the total cases) have been discharged till date. More than 275 patients have been discharged in the past 48 hours, authorities said. While concentrated screening and sample testing have somewhat curbed the spread of the virus in the city’s high-risk zones, the number of cases in non-containment zones have been steadily rising in the past few days. From May 3 to May 17, a little over 25% of the cases in Pune city were reported from non-containment zones. However, over the fortnight till May 31, this figure rose to 39%. Nearly 1,000 cases have been reported from non-containment zones in the past fortnight. Dr. Mhaisekar said that along with the fatalities in Pune, the total death toll in Pune division, which also includes Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts, has now risen to 477. Pune division’s cumulative case tally has reached 10,247, of which 4,135 cases are active. “As many as 5,635 people — nearly 60 % of the total cases reported in these five districts — have been discharged till date. A total of 223 of the active patients are critical,” Dr. Mhaisekar said.
03 June 2020||Srinagar,||Valley virus warrior tests positive||A doctor who emerged as the face of the battle against novel coronavirus in Kashmir tested positive for the infection on Tuesday. Two deceased also tested positive in north Kashmir, taking the toll to 33 in J&K. Ladakh also registered its first death due to COVID-19. Pulmonologist Naveed Shah, who heads the Chest Diseases Hospital at Drugjan in Srinagar, said he had tested positive (for coronavirus) and was following the protocol. “I am in quarantine and working from here. I will be available for all possible deliverable services,” he said, adding, “I request the administration to prepare a scientific standard operating procedure for duties and testing of all front-line workers to safeguard all.” Dr. Shah heads the main health facility that treats critical COVID-19 patients. The doctor, who decided against going home and started working from a government facility even after the official hours were over, had become popular among the masses for his efforts to educate people about the infection through social media platforms and television programmes. Dr. Shah is the 20th doctor to have contracted the infection in the course of the battle against COVID-19. Panic in Secretariat The attendance of employees has dropped significantly in the Jammu Secretariat after an IAS officer tested positive and over 50 officers, including over a dozen IAS officers, were quarantined for coming in contact with the patient. In the Union Territory of Ladakh, the sample of three-time Congress MP and former Union Minister P. Namgyal from Ladakh tested positive. Namgyal, who died on Monday, had returned from Delhi nearly a fortnight ago.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump threatens to use military in cities||As protests, rioting and looting spread across the U.S. following last week’s police killing of George Floyd, an African American man, President Donald Trump said he would deploy the military in cities and States if local authorities could not bring the violence under control. “Mayors and Governors must establish an overwhelming law enforcement presence until the violence has been quelled,” Mr. Trump said at the White House Rose Garden on Monday evening. “If a city or a state refuses to take the actions that are necessary to defend the life and property of their residents, then I will deploy the United States military and quickly solve the problem for them,” he said. Earlier on Monday, Mr. Trump told State Governors on a call that they needed to “dominate” protesters and if they did not, they would end up looking “like a bunch of jerks”. Over 75 cities have seen protests over the murder of Floyd. Warning Washington DC citizens of a seven o’clock curfew on Monday, Mr. Trump said he was deploying “thousands and thousands of heavily armed soldiers, military personnel, and law enforcement officers” in the city. “All Americans were rightly sickened and revolted by the brutal death of George Floyd. My administration is fully committed that, for George and his family, justice will be served,” he said. “The biggest victims of the rioting are peace-loving citizens in our poorest communities, and as their President, I will fight to keep them safe. I will fight to protect you. I am your President of law and order, and an ally of all peaceful protesters,” he said. Before Mr. Trump started speaking, police fired rubber bullets, flash-bang shells and gas into peaceful protesters in Lafayette Square — which is just outside the White House. Before curfew, the authorities — including officers on horseback — cleared the park, the Washington Post reported. His path cleared of protesters, Mr. Trump walked, after his Rose Garden remarks, across the park in Lafayette Square to the historic St. John’s Church, whose basement had been set on fire in Sunday night’s protests. The President’s daughter and son in law, White House advisers Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner, National Security Adviser Robert O’ Brien, Attorney General William Barr, Defense Secretary Mark Esper and General Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, were among those who walked with Mr. Trump. Standing outside the Church, Mr. Trump posed for photographs with a Bible in hand, making brief remarks. There was widespread outrage in the clearing out of peaceful protesters from outside the White House and Mr. Trump’s use of the Bible in this context. The White House pushed back against criticism; Judd Deere, a White House spokesperson, was quoted by the American press as saying the perimeter was expanded to enforce the curfew and protesters were given three warnings by the authorities. ‘Defeat him’ Democrat leaders were among those who criticised Mr. Trump for his actions on Monday. “He's using the American military against the American people. He tear-gassed peaceful protesters and fired rubber bullets. For a photo. For our children, for the very soul of our country, we must defeat him. But I mean it when I say this: we can only do it together,” presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden tweeted. “Across our country, Americans are protesting for an end to the pattern of racial injustice and brutality we saw most recently in the murder of George Floyd,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer said in a joint statement. Democrats were not alone in their criticism. “At so many times during these past several weeks when the country needed compassion and leadership the most, it was simply nowhere to be found,” Republican Governor of Massachusetts Charlie Baker said, speaking about Mr Trump’s rhetoric.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The reverse journey of the United States||The flashiest advertisement for free market globalisation has been the apparent freedom, competence and prosperity of the U.S. “A shining city upon a hill,” as President Ronald Reagan said. “... a beacon, still a magnet for all who must have freedom,” he said, after noting that “countries across the globe are turning to free markets and free speech and turning away from the ideologies of the past.” That was in 1989. ‘Be like us,’ was the basic argument that the U.S. made to the rest of the world. The use of force by America, at home or abroad, was only for the protection of liberty, it claimed. There was merit in that argument, as it expanded freedoms for its own people through the 20th century. In 1963, when Alabama’s Democrat Governor George Wallace — who had vowed “segregation forever” — resisted desegregation orders of the Supreme Court, President John F. Kennedy deployed the National Guard to enforce it. President Donald Trump’s threat to use the U.S. military to “dominate” people who erupted in protest after the killing of an unarmed African American by the police is history coming full circle. The video footage of a police officer pinning down George Floyd by his neck until he died could not have come at a worse time for the U.S. whose reputation was already at stake in the wake of the the COVID-19 pandemic. Still, there was a moral defence that the U.S. was a free society that does not coerce its members. There was also a convenient contrast to make — with China, which under Xi Jingping has offered its model of development as an alternative to liberalism. The Trump administration, and a section of the commentators, focused on whistleblower doctor Li Wenliang in Wuhan, who noticed the novel coronavirus in the early days of the outbreak. He was silenced by the local government, though posthumously declared a martyr by Beijing. Two U.S. Senators wanted to rename the street in Washington DC where the Chinese Embassy is located after him. Because of the Chinese fetters on freedom of expression, information regarding the pandemic was suppressed and the outbreak went out of control, the mainstream American argument went. U.S. also confronted China on a range of questions, from technology and trade to the Hong Kong uprising. Then came the brutal images from Minnesota. Holes in the story It is not that holes in the American story were not visible earlier. Edward Snowden, born two years after Reagan became President, is today living in Russia in asylum, accused of espionage and theft in the U.S. Many American liberals argue that he crossed a line by revealing national security secrets; and no mainstream American politician hails him as a martyr for free speech. How much force is legitimate in law enforcement might depend on the context and place, but the U.S. ranks number one in the world in terms of incarceration — there are 2.2 million people in its prisons, a five-fold increase in the last four decades. America has 655 per lakh of population as opposed 118 in China, which ranks eighth as per 2018 numbers. African Americans are disproportionately represented in the U.S. prison population, but that is no reason to overlook the whites. Police targeted reporters and photographers in several cities over the past week in the U.S. There used to be an argument that globalisation would gradually turn China democratic. China imbibed American style consumerism, but as for democracy and freedoms, a reverse osmosis appears to have taken place. As Senator Bernie Sanders repeatedly points out, the police resemble invading armies in local communities. It is not a coincidence that the growing challenges the U.S. democracy is facing corresponds with its economic entanglement with China over past 40 years. ‘It’s about society’ Houston Police Chief Art Acevedo told CNN in an interview that has gone viral for him asking Mr. Trump to keep his “mouth shut”: “Let’s be honest... This is not about policing, it’s about the society.., the disproportionality of things going on in our country...” He noted that rioters were those who stopped voting. U.S. ranks 26th among OECD countries in voter turnout, at 55.7% in 2016. In India, 67% voted in 2019. The poorer whites had the option of voting their favourite candidate to victory; the blacks are battling it out in the streets. The 2008 victory of Barack Obama, the first African American to become President, was a democratic surge which was soon overcome by the reaction. Richard Nixon came a few years after John F. Kennedy; Mr. Trump came after Mr. Obama. Still, 20th century made gains for democracy in the U.S. that are being eroded in the early decades of the 21st. Tyranny, not democracy, appears to have gone global. The question, hence, is whether American elites will consider the current turmoil a wake-up call and respond accordingly.
03 June 2020||Washington DC,||‘60 mn could be pushed into poverty’||The COVID-19 pandemic is expected to have “severe” short and long-term effects on economic growth, the World Bank said in its Global Economic Prospects (GEP) June 2020 report, part of which was released on Tuesday. EMDEs (Emerging Market and Developing Economies) are especially vulnerable, the report says. Sixty million people could be pushed into extreme poverty this year, World Bank President David Malpass said. “The scope and speed with which the COVID-19 pandemic and economic shutdowns have devastated the poor around the world are unprecedented in modern times. Current estimates show that 60 million people could be pushed into extreme poverty in 2020. These estimates are likely to rise further, with the reopening of advanced economies the primary determinant,” Mr. Malpass said in a statement. Policy choices “Policy choices made today — including greater debt transparency to invite new investment, faster advances in digital connectivity, and a major expansion of cash safety nets for the poor — will help limit the damage and build a stronger recovery,” Mr. Malpass said. “The financing and building of productive infrastructure are among the hardest-to-solve development challenges in the post-pandemic recovery. We need to see measures to speed litigation and the resolution of bankruptcies and reform the costly subsidies, monopolies and protected state-owned enterprises that have slowed development, ” he said. The report said EMDEs face health crises, restrictions and external shocks like falling trade, tourism and commodity prices, as well as capital outflows. These countries are expected to have a 3-8% output loss in the short term, based on studies of previous pandemics, as per the Bank’s analysis. EMDEs are also expected to witness the spillover effects of the U.S., the Euro Area and China, which represent almost half of global output, being unlikely to return to pre-pandemic levels of output before the end of 2021. If these three big economies simultaneously lose 1% in output, EMDEs (excluding China) are expected to lose 1.3% in their output with the lag of a year, the Bank warned. Longer term, there is a risk not just of a drop in the level of output but a lowering of potential output growth, it said. The severity of the current recession has been unseen in eight decades.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Sri Lanka’s top court dismisses petitions challenging poll date||Sri Lanka’s Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed all the petitions challenging the poll date fixed by the Election Commission, and the gazette issued by President Gotabaya Rajapaksa dissolving Parliament. The Election Commission had earlier fixed all-island parliamentary elections to be held on April 25. In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the EC postponed the general polls to June 20. However, Opposition parties and civil society representatives challenged the revised date, through at least eight petitions, flagging possible public health risks in holding polls amid the COVID-19 pandemic. As of Tuesday evening, Sri Lanka has reported 1,643 cases, 823 recoveries and 11 deaths. The EC is expected to convene soon to decide on a new poll date. “We have already told the Court that the Commission will be able to hold polls only after public health authorities tell us it is safe to do so,” said Ratnajeevan Hoole, an Election Commissioner. “Once health officials clear this, we will need at least 60 to 70 days’ time to make poll arrangements,” he told The Hindu, following the Supreme Court’s ruling. Further, the petitioners also sought relief on the President’s March 2 proclamation dissolving Parliament and calling snap polls. Citing Article 70 (5) of Sri Lanka’s Constitution, they argued the Parliament had to be summoned not later than three months after the proclamation dissolving the House – by June 2, that is — to avert a “constitutional crisis”. After hearing the case for 10 full days, the apex court on Tuesday dismissed all the petitions, as well as the preliminary objections raised by the respondents. The apex court is yet to give reasons for its decision. Speaking to media persons after the ruling, senior lawyer and former parliamentarian M.A. Sumanthiran, who appeared for one of the petitioners, said: “The struggle to restore democracy will continue.”
03 June 2020||Beijing,||Wuhan tests nearly 10 million people, finds 300 infections||China tested almost 10 million people for COVID-19 in just over two weeks in Wuhan, the city where the pandemic began, officials said on Tuesday, reporting only a few hundred positive cases. Chinese authorities claim to have largely brought the virus under control but Wuhan officials — wary of a second wave — launched the programme after new infections emerged for the first time since the city re-opened in April following two months in lockdown. More than 9.8 million people were tested in the city of 11 million people between May 14 and June 1, officials said. Officials added that the 300 positive results were among asymptomatic patients. “These numbers show that Wuhan is now the safest city,” said Feng Zijian, deputy director of China’s national Center for Disease Control and Prevention. China does not include asymptomatic cases in its tally. No asymptomatic people were found to have infected others, said Lu Zuxun, a public health expert.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||‘China kept WHO in the dark with delayed release of key virus data’||Throughout January, the World Health Organization publicly praised China for what it called a speedy response to the new coronavirus and thanked the Chinese government for sharing the genetic map of the virus “immediately.” But in fact, Chinese officials sat on releasing the genetic map, or genome, of the deadly virus for over a week after multiple government labs had fully decoded it, not sharing details key to designing tests, drugs and vaccines. Strict controls on information and competition within the Chinese public health system were largely to blame, has found from internal documents, emails and dozens of interviews. Although WHO continued to publicly commend China, the recordings obtained by the AP show they were concerned China was not sharing enough information to assess the risk posed by the new virus, costing the world valuable time. “We’re currently at the stage where yes, they’re giving it to us 15 minutes before it appears on CCTV,” said WHO’s top official in China, Dr. Gauden Galea, referring to the state-owned China Central Television, in one meeting. The story behind the early response to the pandemic comes at a time when the U.N. health agency is under siege. U.S. President Trump cut ties with WHO on Friday, after blasting the agency for allegedly colluding with China to hide the extent of the epidemic. Chinese President Xi Jinping said China has always provided information to WHO and the world “in a most timely fashion.” The new information does not support the narrative of either the U.S. or China, but portrays an agency now stuck in the middle that was urgently trying to solicit more data. Although international law obliges countries to report information to WHO that could have an impact on public health, the UN agency has no enforcement powers. Instead, it must rely on the cooperation of member states. The AP has found rather than colluding with China, WHO was itself kept in the dark, as China gave it only the minimal information required. But the agency did attempt to portray China in the best light, most likely to coax the country into providing more details.
03 June 2020||Hong Kong,||Lam slams U.S. ‘double standards’||“We have recently seen these kind of double standards most clearly with the riots in the U.S.,” Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam said. “We can see how local authorities have reacted. But then last year when we had similar riots in Hong Kong, what was their position?” The U.S., Britain and some other Western democracies sharply criticised police crackdowns on anti-government protests in Hong Kong last year. Ms. Lam pointed to more recent criticism of an imminent national security law that many foreign politicians have characterized as Beijing eroding freedoms promised to Hong Kong. “They take their own country’s national security very seriously, but for the security of our country, especially the situation in Hong Kong, they are looking at it through tinted glasses,” she said. Ms. Lam said if any countries imposed sanctions, they would only be “hurting their own interests.”
03 June 2020||Islamabad,||China gets set to build power project in PoK||China under the multi-billion-dollar CPEC will set up a 1,124-megawatt power project in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir despite India’s objection to it, according to a media report on Tuesday. The details of the Kohala hydropower project was presented in the 127th meeting of the Private Power and Infrastructure Board (PPIB) chaired by Energy Minister Omar Ayub on Monday. The Express Tribune reported that an agreement has been finalised to implement the Kohala hydroelectric power project under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. India had protested Pakistan’s plans to build a dam in Gilgit-Baltistan, saying such projects in territories under Pakistan’s illegal occupation was not proper.
03 June 2020||Islamabad,||UN report: Afghan Taliban still maintain ties with al-Qaida||The Taliban in Afghanistan still maintain close ties with the al-Qaeda terror network, despite signing a peace deal with the United States in which they committed to fight militant groups, a UN report released on Tuesday said.AP
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Scripting a new narrative for COVID control||India had warning about the COVID-19 epidemic in China spreading to neighbouring countries well ahead of virus importations; yet, the nation faltered. In epidemics as in war, underestimating the enemy is a costly mistake. Strategy planning is dynamic, with revisions as the ground reality changes. What is appropriate in the beginning may become redundant midway. Eisenhower said: “In preparing for battle, I have always found that plans are useless but planning is indispensable.” India’s early strategy (traditional pandemic control: prevent virus importations from China and neighbouring countries and interrupt importation-related local spread) succeeded, but importations from the West and West Asian countries before they were red flagged seeded local outbreaks in several places. As transmission is through social contacts, social distancing in its extreme form (a nation-wide lockdown) was declared early and abruptly, from March 24 midnight.  Indigenous wisdom Indian experts are skilful to imbibe, distil and translate information into practical, socioculturally appropriate action plans. When HIV importations and local spread were detected, Indian experts studied the situation, and, rejecting advice from the World Health Organization (WHO) for only “syndromic diagnosis” of AIDS, devised multi-pronged interventions — “social vaccine” including hospital infection control and innovative laboratory-testing tactic called sentinel surveillance. For safe blood transfusion, lab-testing was mandatory. Sensitivity and specificity of HIV lab tests were near 100%. For COVID-19, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests were necessary to detect importations and contact screening. For disease diagnosis by physicians, clinical criteria are adequate. Epidemics were asynchronous in different States; the simplest way to monitor epidemic growth was criteria-based clinical diagnosis and confirmation by PCR when deemed necessary. Instead, India blindly continues WHO advice: “test, test, test”. By May 18, testing covered 0.17% of India’s population, detecting almost 100,000 infections. We cannot use such data to assess the magnitude of the epidemic.  Openly admitting community transmission of HIV was the signal for the public to change behaviour and take precautions. Social vaccine included public education and social mobilisation; its legacy is red ribbon clubs in schools and colleges. COVID-19 community spread was denied for too long, promoting epidemic expansion and deaths particularly among health-care personnel. Early warning and public education would have slowed the epidemic and saved lives. Everyone needed behaviour modification to protect themselves when in physical closeness in clinics and crowds. Lockdown vs. mask wearing Jain munis , realising there are organisms in aerosols and droplets, wear masks to avoid inhaling them — a unique preventive measure born out of ancient wisdom. Hong Kong and Taiwan demonstrated the value of universal mask-wearing to mitigate the current pandemic. With our mindset of “big solutions” for ‘big problems’, we err. Mask wearing is a simple solution; if practised by every man, woman and child when out of home, it is twice superior to lockdowns: it flattens the epidemic curve better than leaky lockdowns; preserves socio-economic basics which a lockdown destroys. Let us look at another simple solution — oral rehydration for cholera, developed by H.N. Chatterjee in 1957, was accepted by medical professionals and administrators only decades later. Wise clinicians make presumptive clinical diagnosis of infectious diseases, informed by the epidemiologic setting, the patient’s history, physical findings, simple laboratory tests, and initiate treatment. Laboratory tests, used to confirm clinical diagnosis, identify causative organisms in only about 50-60% of cases in many instances. Why should COVID-19 be managed differently? Specific epidemiologic and clinical criteria and basic blood tests provide a clinical diagnosis of COVID-19; PCR is useful to confirm this. Home quarantine of all with mild symptoms is simple and safe. Their medical supervision should be through daily phone calls with the assigned doctor. For those with breathing difficulty, a chest X ray or CT scan identifies pneumonia. This approach would have fetched us more gains for less expense. We have tested 22,79,324 persons (incurring a cost of Rs. 22,79,324,000 by assuming Rs. 1,000 for all costs per test; private laboratories charge Rs. 4,500). Only 95,622 (~4 %) were positive; remember PCR may miss up to half of infected subjects. The original testing policy was essential at first, but became redundant and misleading by end-March. Why evaporate the public exchequer for little or limited public benefit? Now the best use of tests is to confirm clinical diagnosis.  Superficially, flattening the curve sounds attractive — infected subjects trickle in rather than as an avalanche. Lockdowns hurt lives, livelihoods and economy, while non-COVID-19 problems go unattended. Risk identification What we need to flatten is the steep mortality curve. Who are those at risk of high mortality? Those over 60 years, and those with diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, chronic respiratory disease and obesity. This demanded cocooning (reverse quarantine) the elderly and the vulnerable. Countries with their elderly living in institutions have witnessed a veritable disaster: large numbers succumbed, unprotected by cocooning; hospitals were overwhelmed. We have far fewer citizens above 60 than the United States and Europe; flattening the mortality curve is eminently feasible and culturally appropriate. The norm in urban middle class and rural families is to protect old parents and vulnerable family members. Flattening the mortality curve by cocooning them would have resonated well with our people and found nation-wide acceptance. “Social vaccine” stimulates society’s protective knowledge and practices countering major health threats. Social mobilisation subsumes public education for attitudinal and behavioural changes to overcome social determinants of microbial transmission. When children and adults realise that mask wearing is to protect their family, none will refuse to wear one. If it is only to obey orders, many flout; even feel good flouting. Social vaccine keeps citizens updated with authentic information and convinces them that their behaviour makes a change to the nation’s health and economy. For this to happen, the government must do its utmost to suppress social toxins and convince people about a genuine concern for their health and welfare. Social mobilisation, our mainstay against community transmission of HIV from 1986, ensured clear guidelines for medical professionals about preventing hospital-related transmission. Educational efforts, integral to social vaccine, galvanised society to resist HIV transmission, like immunity resisting progression of infection within the body. If social vaccine is the legacy of HIV control, the legacy of COVID control ought to be more far-reaching. The convenience of districts as units for colour zoning emphasises that they can be more self-assertive in planning for unlocking the lockdown. A practical platform A COVID-19 committee as a practical platform in every district, with representation from civil administration, health management professionals, industry, businesses, educational institutions, major non-governmental organisations, voluntary organisations such as the Rotary and Lions Club can identify facilitators and deterrents of preventive processes and practices and evolve locally relevant solutions for COVID-19 control now. It can evolve into a district development committee in the post-COVID-19 future. With a wider agenda, the fruits of their labour, improved health and education, nation-wide implementation of visionary concepts such as Swachh Bharat for microbiological cleanliness at home and in all places of human congregation, will be ready for harvest. We have a unique opportunity to script a new narrative to win the present struggle and perpetuate its legacy, with will and wisdom. M.S. Seshadri is Retired Professor of Medical Endocriniology, Christian Medical College, Vellore and now Medical Director, Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet, Tamil Nadu. T. Jacob John is Retired Professor of Clinical Virology, CMC, Vellore and Past President of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Multilateralism in the new cold war||In the new cold war, defined by technology and trade not territory, non-alignment is an uncertain option; India should craft a global triumvirate. To benefit from global change, countries must have a bold vision and make the right strategic choice. Britain quickly built the largest military in the Subcontinent using the land revenue of Bengal, and over time conquered India. The United States fixated on splitting the Communist bloc ended up with China challenging its dominance. As chair of the Executive Board of the World Health Assembly (it is the decision-making body of the World Health Organization), India can set the global response in terms of multilateralism, not just medical issues. In September, the United Nations General Assembly will discuss the theme, “The Future We Want”; in 2021, India joins the UN Security Council (non-permanent seat) and chairs the BRICS Summit, and in 2022, hosts the G-20, a rare alignment of stars for agenda-setting. At the online summit of the Non-Aligned Movement, in May, Prime Minister Modi called for new principles for the international system. His new globalisation model based on humanity, fairness and equality has wide support in a more equal world as, for the first time since 1950, everyone is experiencing the same (virus) threat. It is in this changed context that India should look upon its own reemergence, China losing influence and the dynamics in its relations with the United States as Asia again becomes central to global prosperity, with global governance, economy, scientific research and society in need of being re-invented. We should use this opportunity to recover our global thought leadership, think Nalanda, astronomical computation, the zero, Ayurveda, Buddhism, yoga and Ahimsa as well as clothing the world for millennia. Clash of values The clash between China and the U.S. at the just concluded World Health Assembly in May marks the end of the multilateralism of the past 70 years. The donor-recipient relationship between developed and developing countries has ended with China’s pledge of $2-billion. The agenda-setting role of the G7 over UN institutions and global rules has also been effectively challenged by WHO ignoring the reform diktat of the U.S. leading to its withdrawal, and characterisation of the G7 as “outdated”. The U.S. has also implicitly rejected the G20 and UN Security Council, for an expanded G7 “to discuss the future of China”. China’s Global Times characterised the exchanges as “two different visions”; The Washington Post carried the headline, “The post-American world is now on full display” and The Wall Street Journal argued, “India Is a Natural U.S. Ally in the New Cold War”. The clash marks another seismic shift within the UN. After World War II, the newly independent states were not consulted when the U.S. imposed global institutions fostering trade, capital and technology dependence, ignoring socio-economic development. Social and economic rights have emerged to be as important as political and procedural rights and China’s President Xi Jinping deftly endorsed the UN Resolution on equitable access to any new vaccine. The U.S. faces an uphill task in seeking to lead a new multidimensional institution as China’s re-emergence is based on technology, innovation and trade balancing U.S. military superiority at a time of declining global trust in free-market liberalism, central to western civilisation. With the West experiencing a shock comparable to the one experienced by Asia 200 years ago, the superiority of western civilisation is also under question. The novel coronavirus pandemic has accelerated the shift of global wealth to Asia suggesting an inclusive global order based on principles drawn from ancient Asian civilisations. Colonised Asia played no role in shaping the Industrial Revolution; the Digital Revolution will be shaped by different values. It is really this clash that multilateralism has now to resolve. Non-coercive form For India, the strategic issue is neither adjustment to China’s power nor deference to U.S. leadership. China has come out with alternative governance mechanisms to the U.S.-dominated International Monetary Fund, World Bank and World Trade Organization with its all-encompassing Belt and Road Initiative. The U.S., European Union and Japan are re-evaluating globalisation as it pertains to China and the U.S. is unabashedly “America First”. The world is questioning both U.S. and China’s exceptionalism. The global vacuum, shift in relative power and its own potential, provides India the capacity to articulate a benign multilateralism as a NAM-Plus that resonates with large parts of the world and brings both BRICS and the G7 into the tent. This new multilateralism should rely on outcomes, not rules, ‘security’ downplayed for ‘comparable levels of wellbeing’ and a new P-5 that is not based on the G7. China, through an opinion piece by its Ambassador in India, has suggested writing “together a new chapter” with “a shared future for mankind”. The U.S. wants a security partnership to contain China and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations trade bloc — with the U.S. walking out of the negotiations — is keen India joins to balance China. With a new template. India does not have to choose. First, the Asian Century should be defined in terms of peaceful co-existence, freezing post-colonial sovereignty. Non-interference in the internal affairs of others is a key lesson from the decline of the U.S. and the rise of China. Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter rightly observed that while the U.S. spent $3 trillion on military spending, “China has not wasted a single penny on war”. National security now relies on technological superiority in artificial intelligence (AI), cyber and space, and not expensive capital equipment, as India’s military has acknowledged. Instead of massive arms imports we should use the savings to enhance endogenous capacity and mould the global digital economy between state-centric (China), firm-centric (the U.S.) and public-centric (India) systems. Second, a global community at comparable levels of well-being requires new principles for trade, for example, rejecting the 25-year-old trade rule creating intellectual property monopolies. Global public goods should include public health, crop research, renewable energy and batteries, even AI as its value comes from shared data. We have the scientific capacity to support these platforms as part of foreign policy. Third, ancient civilisational values provide the conceptual underpinning, restructuring both the economic order and societal behaviour for equitable sustainable development, which a climate change-impacted world, especially Africa, is seeking. Mukul Sanwal is a former UN diplomat
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The challenge of law enforcement post-COVID-19||COVID-19 has turned the world upside down. There is hardly any aspect of our life that has been left untouched by the pandemic. In a society struck by a deadly virus, strict maintenance of public order is most essential. Only then can those affected by the disease be looked after and given the best medical care. Enforcing lockdown Law enforcement is therefore next only to healthcare in its criticality. The police have taken enormous risks during the lockdown to ensure strict observance of guidelines, including physical distancing, which in India is among the most difficult rules to enforce. Policepersons need to be commended for their hard work and restraint, instead of being chastised as a force for the overzealousness and indiscretion of a few of them. How will COVID-19 affect future law enforcement and how will new patterns of crime be managed, especially given that the virus is here to stay for a long time? Apart from policymakers, the police leadership will have to introspect on its recent experience and draft a comprehensive Standard Operating Procedure that will educate all policepersons in the country. This will take care of future virus waves, if any. How did the police manage to garner all the resources – manpower and material – to enforce the lockdown in all the States? In this context, we did not hear the usual complaint of lack of manpower and mobility. What helped the police greatly was public cooperation, without which there would have been chaos. In this experience lies a lesson, a building block for future police-public relations. It is a different matter that some disorderly sections also behaved themselves, possibly out of sheer fear of the virus’s lethal potency. With the bulk of the population keeping off the streets, the police could bring in equipment and manpower to handle this unusual situation. They also skilfully used social media to disseminate all relevant information to a majority of the population, both in urban and rural areas. Overall drop in crime What greatly helped the police was the fact that roads were deserted and there was nearly zero traffic on major highways. This ensured a sharp reduction in traffic accidents and fatalities caused by such accidents. Antisocial elements could be kept at bay. With anti-social elements confined to their homes, trespass and burglary also became more difficult crimes to commit. A survey across nations has indicated a measurable drop in overall crime. Major cities that generally report a high number of crimes found a drop in crime levels during the lockdown period. Only the New York Police Department reported an uptick in murders and burglaries during the pandemic. London reported an appreciable decline in non-violent crime, especially stabbings. The National Police Chiefs Council in the U.K. reported a drop in burglary, vehicle crime, serious assault and personal robbery in the four weeks up until April 12. In India, the Delhi Police reported a 70% fall in heinous crimes (murders and rapes) between April 1 and 15 compared to the same period last year. In Chennai, the total number of crimes dropped by 79% in the March 25-April 15 period over the February 25-March 15 period. Even giving due allowance to wilful non-registration of cases by the police and the general reluctance of the public to report crimes, particularly during difficult times such as a pandemic, the police force can be proud that it managed to keep the peace during these times. Uptick in domestic violence However, this period saw a worrying surge in domestic violence cases. The Tamil Nadu Police, for instance, reportedly received 2,963 calls on domestic violence in April alone. There are two major factors for this rise. Most men are at home, either without work on in fear of losing their jobs. Data show that domestic violence increases when there is greater unemployment. The fear and insecurity of these men cause tension at home and unfortunately, women become the victims of this tension. The second reason is the non-availability of liquor during the lockdown period, which caused frustration among those men who are habituated to drinking daily. There was a similar increase in sexual and gender-based violence in West Africa during the 2013-16 Ebola outbreak. As health workers are busy combating the pandemic, there is little help for domestic violence victims during times such as this. This shows that epidemics leave women and girls more vulnerable to violence. A few members of the Global Initiative Against Transnational Organized Crime, a network of prominent law-enforcement, governance and development practitioners based in Geneva, believe that the pandemic is both a threat to, and an opportunity for, organised crime, especially illicit drug trade. Travel restrictions across borders, especially in Africa, have made international trade in drugs extremely difficult. Gangs have therefore been at work to innovate and adapt to the changing nature of the illicit market. The Global Initiative believes that organised gangs will infiltrate health services and make profits through the sale of prescription drugs that are not otherwise easily available to the public. Another new trend is the rise in cybercrime. New portals have been launched to get people to donate money for the cause of combating COVID-19. Experts say that many fraudulent sites are designed so well that a large number of people are easily taken for a ride. Besides this, there is large-scale manufacture of ineffective masks and hand sanitizers. A major challenge for public officials is keeping prisons free of the virus. Many prisons have taken steps to insulate prisoners who reported positive for the virus from the rest of the inmates. A number of human rights activists have said that we need to consider the premature and temporary release of prisoners. This is a tricky issue: should prisons be totally emptied or should they adopt a selective approach? Some human rights activists ask for complete evacuation of prisons, irrespective of whether a prisoner tests positive or not. But such a drastic move will make a mockery of the criminal justice system and expose society to many unrepentant violent offenders. On March 24, the Supreme Court directed the States and Union Territories to constitute high-powered committees to consider releasing convicts who have been jailed up to seven years on parole, in order to decongest prisons. The pandemic and the lockdown have ensured that many crimes have gone down. However, many other crimes have gone up or will assume new forms in the near future. As we enter unlock mode, it is incumbent on law-enforcement officials to think of ways of dealing with new challenges in maintaining law and order. R.K. Raghavan is a former Director of the Central Bureau of Investigation
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A reformative and fiscal package||The moment you start looking at the recently announced Rs. 20 lakh crore fiscal stimulus package as an economist or an industrialist or a consumer or a farmer alone, you become like the six blind men describing the elephant. Each view may be right, yet it lacks the full perspective. We need to assess and evaluate the stimulus package on a larger national and international platform. Clear signal, emphatic intent With this package, the government is trying to balance the stimulus demands from different sectors and also trying to contain the fiscal burden on the exchequer. Measures announced until now have been a mix of liquidity measures, funding support and reform announcements. The signal is clear, the intent emphatic: provide immediate support for the most distressed sections like micro, small and medium enterprises, and migrant workers, on the one hand, while using the crisis to push long-term reforms on the other. These include freeing up the agriculture supply chain, reducing the hegemony of agricultural produce market committees by encouraging direct online transactions between farmers and buyers, and opening up sectors like coal to the private sector. Let’s take real estate to start with. The pandemic period has been defined as a ‘force majeure’. Real estate developers do not have to pay penalties for delays in project deliveries for the period during which the construction activity has been halted because of the pandemic. The extension of registration and completion dates for projects under the Real Estate Regulatory Authority and the extension of credit-linked subsidy schemes for Middle Income Group housing can push real estate developers towards more projects under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Add to this the Reserve Bank of India’s recent rate cuts, including the latest repo rate cut to 4%, and other key measures like long-term repo operation 2.0, open market operations have boosted liquidity in the banking system in excess of Rs. 5 lakh crore. This is in addition to the six-month moratorium on loan repayments, covering all banks and shadow lenders starting March 1, 2020. By far the most sweeping steps by the central bank in the time of crisis, these remedies will boost liquidity and ease stress in the banking sector, which was affected by an ongoing crisis in non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) even before the contagion spread. Measures for NBFCs such as providing a Rs. 30,000 crore liquidity facility, a Rs. 45,000 crore partial credit guarantee and a Rs. 50,000 crore refinancing facility for NABARD, SIDBI and NHB will also help in ameliorating some stress on the NBFCs. The pandemic as an opportunity In his address to the nation on May 12, the Prime Minister mentioned infrastructure as one of the five pillars to take the nation out of the current crisis. While governments will be more focused this year on dealing with the pandemic and mitigating its impact on society, it is only a question of when spending on infrastructure will pick up. The sooner, the better. I believe the States as well as the Centre will pick up the mantle of unfinished infrastructure projects. This will aid economic growth and provide employment to a significant portion of the workforce. The injection of Rs. 90,000 crore liquidity for DISCOMs, reforms in tariff policy, privatisation of distribution in Union Territories, etc. will help stem the haemorrhaging of some players in this sector. Policy measures announced for the defence sector, which are meant to push indigenous production and participation of the private sector in India’s space programmes, have been encouraging so far. How this will be implemented needs to be seen, however, especially since some key defence procurement programmes have been delayed for many years. A level-playing field between defence public sector units and private companies is also necessary to develop the defence sector in India. Most significantly, this crisis has brought to surface the need for investment in healthcare infrastructure. India currently spends around 1-2% of GDP on health which is lower than even peer countries like Brazil. The allocation of Rs. 15,000 crore and viability gap funding for social infrastructure projects are small steps in addressing this gap. L&T, for instance, is well placed to construct ready-to-use hospitals in the shortest span of time. This stimulus is as much a reformative package as a fiscal one. However, a majority of the stimulus measures announced are meant for the rural sector and distressed segments with a focus on supply side measures in providing credit facilities. I endorse RBI Governor’s Shaktikanta Das words: “It is when the horizon is the darkest and human reason is beaten down to the ground that faith shines brightest and comes to our rescue.” It is time we gear up to grab the opportunities this pandemic has laid open. S.N. Subrahmanyan is CEO & MD, Larsen & Toubro
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Seizing the moment at the WHO||On May 22, 2020, Harsh Vardhan, Minister of Health and Family Welfare, was elected the Chair of the World Health Organization’s (WHO) executive board. The 34-member body is tasked with implementing the decisions of the recently concluded World Health Assembly (WHA). The elevation affords India an important platform to steer the global public health response to COVID-19. It also comes at a time when the WHO is being rocked politically as never before. On May 18, U.S. President Donald Trump wrote a letter to the WHO Director-General, threatening to make permanent his temporary funding freeze as well as reconsider the U.S’s membership in the organisation if the latter did not commit to major substantive reforms within 30 days. Earlier that morning by contrast, at the WHA plenary, Chinese President Xi Jinping pledged $2 billion to fight the virus, pair up 30 African hospitals with domestic counterparts, accelerate the building of the Africa Centers for Disease Control headquarters, and ensure that vaccine development in China, when available, would be made a global public good.  India’s policy approach As WHO executive body chair, India will have to navigate this treacherous power landscape with candour and tact. Five elements should inform its policy approach. First, India must insist that epidemic prevention and control remain the international community’s foremost priority. As the virus’ chain of transmission is broken, the focus should shift to identifying the animal-to-human transmission origins of SARS-CoV-2. China shares an important interest in facilitating international access to investigate COVID-19’s zoonotic origins; Wuhan and other previously infected zones could yet be susceptible to the risk of viral reintroduction. Next, India should lean on the WHO secretariat to fast-track the “impartial, independent, and comprehensive review” of the WHO’s – and China’s – early response to the outbreak. The review’s findings should illuminate best practice and highlight areas for improvement, both in the WHO’s leadership and capacity as well as member states’ implementation of the International Health Regulations. For those in New Delhi inclined to relish the prospect of Beijing’s comeuppance, the review’s findings may yet sorely disappoint. The WHO-China Joint Mission featuring renowned global epidemiologists had termed China’s early COVID-19 response as the “most ambitious, agile and aggressive disease containment effort in history”. Third, India must promote the establishment of an appropriate multilateral governance mechanism for ensuring equitable access to COVID-19 therapeutics and vaccines for all countries. The envisaged voluntary pooling mechanism to collect patent rights and regulatory test data should be suitably tailored to the needs of crisis, and the World Trade Organization’s intellectual property rights provisions overridden (as is allowed during a public health emergency) to assure affordable vaccine availability. Fourth, India must stay aloof from the West’s campaign to re-seat Taiwan as an observer at the WHA. When Taipei last attended in 2016, it did so under the explicit aegis of UN General Assembly Resolution 2758, whereby the UN considers Taiwan to be an integral part of the People’s Republic of China. That the independence-minded Tsai government is unwilling to concede this basis for attendance has more to do with domestic political manoeuvring than Chinese or international ostracism. Finally, India must lead the call for a permanent global ban on the consumption and trade of wild animals, with limited exceptions built-in for scientific research, species protection and traditional livelihood interests. With two-thirds of emerging infections and diseases now arising from wildlife, the destruction of natural habitats and biodiversity loss must be taken much more seriously. India has its work cut out. The government should seize the moment. Sourabh Gupta is a senior fellow at the Institute for China-America Studies in Washington, D.C.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon bounty||The monsoon has finally set in over Kerala in keeping with the textbook date of June 1. In May, the IMD had forecast a four-day delay in the onset over Kerala. This was premised on a relatively mild summer, in early May, in north India and several spells of Western Disturbances, which are rains from the Mediterranean, as well as the impact of super cyclone Amphan in the Bay of Bengal. A private meteorological company had, however, forecast an early monsoon arrival — on May 28 — because its models seem to suggest diminished impact of Amphan. But last week, the IMD updated its onset forecast to say that ‘favourable conditions’ for the monsoon onset were likely on June 1. The IMD has clearly defined criteria for declaring the onset: eight of 14 designated meteorological stations in Kerala and Karnataka must register 2.5mm rain for two consecutive days, there must be 30-40 kmph westerlies (winds from the equator reaching India) at a certain height and a certain value of radiation. Heavy rains over Kerala alone do not determine onset, the IMD has been at pains to emphasise. However, it is also true that usually it was the only agency with the equipment to measure windspeeds and radiation at higher elevations, along with multiple weather stations. It therefore has a monopoly of declaring onset. While the IMD is a primarily scientific organisation, it faces competition from domestic and international companies in providing weather-related services. In crop insurance, power distribution and short-range forecasts, the IMD no longer has a monopoly on providing weather information. The latter has consequences for the IMD’s other major role — to give its outlook on how the monsoon might pan out over India and how much rain is likely in July and August, the key months for the summer crop. This year, save for India’s northeast, the IMD has forecast above normal rains in other areas, especially the northwest, the central parts and the southern peninsula. Though reassuring, it is worth remembering that just last year the IMD failed to communicate that 2019 would turn out to be the wettest in two decades. However, every year of normal monsoon has brought with it both torrential floods and long dry spells. The complexity of climate change is now such that excess rains in a year seem to have long-ranging impact with reports of a second consecutive year of a locust plague in India on the horizon which can affect the kharif crop. It is therefore time that along with improved science and forecasting, the IMD works on disseminating more precise localised weather forecasts. While its public interface and technology adoption is improving, particularly in cyclone forecasts, the organisation has a long way to go in communicating these improvements to a wider population.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Monumental hurry||The Narendra Modi government is so possessed by its plan to redevelop the Central Vista, the 3-km long stretch from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, that even a devastating pandemic is no distraction from it. In fact, amid the nation’s chaotic battle against COVID-19, the Centre has been rushing ahead, ignoring pleas to pause it for further deliberations. The plan is also to construct a new Parliament building by March 2022 and a common central secretariat by March 2024 along with new residences for the Prime Minister and the Vice President near South and North Blocks which will be repurposed as museums. There will be a new building for the PMO. A draft master plan by a private firm contracted by the government has proposed a triangular-shaped Parliament building next to the existing heritage structure, and office buildings all along Rajpath, after demolishing existing buildings. Till date, the government has not publicly stated the project’s estimated cost. The construction of the new parliament building, according to the CPWD application for environmental clearance for the project on March 12, is estimated to cost Rs. 922 crore. The Centre has given a range of reasons behind the redevelopment plan, from the structural safety of the Parliament building and the North and South Blocks, which came up between 1911 and 1931, and once delimitation is done and the number of seats increase, to the need for more space to seat MPs and office space for all of them. For the post-Independence buildings such as Shastri Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan, it has cited the need for modern workspaces. The decision on redevelopment was taken in a hurry and without adequate consultations. The utility of such a massive redevelopment is not easily defendable but the Modi government is evidently eager to recondition the capital’s landscape as its monumental legacy. The Opposition, environmentalists, architects and citizens have raised a range of concerns even before the pandemic brought in additional issues. But far from pausing, several key approvals for the proposed Parliament building have been pushed during the lockdown, leading to allegations of a lack of transparency. Independent expert members of the Central Vista Committee could not attend the meeting where it was passed without much discussion, as per the minutes of the meeting. The process for change of land use by the Delhi Development Authority was completed just before the lockdown began on March 25. Activists and architects have questioned the lack of studies to ascertain the need for the project and its impact on the environment, traffic and pollution. There were enough reasons to be circumspect about this grand idea from the very beginning. In the situation created by the pandemic, it must be deferred and the idea revisited later.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Back to the helm after six years||Mrs. Sirimavo Bandaranaike, who has been sworn in as Prime Minister of Ceylon, by what should be rightly described as an avalanche of mass support, is the creator of history in more than one respect. Born on April 17, 1916, and entering the political arena soon after the death of her husband, Mr. Solomon Dias Bandaranaike in 1960, completely untutored in politics, she became the world’s first woman Prime Minister. Visiting Bangalore in December in the same year she addressed a travel agency reception and expressed the hope that India too would elect a woman as Prime Minister after Nehru. During her four-year tenure of office from 1960 to 1964, she had visited most world capitals and had met such diverse personalities as Nehru and Kennedy, Nasser and Khrushchev, Macmillan and Mountbatten, Tito and Chou En-lai, who were impressed by her simplicity. In her anxiety to solve once and for all the problems of a million people of Indian origin in Ceylon she visited New Delhi in October 1964 and negotiated with Mr. Lal Bahadur Shastri on the various issues involved. She was successful in persuading India to agree to take back 525,000 stateless people, while at the same time committing her Government to grant Ceylon citizenship to 300,000 persons.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Electronics incentive schemes launched||Telecom and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Tuesday launched three incentive schemes with a total outlay of about Rs. 48,000 crore to boost large-scale manufacturing of electronics in the country. Approved in March The three schemes — Production Linked Incentive (outlay of nearly Rs. 41,000 crore), Component Manufacturing Scheme (about Rs. 3,300 crore) and Modified Electronics Manufacturing Clusters (about Rs. 3,800 crore) — were approved by the Union Cabinet in March this year, however, the government began inviting the applications under these schemes Tuesday onwards. Under the Production Linked Incentive (PLI), which is targeted at mobile phone manufacturing and specified electronic components, the government initially plans to incentivise 10 firms — five global and five local. “Globally 5-6 companies control 80% of the mobile market. We initially plan to pick up five global champions who will be permitted to participate under PLI. We also want to make national champions, so we will incentivise five Indian companies as well,” Mr. Prasad said. He, however, clarified that these firms will be selected as per the guidelines of the scheme. “There are norms in the guidelines, such as the company’s turnover, the quality and rate of their mobiles, etc. There is a proper transparent system in place... the selection norms will be followed,” the Minister said.  ‘Modest success’ Stating that India had been able to achieve “modest success” in electronics manufacturing, Mr. Prasad said that India had emerged as the second largest mobile manufacturer of the world. “In 2014-15, the value of mobiles produced was Rs. 18,992 crore with six crore units. This increased to Rs. 1.7 lakh crore in value and 30 crore in terms of units in 2018-19,” he said. With the three new schemes, the government aims to manufacture electronics worth Rs. 8 lakh crore, while generating employment for about 10 lakh people in the next five years, as per a presentation made by IT Secretary Ajay Sawhney. “This is a step towards self-reliant India. A self-reliant India is not an India of isolation. It is not an inward looking India. It is one which enhances its capacity and develops an ecosystem as an asset to the global economy... Make in India is only for India...a self reliant, resurgent and robust India. It is not against any country,” Mr. Prasad said.
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||Moody’s downgrades 11 banks||Ratings agency Moody’s has taken rating action on 11 banks as well as 11 companies, a day after it downgraded India’s sovereign rating to Baa3 from Baa2. Among banks, Moody’s has downgraded the long-term local and foreign currency deposit ratings of HDFC Bank and State Bank of India to Baa3 from Baa2, and the long-term issuer rating of EXIM India to Baa3 from Baa2, while maintaining ‘negative’ outlook. HDFC Bank’s Baseline Credit Assessment (BCA) has been downgraded to Baa3 from Baa2. In the case of SBI, Moody’s expects its asset quality and profitability to weaken, which could hurt its capitalisation. Punjab National Bank’s ratings were affirmed at Ba1 and its baseline credit assessment at b1. The rating outlook of PNB is changed to ‘stable’ from ‘positive’. Moody’s has placed Bank of Baroda, Bank of India, Canara Bank and Union Bank of India’s baseline credit assessment under review for downgrade. In the case of Central Bank of India and Indian Overseas Bank, Moody’s has affirmed their long-term local and foreign currency deposit ratings at Ba2 and their BCAs at b2. The rating outlook of these issuers is maintained as ‘stable’. Oil firms get ‘negative’ Moody’s also downgraded the ratings of major Indian companies such as ONGC, HPCL, Oil India Limited, IOCL, BPCL, Petronet LNG Limited, TCS, and Infosys Limited to negative on Tuesday. In addition, Moody’s has affirmed the long-term issuer ratings of Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) to negative from stable. Infra firms take a knock The ratings agency also downgraded seven leading Indian infrastructure issuers by one notch. These include National Thermal Power Limited, NHPC Limited, National Highways Authority of India, Power Grid Corporation of India Limited, Gail (India) Limited, Adani Green Energy and Adani Transmission.
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||Uday Kotak sells 2.9% stake in bank||Uday Kotak, promoter of Kotak Mahindra Bank, sold 56 million shares in the secondary market on Tuesday, which was subscribed to by more than 100 investors, for Rs. 6,900 crore. Kotak Mahindra Bank had hammered a deal with the RBI in January to dilute promoter stake to 26% within six months from the date of the final approval from the banking regulator. Prior to today’s transaction, Mr. Kotak had 29.63% share in the bank, while the promoter group had 29.89% stake. According to the bulk deal data of BSE, 56 million shares, or 2.93%, was sold by Mr. Kotak to 130 investors at Rs. 1,240 per share. The total value of the sale is around Rs. 6,900 crore. Some of the investors were The Regiments of the University of California (Rs. 680.75 crore), Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund (Rs. 662.92 crore), JP Morgan Securities (Rs. 506.91 crore), SBI Mutual Fund (Rs. 408.46 crore), Aditya Birla Sunlife Mutual Fund (Rs. 385.77 crore), Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (Rs. 378.33 crore), among others. Mr. Kotak’s voting rights have been capped at 15% wth effect from April 1, 2020, despite his actual shareholding being higher, as per the agreement with RBI. Shares of Kotak Mahindra Bank ended 7.5% higher at BSE to close the day at Rs. 1,343.20 a piece. Separately, at a Confederation of Indian Industry event, Mr. Kotak said the Indian banking sector would need Rs. 3 lakh crore to Rs. 4 lakh crore capital to absorb losses. “The total banking sector loans to the real world is about Rs. 100 lakh crore. Total banking sector capital today is Rs. 11-12 lakh crore. Still Rs. 3 lakh crore of losses the banking sector has to pay,” Mr. Kotak said.
03 June 2020||COIMBATORE,||ISMA lowers sugar production estimate, June sales may rise||Sugar production in the country during the current sugar season (October 2019 to September 2020) is expected to be 270 lakh tonnes, which will be about 60 lakh tonnes less than the previous season. In a statement on Tuesday, the Indian Sugar Mills’ Association said mills had so far produced 268.21 lakh tonnes of sugar between October and May. This is 59.32 lakh tonnes lesser than that produced during the same period last sugar season. The Association earlier estimated the current season production to be 265 lakh tonnes. However, the gur and khandsari manufacturers, mainly in U.P., stopped operations early because of the lockdown and a substantial quantity of sugarcane was diverted to the sugar mills. Hence, mills are expected to produce another 5-6 six lakh tonnes of sugar, taking the total estimate to 270 lakh tonnes. This will still be about 60 lakh tonnes lower compared to the 2018-2019 season. In sales, while sugar mills in the north have sold the sugar as per the monthly quotas given for May (17 lakh tonnes), those in the west and south have a small quantity of unsold quota. The Centre has extended the sale time for the May quota and fixed 18.5 lakh tonnes as the quota for June. With relaxations in lockdown, demand for sugar is picking up and is expected to rise this month. “Along with the summer demand, sugar mills may be able to sell the entire June quota, along with the carry forward from May,” the Association said. Total sales in the domestic market this season is likely to be about 25.5 lakh tonnes, or about five lakh tonnes less than last year. The closing balance at the end of current season, earlier estimated to be about 100 lakh tonnes, may be higher at about 115 lakh tonnes.
03 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Palaniappan regains control of Kumudam||A. Jawahar Palaniappan, son of Kumudam Publications founder SAP. Annamalai Chettiar, has won a major legal battle with the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) declaring as illegal, invalid and non est in law the arbitrary cancellation of 3,32,640 equity shares held by him in Kumudam Publications Pvt. Ltd. (KPPL). The tribunal held the cancellation of the shares, at a board meeting conducted at the behest of another director in the the company P. Varadarajan on September 20, 2011, was a clear violation of Mr. Palaniappan’s rights. Company directors The NCLT also declared as illegal a form filed by Mr. Varadarajan with the Registrar of Companies intimating the cessation of Mr. Palaniappan and his mother A. Kothai as directors of the company from January 2, 2012. Such action “is considered as oppressive to the interest of the majority shareholders and to the company itself,” the NCLT said. Accepting a plea made by Mr. Palaniappan, the NCLT also ordered deletion of three amendments made to the articles of association after Ms. Kothai resigned as MD due to old age in July 2002 and Mr. Varadarajan, son of former company secretary P.V. Parthasarathy, succeeded her. The amendments stated that Imprint Tech India Pvt. Ltd., belonging to Mr. Varadarajan and his family members, would be entitled to nominate two directors to KPPL’s board and that they shall not be liable to retire by rotation. They also stated if one of those nominees happened to be Mr. Varadarajan, he would occupy the post of chairman. Further, the amendments went on to give Mr. Varadarajan the privilege of also being the MD of KPPL as long as he was one of the directors and that he shall be entitled to receive remuneration up to 11% of the net profit of the company apart from the monthly remuneration fixed by the board for serving as the MD. Though it was argued the amendments were made with the full knowledge of Mr. Palaniappan and his mother, the tribunal said, it was done because of mutual trust and confidence. However, the differences of opinion began to surface only in December 2008 when Mr. Varadarajan’s remuneration showed an increase of 88% though the company had suffered losses. Voted against accounts Since then, Mr. Palaniappan and his mother voted against approving the accounts. Consequently, they could not participate in the affairs of the company in an effective manner, despite being majority shareholders (over 66%), since the extraordinary general meetings and annual general meetings of the company were not conducted from 2010, the NCLT said. To restore normalcy, NCLT permitted the mother-son duo to appoint two more directors in proportion to their shareholding in the company and appointed K.K. Balu, former vice-chairman of the Company Law Board, as the chairman of KPPL for a period of six months to conduct the affairs of the company.
03 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Indices shrug off India rating downgrade||Equity indices shrugged off concerns related to India’s rating downgrade and rose for the fifth straight session on Tuesday as banking and financial stocks once again witnessed huge buying interest. The 30-share Sensex gained 522.01 points, or 1.57%, to close at 33,825.53. As many as 24 stocks in the Sensex pack gained ground with lenders such as Bajaj Finance, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Indusind Bank, HDFC, Axis Bank and ICICI Bank being among the top gainers of the day. In the broader market, more than 1,700 stocks rose on Tuesday as against only around 725 declines. The 50-share Nifty settled the day at 9,979.10, gaining 152.95 points, or 1.56%. Further, the India VIX index fell nearly 2.5% on Tuesday. Market participants attributed Tuesday’s rally to a positive trend in the global markets, good monsoon prediction, phased easing of the lockdown and the government’s reassurance to revive growth. Meanwhile, foreign investors continued to maintain their buying spree with Tuesday’s net buying pegged at Rs. 1,575.46 crore while their domestic counterparts net wild shares worth Rs. 459.25 crore. Elsewhere in Asia, the benchmarks of Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Indonesia, China, Phillipines and Singapore all gained ground in Tuesday.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Natural rubber sector on a sticky wicket||The market recovery of India’s natural rubber sector will fully depend on how the economy is going to rebound in the next three quarters, according to the Rubber Board. ‘The market situation is very fluid now with consumption of natural rubber falling drastically. The price and market recovery of the commodity rely on how quickly the market is going to rebound, which any way is going to take next say 3 quarters,” Rubber Board executive director K.N. Raghavan told The Hindu.  The total requirement of domestic tyre manufacturers for natural rubber is expected to fall to 9 lakh metric tonnes this fiscal from last year’s 11.4 lakh MTs. In this context, there’s no need for the country to import rubber, he pointed out. With COVID-19 severely impacting the operations of the automotive sector and related industries, the natural rubber requirement of tyre companies is likely to fall to 9 lakh MTs this year, although automotive and tyre companies predict even lower consumption, which means the net gap between production and demand will be only 2 lakh MTs this year. Also, the industry has a carry forward stock of 3.5 lakh MTs and therefore India need not import any rubber this year, said an official in charge of production data at the Rubber Board. According to the Board’s statistics, the country produced 7.10 lakh MTs of natural rubber during fiscal 2019-20, as against the previous year’s production of 6.53 lakh MTs. Some 70% of this produce is consumed by the tyre industry, while the rest goes into the non-tyre sector such as rubber bands, tubes and footwear. The Rubber Board has reported a production loss of 65,000 metric tonnes in April and May.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indigo records Rs. 870 cr. loss on travel curbs||IndiGo, the country’s largest airline, recorded a loss of Rs. 870 crore in the final quarter of financial year 2020, as compared to a profit of Rs. 595 crore during the same period last year as travel restrictions kicked in from January and grounded hundreds of flights in the country. The survival strategy for the airline during the pandemic will involve “managing cash and liquidity,” IndiGo’s CEO Ronojoy Dutta said in an earnings call. Among the key steps will be to return its 120 A320ceo aircraft and replace them with newer A320neo planes to save maintenance costs on the old variant. “120 CEOs in our fleet will be going out in the next two years and the rate at which they go out is up to us depending on how the revenue revives. We are in active discussion with Airbus, we will take a large number,” the CEO said.
03 June 2020||Chennai,||35% MSMEs shutting shop, says AIMO||The mass destruction of business has begun with over 35% of MSMEs and 37% of self-employed persons shutting down their operations despite the financial packages announced by the Centre, said All India Manufacturers Organisation (AIMO). These were the findings a survey initiated by AIMO. “We received about 46,525 responses for our survey. The most striking aspect was that 35% of MSMEs and 37% of the self- employed respondents said that they see no chance of recovery in their business and have begun shutting down their operations,” said K.E. Raghunathan, immediate past president, AIMO.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Mercedes-Benz India adds two variants to GLE SUV lineup||Mercedes-Benz India has added two new, top-end variants to its popular GLE sports utility vehicle (SUV) portfolio. The newly- launched top-end GLE 450 4MATIC LWB in petrol and 400 d 4MATIC LWB in diesel are priced at Rs. 88.80 lakh and Rs. 89.90 lakh respectively (all prices ex-showroom, India, except Kerala) respectively.  Martin Schwenk, MD & CEO, Mercedes-Benz India said, “We are very satisfied with the customer response.”
03 June 2020||Chennai,||Ashok Leyland sales drop||Ashok Leyland has reported an 89% drop in its total sales volume for May 2020, following the suspension of operations across its factories as a part of nationwide lockdown to contain COVID-19. However, the company resumed operations during the first week of May 2020. The flagship company of the Hinduja Group sold 1,420 vehicles in the domestic and international markets during the month against the 13,172 units sold during May 2019.
03 June 2020||Chennai,||EID Open market sale||EID Parry Ltd. has sold 58.50 lakh equity shares of Coromandel International Ltd. for a total sum of Rs. 368 crore to bring down its debt. The firm sold these shares in an open market transaction at Rs. 629.19 a share, the company said in a filing. Post the sale, EID Parry holds 17.13 lakh shares of Rs. 1 each, representing 58.48% of the paid-up capital of Coromandel. The proceeds of sale will be used to bring down the debt of the company, EID Parry said.
03 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Shuttlers back on court||After a long absence from the badminton court forced by the coronavirus pandemic, Ajay Jayaram, Tanvi Lad and a few Karnataka players returned to training here. The shuttlers were pleased to put in work at the KBA Academy, alongside head coach and Olympian Anup Sridhar. Precautionary measures like distancing, regular use of disinfectants, and temperature checks were in place. Only singles action was permitted, to ensure that proper distancing was maintained. Tanvi and Sridhar stated that wearing masks was not possible, given that badminton is a physically exerting sport. Tanvi, the 2019 Croatian International runner-up, said, “It’s great to be back after a gap of two months. We did a lot of fitness training during the lockdown — through online sessions with Sridhar. This ensured that our physical fitness did not suffer.” Taking it slow Sridhar explained that since the players are a bit rusty, it is best to take things slow. “The immediate goal is to gradually get the players back to full fitness. The ankles, back and shoulders will be sensitive now due to the long layoff, and therefore prone to injury,” Sridhar said, adding that it will take at least two months for players to become match fit. As is the case with several professional sports, the road ahead in terms of tournament action remains uncertain. As per the calendar released by the Badminton World Federation (BWF), international tournaments resume in mid-August, but it remains to be seen if the current travel restrictions and other logistical hurdles will be removed in time. Only a thin line separates staying safe and losing one’s livelihood. “We have to wait and watch before taking a call on international tournament entries. However, top-level players like Jayaram and Tanvi cannot avoid international tournaments for a long period of time. It will adversely affect their ranking and earnings,” Sridhar said.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Still chasing her dream||It has been two decades since weightlifter Karnam Malleswari clinched a historic bronze in Sydney to become the first Indian woman athlete to win an Olympic medal. The two-time World champion is still chasing a dream — to set up a weightlifting academy in her home State of Andhra Pradesh — eight years after she quit the sport. The 45-year-old Malleswari says despite her best efforts over the past few years, she is not receiving the kind of support expected for her academy plans. Exact reasons not known “I don’t know the exact reasons. Somehow, things never really moved in the right direction. Some time ago, I undertook an extensive tour of the North-Coastal Andhra belt (Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam), which has a lot of weightlifting talent. “I even identified some of the best young prospects. But, no further progress was possible in realising my dream,” Malleswari told The Hindu from her home in Yamunanagar, Haryana. “Young talent needs support on all fronts and that’s why I am keen to set up an academy in Andhra and produce Olympic medallists.” The champion, who had already started an academy in Yamunanagar three years ago, said: “I will be meeting Andhra Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to brief him about my plans and I am hopeful of a positive response this time around. Psychological support “During the lockdown, athletes need psychological support to avoid mental fatigue and have to be positive. Individual training will be an integral part of any programme henceforth, given the COVID-19 guidelines.” Malleswari added: “The training methods are bound to change. Earlier, at least four to five used to train on one set. Now, only one can be allowed. But again this should not be an issue.” On the making of a multilingual biopic on her illustrious career, Malleswari said she will not act in the film but hopes it will be an inspiration for all boys and girls, especially in remote villages.  I will be meeting Andhra CM Jagan Mohan Reddy to brief him about my plans and I am hopeful of a positive response this time around
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The link between Gavaskar and Tendulkar||In sport, being able to do what needs to be done shows character; knowing how to do it calls for technique. If a player has a less-than-perfect technique, he can often make up for it with strength of character, but the finest technique in the world cannot be a substitute for what coaches call ‘heart’. When the going gets tough, to borrow a cliché, the tough get going. As a schoolboy, I was often told by older fans: As long as Sunil Gavaskar is at the crease, there is hope for India. Not necessarily the hope of winning, but of escaping with a draw at least. Different generations have their own bulwarks: Vijay Hazare, and later, Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid. Not surprisingly, to a popular question on the social media recently — who will you pick to bat for your life? — the answer has been one of these players, depending on the vintage of the person responding. Stars of the decades Hazare retired in the 1950s, and Gavaskar made his debut in 1970, which implies that for a whole generation, there was no similar figure in the Indian team. The 60s was the decade of the dashers, the Tiger Pataudis, Engineers, Kunderans, Jaisimhas, and Durranis. A possible candidate for hope-provider might have been Vijay Manjrekar, but he belonged to the 50s, and retired halfway through the 60s, the decade India were whitewashed in England, Australia and the West Indies. The man whose career overlapped Gavaskar’s and Tendulkar’s, Dilip Vengsarkar, had a heart as big as any who played for India. He was the link between the two, ensuring continuity of the Mumbai school where batsmen placed a high premium on their wickets. They loved to occupy the crease. The occasional outlier was quickly spoken to by the elders. What a start! Yet, it was a swashbuckling century that elevated Vengsarkar into the Indian team. In the Irani Trophy at Nagpur he hit a spate of sixes against Bishan Bedi and Erapalli Prasanna. Something of the upright, straight-hitting batsman’s manner rekindled memories of that other six-hitter Colonel C.K. Nayudu. The then 19-year-old was dubbed ‘Colonel’, a nickname he didn’t particularly like. Those expecting Vengsarkar to continue in international cricket as he had begun in the domestic failed to take into account that he played for the same club as Gavaskar, and a long line of hereditary breach-fixers. In Vengsarkar’s first Test, Gavaskar made a century, and in his final one, Tendulkar did so. But Vengsarkar was more than a supporting act, and in one sequence in the 1980s, made 1668 runs at an average of 104 (eight centuries, including the last of his three at Lord’s) and earned his spot as ICC’s No. 1 batsman in the world. He played 94 Tests alongside Gavaskar, a Dravid to the opening batsman’s Tendulkar and just as crucial to the eleven. Taking on the Windies pacers His six centuries against the fearsome West Indies fast bowlers at their peak were second only to Gavaskar’s. In the final Test there during the 1983 tour, he made 94, and yet in the home series against Pakistan which followed he was dropped for the first Test. Vengsarkar and I watched that match together in Bengaluru; he was upset, but knew he would be back for the next series, against the West Indies with Malcolm Marshall, Michael Holding, Winston Davis. “When the big boys come, I will be picked again,” he said. He was right. He made two centuries in the series. Vengsarkar was an automatic choice against the big boys, but often had to make way for flat-track bullies in lesser home series. There was an elegance about his batting, his driving on the on-side inviting comparison with Greg Chappell at his best; he could pull and hook too, and occasionally took the ball on his body if the alternative was playing it near the close-in fielders. In his peak season, he made an amazing 166 on a track in Cuttack which had been accidentally over-watered. Only one other batsman made a fifty in the match. In the latter part of the 1980s, as Gavaskar’s career wound down, Vengsarkar was the hope-provider in the Indian team. Centuries at Lord’s and Leeds gave India their first series win in England 15 years after the summer of 1971. Technical acumen All his centuries abroad came in England where he was initially expected to cause worry because of his occasional manner of squaring up to the medium pacer. But he played the ball late, his stillness in stance merely preparation for the spring to follow. It was a fine lesson in control, and allowed him the luxury of time and timing. The generation that followed pushed Vengsarkar’s heroics into the background. But he would have walked into that middle-order too. You could pick him to bat for your life.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Don’t hamper fitness training’||The overwhelming flow of knowledge during lockdown seems to have changed the cliché ‘catch them young’ to ‘teach them young’. Coach Devinder Singh Bhusari of the Shaishyaa Academy in Ahmedabad enumerated tennis-specific methods in a discussion with Priyanka Dalal, an entrepreneur and director of High5 Sports. Devinder said greater knowledge would help players and parents make better decisions. “We fall short in the physical aspect.” The reason juniors are unable to make a smooth transition to the professional circuit, Devinder said, was due to a lack of focus on building a strong body — with strength, endurance, speed, agility, coordination, flexibility, balance and dexterity. “Most of the components depend on your strength,” said Priyanka. “We work with kids from six years of age to senior citizens. We start with bodyweight exercises. But the body adapts quickly. Then we use resistance bands and light weights.” Priyanka stressed that strength-training was the key to preventing injuries, sounding a note of warning that the right technique was important, as the effort may lead to injuries if not done properly. She also emphasised the importance of stretching — even if it was for 30 minutes on a Sunday, while watching TV — so as to make the body feel fresh and flexible. Devinder said players need to focus on developing their body and game at a young age, rather than constantly be on the move, competing in tournaments. “Novak Djokovic and Kim Clijsters are great examples of being highly flexible. If I try their splits, I may tear a muscle,” he said, explaining how dynamic balance helped in generating power from tough positions. The one advice both gave was to “keep training through tournaments and not hamper fitness training at any time, for any reason”.
03 June 2020||Kochi,||KFA gears up to resume action||After the long break due to the coronavirus pandemic, the Kerala Football Association (KFA) plans to get back to action with a series of futsal tournaments all over the State. The tournaments, first at the district-level and then at the State, are likely to begin in September. “Futsal offers the best solution in the post-COVID-19 situation because the total number of players required is only 10,” KFA general-secretary P. Anilkumar told The Hindu on Tuesday. “So, we will resume our activity with an open futsal tournament for all clubs and academies in the first stage, study the impact and the risks before we go to bigger things. “It will also offer some relief to people who have invested heavily on small grounds with artificial turf all over the State. They have been suffering heavy losses during the lockdown. We have more than 500 such grounds in Kerala, with nearly 180 in Kozhikode alone.” The futsal event, from under-10 to the senior-level, is likely to be a 45-day affair.  The players’ registration window, which was scheduled to open this month, will also be shifted to August. “It was supposed to be a two-month window (June-July), but now it will start on August 1 and run till October 31. That means we will start our activity by mid-September or October only,” said Anilkumar. “We expect the ISL to start by November or December.” Many qualifying events for the national league will also be conducted by State associations this time. “The AIFF will not organise a direct competition in the initial stage. And clubs which want to be a part of the Second Division National League, will have to play the Kerala League. There will not be any direct entries,” he said. “This will apply for the age-group leagues too. There will only be one league and winners and runners-up will go for the national league’s final round.”
03 June 2020||New Delhi,||Richards would have been a crowd-pleaser in T20: Ian Smith||Former New Zealand wicketkeeper Ian Smith reckons batting legend Vivian Richards would have been an absolute crowd-pleaser in T20 cricket with franchises willing to pay more money than all the current stars like Pat Cummins and Ben Stokes put together. The West Indian, who won the 1975 and 1979 World Cup, is regarded as the most destructive batsman of his era scoring 8540 runs in 121 Tests and 6721 in 187 ODIs before retiring in 1991. Superior strike-rate “I believe Richards would have made a go at cricket in any format in any decade. His strike-rate was superior to anyone else’s at that time; that is a T20 strike-rate without even having that game in his mind,” Smith said on ICC’s video series Inside Out.  “He would have been an absolute legend in T20 cricket. They would have paid more money than Pat Cummins, Ben Stokes and all other guys put together, to get Richards in their line-up, because it would put more spectators on the seats,” Smith said. “He would have been an absolute crowd-pleaser and television would have gone through the roof. I will sum it up by saying that whenever you sit down and pick the all-time World XI, he is always in mind.”
03 June 2020||Mumbai,||Buddy always ready to throw a punch||Senior citizens are supposed to stay indoors during the COVID-19 pandemic to protect themselves. Buddy D’Sousa, at 84, is following the rules during a short stay with his daughter in Dubai, though boxing can never be far away for the nine-time national champion. Buddy shot a video on shadow boxing with the footage showing him moving, weaving and jabbing in an imaginary ring, punching and defending against an imaginary opponent and leaving him a little short of breath towards the end. The first Indian boxer to win the Arjuna Award in 1961, Buddy was famous for uppercuts and knockouts. He is among many to submit a personal video to the India Shadow Boxing Challenge (ISBC) 2020 online contest. Indian citizens worldwide are invited to submit 30-second videos done indoors or outdoors, across age categories. The best videos received till June 15 will win prizes. The ISBC contest, modelled on the European Shadow Boxing Challenge, was launched on May 18, the champion’s 84th birthday, as a celebration for sport.  “I tried to do my part for boxing, encouraged by my children,” said the 1962 Asian Games bronze medallist. “I approached boxing with strict discipline, trained hard every day. No matter how good you are, without good training you will never reach the top.” The gruelling training done during his competitive days has kept him going till now. “I trained daily for three to four hours, ran 15 to 20km in the morning and worked out for three hours in the gym in the evening. Sparring was my favourite training as it would help you for the real competition.” The ISBC invite from Boxing Federation of India secretary-general Jay Kowli came as an opportunity to connect with the sport and link up with names from the past.
03 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Archer Jyothi Surekha nominated for Khel Ratna||Archer V. Jyothi Surekha has been recommended for the for the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award by the Government of Andhra Pradesh. The 24-year-old Surekha has been competing at the highest level for close to a decade and had won 33 international medals including nine gold, 13 silver and 11 bronze. Of these, seven are in World Cups, three in World championships and two each in Junior Worlds and the SAG. The State Government has also recommended the names of hockey player E. Rajani, roller-skaters R. Arun Kumar and Rokhaiyya Farheen Shaik and Priyan Tated for Arjuna Award, kabaddi and kho kho international P. Padmaja and badminton coach P.U. Bhaskar Babu for Dronacharya Award, Chinta Pratap Kumar (athletics) for Dhyanchand Award and Panchada Satyanarayana (roller skating) for Dronacharya Award.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rani Rampal, Manika in the race for Khel Ratna||Indian women’s team captain Rani Rampal would be in race for the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna after being nominated by Hockey India for the top award on Tuesday. If selected, Rani would become the first woman hockey player, and only the third from the sport, to get the prestigious award. The last hockey player to get it was Sardar Singh in 2017 while former captain and goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh lost out to Bajrang Punia last year. In table tennis, Manika Batra was recommended for the Khel Ratna. She became the toast of the nation when she won four medals, including two gold, at the 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games. Important decisions Meanwhile, the Sports Ministry took two important decisions on Tuesday. It decided to extend the last date for submission of applications from June 3, 2020, to June 22, 2020. The applications can be mailed to: spstomar@nic.in or vsingh71@gov.in . Due to the lockdown, the Ministry has decided to do away with the condition of submitting the applications only with the recommendations of the authorities/persons prescribed in the award scheme (amended as on 07.09.2018). The eligible sportspersons are now permitted to self-apply.  The nominations:   Athletics: Khel Ratna: Neeraj Chopra (javelin).   Badminton: Arjuna: R. Satwiksairaj, Chirag Shetty and Sameer Verma; Dronacharya: S. Muralidharan and Bhaskar Babu; Dhyan Chand: Pradeep Gandhe and Manjusha Kanwar.   Chess: Arjuna: Vidit Gujrathi, S.L. Narayanan and Mallika Handa (para); Dronacharya: Prasenjit Dutta.   Hockey: Khel Ratna: Rani Rampal; Arjuna: Monika, Vandana Katariya and Harmanpreet Singh; Dhyan Chand: R.P. Singh and Tushar Khandker; Dronacharya: B.J. Kariappa and Romesh Pathania.   Table tennis: Khel Ratna: Manika Batra; Arjuna: Madhurika Patkar, Sutirtha Mukherjee and Manav Thakkar; Dronacharya: Jayanta Pushilal and S. Raman.   Wrestling: Khel Ratna: Vinesh Phogat; Arjuna: Deepak Punia, Rahul Aware, Sakshi Malik, Sandeep Tomar and Naveen; Dhyan Chand: Jai Prakash, Anil Kumar, Dushyant Sharma and Mukesh Khatri; Dronacharya: Virender Kumar, Kuldeep Malik, O.P. Yadav and Sujit Mann.
03 June 2020||LONDON,||England confirms WI Tests||England will play three Tests at home against the West Indies in July, subject to clearance from the British government, the England and Wales Cricket Board announced on Tuesday. The first Test will be held at Hampshire’s Ageas Bowl ground from July 8 to 12. The second and third Tests are scheduled to be played at Old Trafford in Manchester (July 16-20 and July 24-28).
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nakamura takes lead||Favourite Hikaru Nakamura opened an intimidating 2-0 lead before completing a 2.5-1.5 victory over flamboyant Daniil Dubov in the first mini-match of the $150,000 Lindores Abbey Rapid Challenge final on Monday. Dubov now faces a must-win situation in the second mini-match to force the decider.  Final result (first mini-match): Hikaru Nakamura (USA) bt Daniil Dubov (Rus) 2.5-1.5 .
03 June 2020||LONDON,||F1 unveils eight-race card||Formula One is set for a series of firsts after publishing a revised eight-race schedule on Tuesday that will see Austria’s Spielberg and Britain’s Silverstone circuits each host two Grands Prix without spectators in July and August respectively. The first race of the year will be in Austria on July 5 with a second, designated the Grand Prix of Steiermark (Styria) after the region in which the Red Bull-owned circuit is located, a week later. It will be the first time a circuit has hosted two championship races in the same season, the first time a season has started in Austria and also the first time a race has been held behind closed doors. Full calendar soon “We are pleased to be able to set out our opening eight race calendar today and look forward to publishing our full calendar in the coming weeks,” said Formula One chairman Chase Carey in a statement. Formula One is hoping to host between 15 and 18 races with the season ending in Abu Dhabi in December after also racing in Bahrain. “The health and safety of all involved will continue to be priority number one, with Formula One and the FIA having a robust and detailed plan to ensure our races maintain the highest level of safety with strict procedures in place,” Formula One said.  Revised F1 calendar: July 3-5: Austrian GP (Spielberg); July 10-12: GP of Steiermark (Spielberg); July 17-19: Hungarian GP (Budapest); July 31-Aug. 2: British GP (Silverstone); Aug. 7-9: 70th Anniversary GP (Silverstone); Aug. 14-16: Spanish GP (Barcelona); Aug. 28-30: Belgian GP (Spa-Francorchamps); Sept. 4-6: Italian GP (Monza) .
03 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||ACEP programme launched||The online Athletic Coach Education Programme (ACEP) for young talents, in the age group of eight to 14 years who are confined to their homes due to the lockdown, was launched at LNCPE, Kariyavattom, on Tuesday. Around 490 participants attended the programme, inaugurated by AFI high-performance director Volker Herrmann via video-conference. Dr. G. Kishore, the principal and director of SAI LNCPE region, welcomed the gathering. Radhakrishnan, deputy chief coach of AFI, and Olympian Jincy Philip were among the speakers. There was also a live demonstration of training programme in which the SAI trainees took part.
03 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Diptayan triumphs||GM Diptayan Ghosh won the main category title of the Play2Help online chess tournament, organised to raise funds for PM Cares Fund by V. Raghav Srivathsav.  Final placings: Main category: 1. Diptayan Ghosh, 2. Aravind Chithambaram, 3. R.R. Laxman, 4. Dusan Popovic, 5. Senthil Maran. Best players: Women: Sai Srija; Below ELO 2000: Nirnay Garg; Below ELO 1600: Sairaj Dilip.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||FIH tweaks World Cup qualification process||The International Hockey Federation’s Executive Board on Tuesday issued the fresh qualification process to finalise teams for the 2022 women’s and 2023 men’s World Cups.  Revised continental quotas: Women: Africa 1, Asia 2, Europe 4 (including hosts Holland and Spain), Oceania 2, PanAm 2.   Men: Africa 1, Asia 3 (including hosts India), Europe 4, Oceania 2, PanAm 1 .
03 June 2020||BERLIN,||Leipzig back in CL reckoning||RB Leipzig returned to third place in the Bundesliga with a 4-2 victory at Cologne on Monday. The team climbed back above Borussia M’Gladbach and Bayer Leverkusen in the hunt for a Champions League place.  The result: Cologne 2 (Cordoba 7, Modeste 55) lost to RB Leipzig 4 (Schick 20, Nkunku 38, Werner 50, Olmo 57).
03 June 2020||Pune,||Now, more light on sun’s coronal heating puzzle||A group of scientists working at the Pune-based National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA) have recently discovered tiny flashes of radio light emanating from all over the sun, which they say could help in explaining the long-pending coronal heating problem. “These radio lights or signals result from beams of electrons accelerated in the aftermath of a magnetic explosion on the sun. While we have not seen the magnetic explosions, these weak radio flashes that we have discovered are ‘smoking guns’ or the evidence for the same and hence bring us closer to explaining the coronal heating problem,” said Professor Divya Oberai, faculty member at the NCRA, who directed the research. Professor Oberoi said that these observations were the strongest evidence till date that the tiny magnetic explosions, originally referred to as ‘nanoflares’ by eminent American solar astrophysicist Eugene Parker, can indeed be heating up the corona (the aura of plasma that surrounds the sun and other stars). He said that while the phenomenon of coronal heating has been known for the last 70 years, the availability of cutting edge data from the Murchison Widefield Array (MWA) radio telescope proved to be a game-changer. “With this work, we have the strongest evidence till date of these magnetic explosions or ‘nanoflares’ as called by Prof. Parker in a theory he put forth in 1988. Our discoveries were greatly facilitated by availability of data from the MWA and our work at the NCRA,” Prof. Oberoi said. The research on this was carried out by Surajit Mondal, a Ph.D. student at NCRA working under the Prof. Oberoi’s supervision, along with Dr. Atul Mohan, a former student of his at the NCRA, who is presently based at the Rosseland Centre for Solar Physics in Norway. “The strength of the magnetic fields varies a lot from one place on the surface of the Sun to another, by more than a factor of 1,000. But the corona is hot everywhere. So, this heating process has to work all over the corona, even in regions of weak magnetic fields. Until now, the process of how this magnetic energy is deposited in the corona had remained a mystery. Now, our observations can bring us closer to solving this,” he said. The three scientists have jointly written a paper on their discoveries titled ‘First Radio Evidence for Impulsive Heating Contribution to the Quiet Solar Corona’, which was published on Tuesday in Astrophysical Journal Letters .
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 07:16 IST,||Sudoku - June 3, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||An atavistic nod to letters||Sofia Bohdanowicz and Deragh Campbell’s MS Slavic 7 speaks of ‘objecthood’ of letters. The millennial Canadian protagonist, Audrey (Campbell) is obsessed with the concept, after she discovers a repertoire of letters at Harvard University’s Houghton Library, written by Polish-Canadian poet Zofia Bohdanowiczowa (who we discover is Audrey’s great-grandmother) to another Polish poet, Józef Wittlin, both World War II refugees from Poland to North America. Their correspondence lasted between 1957 and 1964 over 25 letters. Audrey’s insistence that the medium of the written word, the sheer object itself, which travels across oceans, has as much weightage as the content it carries, if not more. The film highlights her fascination with this school of thought by giving these letters a visual pedestal, so much so that the filmmakers provide the letters with their own subtitles, even when no words are being spoken. You can only hear Johann Sebastian Bach’s baroque compositions in the background, lending these scenes an immersive and atavistic texture. What is amusing, though, is Audrey’s archetypal ‘faux intellectual millennial’ personality, with deadpan looks, in search of meaning and depth to life. She seemingly has a comfortable and sheltered life, as gleaned from the hotel room she checks into and later, a grand family reunion. With an ancestral history of post-war migration, Audrey has not much to complain about, as life stands today, perhaps like many third or fourth generation World War II refugees, who migrated to North America. As she doggedly archives and claims custody of her great-grandmother’s letters, studies and discusses them over pensive, beer-fuelled conversations, we see a quintessential millennial life in the global North today, in search of meaning in a tumultuous familial past. This pursuit for purpose is most evocative in a scene where Audrey has a tiff with her aunt, Ania Bohdanowicz (Elizabeth Rucker), while arguing over the possession of her great grandmother’s literary estate. At first, Ania dismisses Audrey’s obsession as a hobby but as the demand persists, she blurts out, “So are you trying to make a business out of our family history?”. An offended Audrey (perhaps emoting for the first time in the film) shoots back, “Am I a hobbyist or an evil capitalist? I don’t even know what you are accusing me of.” This accusation and confused retaliation speaks volumes about Audrey, and symbolically, the film. At the core of this film, which had its world premiere at Berlinale Forum last year, is just an unfulfilled young girl, trying to ‘intellectualise’ the world around her. It's evident in the title, which sounds technical and detached from anything remotely sentimental. We discover that it is merely the nomenclature for the section where you would find those letters at the Harvard library. Despite its verbosity, an epistolary approach, a triptych narrative, and cloaking itself with clean and neat artsy aesthetics, the film has little to say about the past or the idea of post-memory. Perhaps the filmmakers do not intend to, either. There are mentions of the Holocaust memorial in Berlin (and a rather amusing mugging incident attached to it) and ‘tears of Israel’ in poetry. The concept, on paper, is ambitious and covers a wide historic canvas but the film limits itself to a rather surface approach in what it wants to say. What we are served is an hour-long film, which is meditative, engaging and witty but hollow at the same time — almost as if the film is in search of deeper meaning, much like Audrey. MS Slavic 7 will stream on Mubi India from June 4
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Films are about visualising the script, seeing magic in scenes’||Shaan Vyas, who makes his directorial debut with the short Natkhat , feels that the normalisation of misogyny and systematic humiliation and degradation of women is an omnipresent reality. Natkhat is Vyas’s debut film, even though he’s directed an as-yet-unseen experimental short. It’s an interesting jump for Vyas. He’s moved to direction from being a producer of such films as Kshay , The Lunchbox and Masaan . Normally people become directors through two routes—film schools or assisting established names. “I never took either of the two trajectories,” says Vyas. For him, it wasn’t a bottom to top vertical; more a horizontal shift and reinvention. On the job Vyas confesses getting into the business of filmmaking with no clear goal in mind. “I just went with the flow and kept learning on the way,” he says. He wasn’t even sure initially that he wanted to be a director. “I had these ideas in my head. I wanted to be a storyteller,” he says. He got to learn writing scripts by reading others’ works and a hobby grew and developed into something bigger over time. “I learnt experientially on the sets, by observing the directors,” he reminisces.  Natkhat ’s world premiere at the online, We Are One: A Global Film Festival, on June 2 also marked almost a year to the start of the short film’s shooting. The film was wrapped up in two schedules—in a small town of Harda in Madhya Pradesh with the interior portions shot in Mumbai. The way Vyas sees it, most of a director’s work happens much before the shoot; it’s the prep and the pre-production than what happens between the ‘action’ and the ‘cut’ on the set or the location. “It is about visualising the script, seeing the magic in the scenes. You then bring out the best in people. It’s auto-pilot on the set,” he says. No wonder then, it’s the time, energy and work that Vyas put in along with his co-writer Annukampa Harsh that still gives him the high. “If my initial writing was the body of the work, Annukampa embellished it with a soul,” he emphasises.  Rooted in reality The idea came to him from very well-known recent incidents of violence against women and the extreme misogyny around us in general. “Like everyone else, I had this huge fit of anger. For every two cases reported, many go unrecorded. What has been our way to fix these? Palliative reforms and counselling for the victims. What about curative measures?” he asks. He takes the curse of patriarchy back to the environment one grows up in and parenting, proposing that gender equality can be nurtured over generations and years by educating kids when their minds are like sponges, ever willing to absorb. By displaying that, Natkhat also disturbs its audience. The crude, ugly scenario, the corruption of the minds of cute kids is not easy to digest, and would be difficult to accept for many. But Vyas feels that the systematic humiliation and degradation of women happens everywhere; it is not just a hinterland reality but is present round us in cities too, something that he witnessed while growing up. What saved the day for him was his family and parents. As does Vidya Balan, in a pivotal role in her first foray into the world of short films. She is a woman with no name. She is Sonu's mother. But she is the voice, in the film and of women in general. “She is a strong voice when it comes to women’s issues,” asserts Vyas, on how Balan’s presence helped in strengthening the film. While Natkhat ’s cast, includes professional actors in small key roles, like Atul Tiwari as Balan’s father-in-law, Raj Arjun as her husband and Sparsh Srivastava as brother-in-law, 90% of the cast—including Sonu—comprises of non-actors who went through a workshop for training before facing the camera. Vyas faced mental conflict and apprehension in casting the child. “We were making the child actor do things that the film actually says that they should not be doing. I was wondering how we could undo the impact of it from his mind,” he shares. It helped that they cast a girl — Sanika Patel — in the key role of the boy. The film’s team kept telling her through the shoot, that she should not allow boys to do this to her or to other girls, hoping that the message made its impact on her.
03 June 2020||New Delhi,||Jessica Lal murder convict Manu Sharma walks out of jail||Siddharth Vashisht, better known as Manu Sharma, who was serving a life sentence in the 1999 Jessica Lal murder case, was released from Tihar jail here on Monday. Sharma was convicted in 2006 for shooting model Jessica Lal after she refused to serve him a drink on April 30, 1999, at a party in south Delhi. The Home Department of the Delhi government ordered the release of 19 convicts, including Sharma, on the recommendation of the Sentence Review Board (SRB). According to Sandeep Goel, Director-General of Tihar Prisons, Sharma was released on Monday evening. His term was till May 6, 2023. Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal’s office said Sharma had undergone imprisonment of 16 years, 11 months and 24 days. The recommendations of the SRB were approved by the L-G. According to Raj Niwas, the L-G had concurred with the recommendations of the SRB on May 21, 2020, as approved by Delhi Home Minister Satyendar Jain to “release 19 prisoners, including Siddharth Vashisht @ Manu Sharma as covered under the guidelines, provisions of CrPC and extant Prison Rules”. According to the Home Department’s order in this regard, only one of the 19 life convicts whose release was ordered had served their full sentence. Of the remaining life convicts, as many as 14 were to serve their respective sentences till 2026 and one each till 2024, 2025 and 2027. Consideration eligibility According to Raj Niwas, the SRB guidelines state that every convicted prisoner, undergoing sentence of imprisonment, “shall be eligible for consideration for premature release from jail after serving 14 years of actual imprisonment. It is, however, stated in the guidelines that a total period of incarceration, including remission in these cases shall ordinarily not exceed 20 years”. “The case was evaluated by the SRB as per guidelines dated July 16, 2004, and Delhi Prison Rules, 2018. The Board is chaired by Minister [Home] GNCTD, with ACS [Home], Principal Secretary [Law], Additional District and Sessions Judge, Delhi, Chief Probation officer, Special Commissioner of Police [Crime] as Members and DG, Prisons as Member Secretary. The Board recommended for release of the convict — Siddharth Vashisht in the meeting without any disagreement,” Raj Niwas said in a statement.
03 June 2020||Staff Reporter,||Capital sees record 1,298 cases||Delhi registered 1,298 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 22,132, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. This is the biggest single-day jump in the number of cases in the city so far. Also, 33 more deaths have been reported taking the total to 556. But only 11 of these deaths were declared in the past 24 hours. Of the total cases, 9,243 people have recovered and there are 12,573 active cases. A total of 7,461 COVID-19 positive people are under home isolation. ‘41% beds occupied’ Of the total 6,731 beds for COVID-19 treatment in different hospitals in the city, only 2,819 are occupied and 3,912 are vacant, according to the Delhi government. Also, of the total 302 ventilators, only 92 are being used and 210 are available. The number of containment zones in the city increased to 143 on Tuesday. A containment zone has a stricter form of the lockdown and people are not allowed to leave or enter a containment zone. Though the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) headquarters, Palika Kendra, which was sealed last week for sanitation, opened on Monday, only about 60% of the staff are coming to the office, officials said. A total of 35 NDMC employees, including 19 from the headquarters, have tested positive for the virus so far and one of them has died.
03 June 2020||GURUGRAM/noida,||Day after the Capital shuts its borders, traffic piles up||A day after the Delhi government decided to seal its borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, hundreds of office-goers from the neighbouring States, including those with valid e-passes and medical appointments, remained stuck in traffic for hours at the entry points to the Capital on Tuesday. As long lines of vehicles formed, several people were seen reasoning with the police as they were not allowed to enter the national capital. The police said they were only allowing Delhi residents and those with government-approved identification cards. Some people were not even aware that the borders were sealed when the Delhi government announced several relaxations in the lockdown norms starting Monday. Though the traffic remained heavy at Bhopura, Ghazipur, Chilla, and DND along Uttar Pradesh borders, it was less chaotic than the situation on Monday. At DND, vehicles were checked and those not having e-passes, especially motorcyclists, were told to turn back. Prerit Mehta, a resident of Noida, said that he had to go to his office in west Delhi for urgent work but wasn’t allowed. However, the checking was intermittently relaxed to prevent long snarls and chaos. A traffic police officer, deployed at the Delhi-U.P. border, said: “We are checking strictly but if it leads to long queues we let a few vehicles pass with a cursory check.” The officer added that they were even letting people with genuine reasons to cross even if they were without e-passes. It was a similar situation at Delhi-Gurugram border on National Highway-48 with long traffic snarls stretching several hundred metres during the morning rush hours. The traffic was allowed to enter Gurugram without checking. Later in the day, the Gurugram district administration also issued orders stating that the restrictions on the cross-border movement between the two cities would remain. “Inter-State movement shall continue to be regulated by previous orders and mechanisms in this regard,” said the orders. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal said his government had decided to open borders with all States but Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal then decided to shut its borders.  (With inputs from Hemani Bhandari and agencies)
03 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘198 migrants died in road crashes’||Nearly 200 migrant workers died in road crashes during the COVID-19 lockdown; fatigue among bus and truck drivers hired to transport migrants combined with speeding and poor engineering of roads top reason for such deaths, a report claimed.  During lockdown As per data compiled by the SaveLIFE Foundation, a non-profit which works for road safety in India, there were at least 1,461 road crashes over the course of the nation-wide lockdown between March 25 and May 31, 2020. At least 750 people were killed, including 198 migrant workers; 1,390 persons reported injured in the crashes. The data has been compiled using media-tracking and multi-source verification. Uttar Pradesh accounted for over 30% (245) of the total deaths followed by Telangana (56), Madhya Pradesh (56), Bihar (43), Punjab (38) and Maharashtra (36). Further analysis reveals that around 27% of the victims were migrant workers whereas 5% were essential workers like police, doctors, and others. Sixty-eight percent of the overall deaths involved pedestrians, two-wheelers and three-wheelers — categorised as Vulnerable Road Users (VRUs).
03 June 2020||New Delhi,||Plea claims telcos failing to stop phishing menace||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to respond to Paytm’s plea alleging that telecom operators are not blocking those who are defrauding its customers by “phishing” activities over various mobile networks. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan also issued notice to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) and mobile service providers seeking their stand on the plea before the next date of hearing on June 24. One97 Communications Ltd, which runs Paytm, has sought damages of Rs. 100 crore from telecom firms for causing “financial and reputational loss”.
03 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Delhi Corona’ app is a pointless exercise: Cong.||Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar on Tuesday said the launch of the “Delhi Corona” app by the Delhi government was a pointless exercise as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has been concealing the actual figures of deaths and patients. The app was launched to divert the attention of the people from the ground reality, which was that due to lack of beds in government hospitals, Mr. Kejriwal hired five-star hotels and expensive private hospitals to treat COVID-19patients, Mr. Kumar alleged. Addressing a video press conference, Mr. Kumar said in the last four days, around 1,000 new cases were reported in the Capital daily while the death toll was pegged at 523, “which was far from the truth”. He added that the Delhi hospital mortuaries was overflowing with bodies and the government was forced to hire refrigerated trucks to keep the bodies of COVID-19 victims. Criticising the move to seal the borders of Delhi, Mr. Kumar said after throwing open everything in Delhi, it was a retrograde step by the government, which has only created chaos and confusion. The Congress also accused Mr. Kejriwal of becoming a tool in the hands of the BJP.
03 June 2020||New Delhi,||Act against labs for delay in reports: L-G to officials||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday chaired a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and other members of the Delhi Cabinet along with senior officials of the government at Raj Niwas. According to Raj Niwas, the Health Department made a detailed presentation where it was informed that up to June 1, there were a total number of 20,834 confirmed COVID-19 cases in Delhi out of which 8,746 patients had recovered, discharged or migrated. In relation to instances of delay in providing test reports by labs, the L-G directed that due action as per law should be taken against labs responsible for the delay. The L-G was informed that the Case Fatality Rate in Delhi was 2.5% compared to the national average of 2.83%. There are 6,476 hospital beds, 432+ ICU beds, 342+ ventilators beds and 3,233+ oxygenated supported beds in dedicated COVID-19 hospitals. “The L-G was further apprised that various steps are being taken to improve the efficiency of CATS ambulance...,” Raj Niwas said. Mr. Baijal designated two IAS officers as Nodal Officers for “proper communication of data related to COVID-19” from private and government hospitals.
03 June 2020||June 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Shopping malls, cinema halls, religious places to remain shut in Gurugram||The shopping malls, cinema halls and the religious places would remain closed in Gurugram till the further orders, said officials on Tuesday. Besides, the restaurants too can operate kitchens only for home delivery and takeaways. The direction was issued as part of the district administration’s guidelines for “Unlock-1”. Though the Ministry of Home Affairs had allowed religious places, hotels, restaurants and shopping malls to open from June 8, the District Administration decided to prohibit them “until further decision is taken on their phase-wise opening”. The decision was made in view of sudden spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases in Gurugram over the past few days. The number of COVID-19 cases in Gurugram breached the 1,000-mark on Tuesday with a record of 160 cases in a single day. The tally now stands at 1,063. The number of active cases is 775, which is almost half of the total cases in Haryana. Issuing the guidelines for various activities, the administration allowed the private and the government offices to function in full strength but advised the private companies to follow the “Work From Home” practice as far as possible. All permitted shops, other than those supplying essential goods, can now remain open from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. The Residents Welfare Associations have also been directed not to “prevent any person from performing their services and duties permitted under the guidelines” and allow general movement inside the society premises. The orders said the inter-State movement would continue to be regulated by the previous orders and mechanism in this regard, but there would be no restriction on the movement of persons and goods within the State and no separate permission was required for it.  All permitted shops, other than those supplying essential goods, can now remain open from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. District Administration
03 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi BJP gets new president||The BJP State unit, in a move that caught most of its members unaware, got a new president in Adesh Kumar Gupta, a sitting municipal councillor here on Tuesday. Mr. Gupta, a first-time councillor from the North Delhi Municipal Corporation where he represents West Patel Nagarand served as Mayor in 2018, will replace North-East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari. A senior party leader said his appointment was to ensure that “the Sangh’s ideologues, the Delhi BJP’s office-bearers and the organisational structure shared by both” were on the same page. With civic polls in less than two years, Mr. Gupta also checks the right box as far as the core votebank of the BJP in Delhi, the baniya community, is concerned, he said. “My objective is to strengthen the organisational structure and cadre of the party and also to address issues related to the party’s image in some quarters of the city, especially unauthorised colonies,” Mr. Gupta said.
03 June 2020||New Delhi,||13 employees from L-G’s office infected||Thirteen employees from Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal’s office have tested positive for COVID-19, a Raj Niwas spokesperson said on Tuesday. The spokesperson confirmed that the total tally of COVID-19 positive employees stood at 13 according to medical reports which were made available to it on Tuesday. Sources from Raj Niwas said those who had contracted the infection included junior assistants, drivers, peons and attendants posted at the L-G’s Secretariat. All officials at the LG’s office underwent a COVID-19 test after a junior assistant was found infected recently following which more were found to have been infected.
03 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC plea seeks de-sealing of Delhi borders||A plea filed in the Delhi HC has sought direction to de-seal Delhi border to enable the citizens in the NCR or other States to access Centre-run hospitals and medical facilities here. The plea said those working in Delhi and residing in NCR are deprived of their right to avail the Centre’s central government’s medical facilities.
03 June 2020||New Delhi,||Dilli Haat architect Pradeep Sachdeva remembered||The architect of Dilli Haat and Garden of Five Senses, Pradeep Sachdeva, who passed away on Sunday, was on Tuesday remembered by friends, family members and colleagues for his contribution to public spaces, including making them accessible for all. At a memorial service, which was live-streamed on Facebook by his firm, due to lockdown restrictions, colleagues shared messages about his legacy and read out tributes to him sent by others.
