03 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Pakistanis behind ‘Chinese’ info war on border stand-off||Many of the ‘Chinese’ accounts that mushroomed on social media this summer and spread false information about the border clash with India have been traced to Pakistan, in what is believed to be a coordinated disinformation campaign aimed at India. The India-China border tensions starting in May, and culminating in the June 15 clash in the Galwan Valley, sparked a first-of-its-kind information war on social media, where Indian and Chinese accounts on Twitter, Facebook and YouTube traded images and videos in an effort to both capture the narrative and the attention of the media. The disinformation flowed both ways. But what was unknown to consumers of the posts by ‘Chinese’ social media users is that many of the accounts that posed as China-based users were actually Pakistani accounts. Twitter is banned in China, although it can be accessed using virtual private networks. An analysis of some of the most active ‘Chinese accounts’ on the border clash on Twitter found that these accounts previously had different profile names and handle names. Some of these accounts even had user bios that were earlier in Urdu, before morphing overnight into Mandarin. One such account, ‘xiuying637’, was earlier run as ‘hinaarbi2’, before it began tweeting information related to the Chinese military and the border clash. The account has been suspended, but only belatedly. These accounts have used a loophole on Twitter that allows users to not only change their profile names, but their Twitter handles as well. Their changed avatars were detected because some of these accounts, which have tens of thousands of followers, were previously being tracked. One account, with a profile name in Chinese characters, Zeping, and handle ‘sawaxpx’, that tweeted on the border previously tweeted in Urdu. Its tweets are now unavailable. Another account, ‘Yasifxi’, had a Chinese name and tweeted in Chinese characters, posting information about the border clash, but was traced to Pakistan. These accounts have shared false information about casualties from the clash, unrelated images of injured soldiers, and videos of troops’ confrontations that were from previous border incidents. Tweeting in Mandarin and using Chinese names gave the posts a sense of credibility.
03 August 2020||MANGALURU,||Heavy, widespread rain in coastal districts; two walls collapse||Though there was no lockdown, incessant rain across Dakshina Kannada and Udupi brought movement of people in Mangaluru and other parts of the two districts to a virtual halt on Sunday. There were reports of two compound walls slipping in two villages in Dakshina Kannada. According to reports reaching here, a woman had had a providential escape when a compound wall collapsed in Alabimoole of Nettanige Mudnur village in Puttur taluk. The woman was working in the kitchen when a part of the compound wall of the house slipped. She came out of the house unhurt. Villagers helped the family members in clearing debris from the kitchen. Similarly, a part of the compound wall of a house belonging to Naveen slipped in Ammemmar in Pudu village of Bantwal. The car parked near the compound wall was damaged in the incident. There was widespread rain across Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts with the average rainfall recorded in the three districts being 40.8 mm in the last 24 hours ended at 8 a.m. on Sunday. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), Dakshina Kannada recorded an average rainfall of 45.8 mm during the period. Among the areas where it rained heavily included Mangaluru with 80 mm, followed by Mulky and Uppinangady 40 mm, Dharmasthala, Puttur and Sullia 30 mm and Mani and Kukke Subrahmanya with 20 mm. Udupi district recorded an average rainfall of 65.1 mm. While Kota and Kundapur received 70 mm, Karkala and Udupi received 50 mm rain. Among the places that received heavy rain in Uttara Kannada included Bhatkal with 70 mm, followed by Kumta 40 mm, Karwar and Ankola 30 mm, Kadra and Manki 20 mm and Siddapura, Yellapur, Mundgod and Banavasi with 10 mm rainfall. Rain, thundershowers Rain and thundershowers are likely in most places of the coastal region in the State till Tuesday. As squally weather with wind speed reaching up to 50 kmph is likely to prevail along and off the coast, the department has advised fishermen not to venture into the sea.  An average of 40.8 mm rainfall was recorded in the last 24 hours ended at 8 a.m. on Sunday in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada districts
03 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amit Shah tests positive, admitted to hospital||Union Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted on Sunday that he had tested positive for COVID-19 and requested all those who had come in contact with him in the past few days to isolate themselves and get tested. Mr. Shah’s positive report came on a day when Uttar Pradesh Cabinet Minister Kamla Rani Varun died from coronavirus infection, and Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit and U.P. State BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh also tested positive for COVID-19. Mr. Shah, admitted to the private Medanta Hospital in Gurugram, said he got himself tested after seeing “early symptoms” of the disease. “Though I am feeling okay, am being admitted to hospital on medical advice,” the Home Minister said in a tweet in Hindi. On Saturday, Mr. Shah inaugurated a webinar organised by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations on the 100th death anniversary Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak in the capital. About 20 persons were present at the function. Cabinet meeting A government source also confirmed that Mr. Shah was present at a Union Cabinet meeting, presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday, when the new education policy was approved. A Cabinet Minister confirmed to The Hindu that he was getting himself tested for COVID-19 in view of Mr. Shah’s COVID-19 status. Another Minister stated that not all Cabinet members attend every meeting in view of the pandemic. An official stated that as per protocol, all close contacts were to be tested if a Union Minister tested positive. Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, who had been meeting Mr. Shah, was tested and found COVID negative. West Bengal and Delhi Chief Ministers Mamata Banerjee and Arvind Kejriwal respectively as well as Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wished Mr. Shah a speedy recovery. In Chennai, the Kauvery Hospital said Governor Purohit was asymptomatic and clinically stable. He has been advised home isolation with medical monitoring. In Lucknow, Ms. Varun, 62, who held the technical education portfolio, died during treatment at a Lucknow hospital.
03 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||8,555 new cases push tally to 1.58 lakh||The State has reported 67 new deaths and 8,555 new COVID cases during the past 24 hours as of Sunday morning. The overall tally increased to 1,58,764 and the death toll mounted to 1,474. As many as 6,272 patients have recovered in the past day taking the recovery rate to 52.21%. There are 74,404 active cases in the State. A majority of them are patients with no symptoms of mild symptoms taking treatment at COVID Care Centres and under home isolation. Krishna district which has the highest death rate at 2.31% reported 11 new deaths. It is also the only district with a death rate of more than 2% with 175 deaths so far. Huge spike in Vizag Kurnool reported six new deaths and its death toll is 207. It is followed by East Godavari (179 total deaths,7 new deaths), Guntur (149, 8), Anantapur (122,2), Visakhapatnam (120, 7), Chittoor (117,3), West Godavari (99,2), Srikakulam (79,5), Prakasam (69,4), Vizianagaram (61,3), Nellore (50,6) and Kadapa (47,3). Visakhapatnam reported 1,227 new cases, the highest among districts. It is followed by Kurnool and East Godavari which reported close to 1,000 cases at 996 and 930 respectively. Similarly, Chittoor reported 781, Anantapur 696, Guntur 639, Vizianagaram 637, West Godavari 550, Srikakulam 492, Nellore 448, Kadapa 396, Prakasam 384 and Krishna 379. The tallies of districts are as follows: East Godavari (22,201), Kurnool (19,077), Anantapur (16,523), Guntur (16,308), West Godavari (13,354), Visakhapatnam (13,147), Chittoor (12,108), Kadapa (8819), Nellore (8323), Krishna (7579), Prakasam (5953) and Vizianagaram (4960). A total of 20, 65,407 samples have been tested so far comprising the 52,834 samples tested in the past day. The overall positivity rate of tests increased to 7.69%.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Police on alert ahead of Ayodhya event||The State police have been put on high alert after an intelligence input warned of possible attempts by religious fundamentalists to thwart peace and communal harmony on the eve of the bhoomi poojan for the construction of Ram Temple at Ayodhya on August 5. While preparations are on for the mega event in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other senior political party leaders are expected to participate, ‘holy’ water and construction materials for the construction of the temple are being sent from across the country to Ayodhya. In Tamil Nadu, the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha performed special prayers at Rameswaram and sent the ‘holy’ water and sand to Ayodhya by flight on Sunday.  According to police sources, intelligence agencies had sent an alert that some religious fundamentalists had planned to destabilise peace in a bid to convey their displeasure with the Centre’s decision to go ahead with the event, coinciding with the first anniversary of the revocation of Article 370 of the Constitution. A section of the society was averse to the construction of the temple and would attempt to disrupt the smooth and successful celebration of the ceremony. Besides, the issue pertaining to the comments made by ‘ Karuppar Kootam’ degrading ‘ Kantha Shasti Kavacham’ made the situation even tense. Some Hindu outfits had planned to draw ‘kolam’ of the deity Murugan’s trident the ‘ vel ’ in front of their houses while activists of the ‘Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam’ had decided to paint some other art to counter the same. Sleuths deployed Amid these threats to internal security, senior police officials across the State were told to intensify vigil at vital installations and places of worship. Sleuths of different intelligence agencies were deployed to mount vigil on suspects involved in communal violence in the past. Police and other law-enforcing agencies were told to intensify vehicle checks at district/State border checkposts and thoroughly verify e-pass used by people to travel. Special teams of the cyber crime unit were deployed to keep a close watch on posts in social media platforms and take action on communally sensitive messages/photos/videos that could trigger hate between groups of people, the sources added.
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Delay in Peripheral Ring Road project sees cost shoot up to Rs. 18,000 crore||The revised estimated cost for implementing the Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) has risen to almost Rs. 18,000 crore from an estimate of Rs. 11,950 crore in 2016. When the project was first mooted in 2007, the cost was pegged at Rs. 3,000 crore. Bangalore Development Authority Commissioner H.R. Mahadev told The Hindu that in two weeks the State government will come out with a final notification on acquiring the land required for the 65.5 km-long project that will connect Tumakuru Road with Hosur Road via Ballari Road and Old Madras Road. The ambitious project has citizens and environmentalists up in arms as it will require the removal of an estimated 33,800 trees. First issued The primary notification for acquiring the land was issued in 2007. However, it was delayed due to various reasons, including changes in policy decisions, stiff resistance from farmers over the compensation package and litigation, which in turn, has resulted in a steep cost escalation. Increased land cost over the years is the primary reason for the escalation. “While issuing the final notification, the State government will decide on the quantum of compensation to be paid to land owners,” said Mr. Mahadev. Around 1,451 structures will have to be removed for the 8-lane roads. The project requires over 700 hectares of land, of which 114.20 hectares is owned by the government, 43.43 hectares is kharab land and 555.57 hectares is private land. Compensation The majority of the land identified is farmland. Farmers have been demanding that the State give them compensation as per market rate and not go by guidance value, which they say will see them short- changed. They also contended that they had suffered a lot as their lands were notified almost 15 years ago as a result of which they could not transact or build anything. During the land survey, farmers carried out protests demanding that they be given a fair deal.
03 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Hooch tragedy: kin scared of ‘liquor mafia’||Close to 100 people have lost their lives after allegedly consuming spurious liquor in three districts of Punjab, yet none of the families in Gurdaspur’s Batala, one of the affected towns, have so far come forward to file a police complaint. A source in the local administration said the fear of “liquor mafia” could be one of the key deterrents. Eleven people have lost their lives in Batala town so far and most of the deaths have been reported from the Hathi Gate locality. A case has been registered on the basis of a complaint filed by Station House Officer of Batala City under Sections 304, 328 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Excise Act. “Of the 11 victims, 10 were cremated by family members without any post-mortem. Only one victim was brought to hospital and his post-mortem revealed that he had co-morbid conditions with little liquor presence. I have been meeting the families of the victims to assure them of all help but none of them are willing to accept or reveal that their loved ones have died after consuming spurious liquor. The FIR in Batala has been registered on the statement of the SHO of Batala City,” Mohammad Ishfaq, Gurdaspur Deputy Commissioner, told The Hindu . “We are assuring the family members there’s nothing to be afraid of. We will offer them police protection if needed,” he said. The Batala City police have so far arrested six persons, including two women — Triveni Chauhan and Darshan Rani — who are both residents of Hathi Gate locality.  Akalis demand probe The Shiromani Akali Dal has demanded immediate action against those responsible for patronising the spurious liquor trade, and registration of cases against distillery owners supplying unaccounted ENA (Extra Neutral Alcohol) to bootleggers. Former Minister Bikram Singh Majithia, while rejecting the magisterial probe ordered by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, said a sitting judge of the High Court or a CBI inquiry should be ordered into the incident.
03 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State’s tally goes up with 1,169 new cases||The State’s official COVID-19 case tally reached 25,911 on Sunday, with the reporting of 1,169 new cases. With 688 recoveries reported on the same day, the number of patients currently undergoing treatment in various hospitals across districts is 11,342. Of the 1,169 new cases, 1,031 cases are locally acquired infections, indicating the intensity of community transmission of COVID-19 in the State. In 56 of these cases, authorities have not been able to pinpoint a source of infection. These cases include the infections reported in 29 health-care workers also. One death in Thiruvananthapuram was confirmed as due to COVID-19 and included in the official death toll, which now stands at 82. Though there are other deaths reported, these will be included in the official list only after re-confirmation at the National Institute of Virology, Alappuzha, The total number of recoveries reported in the State now is 14,463. Situation in capital The situation in Thiruvananthapuram continues to be grave, with the new cases being reported daily climbing further to 377 on Sunday. All cases except three are locally acquired infections. The district also tops when it comes to the number of patients undergoing treatment in hospitals at 3,472. On Sunday Ernakulam reported 128 cases, Malappuram (126), Kasaragod (113), Kottayam (70), Kollam (69), Thrissur (58), Kozhikode (50), Idukki (42), Alappuzha and Palakkad (38 each), Pathanamthitta (25), Wayanad (19) and Kannur (16). The number of people currently under quarantine is over 1.45 lakhs, of whom, 10,604 with mild COVID-like symptoms are isolated in hospitals across districts. The State tested 22,028 samples in the last 24 hours. A total of 8,17,078 specimens had been sent for testing with results of 5,215 awaited. The number of areas designated as hotspots now is 497. MLA in self-quarantine Meanwhile, Attingal MLA B. Satyan went into self-quarantine after the local Dy.SP and eight other police personnel tested positive. The MLA and the police officials had held a meeting on Saturday, officials said.
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,||State sees the highest number — 4,077 — of discharged persons in a day||On Sunday, the number of COVID-19 patients discharged was more than the number of new cases detected in Bengaluru. The number of patients discharged was 2,331 patients and the new cases were put at 2,105. Sources in the Department of Health and Family Welfare said that this included both patients who were discharged from hospitals as well as those who had recovered after they were under home isolation. They also pointed out that many of the patients were asymptomatic and required a shorter duration to recover. The total number of recoveries in the State was also at an all-time high and crossed the 4,000 mark. According to the media bulletin issued by the department, the number of people discharged on Sunday was 4,077. The recovery rate in the State now stands at 42 %. Meanwhile, as many as 5,532 new COVID-19 positive cases were detected during the day, taking the total number of positive cases in the State to 1,34,819. 84 deaths On Sunday, as many as 84 new deaths were reported in the State. With this, the toll in Karnataka stands at 2,496. Meanwhile, besides Bengaluru – as many as four districts reported more than 200 new cases. Of the 74,590 active cases reported in Karnataka, 638 patients have been admitted to intensive care units of various hospitals. On Sunday, as many as 33,017 tests were conducted. Of these, 18,517 were antigen tests – while the remaining were RT PCR and other tests. Of the new cases, Kodagu district reported the least number by accounting for 16 of the total 5,532 across the State. The total active cases in the district stand at 170.
03 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||An ‘analog’ library gets a new avatar||A district long affected by militancy in Arunachal Pradesh is celebrating the rebirth of an ‘analog’ library even as the world embraces the digital era. Longding, bordering Nagaland, is among the three districts of the Frontier State where encounters with various factions of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland are routine. The other two are Changlang and Tirap, from which Longding was carved out in March 2012. Local organisations have revived a demand for the creation of Patkai Autonomous Council comprising the three districts. But the current buzz in Longding, the headquarters of the district dominated by the Wancho community, has been about an abandoned government building that has been transformed to revive the library movement in the area. “Our district has no college and none of the eight schools offer commerce courses. Only two schools in the headquarters teach science. It is difficult to get academic literature, newspapers and magazines, and the Internet service is too weak to access digital libraries,” said Chanphua Wangsu, a 28-year-old social activist from Longkhaw village near Longding town. “The only library in the headquarters has been virtually defunct since the 1990s. So most college students and civil service aspirants who returned home after the lockdown had nowhere to go for academic pursuits,” he told The Hindu.  Filling a void Mr. Wangsu, who has been providing career counselling and free coaching classes for Economics to higher secondary students at home since 2017, felt the void and approached Longding’s Deputy Commissioner, Cheshta Yadav. She offered him the town’s Crafts Training Centre, a few hundred metres from her office, in disuse since the mid-1990s.
03 August 2020||Srinagar,||A year on, several J&K leaders still confined||Almost a year after the special status of Jammu and Kashmir was revoked on August 5 last year, over two dozen mainstream leaders of the regional parties, including the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), remain under house arrest in the Kashmir valley. “Around 16 leaders of the party continue to be under house arrest for the past 363 days,” NC spokesman Imran Nabi Dar told The Hindu . Petitions filed NC president Farooq Abdullah and vice-president Omar Abdullah had filed two separate petitions in the court on July 13 to get these leaders released “to start political deliberations”. “House detentions without any administrative orders are unlawful. It undermines human rights and individual liberty,” said Mr. Imran. Most of the NC leaders, now under house arrest, served in jails in different detention centres since August 5, 2019, and were later shifted to homes. PDP spokesman Suhail Bukhari said the top PDP leaders are disallowed to move out of their houses. “Naeem Akhtar, G.N. Hanjura, Sartaj Madani, Peer Mansoor, A.R Veeri etc, all former legislators and Ministers, remain under house arrest since their release from sub-jails,” said Mr. Bukhari. Sajad Lone-headed Peoples Conference (PC) leader Abdul Ghani Vakil and J&K’s Peoples Movement chief Shah Faesal and Javaid Mustafa Mir are also placed under house arrest, according to the party spokesmen. “Regional politics and politicians are being made to vanish from the scene in J&K after August 5 last year. A year on, the practice continues,” said Mr. Akhtar, a former Minister. Hurriyat chairman and Kashmir’s head priest Mirwaiz Umar Farooq also remains under house arrest at his Nigeen residence in Srinagar. “The Mirwaiz is not allowed to come out. He could not attend any important and significant religious events due to the house arrest. No one is allowed to meet him since August 5 last year,” a family member said. All top three separatist leaders — JKLF chief Yasin Malik, former Hurriyat chairman Syed Ali Shah Geelani and the Mirwaiz — are among scores of separatist leaders either under house arrest or jailed.
03 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,||Couple beat virus, but fall victim to stigma||A trader and his wife allegedly committed suicide at their residence at Dharmavaram in the early hours of Sunday after reportedly getting stigmatised by people around following their turning COVID-19 positive. They had won over the virus, but could not overcome the psychological trauma of getting distanced from near and dear. A kirana shop owner Seshu Phaniraj, 40, and his wife Sirisha, 36, could not bear the social stigma of boycott after Seshu’s mother (a known asthma patient) expired 15 days ago and later they tested COVID-19 positive on July 26, CI M. Karunakar said. The duo jumped to death from the roof of their building at 3 a.m. leaving behind a son, Balaji Prem. The couple were lodged in the Narayana College COVID Care Centre in Anantapur and got discharged on July 31 night. The CI said the couple had even overcome some financial crisis recently by selling away a small shop and starting their own kirana shop anew. According to the family members and the people who knew the couple, they did not have any other problems, Mr. Karunakar added. There is always someone to talk to in case of distress at: 100; 9989819191 or reach over email: ananthapuramupolice@gmail.com
03 August 2020||Coimbatore,||Three arrested for fabricating documents for late Sri Lankan gangster Angoda Lokka||Coimbatore city police arrested three persons in connection with producing false documents to help a Sri Lankan gangster Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera alias Angoda Lokka, sources said. Lokka died in Coimbatore and his body was cremated in Madurai early this July. The entire deception came to light after his death was reported to police to facilitate moving his body to Madurai. Investigation by the police found that a woman from Madurai and a man from Tiruppur helped Lokka and a Sri Lankan woman named Amani Thanji forge documents that helped the two foreigners hide in Coimbatore illegally. Amani Thanji (27) from Colombo, Sivakami Sundari (36) from Madurai and S. Dyaneswaran (32) of Erode, currently residing in Tiruppur, were arrested by the Peelamedu police on Sunday after investigation revealed that Lokka stayed in India as Pradeep Singh and he managed to obtain Aadhaar card on the same name as Indian national. They were booked under Sections 120 B, 177, 182, 202, 212, 417, 419, 466, 468 and 471 of the IPC for charges including criminal conspiracy and forgery of documents. According to the police, Sundari approached the Peelamedu police station on July 4 stating that her relative Pradeep Singh died of cardiac arrest. She had submitted a copy of Aadhaar card at the station. The police during investigation found that the Aadhaar card was obtained through forged documents and the deceased was Sri Lankan fugitive Lokka who was staying with Thanji at Cheran Ma Nagar on Kalapatti road in Coimbatore. Further investigation found that Dyaneswaran and Sundari forged several documents for Lokka and Thanji. It is learnt that Thanji took Lokka to a private hospital with complaints of chest pain late on July 3 where he was declared brought dead. The body was taken to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital where it was autopsied the next day. Sundari approached the police on July 4 to complete post-mortem formalities after which the body was taken to Madurai and cremated. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan said that a detailed investigation was under way with regard to the illegal stay of Lokka and Thanji and forging of documents. “We have information that he (Lokka) was involved in several crimes in Sri Lanka,” he added. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) G. Stalin said that the police was waiting for results of laboratory examination of the viscera samples of the deceased to arrive at the cause of death. Several Sri Lankan media had reported in July that Lokka was poisoned in India.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Governor tests positive||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit tested positive for COVID-19 but is asymptomatic and clinically stable, a statement from the Kauvery Hospital said on Sunday. “As the infection is mild, he has been advised home isolation and will be monitored by the medical team from the Kauvery Hospital,” the bulletin added. The Governor underwent further tests at the hospital. At least 87 people living on the Raj Bhavan premises have tested positive over the past few days.
03 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS records 1,891 cases, 10 deaths||Telangana recorded 66,677 cases as 1,891 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. At least 10 more COVID-19 patients died taking the toll to 540. The new cases includes 517 from GHMC, 181 from Rangareddy, 146 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 138 from Warangal Urban, 131 from Nizamabad and 111 from Sangareddy districts. Of the total 66,677 cases, 18,547 are active cases, 47,590 were discharged and 540 people died. On Saturday, 19,202 samples were tested. While 1,891 tested positive, results of 1,656 are awaited. The cumulative Test Positivity Rate dropped to 13.95%.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||India, China hold talks||India and China on Sunday held the fifth round of Corps Commanders talks at Moldo on the Chinese side to take forward the stalled process of disengagement at the Line of Actual Control. The Corps Commanders had earlier held talks on June 6, 22, 30 and July 14 to de-escalate from the build-up areas in the Galwan Valley, Gogra-Hot Springs and the Finger areas along the Pangong Tso.page 11
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Scanner on institutions||Close on the heels of dropping Mandarin from the National Education Policy, the Ministry of Education has decided to put higher education institutes that offer Chinese language training courses under the scanner as well. It is looking closely at universities that have in the past held links with the official Chinese language training department “Hanban”.Page 11
03 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||AMRDA constituted||The government issued a GO for constituting Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority (AMRDA), and a separate order appointing CRDA Commissioner P. Lakshmi Narasimham as the AMRDA Commissioner. Secretary to Government (Municipal Administration and Urban Development) and AMRDA Commissioner will be the deputy chairperson and member-convenor respectively. Principal Secretary (Finance), the Collectors of Krishna and Guntur districts, Director of Town and Country Planning, Guntur district deputy transport commissioner, superintendents of R&B Department of Krishna and Guntur districts, Transco SE (Vijayawada) and CPDCL SE (Vijayawada) will be the members
03 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Quarantine rules eased for travellers||In what is a big relief for many planning to return or travel to India, passengers will be able to seek exemption from mandatory institutional quarantine on arrival. This is part of the new guidelines announced on Sunday which will come into effect from August 8. The guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare have also halved the duration from 14 days each of institutional quarantine and home quarantine to 7 days each. Passengers can seek exemption on grounds of “compelling reasons”, which include pregnancy, death in the family, and serious illness. Travellers accompanied by children under 10 years also fall into this category.
03 August 2020||Kolkata,||Second Kolkata nearby||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday alleged that the State government was not providing him with information on a host of issues and said that the denial reveals worrisome state of the Right to Information Act. “Right & Duty of Governor to seek information @MamataOfficial be [it] political violence, Bengal Global Business Summit, PDS, Amphan relief corruption etc,” Mr. Dhankhar tweeted. Trinamool Congress MP Kalyan Banerjee said Mr. Dhankhar should ‘learn’ about Constitutional provisions regarding the role of the Governor and his limitations of interference in the government’s work.
03 August 2020||Kolkata,||First Kolkata nearby||West Bengal on Sunday reported 2,739 new COVID-19 cases and 49 deaths — the highest single-day spike in infections and mortalities. The total cases have now reached 75,516, of whom 21,108 are active ones. The number of people who have been discharged from different facilities so far stands at 52,730 while 21,108 samples have been tested in the last 24 hours. With 49 more deaths, the fatality toll in the State has climbed to 1,678. The number of containment zones increased to 1,264 on Sunday. The State is also enforcing a complete lockdown on certain days in a week.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu records 5,875 fresh COVID-19 cases||With 5,875 fresh cases reported on Sunday, the number of active cases in Tamil Nadu rose to 56,998. At present, the State has a total of 2,57,613 positive cases. Chennai recorded 1,065 fresh cases.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,||School textbooks to be distributed today||The distribution of free textbooks to government and aided school students of Classes 2-5, 7 and 8 will begin on Monday. School Education Director S. Kannappan said the students of Classes 7 and 8 would be given the textbooks first and schools could then schedule the distribution for students of the other classes.
03 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam decides to unlock as positivity rate declines||The Assam government on Sunday announced a slew of lockdown relaxations, as an experiment for 12 days, in view of the decline in the COVID-19 positivity rate. This follows the decision on reop-ening schools and colleges from September 1 if the Centre gives the go-ahead.
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Expansion of COVID Care Centres put on hold||With the occupancy of beds at existing COVID Care Centres hovering around 60-64% over the past 10 days, the ramping up of such facilities has been temporarily put on hold.
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Constable first policeman to donate plasma in State||Constable Veerabhadraiah, 26, who is attached to Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) and who successfully battled COVID-19, became the first policeman in the State to donate his plasma on Saturday.
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,||10 burial grounds to be opened on city outskirts||The BBMP is set to open 10 burial grounds on the city’s outskirts this week for COVID-19 victims. “The Revenue Department is in the process of handing over the land they have earmarked ,” said civic Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad.
03 August 2020||Mumbai,||Second Mumbai nearby||Breaking his silence on the allegations in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday said the case is now being politicised for personal gains. BJP leaders, including former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, have demanded that the probe be handed over to the CBI.
03 August 2020||Pune,||First Mumbai nearby||Maharashtra recorded 9,509 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking its total cases to 4,41,228. The State reported 260 deaths, pushing its death toll to 15,576. Mumbai recorded 1,105 new cases, raising its case load to 1,16,436, of which 21,394 are active cases. With 49 more deaths, the city’s death toll has risen to 6,447. The total recoveries in the State has climbed to 2,76,809.
03 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Third Mumbai nearby||Close to a week after the rape and murder of a 14-year-old girl from Roha, the investigation has revealed that it was a case of gang rape. After the first arrest on July 27, the police identified six accomplices, including a minor. “When we arrested the accused, we thought he was the only perpetrator, but his contradictory statements raised suspicion,” police inspector Jamil Shaikh said.
03 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||961 new cases in Delhi, tally reaches 1,37,667||The Capital on Sunday recorded 961 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total to 1,37,667. Also, 15 more deaths were recorded in the past 24 hours, pushing the toll to 4,004, said a government heath bulletin. The total number of recoveries stands at 1,23,317.
03 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||CCG urges Centre to release Mufti, others||The Concerned Citizens Group (CCG) has asked the Centre to release PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti and others who are under detention. The group sought restoration of 4G network in Jammu and Kashmir, lifting of the curbs on peaceful political activity, a multi-level dialogue with those affected by the August 5 decision, and compensation to Kashmiri farmers and businessmen for their economic losses.
03 August 2020||New DELHI,||Hard drive seized from Hany Babu’s house: wife||The NIA on Sunday seized a hard disk, two pen drives, some receipts and an account book of GN Saibaba Defence Committee from the house of Hany Babu, DU professor who was recently arrested in the Elgar Parishad case, said his wife Jenny Rowena.
03 August 2020||KALABURAGI,||Kalaburagi reports six more deaths||Six more deaths and 238 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Kalaburagi on Sunday, taking the total number of such deaths to 106 and the total number of positive cases to 5,767 which included the deaths and 2,949 people recovered. As per a media bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, five of the six people who died were aged above 65 and one was 57 years old.
03 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Four southern States account for 3,86,171 cases||With 5,875 fresh positive cases in Tamil Nadu on Sunday the number of active cases, including those in isolation, rose to 56,998. The State recorded 2,57,613 positive cases in all. The number of persons discharged was 5,517, taking the total to 1,96,483. Chennai and its neighbouring districts saw a high number of cases. While the city recorded 1,065 new cases, 12,190 persons, including those under home quarantine, were under treatment. Also, 1,303 persons were discharged on Sunday. The total of case numbers for the city was 1,01,951. Of the 98 deaths recorded by the Directorate of Public Health, eight persons had no co-morbidites. While 23 persons who had been admitted to private hospitals died of the infection, others passed away in government institutions. Total fatalities due to COVID 19 stood at 4,132. Chennai recorded the most deaths at 17, followed by Tiruvallur district, where eight persons lot the battle. In Coimbatore, seven people died of the infection. The southern districts of Madurai, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Virudunagar, each recorded six deaths. In Kerala Kerala’s COVID-19 case tally was 25,911 on Sunday, with the reporting of 1,169 new cases. The number of patients currently under treatment in hospitals was 11,342. Of the new cases, 1,031 were locally acquired infections. No source of infection was traceable in 56 patients. The cases included 29 health care workers. One death in Thiruvananthapuram was confirmed as due to COVID-19, bringing the State toll to 82. Though there were other deaths reported, these would be included in the official list only after confirmation at National Institute of Virology, Alapuzha. Total number of recoveries reported in the State now was 14,467. In Telangana Telangana’s cases stood at 66,677 as 1,891 more samples tested positive on Saturday (reported on Sunday). At least 10 COVID-19 patients died, taking the toll to 540. The new cases included 517 from Greater Hyderabad, 181 from Rangareddy, 146 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 138 from Warangal Urban, 131 from Nizamabad and 111 from Sangareddy districts. Total testing stood at 4,77,795 samples. The cumulative Test Positivity Rate dropped to 13.95%.  67 deaths in A.P. In Andhra Pradesh, 67 new deaths and 8,555 new cases were reported on Sunday. The overall tally rose to 1,58,764 and the death toll to 1,474. There were 74,404 active cases. Krishna district with the highest death rate at 2.31% reported 11 new deaths. Kurnool reported six new deaths (death toll 207), followed by East Godavari (179 total deaths,7 new deaths), Guntur (149, 8), Anantapur (122,2), Visakhapatnam (120, 7), Chittoor (117,3), West Godavari (99,2), Srikakulam (79,5), Prakasam (69,4), Vizianagaram (61,3), Nellore (50,6) and Kadapa (47,3).  A total of 20,65,407 samples had been tested, 52,834 from the past day. The overall positivity rate was 7.69%.   (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus)
03 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, China hold fifth round of military talks||India and China held the fifth round of Corps Commanders-level talks at Moldo on the Chinese side on Sunday to take forward the stalled process of disengagement on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The talks were still on at the time of going to print. The talks began around 11 a.m., a defence source said. The confirmation for the meeting came from the Chinese side late on Saturday evening. As with earlier rounds, the talks were led by Leh-based 14 Corps commander Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh and South Xinjiang military commander Maj. Gen. Lin Liu. The Corps Commanders of the two sides have held four rounds of talks so far on June 6, 22, 30 and July 14 to de-escalate from the build-up in Galwan Valley, Gogra-Hot Springs and the Finger area along the Pangong Tso (lake) in Ladakh sector along the LAC. However, there has been no update on the situation at the strategically important Depsang plains. India has demanded that status quo be restored along the unsettled boundary line. China had massed troops since April-May along the LAC and occupied positions in India’s perception of the LAC in Eastern Ladakh. The talks on July 14 went on for 15 hours but failed to restart the disengagement process, despite a consensus for full disengagement and de-escalation. On Thursday, the Ministry of External Affairs said that the disengagement process of troops had not yet been completed. China has, however, maintained that the process is complete. China has been reluctant to discuss Pangong Tso, it has been learnt. “There is some resistance,” a second source said. NSA-led panel meets The high-powered China Study Group, headed by National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval also met on Thursday, and discussed the ongoing situation, a government official said. The first phase of disengagement undertaken in early July remains incomplete with disengagement completed only at Galwan Valley and Patrolling Point (PP) 15 in Gogra-Hot springs area. Only limited disengagement has been undertaken at PP 17A in Gogra-Hot Springs and it has barely begun at Pangong Tso. Chinese troops have only moved back from the base of Finger 4, the mountain spur, to Finger 5 but remain to occupy the ridge lines of Finger 4 while India’s claim extends till Finger 8, while it has always held till Finger 4. Sunday’s Corps Commanders meeting follows a third round, since the stand-off began, of a virtual conference of the ‘Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India China Border Affairs’ on July 24. With a return to status quo of pre-May positions nowhere in sight, the Army has been preparing for extended deployment and stocking up for the harsh winter in the high altitude region for the large number of troops deployed along the LAC. Chushul BPM cancelled With ongoing tensions, the ceremonial Border Personnel Meeting (BPM), usually held at Chushul to mark the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) Day on August 1, did not take place. The BPM was toned down and happened only in Eastern Command, the second source stated.
03 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Patients can use smartphones||The Union government has directed all States and Union Territories to allow the use of smartphones and tablet devices by COVID-19 patients admitted to hospital to ensure that they are able to stay connected with their families for psychological support during treatment. A senior health official said people had been advised not to panic if they get infected. Recovery rate “Remember that most people get better. Practice self-isolation and take medications that are advised.” On Sunday, the Health Ministry said India registered more than 51,000 recoveries in 24 hours. “51,225 patients cured and discharged, total recoveries have touched 11,45,629. With the highest-ever single-day increase in recovered patients in the last 24 hours, the recovery rate has seen a high of 65.44%.” It said the gap between the recoveries and the active cases had seen a steady rise. The Ministry said that on June 10, for the first time, the number of recovered patients exceeded the active cases with a difference of 1,573 which has increased to 5,77,899 now. Low CFR “The active cases are the actual case load for India and currently (5,67,730) account for 32.43% and all are under medical supervision either in hospitals or in home isolation.” India has one of the lowest case fatality rates (CFR) at 2.13% as compared with the global average, it said.
03 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab hooch tragedy death toll rises to 98||The death toll in the hooch tragedy in three districts of Punjab has risen to 98 so far, government officials told The Hindu on Sunday. Thirty people have been arrested in connection with the tragedy. At least 98 people have died over the past three days in three districts of Punjab, including 75 in Tarn Taran, 12 in Amritsar rural, and 11 in Gurdaspur’s Batala city. “So far, 75 people have died in Tarn Taran,” said Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh. Meanwhile, Gurdaspur Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq said that 11 deaths have been reported in Batala city of the district. “In Amritsar district, the total deaths have been 12 so far. One person is undergoing treatment at a local hospital,” said Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira. ‘Mind your State’ Meanwhile, on Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s demand for a CBI probe into the tragedy, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday asked the former to “mind his own business and not to exploit the tragic affair for reviving his defunct Aam Aadmi Party’s stake in the State”. “So many people have died and all you are interested in is making political meat from the incident,” said Capt. Amarinder’ He added that Mr. Kejriwal should concentrate on maintaining law and order in his own State, which, he said, was notorious for the brazen manner in which criminals and gangs were roaming the streets without fear. ‘Trashes claims’ Trashing Mr. Kejriwal’s claim that “none of the illicit liquor cases from the last few months have been solved by local police,” Capt. Amarinder cited the April 22 case of an illicit liquor factory being busted in district Khanna. He said eight accused had been arrested and a manhunt launched for seven others. In another case, the two kingpins of an illicit liquor distillery Patiala district were arrested on May 22 and June 13 this year, and on July 10, the challan had been filed in the court. Another case was similarly unearthed in May with the arrest of a mafia leader, against whom the police was waiting for chemical analysis report to move forward. ‘Political gimmick’ Capt. Amarinder said Mr. Kejriwal’s demand for a CBI probe was nothing but a political gimmick aimed at regaining lost foothold for his party. He also advised Mr. Kejriwal to concentrate on his State’s COVID situation. “Rather than worrying about Punjab’s affairs, why don’t you take care of the health and lives of Delhiites.” Pointing out that strict action was being taken against all those found guilty in any case of illicit brewing and smuggling, Capt. Amarinder said that in this case too, 30 persons had already been arrested under five FIRs registered in the three districts. Moreover, 13 officials from the police and excise and taxation departments had been suspended for negligence, while investigations were on to ascertain their complicity in the case, he said. A Magisterial Commission of Inquiry had been set up with the mandate to submit its report within a month, he added.
03 August 2020||MYSURU,||Retired govt. official dies after many hospitals refuse admission||A retired government official suffering from a sudden onset of breathing difficulty died on Saturday after more than 10 hospitals in Mysuru refused to admit her. Choti Bi, who retired as Assistant Child Development Project Officer in Mysuru two years ago, had barely recovered from a bout of fever earlier in the week when she started experiencing breathing difficulty on Saturday morning. Though her brothers rushed her from one hospital to another in a borrowed car from 6 a.m., they were turned away by about 10 hospitals even as her condition deteriorated rapidly. She ultimately breathed her last around 1 p.m. Reasons given Narrating the ordeal of driving his sister around from one hospital to another, Ghouse Sharief, a teacher at a higher primary school in Hampapura of Srirangapatna taluk, told The Hindu that the hospitals cited a lack of beds and ventilators, among other things, for denying admission. While some hospitals also said they were not admitting patients suspected of having COVID-19, some others turned her away citing the absence of a positive COVID-19 test report. Tested negative In between knocking on the doors of hospitals, Ms. Bi’s brothers took her for a rapid antigen test, which showed her as negative for COVID-19. Yet, their efforts to secure her a hospital admission proved futile, he said. “Eventually, when we were given a bed with ventilator at Bibi Ayesha Hospital after a patient using the bed died, she lasted barely 30 minutes,” said Mr. Sharief. He said Ms. Bi, who suffered from neither diabetes nor blood pressure, actively participated in projects taken up by the Women and Child Development Department till her retirement about two years ago. Health officials said they had received complaints about non-COVID-19 patients finding it difficult to secure admission in private hospitals. Mysuru City Corporation health officer Nagaraju said a team of officials would visit private hospitals shortly to study the situation.  ‘Cannot refuse admission’ Meanwhile, Socialist Democratic Party of India (SDPI) leader Abdul Majeed, who brought the death of Ms. Bi to Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G. Sankar’s notice, said that as per a July 24 notification issued by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar citing Section 24 (f) and Section 24 (l) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, private hospitals cannot refuse admission to any patient, irrespective of whether they are suffering from COVID-19 or not. In the notification, the Chief Secretary had warned private medical institutions against forcing patients to bring COVID-19 certificate before admitting them, provided they had beds and the patient was willing bear the medical expenditure.  Eventually, when we were given a bed with ventilator at Bibi Ayesha Hospital after a patient using the bed died, she lasted barely 30 minutes.   Ghouse Sharief,   Choti Bi’s brother
03 August 2020||Srinagar,||A year on, several J&K leaders remain confined||Almost a year after the special status of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) was revoked on August 5 last year, over two dozen mainstream leaders of the regional parties, including the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), remain under house arrest in the Kashmir valley. “Around 16 leaders of the party continue to be under house arrest for the past 363 days,” NC spokesman Imran Nabi Dar told The Hindu . NC president Farooq Abdullah and vice-president Omar Abdullah had filed two separate petitions in the court on July 13 to get these leaders released “to start political deliberations”. “House detentions without any administrative orders are unlawful. It undermines human rights and individual liberty,” said Mr. Imran. Most of the NC leaders, now under house arrest, served in jails in different detention centres since August 5, 2019, and were later shifted to homes. PDP spokesman Suhail Bukhari said the top PDP leaders are disallowed to move out of their houses. “Naeem Akhtar, G.N. Hanjura, Sartaj Madani, Peer Mansoor, A.R Veeri etc, all former legislators and Ministers, remain under house arrest since their release from sub-jails,” said Mr. Bukhari. Sajad Lone-headed Peoples Conference (PC) leader Abdul Ghani Vakil and J&K’s Peoples Movement chief Shah Faesal and Javaid Mustafa Mir are also placed under house arrest, according to the party spokesmen. Regional politics “Regional politics and the politicians are being made to vanish from the scene in J&K after August 5 last year. Year on, the practice continues,” said former Minister and PDP leader Akhtar. Hurriyat chairman and Kashmir’s head priest, Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, also remains under house arrest at his Nigeen residence in Srinagar. “The Mirwaiz is not allowed to come out. He could not attend any important and significant religious events due to the house arrest. No one is allowed to meet him since August 5 last year,” a family member said. All top three separatist leaders — JKLF chief Yasin Malik, former Hurriyat chairman Syed Ali Geelani and the Mirwaiz — are among scores of separatist leaders either under house arrest or jailed.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Cong. needs to have ideological clarity to take on BJP’||At a time when the Congress seems to be going through a churn, former Union Minister Manish Tewari spoke about the rift in the party and the need to have ideological clarity to take on the BJP and hold elections to appoint a full-time president if the Gandhis are not inclined to take up the responsibility. Edited excerpts:  The Congress is in turmoil. Jyotiraditya Scindia’s departure and Sachin Pilot’s rebellion give a sense that people close to Rahul Gandhi are being marginalised in the party after he stepped down as president. Mr. Scindia and Mr. Pilot were “princelings” of the party. They inherited their fathers’ respective Lok Sabha seats after their tragic demise. They never went through the grind of the NSUI or IYC. They did not spread mats at public meetings, paint slogans on the walls, get knifed in student politics, or lathicharged by police. Be it Priyanka Chaturvedi, Ajoy Kumar, Pradyot Manikya and many others like them, they never had any ideological convictions or emotions attached to the party. For them, it was but a vehicle to catapult them into organisational or governmental positions. When they thought that this lorry had outlived its utility, they ditched it for the next bus available. I have always believed that “imports from outside” can be made MPs, MLAs, even Ministers but should not be given organisational positions. It almost looks like an all-out war with so many of you — from Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik, Shashi Tharoor to Milind Deora — attacking Rajeev Satav for questioning the UPA. Again, he is seen to be close to Mr. Gandhi. No, it’s not at an all-out war. Some colleagues seem to have bought into the BJP’s narrative as if there was monumental malfeasance in the UPA [United Progressive Alliance] government. This is simply untrue. Those of us who worked in the government are trying to set the record straight. Unfortunately, those who labour under those misconceptions were too focused on internal organisational processes at that point in time to carry the message of the “good work” of the UPA effectively to the people. Mr. Satav blamed the UPA-II government for the party’s problems, and you hit back by questioning the 2019 Lok Sabha defeat. Isn’t this a clear divide? As someone who defended the UPA I and II with all the conviction at my command from 2008 to 2014, including losing my health in the process, it gets my goat when some ill-informed people do not get the obvious. What the UPA did in terms of the RTI, MGNREGA, mid-day meal scheme, Food Security Act etc. was truly transformative. Even Nirmala Sitharaman was compelled to acknowledge in her Budget speech that 271 million people were lifted out of poverty during the UPA years. So why did the UPA then fail at the hustings? Primarily because it became the victim of a deep-rooted conspiracy orchestrated by some telecom czars ably fronted by the former CAG and a “certain criminal investigation” whose trajectory had the potential to hurt very deeply entrenched “institutional” interests had it gone to a logical conclusion. The convergence of these two shards caught the UPA in its cross hairs. If you rewind back to the forces backing India Against Corruption, the context of the above would become clear. The UPA failed to deal with this twin attack despite a spectacular victory in 2009. If there was malfeasance, why has not even a subordinate court anywhere in the country found against the UPA on any count? As Sonia Gandhi completes a year as interim president, some people have asked for Mr. Gandhi to return. Is it not possible for the Congress to elect someone outside the Gandhi family? The Congress rank and file have a special place in their hearts and minds for the Nehru-Gandhi family. From 1991 to 1998, no Nehru-Gandhi was in the party. For the past 21 years, no Nehru–Gandhi has been a part of any government either in the Centre or the State. Ms. Gandhi led us with empathy and fairness for 19 long years. Under her leadership, we formed two governments. We unanimously elected Mr. Gandhi for five years in December 2017 because we had faith in his leadership. Ironically, no one asked him to step down in 2019, the fact that he chose to demonstrate that he has a sense of righteousness that is both rare and appreciable. In your opinion, what will it take to revive the party? A full-time president elected by the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in terms of Article 18 (h) of the Constitution. The options are: (a) Rahul Gandhi could withdraw his resignation. (b) If he is reluctant for whatever reasons, then Ms. Gandhi should be persuaded to continue, notwithstanding her known disinclination for the job. (c) If the two are non sequitur, then elections should be held for the presidency. The positions in the Congress Working Committee should be filled through polls and the Congress Parliamentary Board should be revived; AICC sessions like in the past should be held biannually and the process of internal elections should be externally supervised like the Youth Congress. However, most importantly, ideological and strategic clarity is imperative going forward. We must effectively fight against the NDA/BJP State by State and win.  Mr. Scindia and Mr. Pilot were princelings. They inherited their fathers’ seats after their tragic demise
03 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chinese language courses under review||Close on the heels of its decision to drop Mandarin from its list of suggested languages under the National Education Policy, the Ministry of Education (Ministry of Human Resource Development) has decided to put several higher education institutes that offer Chinese language training under the scanner. In particular, the Ministry is looking closely at universities that have in the past had links with the official Chinese language training department “Hanban” that runs hundreds of “Confucius Institutes” (CI) abroad. “The Ministry of Human Resource Development and University Grants Commission (UGC) are in the process of reviewing the work being done by higher education institutions as part of agreements/educational arrangements with foreign institutions. As part of this process we would like to review the activities undertaken by the Confucius Centre in your university/ institution affiliated to your university,” read the letter sent out on July 29, which The Hindu has seen. Although India has only two functional CIs at present — at Mumbai University and the Vellore Institute of Technology — the Ministry has sent letters to at least five institutions that offer Chinese language training, asking them to send all details of collaboration since 2017, which will be reviewed by Education Secretary Amit Khare on August 5. Neither the UGC nor the Ministry of Education would comment on the meeting. It is unclear whether the review by the Secretary of Education aims to scrutinise cooperation only with the CIs, as the letter suggests, or Chinese language studies and educational links with Chinese universities in general. Varsities confused University officials that The Hindu spoke to, who have received letters from the Ministry, say there is some confusion over why they have been contacted at all. O.P. Jindal Global University in Haryana, among those on the Ministry’s review list, said the University has established partnerships with various universities in China, but runs its language centre — not with Hanban — but in collaboration with the National Tsing Hua University in Taiwan. “We do not have a Confucius Centre. We have not established such a centre or institute. However, as a global university, we teach many foreign languages,” said C. Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of the Jindal Global University. The Bharathiar University in Coimbatore, also denied any connection. “We have received a communication from the UGC but we have not received any funding from [Hanban],” said P. Kaliraj, Vice-Chancellor. He added that Mandarin is not taught at the University’s Centre for Foreign Languages. Other universities reportedly under the scanner like Jawaharlal Nehru University, whose Centre for Chinese and Southeast Asian studies had signed the first MoU with CI in 2007, say the plan never took off. JNU had disagreements over the structure of faculty that the CI demanded, and shelved the idea, Centre Chairperson B.R. Deepak told The Hindu . CIs have come under scrutiny recently in Europe, the U.S. and other countries with allegations of them being used as espionage hubs. In a statement earlier this month, the Confucius Institute Headquarters said the Chinese Ministry of Education plans to re-brand Hanban as an NGO called the “Centre for Chinese language education and cooperation”, in order to “disperse western misinterpretation”. According to diplomats, India has always been “ahead of the curve” by discouraging the setting up of CIs, while collaborating on Chinese language training. In 2012, India signed an MoU with Hanban under which 300 Indian teachers would be trained in China. An upgraded “Educational Exchange Programme” (EEP) agreement was signed during Prime Minister Narendra Modi‘s visit to China in 2015. “We maintained a distinction between Confucius Institutes, which we had strong worries about, and Chinese language training support in CBSE schools in conjunction with Hanban,” said former Ambassador to China Ashok Kantha, who was posted to Beijing at the time. Among the two exceptions was the University of Mumbai that set up its CI in 2013, and the Vellore Institute of Technology, which started a Chinese Language Centre in 2009. After initial funding from China, Mumbai CI has supported itself through revenue from its own language courses. “Chinese is important for cultural and strategic reasons and we need to have people who know Chinese. We have very few. In fact, the government needs to increase the Chinese training capacity in the country. We have sent a proposal to them a year ago to give us permanent faculty here at the University to set up a Department of Chinese,” Dr. Vibha Surana, who heads the institute, told The Hindu.   (With inputs from R. Sujatha in Chennai)
03 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||NEP being pushed through without consultation: Cong.||The Congress on Sunday said the new National Education Policy (NEP) missed “the fundamental goal of human development and expansion of knowledge”, and questioned the government’s move to push it through during the COVID-19 pandemic without adequate consultation. The party alleged that the policy circumvented parliamentary oversight, and there had been no discussion with academics but only with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). ‘High on verbosity’ At a joint virtual press conference, former Human Resource Development Minister M. Pallam Raju, the party’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Surjewala, and former Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Gowda said the NEP was high on “catchwords and verbosity”, but lacked critical finances and a coherent road map for implementation. They also said the NEP would further the digital divide between the poor and the rich and promote privatisation of public education that “will lead to education going out of reach of the middle class and the disadvantaged in society”. The Congress asked how the government would deliver on its promise of spending 6% of the GDP on education when it had already fallen from 4.14% of the GDP in 2014 to 3.2% right now. “The National Education Policy, 2020, which aimed to pave the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education, is high on catchwords, gloss, appearance and verbosity yet lacks a coherent implementational road map and strategy, clearly defined milestones and the critical finances necessary to execute this grand vision,” the Congress leaders said in a joint statement. “The timing of the NEP 2020 in the middle of the corona pandemic when all educational institutions are closed is, in and of itself, questionable. More so when almost the entire academia has complained of no consultation, no discussion and no deliberations except with BJP-RSS affiliates,” Mr. Raju said. He, however, complimented K. Kasturirangan and other team members who worked on giving the outlines for the policy. Mr. Gowda, a former IIM faculty member, said, “Any policy coming out of the Modi government must be assessed against its track record over the last six years. For example, Delhi University (DU). One of the first actions of this government was to abolish the four-year programme in DU and now we're turning back to it.” Mr. Surjewala said the new policy would remain on paper as the required finances were not there. The government needs to fill 12 lakh vacancies of schoolteachers; only 10% of government schools in the country had access to computers and just 4% had network connectivity. “There is no mention of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes. There is no discussion about these underprivileged sections who comprise of over 50% of the population,” he said.
03 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Now, software professionals’ body reaches out to Sharada||After actor Sonu Sood offered a job to IT professional Sharada after she lost her job due to the pandemic-induced employment crisis and was forced to take up her parents’ occupation of vending vegetables, a software professionals’ industry body, the Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA), too has come forward to help her. TITA president Sundeep Kumar Makthala visited her home, presented her with a free laptop and enrolled her in a technical course in artificial intelligence (AI) on Sunday. The association initially wanted to extend financial assistance to her, but on learning about her technical prowess, it had decided to give her free training in artificial intelligence through the training module it is offering in association with the University of Texas at Dallas (UTD), one of the top universities in the United States. ‘Support family’ The laptop would help her complete the course from home and allow her to continue supporting her family by selling vegetables, said Mr. Kumar. “Sharadha’s story is inspiring in these COVID-19 times where job losses are not uncommon. However, she took things in her stride and went on to work with the resources at hand. She has sent a message that tough times don’t last but tough people do. We interacted with her and learnt that she is willing to hone her technical skills. We thought a course in artificial intelligence will be of more help in the current situation,” he said. The IT industry was not immune to the changes happening globally. However, IT professionals should learn to cope with the job scenarios and should not lose heart, Mr. Kumar said. They should use the current times to hone their skills or learn new skills, which would enhance their employability, he added. ‘Learning new skills’ TITA had been working on this front to drive home the need for learning new skills constantly, Mr. Kumar said. Youngsters should look at entrepreneurship as well and not just look for placements, despite AI, cybersecurity and blockchain technologies promising to provide job opportunities as they were the current flavour, he said. TITA spokesperson Venkata Vanam, sports secretary Ronith Banda were also present at the meeting.
03 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Vigilance seeks Kerala govt. nod to probe Sivasankar||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) appeared poised to conduct a preliminary inquiry against M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The agency has reportedly sought the sanction of the government to conduct prefatory scrutiny into charges of corruption levelled against the IT Department by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, among other petitioners. Mr. Sivasankar had headed the department before his temporary removal from service last month. The bureaucrat had come under a cloud after some quarters linked his name to Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the UAE-consulate related gold smuggling case.  A committee headed by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta had found Mr. Sivasankar ‘culpable’ of official misconduct for having ‘recommended’ Swapna to a post in the State-run Space Park project. The officer has denied any wrongdoing. Mr. Chennithala had accused the IT Department of having violated anti-corruption regulations and the process of open bidding to arbitrarily award a software start-up company the lucrative contract to develop a smartphone application to enable customers to purchase liquor in-person from State-run outlets and bar hotels. Circumventing PSC Mr. Chennithala had accused Mr. Sivasankar of circumventing the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) route to appoint persons with a questionable qualification in various IT Department projects. Mr. Chennithala had moved the Director, VACB, in May against the IT Department. He had repeatedly accused the agency, helmed by Mr. Vijayan, of having forsaken its role as an anti-corruption watchdog. Sources said the VACB might have sought sanction for a preliminary inquiry into the allegations raised by Mr. Chennithala to pre-empt him from moving the court. Any move to investigate Mr. Sivasankar would finally be a political decision. The government was yet to reveal its mind in the matter, they said. Nepotism angle By some accounts, the VACB has displayed an interest in the official misconduct charge against Mr. Sivasankar. It related to his alleged intervention to secure Swapna a government job. The agency ‘believed’ that the anti-corruption act covered such offences better. Swapna's post as a marketing liaison officer in Space Project did not require a degree as a qualification. Hence, the forgery case against Swapna might not stand legal scrutiny. However, a charge of nepotism under the Prevention of Corruption Act might stand against her employer for having ‘violated employment exchange norms to enable a backdoor appointment,’ an official said.
03 August 2020||KOCHI,||Campaign for tiger reserve in Wayanad to be renewed||Armed with the recent report on status of tigers, co-predators and prey, the Kerala Forest Department will revive its campaign for a tiger reserve in Wayanad, which is home to a significant number of big cats. The Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary has 120 individual tigers and a tiger density of 9.33 tigers in 100 sq km. The report noted that the sanctuary had “more tigers and higher density of tigers than many other reserves and should be gazetted as a tiger reserve.” The report mentions 1,380 tiger detections, including 29 images of cubs. Earlier attempt The contiguous network of Tiger Reserves and Protected Areas of Nagarhole-Bandipur- Wayanad- Mudumalai- Sathyamangalam- BRT complex, which has an estimated tiger population of 724, supports the highest number of wild tigers in India. It was also noted that “together with the adjoining tiger reserves of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, this region is home to the largest tiger and elephant population in the world.” Earlier, an attempt of the Forest Department to push the campaign for the reserve was shot down by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at a meeting of the State Wildlife Advisory Board. The Chief Minister had noted that such proposals should be implemented after public consultations. It was the human-animal conflicts in the region and the reported instances of tigers lifting cattle and straying into human habitations that stoked the fear among public. The department should once again raise the issue at the next meeting of the board. More funds A senior forest official said the notification of the sanctuary was one of the effective ways for tiger conservation and mitigating the human-animal conflicts in the region. The notification would ensure adequate funding from various agencies, which could be used for addressing the human-animal conflicts. If not notified, the present situation may continue for long, which may not be beneficial of the general public, the official said.
03 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi court discharges IS suspect||After declining to continue charges under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against four alleged Islamic State (IS) suspects, who had been arrested by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police in January after a brief exchange of fire, a court here has discharged one of them and ordered his release. The case, initially probed by the Delhi Police, was transferred to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on January 30. The agency filed a chargesheet on July 6. The accused were identified as Khaja Moideen, Abdul Samad, Syed Ali Nawas and Jaffar Ali. Lack of clarity After the NIA filed the chargesheet, Additional Sessions Judge Praveen Singh found it to be “lacking clarity”, and asked specific questions with regard to “availability of evidence”. The judge said in an order dated July 29 that “Accused no. 4 Jaffar Ali @Umar stands discharged. He be released forthwith, if not required in any other case.” Ali is, however, named in two other cases registered by the NIA. The order also stated that by a separate order on “cognisance for the offences punishable under Sections 18, 19, 23, 38 and 39 UAP Act has been declined.” However, the court took cognisance of offences punishable under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act. Two cases involving the suspects in the present case that were registered by the Tamil Nadu police on December 28 last year and Bengaluru police on January 10 this year, were also transferred to the NIA.
03 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Confusion over invite to Advani||Amid massive preparations for the bhoomi poojan (ground-breaking ceremony) for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya slated for August 5, confusion prevails over whether the architect of the Ramjanmabhoomi movement, former Deputy Prime Minister L.K. Advani, has received an invitation to participate in the ceremony. Senior aides of Mr. Advani confirmed to The Hindu that an invitation was yet to be received from the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, set up for the construction of the temple. On the other hand, sources in the Trust said that arrangements were being made for Mr. Advani’s participation via videoconference as his age and the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic made it risky for him to attend in person. “Phone calls were made on Saturday, and an invitation from the general secretary of the Trust will be issued soon,” a source said. Mr. Advani’s office has denied that even such an arrangement has been mooted as yet. Other leaders associated with the movement, former Chief Ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharati, respectively, have both received an invite, and have declared that they shall attend in person and be in Ayodhya from August 4. Last week, Mr. Advani deposed before a special CBI Court in Lucknow via videoconference to answer questions pertaining to a case on the destruction of the Babri Masjid in 1992.
03 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hyderabad airport gets thermal scanner||The Hyderabad International Airport is now equipped with a state-of-the-art thermal scanner provided by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in coordination with Asian Development Bank and funded by UNICEF. The scanner is a ceiling-mounted mass fever screening system and is capable of scanning, detecting and tracking febrile persons with elevated skin temperature. It automatically adjusts and adapts to the surrounding ambient temperature without any human intervention. With its intuitive user interface and dual-displays (day camera + infra-red), it provides easy identification of passengers with elevated temperature, while simplifying operations and minimising handling, informed an official spokesman. The new scanner imparts more control to Hyderabad Airport Health Organisation, along with existing thermal scanners at international arrivals for enhancing efficiency of the screening process. The Rajiv Gandhi International Airport has has handled close to 40,000 international arrivals passengers from May 2020. International arrival passengers and airline crew undergo mandatory health screening by airport health officers to identify symptomatic passengers to safeguard the spread of COVID and provide necessary medical assistance to such passengers. “We are thankful to the Ministry in having this modern equipment installed and also to ADB and UNICEF for this gesture. With this facility, it makes the task of health officials at the airport a little more easy,” said Airport CEO Pradeep Panicker. Senior regional director of Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (AP and Telangana) Anuradha Medoju said the new screening system alerts ‘if any passenger is found with high temperature, without disturbing passenger movement’.
03 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. asks leaders to stop ‘Twitter games’||A day after former Ministers in the UPA government took to Twitter to defend their “track record”, the Congress on Sunday asked party leaders to raise issues in party’s internal fora and “stop playing twitter games”. Four former Union Ministers — Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor, Anand Sharma and Milind Deora — had come out in defence of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and the UPA-II government following Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Satav’s recent comments asking for an introspection of the UPA-II’s track record and held it responsible for bringing the party to 44 seats in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Congress communication chief Randeep Surjewala reached Delhi by a special aircraft from Jaisalmer to address a press conference on Sunday where “he urged party colleagues with folded hands” to stop airing views in public. The move comes after top leadership took serious note of the ongoing Twitter war. Mr. Surjewala tried to assuage the feelings of senior Congress leaders by praising their rich experience and contribution. “Rahul Gandhi wanted to send a clear message that there is no difference between him, Soniaji and Dr. Singh. And that’s why Randeep Surjewala was sent to hold a special press meet all the way from Rajasthan,” said a leader. On the possibility of rebel leader Sachin Pilot’s return, Mr. Surjewala said, “Sachin Pilot must come and hold a conversation first. He must come out and state his position clearly and unequivocally first and only then can talk of his return happen.”
03 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rahul Gandhi calls for Mehbooba’s release||Demanding the release of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader and former Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said India’s democracy is damaged when political leaders are ‘illegally’ detained. “India’s democracy is damaged when GOI illegally detains political leaders. It’s high time Mehbooba Mufti is released,” Mr. Gandhi said on Twitter. In response, BJP leader and Union Minister Dr. Jitendra Singh tweeted, ”If someone could teach Rahul Gandhi the infamous history of Nehruvian times, he would learn that his great grandfather and the then PM Jawaharlal Nehru had disposed off Sheikh Abdullah for house arrest 2,000 km away in distant confines of Tamil Nadu for as long as around 12 years.” Ms. Mufti has been in detention under the Public Safety Act (PSA) since J&K’s special status under Article 370 was removed last August.
03 August 2020||New Delhi,||Centre seeks 3 more months for CAA rules||The Home Ministry has sought an extension of three months to frame the rules of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, a contentious legislation that was passed by Parliament more than six months ago. The Ministry informed a parliamentary committee on subordinate legislation about the delay, after the former wrote to it seeking the status of the CAA rules. Without rules being notified, the CAA cannot be implemented or come into force. A senior government official confirmed that the Ministry has sought more time but did not specify the reasons for the delay.  The Hindu reported on July 20 that the Home Ministry had neither notified the CAA rules nor informed Parliament about the delay. The CAA provides citizenship on the basis of religion to immigrants from six non-Muslim communities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh who entered India on or before December 31, 2014. It was passed by Parliament on December 11 last year, and the President gave his assent on December 12. A month later, the Home Ministry issued a notification that the provisions of the Act would come into force on January 10. Around 70 people were killed in various incidents after the CAA was passed. The protests stopped in March with the country-wide lockdown in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. As per the Manual on Parliamentary Work, “statutory rules, regulations and bylaws will be framed within a period of six months from the date on which the relevant statute came into force.” The manual states that in case the Ministries/departments are not able to frame the rules within the prescribed period, “they should seek extension of time from the Committee on Subordinate Legislation stating reasons for such extension” which cannot be more than for a period of three months at a time.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Amit Shah tests positive, admitted to hospital||On Saturday, Mr. Shah inaugurated a webinar organised by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations on the 100th death anniversary Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak in the capital. About 20 persons were present at the function. A government source also confirmed that Mr. Shah was present at a Union Cabinet meeting, presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday, when the new education policy was approved. A Cabinet Minister confirmed to The Hindu that he was getting himself tested for COVID-19 in view of Mr. Shah’s COVID-19 status. In Chennai, the Kauvery Hospital said Governor Purohit was asymptomatic and clinically stable. He has been advised home isolation with medical monitoring. In Lucknow, Ms. Varun, 62, who held the technical education portfolio, died during treatment at a Lucknow hospital.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Quarantine rules eased||Passengers will have to apply to the www.newdelhiairport.in to seek relief at least 72 hours before boarding the flight. The decision will then be communicated online. Additionally, those who don't fall into any of these categories, may also seek exemption from institutional quarantine “by submitting a negative RT-PCR test report on arrival”. The test should be conducted within 96 hours of undertaking the journey. Such passengers will have to undergo home quarantine for the total duration of 14 days. These guidelines supersede those issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on May 24. Earlier, passengers were required to register with the Indian embassy in their country, but now they can simply register online at www.newdelhiairport.in.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Pakistanis behind ‘Chinese’ info war||One account, with a profile name in Chinese characters, Zeping, and handle ‘sawaxpx’, that tweeted on the border previously tweeted in Urdu. Its tweets are now unavailable. Another account, ‘Yasifxi’, had a Chinese name and tweeted in Chinese characters, posting information about the border clash, but was traced to Pakistan. These accounts have shared false information about casualties from the clash, unrelated images of injured soldiers, and videos of troops’ confrontations that were from previous border incidents. Tweeting in Mandarin and using Chinese names gave the posts a sense of credibility. Some have gone to great lengths to establish authenticity, choosing Mandarin names, regularly retweeting information from official Chinese media outlets, such as Xinhua, and using photographs of Chinese soldiers as their profile images. One such account has 17,000 followers and regularly tweets information from official Chinese media, in addition to disinformation. It is even followed by a couple of Chinese diplomats. While in its case, the location is difficult to pinpoint, a careful reading of the tweets, and the fact that it is mostly mostly shared by Pakistani accounts, strongly hints at its origins — a fact that most readers are unaware of. This strategy has not been limited to adopting Chinese identities. Pakistani accounts have also recently adopted Nepali and Sri Lankan avatars, all with the same motivation: posting information aimed at creating an unfavourable narrative about India.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||An ‘analog’ library gets a new avatar||Mr. Wangsu and his students then took turns to clear the wild bushes around the centre, and repair, paint and decorate the rooms with the help of donations. The 15 feet by 7 feet reading hall with a library room and a toilet opened in July. “Apart from my own collection of books, papers and magazines, there are more than 100 academic books and journals collected from the library. The Deputy Commissioner and other officers also provided some reading material,” Mr. Wangsu said, adding that civil service aspirants were making full use of the library. “The district administration and students who returned post the lockdown joined hands for the initiative. Students, otherwise, seldom return, largely due to the lack of educational opportunities,” Ms. Yadav said. Despite many challenges, Longding has made strides in improving education. The Class 10 success rate during 2019-20 was 38.12%, compared to 26.83% during the previous year. The ‘Mission 100%’ project saw an average of 96% Class 12 students in the district pass the Science and Humanities exams, up from about 70% during 2018-19. “As an encouragement to pursue higher education, we are providing airfare for students to pursue higher education in colleges under Delhi University and other States,” Ms. Yadav said.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,||NGT stays felling of coconut trees on Agatti||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal has granted an interim stay on felling of coconut trees on Agatti Island in Lakshadweep for the purpose of forming a beach road. The Tribunal has constituted a committee to find out whether there has been any violation of the Integrated Island Management Plan (IIMP) approved by the Lakshadweep Administration. The Bench of Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta directed the Union Territory of Lakshadweep and the Lakshadweep Public Works Department to maintain status quo as of July 30 and not cut any more coconut trees till the next hearing in November. Vital green belt The applicant, Agatti Island Kera Karshaka Sanghom, moved the Tribunal alleging that the administration was indiscriminately cutting coconut trees for a beach road, which was against the IIMP. The IIMP for Lakshadweep was formulated on the basis of a report submitted by the Supreme Court-appointed Expert Committee, headed by Justice R.V. Raveendran, former judge of the SC. The applicant submitted that due to the large scale cutting of the coconut trees, local residents were not only affected by losing income but also face environmental disaster as the trees on the coastline act as a green belt to protect the rest of the island during cyclones and other natural calamities. Directing the committee appointed by it to investigate the issue thoroughly and probe any violation, the NGT asked the panel to assess the quantum of environmental compensation. The Tribunal said the recovery of compensation would be from the person responsible for the damage.
03 August 2020||New Delhi,||NIA arrests six more||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested six more and conducted searches at six places in connection with the Kerala gold smuggling case, an official said on Sunday. The agency has so far arrested 10 people in the case of smuggling of gold through diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.
03 August 2020||Kozhikode,||PG doctors averse to working at FLTCs||The Kerala Medical Postgraduate Association (KMPGA), an organisation representing resident doctors and postgraduate (PG) medical students in government medical college hospitals (MCHs) in the State, has opposed the move to put them on duty at COVID-19 First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTC) that treat asymptomatic COVID-19 patients and those with mild symptoms. They have also sought proper quarantine facilities after attending duties at COVID-19 wards. In a release, KMPGA functionaries pointed out that the resident doctors were in the front-line of the battle against COVID-19 and they also take care of non-COVID-19 routine duties. Many postgraduate medical students, however, had of late tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and many others are in quarantine. “This has created a scarcity of manpower as routine works in medical college hospitals are executed by the PG students and house surgeons,” they said. Infection clusters likely They claimed despite a Supreme Court order mandating quarantine for health-care workers who are part of COVID-19 duty, residents and house surgeons were not given the facility at institutions such as the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. They were put on non-COVID-19 duty without duty offs., saying there would be staff shortage. “This could lead to infection clusters in hospitals and hostels. There have been incidents of positive cases without any contact history and from non-COVID-19 wards. There could be a possible cluster of hospital cases in the future,” they said. Against this backdrop, the proposal to join duty at FLTCs was not acceptable, they said.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Essence of Sastras||Life is a puzzle, to understand which, we need to study the Vedas. But the Vedas are not easily comprehended. Sages like Bharadwaja spent centuries trying to fathom the Vedas, but did not succeed. What then is the solution? The Bhagavad Gita provides the answers to our questions. Although Lord Krishna advised Arjuna on the battlefield, His advice was intended for all mankind, for we are no better than Arjuna. Like Arjuna, we too are caught up in familial ties, and are unable to distinguish right from wrong. The Gita is in eighteen chapters, and these can be divided into three segments, elaborated V. Sowmyanarayanan, in a discourse. The first segment of six chapters deals with yoga and talks of what is jnana yoga, karma yoga etc. These six chapters talk of what should be done for the atma to be liberated. The second set of six chapters, that is chapter seven to chapter twelve, tells us how jnana and karma yoga should culminate in bhakti yoga. Chapters thirteen to eighteen talk of how Lord Narayana differs from others, why He is Sarvesvara. The last segment of six chapters also goes over all the concepts discussed previously. None of the three schools of philosophy can be established without the Bhagavad Gita. The Gita is the essence of all the Sastras, just as the Ganges is the ultimate among all rivers and just as Hari is Supreme among all devas. It is said that among the verses in the Gita, 620 are told by Krishna; 57 by Arjuna; 67 by Sanjaya and one by Dhritharashtra. All the three schools of philosophy have commentaries on the Gita. As far as Visishtadvaita is concerned, while Ramanujacharya wrote Gita Bhashya, Vedanta Desika wrote Tatparya Chandrika, which is a commentary on Ramanuja’s Gita Bhashya. Gita is Saranagati Sastra.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Life amid pandemic||
03 August 2020||New Delhi,||NIA searches professor’s Noida house||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) conducted searches at the Noida residence of an associate professor of Delhi University who was arrested last week in a case pertaining to 2018 Bhima Koregaon riots. The NIA claimed that the accused, Hany Babu M.T, was in contact with Paikhomba Meitei, Secretary, Information and Publicity, Military Affairs, Kangkeipak Communist Party, an organisation banned under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). “An interview of Ganapathy, General Secretary of CPI (Maoist), was shared by Paikhomba Meitei with the accused Hany Babu. Communications of Hany Babu with other Maoists of Manipur have also been retrieved,” the NIA said on Sunday. The agency said after the release of CPI (Maoist) leader Pallath Govindankutty, Mr. Babu, along with other accused Rona Wilson, took the initiative to help him by raising funds.  During the search, the NIA seized an account ledger, a receipt book of the Committee for the Defence and Release of G.N. Saibaba, some documents and other items such as a hard disk, USB pen drive etc.
03 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam unlocks as positivity rate declines||The Assam government on Sunday announced a slew of lockdown relaxations but as an experiment for 12 days in view of the decline in the COVID-19 positivity rate. This follows the decision on reopening schools and colleges from September 1 if the situation improves and the Centre gives the go-ahead. The State government’s order, effective from 7 p.m. on Sunday, said the permitted activities would be allowed till 7 p.m. on August 14. The State might open up further from August 15.
03 August 2020||Mumbai,||Amitabh out of hospital||Megastar Amitabh Bachchan on Sunday said he had tested negative for COVID-19 and would now be under home quarantine. The 77-year-old actor, who was admitted to Nanavati Hospital along with son Abhishek, tested positive on July 11. He expressed his gratitude to well-wishers for their continued support and prayers. “I have tested COVID- have been discharged. I am back home in solitary quarantine. Grace of the Almighty, blessings of Ma Babuji, prayers, duas of near and dear and friends fans EF and the excellent care and nursing at Nanavati made it possible for me to see this,” Amitabh wrote on Twitter. Minutes before the screen icon, Abhishek shared on the microblogging site that his father had tested negative for the virus. Mr. Abhishek Bachchan said he was still COVID-19 positive and would remain under care. “I, unfortunately due to some comorbidities, remain Covid-19 positive and remain in hospital. Again, thank you all for your continued wishes and prayers for my family. Very humbled and indebted. I’ll beat this and come back healthier! Promise.”
03 August 2020||Patna,||Bihar may hold one-day Assembly meet||The four-day monsoon session of the Bihar legislature is likely to be a four-hour affair on a single day on August 3 at Patna’s Gyan Bhawan of the Samrat Ashok International Convention Centre due to surging positive cases of COVID-19. A meeting of legislative party leaders on August 1 agreed to transact all important legislative businesses of four days on a single day on August 3 and wind up the session due to the pandemic. However, the final decision on this, Assembly officials said, would be taken in the House after a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee. “Only the House is empowered to make any changes in the schedule of the business approved by the Governor,” said an official. Earlier, Governor Phagu Chouhan had convened the four-day monsoon session of the legislature from August 3. It is now likely that all legislative work of the House would be completed in the first half of the session and the debate would take place in the second half. A total of 10 ordinances and two Bills are to be laid on the table of the House on July 3.
03 August 2020||Bulandshahr,||Man goes missing in Bulandshahr||A 30-year-old grocery shop owner of a village near Pahasu town in U.P.’s Bulandshahr district went missing on Sunday with his motorcycle later found abandoned at a secluded place outside the town, police said. Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar Singh said Arun Kumar Singh ran a grocery shop in his village and had left for Pahasu with Rs. 3,000. As he did not return till late afternoon, his family members informed the police.PTI
03 August 2020||Patna,||Flood situation in Bihar worsens||The flood situation in Bihar worsened on Sunday as water from overflowing rivers inundated fresh areas, while a total of 53.67 lakh people across 14 districts were affected, the Disaster Management Department said here. No fresh casualty was reported and the number of people who died in flood-related incidents stood at 13. The number of people affected by the deluge has gone up by 4.62 lakh since Saturday, the department said in a bulletin.PTI
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,||26-year-old constable is first policeman in State to donate plasma||Constable Veerabhadraiah, 26, who is attached to Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) and who successfully battled COVID-19, became the first policeman in the State to donate his plasma on Saturday. “I hope it saves someone’s life. My senior officers also encouraged me and gave me confidence to donate my plasma,” he said. Mr. Veerabhadraiah, who hails from Aurad, Bidar district, and lives at the police quarters in Koramangala, tested positive for the virus on June 26. He was hospitalised for over a week. While acknowledging that he was fortunate to have recovered, he said, “One need not fear the virus. In my experience at the hospital, many were suffering more from a fear psychosis than from the virus.” Taking a cue from him, nine of his colleagues at the KSRP who similarly successfully recovered from COVID-19 have registered with the authorised plasma bank to donate their plasma. Plasma therapy for critical COVID-19 patients involves injecting plasma cells of someone who has been cured of the infection. Karnataka State police chief Praveen Sood tweeted on Sunday, “They [policemen] are walking the extra mile for society. May their tribe increase.” He further told The Hindu that many police personnel across the State were now keen on donating their plasma cells. “It is a voluntary process and we will not instruct anyone to do so. If someone is willing to donate their plasma cells and there is no plasma bank in their district, we will make arrangements to bring them to their nearest bank,” he said. Meanwhile, the State police are slowly getting back on their feet after an initial wave of COVID-19 cases that had gripped the force. The recovery rate has only recently crossed 50% in the force. While the recovery rate of the department has been 56.5%, it is slightly better for the Bengaluru City Police, where 62.5% of those infected have recovered. As on Sunday morning, the State police force had seen a total of 3,002 cases, including 1,283 active cases, while the numbers for Bengaluru police were 1,377 and 506, respectively. There have been 20 deaths in the State police force, and 10 in Bengaluru police force.
03 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||BRIEFLY||The State government on Sunday transferred Crime Investigation Department (CID) Deputy Inspector General (Crime Records Bureau) C.M. Thrivikram Varma, on Sunday. He was asked to report in the General Administration Department (GAD) for fresh posting, according to a GO.
03 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Release Mehbooba Mufti, others, Concerned Citizens Group urges Centre||The Concerned Citizens Group (CCG) has asked the Centre to release Mehbooba Mufti and others who are under detention. The group sought restoration of 4G network in Jammu and Kashmir, lifting of the curbs on peaceful political activity, a multi-level dialogue with those affected by the August 5 decision, and compensation to Kashmiri farmers and businessmen for their economic losses.
03 August 2020||Patna,||COVID-19: Four-day monsoon session of Bihar legislature likely to be a four-hour affair on August 3||The four-day monsoon session of the Bihar legislature is likely to be a four-hour affair on a single day on August 3 at Patna’s Gyan Bhawan of the Samrat Ashok International Convention Centre, due to a surge in COVID-19 cases. A meeting of legislature party leaders on August 1 agreed to transact all important legislative businesses of four days on a single day. However, the final decision, Assembly officials said, would be taken in the House after a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee.
03 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab hooch tragedy toll rises to 98||The death toll in the hooch tragedy in three districts of Punjab has risen to 98, officials told The Hindu on Sunday. At least 98 people had died over the past over three days in the State — 75 in Tarn Taran, 12 in Amritsar rural and 11 in Batala town of Gurdaspur, after consumption of spurious liquor. The police have so far arrested 30 persons in more than 100 searches in the three affected districts.
03 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sonia Gandhi discharged from Ganga Ram Hospital||Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who was admitted on July 30 evening to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital here, was discharged at 1 p.m. on Sunday. “Her condition at the time of discharge was stable,” said D.S. Rana, chairman (board of management) of the hospital.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Hospitals in districts overcharging patients||Complaints about collection of excess charges by various private hospitals in the districts has come to light. . Inquiries made with a number of hospitals in Coimbatore, Tiruchi and Madurai to check the prevailing rates revealed that many charged in excess of the amount fixed by the government.
03 August 2020||GUNTUR,||Prevention of last rites an offence, says judge||District Judge and Chairman of District Legal Services Authority G Gopichand has said that all those who die due to COVID deserve a dignified cremation . In a release, the judge said any one who prevents a burial of a person who died of COVID is liable under IPC Sections 297,341,147 and 148.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wait continues for more ambulances||The Greater Chennai Corporation is yet to get additional ambulances to prevent COVID-19 deaths. Forty ambulances are expected to be added to the existing fleet of 80 vehicles. But the new vehicles, which were supposed to arrive last week, have not been provided yet. The Corporation reported 17 deaths of COVID-19 patients on Sunday. The city has reported 12,190 active cases, with 1,065 new cases on Sunday. The city has been witnessing at least 20 patients with breathlessness requesting emergency response from 108 ambulances. The civic officials at a meeting seven days ago with officials managing 108 ambulances and Tamil Nadu Health Systems Project demanded additional ambulance for improving patient transportation. Pointing to the rising number of death of COVID-19 patients caused by “delayed presentation at hospitals”, the civic officials advised action against those ambulance drivers who failed to respond to emergency situations reported by COVID-19 positive patients’ families. The civic officials demanded at least 40 additional ambulances to strengthen the patient transportation in 200 wards of the corporation. The new ambulances with oxygen support were supposed to arrive in the city by July 29. But the ambulances have not arrived yet. City health officer Jagadeesan said the number of ambulances would be increased in the first week of August.  Redeployment opposed Public health experts said the more ambulances might be required only after the lockdown was lifted, to handle a peak in COVID-19 positive cases. At present, most government hospitals in the city received fewer number of patients but the suburbs have reported a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases, the officials said. “Providing additional ambulances for Chennai will reduce the number of deaths in the city. But it should not be done by reducing the number of ambulances in suburban areas and other districts of the State. Suburbs have reported a delay of more than four hours for ambulance to transport patients,” said a public health official. According to data compiled by the Corporation, more than 1,000 active COVID-19 cases have been reported in Anna Nagar, Ambattur, Kodambakkam, Valasaravakkam and Adyar zones. The case fatality rate was 2.12% for the city. But zones such as Tiruvottiyur and Teynampet have registered a case fatality rate of around 3%. Officials said such areas require more ambulances to transport COVID-19 patients in time.  It should not be done by reducing the number of ambulances in suburban areas and other districts of the State Public Health Official
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. logs 5,875 fresh COVID-19 cases, 98 deaths||With 5,875 fresh cases reported on Sunday, the number of active cases in Tamil Nadu (including those in isolation) has risen to 56,998. The State’s overall case tally stands at 2,57,613. As many as 5,517 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 1,96,483. Chennai and neighbouring districts continued to report a high number of cases. The city recorded 1,065 fresh cases. As many as 12,190 persons, including those under home quarantine, are undergoing treatment. As many as 1,303 persons were discharged on Sunday. The city’s overall case count stands at 1,01,951. In Chengalpattu, 446 people tested positive. In Kancheepuram, 393 persons were diagnosed with the infection. Tiruvallur reported 317 fresh cases. Theni recorded 309 cases and Virudhunagar 337. Most deaths in Chennai Of the 98 persons whose deaths were recorded in the medical bulletin released by the Directorate of Public Health, eight had no co-morbidites. While 23 persons died of the infection at private hospitals, the rest died at government institutions. The total number of lives lost to COVID-19 in the State so far stands at 4,132. Chennai recorded the highest number of deaths, at 17, followed by Tiruvallur district, where eight persons died. In Coimbatore, seven persons died of the infection. The southern districts of Madurai, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Virudhunagar recorded six deaths each. An 80-year-old man from Chennai, who was admitted to a private hospital on July 9 with complaints of fever and breathing difficulty for seven days, died on Saturday evening. Doctors said he had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome and septic shock owing to COVID-19. A 97-year-old woman from Kancheepuram, who was hypertensive and had psychiatric disorder, was admitted to a private hospital in the city on July 18 with complaints of fever for seven days and breathing difficulty for two days. She died on Saturday morning owing to pneumonia caused by the infection. A 23-year-old male, who suffered from a chronic kidney disease, was admitted on Friday evening to the Government Medical College at Omandurar government estate. He died on the same day. The samples lifted from him returned positive for the infection on Saturday. According to the Health Department, 27,79,062 samples have been tested so far. On Sunday, officials announced that a private laboratory at the Melmaruvathur Adhiparasakthi Institute of Medical Sciences, Chengalpattu, had been approved for COVID-19 testing.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Callers offer BCG vaccine to elderly without mentioning trial||In the ongoing BCG vaccine trial, a few elderly residents of Chennai have been receiving calls from persons representing the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), offering the vaccine as a “protection” and “immunity booster”. But these residents, who had tested negative for COVID-19, are not being appropriately informed that this is a “trial”. Last month, the State government gave its approval to the ICMR-National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis (NIRT) for the trial to study the efficacy of the vaccine in reducing the severity of COVID-19 and the resultant hospitalisation among those aged above 60. Nearly 350 participants and 120 members in a control group were being recruited from zones identified as COVID-19 hotspots in Chennai and Tiruvallur districts. A few days ago, a caller informed an elderly person that his swab samples, taken at a fever camp in north Chennai, had returned negative and asked whether he could come for the vaccination in two days. He was not informed about the ongoing trial. “The BCG vaccine administered to a newborn gives protection only up to 60 years of age. Now with the coronavirus disease, people are at the risk of cold and cough. The BCG vaccine will give protection during this time by boosting immunity,” the person said. Another caller claimed the vaccination was meant for senior citizens, only if the samples of others in a household returned negative for COVID-19. Both said the vaccination should be taken within a week of testing negative for COVID-19, but was not compulsory. A Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) fever surveyor said, “Persons can get vaccinated if they wish to. They should be above 50 years, should have tested negative for COVID-19, not have any co-morbid condition and not have undergone any surgeries...” However, he, too, said the vaccination would build the immunity of the elderly against the novel coronavirus. However, a health expert said that as of now, the BCG vaccine was not recommended for the older people. “This is a special situation in which they should have permission from the persons to administer the vaccine. There should be informed consent,” he said. Pros and cons explained However, A. Devakumaar, president, Rotary Club of Chennai Rainbow, which is supporting the ICMR-NIRT in recruiting volunteers, said they were explaining the pros and cons of the vaccine trial to senior citizens and recruiting upon consent. A senior official of ICMR-NIRT told The Hindu: “The trial has just started. We are providing complete information to the persons. They are informed that this is not a COVID-19 vaccine. Only when the persons give their consent are they screened to be part of the programme,” he said. GCC health officials could not be reached for comment.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGT forms panel to remove encroachments near lake||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal has appointed a committee to remove encroachments from the Medavakkam lake and ascertain the original extent of the lake as per revenue records. It has asked the panel to trace the encroachers. The Bench of Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta, taking up the matter suo motu, directed the committee to find out whether there was any illegal discharge of untreated effluents or sewage into the waterbody and ascertain the quality of the water in the lake. In case the water was contaminated it wanted a solution. “The committee is directed to ascertain whether there was a scheme launched by the State government or the district administration to protect this water body and if so what is its stage of implementation,” the Bench said. The directions came on a newspaper report that the Medavakkam lake, which is under the control of the Public Works Department, originally spanned 200 acres and used to irrigate agricultural lands in Medavakkam, Vadakkupattu, Vellakkal and Kovilambakkam and that the lake bed had been encroached upon several years ago and sites were sold with a fake survey numbers. “The encroachment of the lake as per government records is 145 acres and extent of the lake has been reduced to 50 acres and authorities are issuing land tax receipt for encroached lands to encroachers and using that electricity connections had been obtained for the houses unauthorisedly constructed by the encroachers,” the Bench noted from the report.  The encroachment of the lake as per records is 145 acres and extent of the lake has been reduced to 50 acres Southern Bench National Green Tribunal
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tenant ends life after police inspector’s visit||A 40-year-old man ended his life after a police inspector allegedly assaulted him on behalf of his house owner, asking him to vacate the house he was living in Puzhal police station limits. The Puzhal police inspector has been placed under suspension. According to the police, Rajendran owns a house in Balavinayagapuram Koil Street in Puzhal. A few months ago, he had rented it to Srinivasan, 40, a construction worker. The latter reportedly did not pay rent for the past few months as he did not have any income due to lockdown. Rajendran told the police that whenever he went to collect rent, Srinivasan abused him. Rajendran lodged a police complaint. It is alleged that police inspector Benson went to Srinivasan’s house to inquire and claimed that he was drunk. The police officer asked him to come to the station next day. However, Srinivasan reportedly attempted to end his life and neighbours rushed him to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. In a video, reportedly recorded by his brother, Srinivasan said that Rajendran brought the inspector and the police officer hit him. A senior police officer said that Srinivasan’s wife had lodged a complaint stating that he took the extreme step due to depression caused by his inability to pay rent. On Sunday afternoon, Srinivasan died and the inspector was reportedly placed under suspension. Further investigation is on. The police said Srinivasan had a woman harassment case against him and his house owner alleged that he used to create a ruckus in the locality after drinking. “We are investigating the incident,” said a senior police officer. The officer said that the inspector has been suspendedfor investigating a civil issue without the permission of his higher officials. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||25 damaged roads to be ‘partly relaid’||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started relaying roads that were damaged in various parts of the city. The Corporation officials said that at least 25 damaged roads would be “partly relaid.” Work was expected to be completed by August 15. Work had started on Woods Road, Demellows Road, Tirupathi Kodai Road, Valayapathi Street, Brick Kiln Road, Greams Road and V.M. Street in Teynampet zone. Most of the repair work had been taken up in zones such as Ambattur, Anna Nagar, Adyar, Thiru Vi. Ka. Nagar, Teynampet and Kodambakkam, the officials said. Portions of Dr. Muthulakshmi Road and Sardar Patel Road would be relaid in a few days. Major project After completing the repair of 25 roads, the civic body is planning to relay 117 km of 166 roads at an estimated cost of Rs. 107 crore. Funds would be obtained under the Chennai Mega City Development Mission and Tamil Nadu Urban Road Infrastructure Fund. The project would be divided into 15 packages and work on some of the roads would be completed before the onset of the northeast monsoon. Most roads would be relaid after the monsoon in the event of heavy rainfall this year, the officials said.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. third in Centre’s scheme for agri ventures||Tamil Nadu stands third among the States under the Union government’s scheme to create agri-ventures. But one of the key hurdles has been banks’ reluctance to fund these projects. The Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, together with NABARD, launched a scheme in 2002 to tap into the large pool of agriculture graduates and train and enable them to open their own agriclinics or agribusiness centres. So far, 7,764 candidates have been trained and 3,689 agriventures have been established under the scheme in Tamil Nadu. Among these ventures are 744 agriclinics and 663 agriclinics-cum-agribusiness centres. Tamil Nadu ranks third after Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh where 8,155 and 7,152 ventures have been established. Agriclinics are envisaged to provide expert advice and services to farmers on soil health, cropping practices, plant protection, crop insurance, clinical services for animals and feed and fodder management, among others. Agribusiness centres are commercial units established by trained agriculture professionals. Some of these ventures may include maintenance and custom hiring of farm equipment, sale of inputs and other services in agriculture and allied areas. Some of the other standalone ventures include veterinary clinics. The National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE) is the nodal agency for providing training to the eligible candidates. Bank loans are available based on the techno-economic viability of projects and a moratorium of 2 years is provided. The loans can be repaid within 5 to 10 years. A subsidy is available up to a project cost of Rs. 20 lakh for an individual project (Rs. 25 lakh in case of extremely successful individual projects) and up to Rs. 1 crore for a group project. A composite subsidy of 36% of the project cost is provided, as per the revised guidelines issued in 2019. “The issue across the States has been that banks are reluctant to lend. Most of the graduates are young and banks are unsure of the viability of the projects. Despite creating awareness, banks have not come forward to lend,” said Saravanan Raj, Director, MANAGE.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No lockdown for this teacher||It’s 3 p.m. Wednesday and a frail bespectacled woman, with a mask on, walks into Pillayar Koil Street at Puliyambedu village in Thiruverkadu. She cleans her hand with a sanitiser and till 5 p.m, she teaches little children different subjects. Meet 51-year-old T. Ezhilarasi, a primary school teacher of Villivakkam Panchayat Union Primary School at Puliyambedu. For the last 10 days, she has been visiting her students in the village. There are 99 students in the primary school. “I was feeling guilty to take the salary without teaching the children, who I am very fond of. Some parents approached me and said that they were concerned about their children’s education. I promised to come to their house and teach them,” says Ms. Ezhilarasi, who has been a teacher for over three decades. She visits the locality every day and selects an open spot where children can sit. She makes sure that children wear masks and come to class after washing their hands. “I teach students from 1st standard to 5th standard. Some are going to sixth standard and I want to brush up their English and Maths knowledge. So, I make them practise tables and essay writing among other subjects,” she says. Added incentive Ms. Ezhilarasi also carries some snacks with her. “I cannot see my children hungry. So I feed them after the class is over. They were very happy to see me after a long time,” she adds. S. Vasanthi, mother of twins S. Hemavathi and S. Hemashri studying in the Puliyambedu school, said that it is encouraging to see a government school teacher showing interest towards the education of children. “My husband lost his job due to the lockdown and I was worried about the future of my children. I am so happy that the teacher is taking care of their education,” she says. “A kind of peace engulfs me when I educate children. It is something only the teaching profession can provide,” says Ms. Ezhilarasi.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Oil companies extend credit to large volume customers||State-run oil marketing companies (OMCs) are trying out various strategies to increase sales, including extending credit facility for large volume customers and support for working capital for dealers. At present, companies have been selling only 71% of diesel and 82% of petrol when compared to last year’s sales due to the lockdown. “We are supporting dealers so that they can in-turn extend credit facility to customers. At least 50% of the diesel business is through credit. These are truckers and their business has been hit and they need support. Customers, who used to repay in 10 days, are requesting for more time. Repayments happen in 15-30 days,” a source said. As far as credit support was concerned, based on their credit worthiness, dealers are provided loans through banks. “If they delay to repay, it is the duty of the OMCs to ensure repayment,” an official said. Meanwhile, Indian Oil Corporation is planning a scheme for customers who pay by cash. “It is to incentivise this segment, who are mostly truckers. We are offering a cashback scheme. Nearly 25% of volume is decided by such customers,” an IOCL official said.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Student found dead||A 26-year-old M. Pharm student from Andaman Islands was found dead in his house in Guduvanchery on Sunday. The police said Rajasekar of Andaman was a second-year M. Pharm student of a college in Potheri. He was staying in a rented house in Guduvanchery. On Sunday, when his friend visited him, the door was locked from inside. As Rajasekar was not answering calls, his friend broke open the door and found him unconscious. He was rushed to a hospital, where doctors declared him as brought dead. The police have registered a case.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco contractors allege harassment||Work on shifting the overhead cables to underground by Tangedco has hit a roadblock due to local political leaders in Velachery putting up hurdles, according to sources. A senior official of the Tangedco Southern region said contract workers were engaged in work when a group of residents, along with the local political party members, protested against the workers digging up the roads in Velachery without getting permission from the Greater Chennai Corporation, and demanded that the cable-laying work be stopped. The official of the power utility said that although the project was executed only after getting permission from the civic body, the local politicians continued to harass the contractor and workers, and prevent them from executing the work. Police complaint soon He said that they were thinking of lodging a complaint with the local police station for blocking the work. A senior official of the city police said they would take action if the Tangedco officials lodged a complaint.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gangster arrested in Arumbakkam||The city police arrested gangster Arumbakkam Radhakrishnan alias Radha after he robbed a man at knife point on Saturday. The police said they received information about robbery near the Draupadi Amman temple in Arumbakkam on Saturday morning. A police team investigated the complaint and nabbed Radha alias Radhakrishnan. He has seven murder cases pending against him and he was wanted in over 35 other cases including one of attempt to murder, the police said. Till July, the police have arrested 32 rowdies in the city this year.
03 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Leaders wish Governor a speedy recovery||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Sunday wished Governor Banwarilal Purohit a speedy recovery after he tested positive for COVID-19. “I wished the Honourable Governor of Tamil Nadu, Shri Banwarilal Purohitji, a speedy recovery in his fight against COVID-19 over phone. All our prayers and wishes are with him,” Mr. Palaniswami tweeted. He also wished Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who also tested positive for the infection, a speedy recovery. The Chief Minister tweeted: “Praying to the almighty God for a speedy recovery of Shri Amit Shahji from his present illness.” He also extended best wishes from Tamil Nadu for the Home Minister’s good health. Mr. Panneerselvam tweeted: “Wishing an early recovery for our beloved Honourable Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shahji , who has been admitted to the hospital. My prayers are with him. Get well soon and continue your dedicated public service.” ‘Health and happiness’ PMK founder S. Ramadoss also tweeted on Sunday, wishing both Mr. Shah and Mr. Purohit a speedy recovery. Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, in a release, said people were praying for both their health, happiness and long life and wanted them to continue serving the nation for years. He expressed hope that the two would return to their routines soon.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna varsity asks colleges to remit exam fee||Anna University has issued a circular instructing its affiliated colleges to upload the attendance details of students before August 5. It has also asked the principals to remit the exam fee for the semester collected from students by August 7. College officials say while most of them have submitted the attendance details, some are still due. But they wonder why the colleges should remit the exam fee of the students. Colleges generally collect the semester exam fees in March and then forward it to the University. Colleges do not issue hall tickets until the students pay all their dues. This year, however, the institutions shut down on March 16 due to COVID-19. Since then there was no clarity on whether the semester exams would be held. It was only a week ago that the State government decided against holding semester exams for all students except those in the final year of a programme. The government decided to promote students using their scores in internal assessments and based on their performance in the previous semester. The college managements told The Hindu that most students had paid the exam fees. Yet, there may be around 20-30% who have not paid yet. A college professor said, “The students did not write any exam. How can the University ask the students to pay the exam fee, which is normally used for items like stationery and evaluation.” Another college official said, “It would be difficult to ask the students who have yet to pay the exam fees to pay now. They are in a difficult situation,” he pointed out. Sai Prakash, Chief Executive Officer of Sairam Institutions, said in his college as many as 70% of the students had not paid the fees yet. “Most students will pay only when the semester exams are imminent. We have kept the portals open, but they are yet to pay,” he said. Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa said he would check the situation with the Controller of Examinations. “I will have to check if this (non-payment by students) is a fact. Very often we have the experience of colleges collecting the fee but not paying to the University. We did not announce the results of many colleges which did not pay the exam fee.” Not right: Ramadoss Meanwhile, PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Sunday criticised Anna University’s directive to colleges in Tamil Nadu to deposit the fees collected for examinations. “Anna University is showing its commercial intent. The exam fee is collected to pay for the preparation of question papers, organising exams, correcting answer papers, publishing results and preparing mark sheets. With all exams except the final year cancelled, none of the above, except preparation of mark sheets, needs to be done. It is not right on the part of the university to demand full payment,” he said.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Railway refunds ticket fares||Southern Railway has refunded Rs. 46.48 crore to passengers through its Passenger Reservation System (PRS) counters in the State. An amount of Rs. 64.49 crore was disbursed through the six divisions of which two — Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad — are in Kerala. Fare was refunded to about 12 lakh passengers who cancelled their tickets. In a press release, the Southern Railway said Chennai division topped with a disbursal of Rs. 27.10 crore, followed by Salem (Rs. 7.44 crore), Madurai (Rs. 6.81 crore) and Tiruchi (Rs. 5.13 crore). Counters were opened in a staggered manner in all railway stations in the State, including Dr. MGR Chennai Central, Egmore, Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Salem, Karur, Coimbatore, Madurai, Tirunelveli and Dindigul. Care is being taken to ensure that all safety protocols such as provision of hand sanitisers and physical distancing were followed at the counters, the release added.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NEP will push up dropout rate: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday alleged that the National Education Policy (NEP) would result in students dropping out of schools, preventing them from pursuing higher education. Addressing a seminar organised by his party, Mr. Stalin rejected Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s argument that the NEP had taken into consideration the future of the students of the country and that it would pave the way for education for all. “The Prime Minister says that education will be improved. But on the contrary, the NEP will force students towards industries in search of jobs,” said Mr. Stalin during the seminar attended by party MP Kanimozhi, educationist Vasanthi Devi and others. Reacting to Mr. Modi’s claim that students would be able to think in their mother tongue, he said that students would be guided to think in Hindi and Sanskrit and their mother tongue would be neglected.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Driver robbed||A 50-year-old car driver was assaulted and robbed of his mobile phone at knife point in Vepery on Saturday. The police said Lakshmanan, 50, of Kilpauk, a car driver, was on Ritherdon Road on Saturday afternoon, when two men riding a bike asked him for his phone. When he refused, they attacked him with a knife on his head and sped away with the phone. Lakshmanan lodged a complaint in Vepery police station. A case has been registered and the investigation is on.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 100 VIT students get placements||More than 100 B.Tech students of Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), who would be graduating in 2021, got placement offers with a salary of Rs. 10 lakh and above per annum. The campus placements at VIT started on July 14, 2020 for the 2021 graduating batch. This year VIT has shared Slot-1 to the Super Dream companies, including Amazon, Paypal, D.E.Shaw India Pvt. Ltd. and Morgan Stanley among others. VIT University follows a centralised placement process and this year students from all the four campuses of VIT, Vellore, Chennai, Amaravati (A.P.), and Bhopal (M.P.) participated in all the campus recruitment processes. The companies conducted pre-placement talk, online test, technical and HR interviews, entirely online and remotely. G.Viswanathan, chancellor, VIT University, congratulated students who got selected for internships and placements and wished other students a great placement season.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Textbooks to be distributed from today||After a long wait, the distribution of free textbooks among students of Classes 2 to 5, 7 and 8 from government and government-aided schools will begin across Tamil Nadu on Monday. School Education Director S. Kannappan said that the students of Classes 7 and 8 would be given the textbooks first. The schools can then schedule the distribution of the textbooks for students of the other classes, Mr. Kannappan added. SOP issued “The State government has already issued standard operating procedures (SOP) for the distribution of textbooks and other resources, which should be strictly adhered to,” according to a circular that was issued to all chief educational officers. “Schools should ask parents and students to compulsorily wear face masks when they visit the campus,” the circular added. “The textbooks reached us around mid-July, and we have been instructed not to permit more than 20 persons on the campus, in an hour, during the distribution of books,” the headmaster of a school in Chennai said. With video lessons now being telecast on Kalvi TV for these classes, government schoolteachers had asked for the textbooks to be distributed among students at the earliest.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Air passenger traffic picking up in Chennai||Two months after the domestic flight operations resumed, Chennai airport has been seeing some increase in the number of travellers. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said that when domestic flights were resumed in the last week of May, 23,002 passengers travelled in a week. When the services restarted, only about 50 flights were allowed in a day as the State government had imposed a restriction saying there could only be 25 flights coming to the airport every day from other States. In June, the flights to other cities within the State had gone up, thus pushing up the aircraft movement marginally and nearly 60 to 65 flights were handled at the airport daily. Most people, who were still stuck in the city, began departing from here and those wanting to return too came here and the passenger traffic in June was 1,45,671. There was a 6.6% increase in passenger traffic in July when compared with the previous month. ‘Not regular flyers’ Officials said while the airport had witnessed a spike in passenger traffic, these were no regular travellers. “What we see now is only a fraction of the passenger traffic from the same time last year. At present, there are many who want to visit their relatives in hospital or those who come down for some treatment from other cities. Then, some of them travel for other family emergencies. We barely see any corporates or other frequent travellers taking flights now,” an official said. Though there was a ban on flights to Kolkata from Chennai last month, the passenger traffic had not reduced in July, when compared to the previous month. “One of the major reasons for this is, many international passengers from other cities travelled to Chennai to take Vande Bharat flights from here. We realised there were many transit passengers in July and hence, there could have been a minor increase in traffic,” he added. AAI had been hoping to get the State government nod to increase the number of flights this month. If that happens, the traffic may go up to some extent.
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM warns of action against overcharging pvt. hospitals||A day after the Health Department suspended the recognition of Be Well Hospitals in Kilpauk, Chennai, as a COVID-19 facility after it overcharged a patient, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has warned of strict action against private hospitals charging in excess. In a tweet on Sunday, Mr. Palaniswami said that all private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients should display government-recognised treatment costs for the benefit of the people. “Appropriate action will be taken if there are complaints that private hospitals are overcharging for the treatment of COVID-19 patients,” the Chief Minister said. Recognition revoked The Health Department on Saturday revoked the recognition of Be Well Hospitals in Kilpauk as a COVID-19 facility. The department held an inspection and confirmed that the hospital had charged in excess for treatment. It was found that Be Well Hospitals charged Rs. 12,20,000 for treating the patient for 19 days. The patient’s treatment also did not include any special medications as per the protocols that were laid down by the State government. The Tamil Nadu government had capped the cost of medical treatment for COVID-19 on June 6.
03 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man killed in road accident||A 55-year-old man from Sowripalayam was killed in an accident after a speeding car hit the two-wheeler he was riding with his daughter on Tiruchi Road on Sunday. The police said that the deceased Paramasivam was sitting on the pillion seat of the vehicle which his daughter Deepika (22) rode from Singanallur towards Ramanathapuram. The car, which was heading towards Singanallur hit the two-wheeler when Deepika tried to cross the opposite lane at Perks School junction. The father and daughter were thrown off the scooter. Paramasivam died on the spot. The injured woman and the body of the deceased were shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The police suspect that the car was heading in high speed as the road was empty due to complete lockdown observed on Sunday. The man who drove the car namely Niranjan has been booked. Further probe is on into the incident, sources said.
03 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Textile units welcome changes in ECLGS||Textile units in the region have welcomed the Central government announcement raising the ceiling of outstanding loan limit and turnover for companies to avail of the benefits under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS). Chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council A. Sakthivel said, “We welcome the decision of the government to increase the outstanding loan limit from Rs. 25 crore to Rs. 50 crore and for raising the turnover criteria from Rs. 100 crore to Rs. 250 crore for availing ECLGS.” No turnover criteria Mr. Sakthivel added that, “While more than half of the targeted additional funding is yet to be sanctioned, there are many medium scale industrialists who are bereft of the special financial assistance. The need of the hour is to expand the outstanding loan limit to Rs. 100 crore and there should be no turnover criteria for exporters.” He said that while the turnover of garment exporters may seem large due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, the thin margin on which they and the seasonal nature of the products make these exporters vulnerable to changes in export orders and delay in shipment, which is clearly evident during the ongoing crisis. They should be able to benefit from the scheme, he said. According to Prabhu Dhamodharan, convener of the Indian Texpreneurs Federation, it had appealed last month for this much needed change in the scheme. “With this calibrated intervention, many of the medium-sized units in textile sector will get much needed liquidity support. Being a capital intensive industry , many of our spinning sector companies will be covered under the ECLGS scheme,” he said.
03 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Reserved sites earmarked to develop parks misused’||On 11 reserved sites earmarked to develop parks, a few village panchayats was building panchayat offices, anganwadi centres, community halls and other buildings, Tamil Nadu Reserved Sites Protection Committee organiser S.P. Thiyagarajan has alleged. In his complaint to the Secretary to the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, Director, Panchayat Raj and District Collector, he alleged that in 11 village panchayats, the officials concerned had misused the reserved sites at Makkinampatty, Chinnampalayam, Achipatti, Okkipalayam, Kovilpalayam, Mullupadi, Zamin Kottampatti, Gomangalam, Oonjavelampatti, Kittasurampalayam and Varadhanur panchayats by constructing SHG federation buildings at Rs. 70 lakh each. Violation of SC order This was in violation of the Supreme Court order of January 15, 2008, Madras High Court order of April 12, 2007 and various order of senior officials of the State Government. “We also direct the Chief Secretary, Local Administration Department, State of Tamil Nadu to communicate the copy of this order to all the local bodies to scrupulously apply the following directions to all the layouts sanctioned or to be sanctioned. If there is any change or deviation in the purpose by the land owners or by any third party, the same shall be objected to and action shall be initiated as indicated above. For the reasons aforesaid, we hold that a portion of land reserved for public purpose in a layout or in a development plan or master plan approved by the local body cannot be used for any purpose, than the one specified therein,” he quoted the Madras High Court order to underscore his point. Mr. Thiyagarajan further said that the misuse of reserved site was not new as between 2011 and 2015, village panchayat presidents of executive officers had constructed panchayat office buildings in Ambarampalayam, Achipatti, Okkilipalayam, Mayileripalayam and Kittasurampalayam panchayats. Buildings not opened They had used labour under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Generation Act to construct the buildings and those buildings were yet to be thrown open for public.
03 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Shops shut for COVID-19 violations also found without D&O licence||Recent action by the Coimbatore Corporation flying squads against commercial establishments for COVID-19 safety guideline violations has revealed that several such establishments were run without the mandatory Dangerous and Offensive (D&O) Trade licence. The Corporation levies the licence fee, renewable annually, on around 225 types of commercial establishments and it varies depending on the type of trade, property tax paid for the building that houses the establishment, number of people employed etc. Corporation officials, who are members of the flying squads, said that on a day they shut more than 20 shops for not maintaining visitors’ register, placing hand sanitisers or enforcing physical distance norms, they found more than 80% shops without the licence and the rest with expired licence. And, it so happened that the shops were identified as spots that led to the spread of COVID-19 in the respective localities. At a time when the Corporation was looking at COVID-19 violations, it should also look at commercial establishments that did not have D&O licence and act against those, for it meant loss of revenue. The Corpo ration had set a collection target of Rs. 4 crore as D&O licence fee for the current financial year. It set Rs. 3.82 crore for the last financial year, but collected only Rs. 3.45 crore. Sources said that the Corporation should also look at revising the licence fee, for the last time it revised the fee was sometime in the year 2000. That the Corporation had not revised the fee but revised property tax and water charges showed that it had not paid attention to the stream of revenue. The last time the Corporation addressed the D&O licence issue was in 2013 when it expanded the scope of the licence net by adding 58 more trades to the 166 on hand and asked sanitary inspectors to bring in one trader a day into the tax net. The move saw the revenue from D&O licence increase from Rs. 1.50 crore in December 2012 to Rs. 3.28 crore in December 2013 and Rs. 3.89 crore in 2014. Unless the Corporation officials gave a push in this regard very little forward movement would be seen.
03 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Private hospital dumps garbage on roadside, video goes viral||A video shot by an unknown person who happened to see a garbage bag being dumped from a van of a Coimbatore-based private hospital at Kunnathur near Annur surfaced on social media Saturday. The video showed a man saying sorry to the witness and another man putting the garbage bag back into the van. A few garbage bags of similar type were also seen inside the van. The man, who shot the video, is heard asking the men whether the garbage bag contained medical waste. The men replied that the bags contain only ashes and they also show him burnt garbage by opening one of them. The video surfaced on a local WhatsApp group on Saturday from where it went viral on social media. When asked about the incident, the private hospital admitted that the van belonged to it. The hospital said that the garbage bags contained burnt remains of paper waste generated at the hospital and biomedical waste generated at the hospital are collected and processed by a common treatment facility. According to the hospital, paper waste was not being collected by scrap dealers since lockdown started and hence it was burning them into ashes using a burner at the hospital. The ashes are later used in a farm belonging to the hospital, it said. “I regret”, replied hospital’s chairman when asked about the incident. Coimbatore rural police said that they did not get any complaint regarding the incident.
03 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man trampled to death by wild elephant||A man aged around 45 years was killed in an attack by a wild elephant on Mettupalayam – Kotagiri Road on Sunday. The Forest Department and the police are yet to trace the identity of the deceased. The man was attacked by the wild elephant near the third hairpin bend on Mettupalayam – Kotagiri Road, within the limits of Sirumugai forest range of Coimbatore forest division, in the early hours of Sunday. Forest personnel rushed to the spot after being alerted by people, who spotted the dead body on the road. The police were also informed. The body was shifted to Government Hospital, Mettupalayam, for post-mortem.
03 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man killed in wild elephant attack||A man, aged around 45 years, was killed in an attack by a wild elephant on the Mettupalayam-Kotagiri road in the early hours of Sunday. The Forest Department and the police are yet to trace the identity of the deceased. The man was attacked near the third hairpin bend on Mettupalayam-Kotagiri road, within the limits of Sirumugai forest range of Coimbatore forest division. Forest personnel rushed to the spot after being alerted by people who spotted the body on the road. The body was shifted to Government Hospital, Mettupalayam, for post-mortem.
03 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||3 held for forging documents for late Sri Lankan gangster||The Coimbatore city police arrested three persons in connection with producing false documents to help a Sri Lankan gangster Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera alias Angoda Lokka, sources said. Lokka died in Coimbatore and his body was cremated in Madurai in July. His identity and the deception came to light after his death was reported to the police to move his body to Madurai. Investigations found that a woman from Madurai and a man from Tiruppur forged documents for Lokka, and a Sri Lankan woman named Amani Thanji, 27, helped them hide in Coimbatore. Amani Thanji, from Colombo, Sivakami Sundari, 36, from Madurai, and S. Dyaneswaran, 32, of Erode, currently residing in Tiruppur, were arrested by the Peelamedu police on Sunday. Investigation revealed that Lokka had stayed in India as Pradeep Singh and obtained an Aadhaar card under the identity. They were booked under Sections 120 B, 177, 182, 202, 212, 417, 419, 466, 468 and 471 of the IPC. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan said a detailed investigation was under way.
03 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||T.N needs 500 FPOs by 2022: Union Minister||Tamil Nadu must see the setting up of at least 500 farmer producer organisations (FPOs) by 2022, said Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Kailash Choudhary during an online interaction. The virtual meeting was organised recently by Bharatiya Janata Party’s agricultural wing State president G.K. Nagaraj. According to a press release, Mr. Choudhary said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is working towards setting up 10,000 FPOs across the country by 2022 with the aim of doubling the income of farmers, for which 500 FPOs must be set up in the State. Noting that one FPO requires 300 farmers, he said that the inclusion of farmers from Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes is essential. Farmers will be able to sell their produce in FPOs without any hassles through the ‘One Nation, One Market’ initiative, Mr. Choudhary said. Apart from BJP members, representatives of various farmer organisations from the State also participated in the virtual meeting. Regarding their queries on the menace of wild boars on agricultural lands, Mr. Choudhary assured that the Central government will ensure that the State government will take necessary action, the release said.
03 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Control pest from warehouse, says MLA||Singanallur MLA N. Karthik has urged the district administration to protect Murugan Nagar and Sriram Nagar residents from pests from the nearby warehouse. In a memorandum to the District Collector, the MLA said pests from the Food Corporation of India warehouse invaded neighbouring residential colonies. The residents of Murugan Nagar and Sriram Nagar were the worst affected. They were unable to carry on their daily chores, have water or food without the pests. Bakeries and eateries too were affected and the pest invasion posed a threat to hygiene. The residents’ representation to the Food Corporation of India and Coimbatore Corporation officials had not yielded the desired result, Mr. Karthik said and sought the district administration’s intervention in this regard.
03 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Events planned for Bone and Joint Day||The Coimbatore Orthopaedic Society will conduct various events to mark National Bone and Joint Day on August 4. The theme of this year's events will be ‘Prevention of Deformity in Degenerative Diseases’. A The Society will conduct health education Webinars, display posters and distribute pamphlets highlighting the benefits of exercise, healthy diet and early deduction of deformities.
03 August 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Fisherman killed near Cuddalore; 43 detained as people turn violent||Tension gripped the coastal hamlet of Thazhanguda near here on Saturday night after a 36-year-old fisherman was hacked to death by a 10-member gang. Soon after the incident, the victim’s supporters resorted to arson and damaged property. At least 20 fishing boats, two-wheelers and cars were set ablaze during the violence that broke out at 10 p.m. Police identified the victim as Madivanan, 36, brother of former panchayat president Masilamani. Hacked to death The victim was returning on his two-wheeler from Cuddalore to Thazhanguda when a gang waylaid and hacked him to death. Police said long-standing rivalry during the panchayat elections between families of the present panchayat president and former president Masilamani had snowballed into a major issue. Tension had been brewing between the two groups after Shanthi, wife of Madiazhagan contested for the post of panchayat president of Gundu Uppalavadi. Shanthi won the post defeating her nearest rival Praveena, wife of Masilamani. A clash broke out between both the groups in April and the police booked cases against them. As news of Madivanan’s death spread, his supporters resorted to arson in the hamlet damaging fishing boats and ransacking 10 houses of the rival group. Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav and Deputy Inspector General of Police (Villupuram Range) K. Ejilearassane rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. Additional police forces have been rushed to the hamlet. Mr. Abhinav said that supporters of the deceased went on a riot and torched fishing boats and two-wheelers. Both the groups had long-standing rivalry and they were bound over by Section 107 for a year in January. “The police had also invoked 110 of CrPC proceedings against them but they had violated the bond. We have detained 43 persons in connection with the arson,” he said.  The victim was identified as Madivanan, brother of former panchayat president Masilamani
03 August 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects GH||Collector M. Vijayalakshmi inspected the COVID-19 care centre and the government hospital in Kodaikanal on Saturday. She held a review meeting with doctors. She urged residents of Anna Nagar, Indira Nagar and Packiapuram to stay indoors. Some habitations in the Kodaikanal Municipal areas were identified as containment zones.
03 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||MKU gears up for online classes||Madurai Kamaraj University is gearing up to begin online classes for undergraduate students of second and third year and postgraduate students of second year from Monday. Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan said they had a detailed discussion with 63 principals of institutions affiliated to MKU to discuss the modalities. The lecturers would use Google Meet for the live sessions. Study material and PowerPoint presentations could be accessed on the university App. There would be nine hours of classroom sessions, divided into three hours of live classes, three hours of recorded teaching and three hours of seminars and assignments. Teachers must mark attendance for students and log the content they teach every day. They cannot plagiarise content, nor can students in their assignments. They have been instructed to conduct the classes in a professional manner, with students and teachers respecting each other. Both parties, for instance, should not lie down during classes or dress as they please. There must be a degree of discipline, Mr. Krishnan said. Between 60%-70% of the students had the means to attend the online classes, as per details given by the 63 Principals. To ensure maximum participation, talks were under way with the district administration regarding students using e-sevai centres for the classes, he said. “Unless classes start on August 3, the university may not be able to complete 450 hours of teaching this semester. We are planning to start classes for first-year undergraduate and postgraduate students on August 17 and 18,” he said. A source from Sri Meenakshi Government Arts College for Women in Madurai said only 70% of the students had net facility. Those without online access would be either asked to join with their friends or their neighbours, to whom the study material would be sent on WhatsApp. If both these options were not possible, photocopies of study material would be sent to the students till regular classes resume. The college is also having talks with the district administration for using the e-sevai centres for students in rural areas, the source added.
03 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||This hospital is 67 and going strong||Government Rajaji Hospital has entered into its 67th year without any pomp or gusto but with a sense of service, said its Dean J. Sangumani here on Sunday. “So many frontline workers are working tirelessly to ensure the best possible tertiary care during these COVID-19 exigency. I would like to acknowledge their hard work today,” he said. “The reason why healthcare workers at the COVID-19 speciality wing continue to go to work every single day is because they have a sense of attachment to this institution which has given them excellent learning in return. We hope for grand ‘celebration’ in the coming years instead of the low-key ‘observing’ of crossing the milestone today,” he said.
03 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Aadi Perukku passes off with a whimper||All arterial roads in the district wore a deserted look on Sunday - when Aadi Perukku was celebrated- as residents stayed indoors in compliance with the complete lockdown. However, shopkeepers were unhappy over closure of shops on a day when Aadi Perukku was celebrated. S. Rethinavelu, senior president, Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said that many industries and shops had planned to restart their business on Sunday after a gap of many months as Aadi Perukku was considered auspicious for commencing new ventures. Many did not anticipate that the lockdown would be further extended till August 31.This Sunday at least should have been exempted from the complete lockdown,” he said.
03 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Curbs take toll on persons with mental illnesses||Experts are of the view that the prolonged COVID-19 lockdown has led to a deep sense of distress among the public, more so in the case of those with pre-existing mental illnesses. Reduced access to medication and drastic changes to routine could lead to a relapse among those with mental illnesses, according to experts. People suffering from illnesses like schizophrenia and bipolar disorder who spoke to The Hindu said the five months since the lockdown began had been a period ridden with difficulties. A 32 year-old woman diagnosed with schizophrenia said the lockdown had placed her in a setting where she had no choice but to interact with extended family who are unaware of her mental illness. “It is difficult because everyone tends to be insensitive. They write my mental illness off as mood swings,” she said. The daughter of an 82-year-old man with dementia said it was particularly difficult to procure medication for him during the initial phase of the lockdown, which led to the worsening of his mental health. A detailed document by the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru, titled ‘Mental Health in the times of COVID-19 Pandemic - Guidance for General Medical and Specialised Mental Health Care Settings’, focuses on various aspects of mental health. The document states that any pre-existing psychiatric condition like psychosis, mood disorders, anxiety spectrum disorders, sleep disorders and many others, could worsen during quarantine. “Persons with pre-existing mental illnesses are particularly disadvantaged during lockdowns. For persons with mental illness or epilepsy, reduced access to medication could lead to a relapse of symptoms. For persons with substance use disorders, a sudden withdrawal, leading to seizures, delirium, agitation, and even suicide have been described,” the document states. Nandini Murali, an activist and director of SPEAK, an organisation that aims to create safe spaces for those impacted by suicide loss, said, “We must ensure that the stigma regarding reaching out for support is avoided.” “Though we have been advised to keep physical distance, we must ensure that we use our social connections to work our way through the pandemic,” said G. Gurubharathy, who works with M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)
03 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Precautions pose challenge for visually impaired||For the past one month, K. Rajammal, a visually impaired person from Tirunagar in Madurai, travels by a share autorickshaw along with her husband, who has partial visual impairment, to sell ‘kadalai mittai’ and ‘cocoa mittai’ near the Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple. Till March, the couple used to sell these candies in buses and trains travelling to nearby districts. “After being without any income for many months, we decided to sell these candies near the temple as we wanted to satiate our hunger,” she says. Drastic change Ms. Rajammal says that though they are selling the same candies now, things have drastically changed after the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. “As my husband guides me while walking, I often bump into parked vehicles or objects. While I touch to feel and understand the object in front of me, the government’s advisory to refrain from touching public surfaces keeps echoing in my head. While we carry a hand sanitiser with us, how many can we afford with our meagre income,” she asks. Like Ms. Rajammal, many visually impaired persons say the pandemic posed them unique challenges. They say they see the world through touch and are dependent on someone to guide them in public places. But the stress upon maintaining personal distancing and avoiding physical contact as a precautionary measure against COVID-19 are extremely difficult for them to follow. Many visually impaired across the State, who are involved in selling snacks, stationery, agarbathis and toys in trains and buses, have lost their livelihoods due to the suspension of public transport, says P. Manogaran, Project Director (South India), National Federation of the Blind. S. Chokkaiyan is part of the 20 families of visually impaired persons who reside at Villapuram in Madurai and used to sell products in public transport. “We are anxious whether people will buy products from us after the relaxation of the lockdown norms,” he says.
03 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of textbooks, bags from today||Distribution of textbooks and school bags for primary and secondary government school students would begin in the district from Monday by adopting all safety precautions, said District Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan. He said that schools had been instructed to distribute textbooks for Class 8 students from Monday to Wednesday. Class 7 students will get textbooks and bags from Thursday and Friday. Books for Classes 6 and 9 would be given only after the completion of the admission process, he said. Schools had been instructed to ensure only 20 students were present for every one-hour slab while ensuring six-feet distance from one another and all must wear face masks.
03 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai doctor cheated of Rs. 3.15 crore||A doctor, D. Chandramohan, 41, has complained that he has been cheated of Rs. 3.15 crore by two companies on the promise of supplying him N95 masks. Dr. Chandramohan, who runs a hospital in Neerethan near Vadipatti in Madurai district, had paid Rs. 2.25 crore to Patrick Van Dick and Dr. Peter Booths of 3M Netherlands, B.V. Company, for importing five lakh N95 masks in June 12. He had paid another Rs. 90 lakh to Uday Shankar Parupalli of Hyderabad and his business associates, Dr. Surya Naryanan, Otarbaev Nurlan Karatalovich, Samsonav Sergai Nikolaevich of a Kyrgyzstan-based company on May 22. He said both the companies cheated him and did not repay his money after repeated requests. The District Crime Branch police have registered two cases for cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy.
03 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to give compensation to healthcare workers||The Indian Medical Association, Madurai, has demanded a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh for healthcare workers who lost their lives to COVID-19. Its president V. N. Alagavenkatesan said that ever since clinics, nursing homes and all hospitals were asked to treat COVID-19 patients, many healthcare workers tested positive and some had lost their lives. Along with the compensation, the State government must give job to a member of the deceased person’s family, and Rs. 2 lakh as treatment cost for those who were infected. The standard operating procedures for RT- PCR testing must be simplified for private facilities so arrest the surge in COVID-19 cases.
03 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two robbed at knifepoint||A woman and her brother were robbed at knifepoint on Pulloothu Road on Saturday evening. The woman, riding pillion on a motorbike, was returning home after visiting a relative at Pulloothu. Her brother stopped the vehicle to relieve himself when a man approached them. He suddenly pulled out a knife and made them part with a three-sovereign gold chain, Rs. 1,500 and a watch and fled the scene. Nagamalai Pudukottai police arrested M. Karanthamalai, 30, of Karuvelampatti for the robbery and sent him for remand.    Two cows and a calf died after drinking water at a farmer’s house near Tirumangalam on Saturday. S. Chinnasamy of Veeramapatti had brought his milch animals home in the evening after grazing them. He fed them with water and within few minutes, the animals swooned and died. Chinnasamy has lodged a complaint with the Chekkanoorani police raising suspicion about two women who used to quarrel with him over waste generated from his cow shed.     As many as 327 liquor bottles worth Rs. 59,080 have been stolen from a TASMAC shop at Ilanthaikulam near Srivilliputtur on Saturday night. The employees had closed it for the night and wsent home. The villagers saw the shutters of the shop broken open in the morning and alerted shop supervisor M. Soundararajan, 46.
03 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar||A five-day webinar on ‘Reanimating skills to the new normal’ was organised by Fatima College in Madurai recently. There were discussions on topics such as need for a healthy mind, challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, right aptitude for a competitive environment and communication skills. Over 500 students participated in the webinars.
03 August 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Nagapattinam MP tests positive for COVID 19||CPI leader and Member of Parliament of Nagapattinam Lok Sabha constituency M. Selvaraj has tested positive for COVID 19 virus. After contracting fever on Saturday, the MP was admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital where his swab results confirmed the viral affliction. Mr. Selvaraj had taken part in government functions in Nagapattinam and Thiruvarur districts in recent days. The last function he attended was the public hearing in Nagapattinam district for carving out boundary for the newly-formed Mayiladuthurai district.
03 August 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||No drinking water supply||There will be no drinking water supply for seven days from Monday due to pipeline work to be carried out in the Kottar railway junction area under the Nagercoil Corporation limits. According to Commissioner Asha Ajit, pipeline work would be carried out in places covering Water Tank Road, Vadaserry, Idalakudi,Thattanvilai and nearby areas. No power supply As maintenance work has to be undertaken in some of the HT lines, there will be no power supply in the following areas on August 3 in Rajakamangalam Thurai, Melatharmapuram and Iswarya Garden Thattanvilai; on August 4 in Vadakku Soorangudi and Thattanvilai; August 5 in Tharmapuram, Mela Adharavilai and Ammachiyaarvilai; on August 6 in Keezhamaavilai, Therku Soorangudi, Vadalikaatuvilai, Keerivilai and Kandapartivilai; on August 7 in Rajakamangalam Thurai and nearby areas from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., a TANGEDCO press release stated here on Sunday.
03 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records new high of 200 COVID-19 cases||In a new 24-hour high, Puducherry reported 200 COVID-19 cases on Sunday even as one more death took the toll to 52. The infection rate was at 22.6 per cent (886 samples tested) and the case fatality 1.4 per cent. The latest victim was a 65-year-old man who died at Jipmer due to Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome and COVID pneumonia sequelae. Puducherry accounted for 161 new admissions, Karaikal 7 and Yanam 32. Mahe remains a green zone. Active cases With 111 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 1,445. The case numbers in Puducherry alone aggregated 1,034. There are also 242 patients in home quarantine, including 231 in Puducherry and 11 in Yanam. So far, of the 40,652 samples tested, 36,142 were negative. The tally is 52 deaths, cumulative total of 3,806 cases and 2,309 patients discharged. Meanwhile, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said Siddha treatment would soon be offered to COVID-19 patients who opt for it. Pointing out that Siddha treatment was popular in Tamil Nadu, the Chief Minister said similar facilities would be made available to patients in Puducherry. Yanam was seeing a spike in cases due to its proximity to East Godavari region, Mr. Narayanasamy said. Malladi Krishna Rao, Health Minister and T. Arun, Health Secretary are camping there to strengthen the infrastructure and supervise operations, he added. According to the Chief Minister, only 10 per cent of the patients in the Union Territory developed acute COVID-19 symptoms and required intensive care. A majority of the patients suffered mild to moderate symptoms and recovered on treatment. Mr. Narayanasamy had earlier visited vegetable and fish markets and shopping centres in and around Puducherry and advised merchants and shoppers to adhere to safety norms.
03 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry’s Ganesha idol makers shattered by lockdown||The celebration of Vinayaka Chathurthi this year will be bereft of the usual pomp, gaiety and splendour. Artisans making life-size idols of Ganesha are facing several hurdles thanks to the ongoing lockdown and government’s orders to avoid gathering and celebrations in public places. Temples in Puducherry would remain open but no celebrations outside the shrines would be permitted. R. Ravichandran, an artisan who has been making eco-friendly idols for the last two decades, said this year there was a total setback in his work. Orders shelved All the orders received ahead of the festival were shelved because of the strict enforcement of the lockdown. “Last year, I had orders for nearly 200 idols in June and July from Puducherry alone. But this year the festival is likely to be a low-key affair and most of the orders placed before the lockdown have been cancelled. “I am now left with 30 unfinished idols,” he says adding that he had sent around 15 workers who were with him to their hometowns due to the cancellation of orders. During normal times, artisans in Puducherry would receive orders from within Puducherry and also neighbouring States. The work to make the idols would begin several months ahead of schedule. But now the work has come to a standstill because of the lockdown. “I have been facing several hurdles as the business has been very poor this year. Most of the artisans have availed loans to procure the raw materials and don’t know when normalcy will return,” says Munusamy, another idol maker from Puducherry. Rural artisans making clay idols have also been left in the cold due to the extension of the lockdown.
03 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||NEP confusing and vague, says Narayanasamy||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Sunday termed the new National Education Policy 2020 (NEP) announced by the Centre as “confusing and vague” on many counts. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Narayanasamy said the policy lacked specifics, for instance, on how it would promote employment or on the pattern of funding. The government will soon hold consultations among Ministers, legislators and academics and a detailed report on the Union Territory’s position on NEP would be conveyed to the Centre, the Chief Minister said. Contending that the NEP sought to impose Hindi and Sanskrit across the country, Mr. Narayanasamy said, “What is seen as relevant for northern States cannot be applied by default to the southern States.”
03 August 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘Leigh Bazaar flyover junction in Salem prone to accidents’||Though the newly-constructed flyover near Leigh Bazaar has eased traffic movement in the area, concerns have been raised over road accidents. The flyover, constructed at a cost of Rs. 46.36 crore, was inaugurated recently by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. The flyover eased vehicle movement towards Shevapet, Nethimedu from Three Roads junction. However, the flyover has raised concerns regarding road accidents making it accident-prone. Vehicles approaching the flyover from Three Roads and vehicles moving towards Three Roads from Pal Market often pose risk of collision. Also, risk of collision occurs when vehicle travelling downwards the flyover turn towards Pal Market. R.P .Gopinath, BJP district functionary, who raised the issue with the authorities concerned said, “the junction has become accident-prone and if drivers are not attentive, it might end up being fatal. There is also issue of lack of visibility in the night. Authorities must take necessary steps to construct a roundabout and erect a high mast lamp in the area to prevent accidents.”
03 August 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Man held for poisoning two persons||Shevapet police on Sunday arrested a man on charges of allegedly mixing poison in a drink to two persons. According to police, the accused Selvakumar and the deceased Opuli and Madesh were street dwellers who slept near Muniappan temple in Kottai. They was found dead near Kottai on Friday morning and Shevapet police recovered the body. Based on CCTV officials, police on Sunday arrested Selvakumar . According to police, the accused served drinks mixed with poison following previous enmity between the trio.
03 August 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Beedi rollers rendered jobless||Closure of three private beedi rolling units indefinitely has rendered about 2000 daily wage earners jobless here, said CITU district secretary Velmurugan on Sunday. In a complaint submitted to the Collector Arun Sundar Dayalan, he said the three units situated in parts of Alangulam here employed about 2000 workers. Municipal authorities inspected the premises and nearby areas last week and ordered closure of the beedi rolling units as some units had not followed norms in COVID-19 management. Mr. Velmurugan urged the Collector to take steps to release their wages for July immediately.
03 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Only a few people go to Cauvery, perform rituals||A blanket ban imposed by the government authorities for taking holy dip in the Cauvery river, in view of the spread of COVID 19 virus, took the sheen off “Adiperukku” festival in various parts of central districts, including Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Karur on Sunday. The festival being celebrated on the 18th day of Tamil month of Adi usually attracts thousands of devotees to the Cauvery river fronts right from Nerur and Vangal in Karur district to tail-end areas of delta districts, including Nagapattinam and Karaikal, an enclave of Union Territory of Puducherry. Many believe that offering pooja to nature and the mother Cauvery on the 18th day of Adi brings prosperity to their families, current and future generations and ensure the well being of mankind. While farmers along with their family members turn up to the Cauvery and float ‘mulapari’ (nursery raised in pot) in the water so as to thank nature for its contribution for raising crops, it is a much-awaited day for the newly-wed couples as they would invariably throng the river fronts in their respective areas to perform poojas. The importance of the festival had not diminished even during the years when the Cauvery river was bereft of water flow. The river has had a steady flow of water this year since the release of water from Mettur dam on June 12. Barring a few, most of the bathing ghats in Karur, Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai, Pudukottai and Ariyalur districts hardly had devotees this year on Sunday due to the blanket ban on people from taking dip in the river. The bathing ghats looked deserted with people being denied permission to congregate. Nerur, Vangal, Mayanur and Kulithalai on the bank of the Cauvery in Karur district; Mukkombu, Amma Mandapam, Mela Chinthamai in Tiruchi district; Kallanai and the bathing ghats of the Cauvery and branch channels in Thanjavur district and other delta districts were brought under the police control and those who had turned up at the river fronts were politely asked to return home. The devotees had no other option but to perform poojas in their homes. “It is really unfortunate that the devotees couldn't go near the river fronts to perform poojas to the mother Cauvery on the important occasion. The fanfare and gaiety attached to the festival is missed a lot,” S. Hemanathan, a resident of Srirangam, said. But, in some areas, devotees mainly women and newly-wed couples managed to visit the river fronts and performed rituals. A group of women performed poojas at Thulakattam, a popular bathing ghat in Mayiladuthurai, by defying the ban. At home With lockdown in place and the civic body authorities announcing that the bathing ghats along the Cauvery river in Tiruchi would be kept out of bounds of public on the occasion of Adi Perukku on Sunday, a family in Palakkarai area here chose to worship the holy river at home. The family of Lakshmi chose to perform necessary rituals on this holy occasion by worshipping the Cauvery water that comes to the ground-level sump in their house. Lakshmi and her family performed pooja by offering coconuts, plantains, apple and guava, besides flowers and betel leaves on a plantain leaf to the holy water. Ms. Lakshmi said her family decided to offer prayers to the holy Cauvery by remaining at home this time as public were not allowed to the river banks to perform pooja. Police sources said law-enforcers were deployed at various bathing ghats along the river banks in the district to prevent gatherings on Adi Perukku day. Holy procession Owing to the lockdown, there was no holy procession of Namperumal, the processional deity of Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple, from the shrine to the Amma Mandapam on the Cauvery river bank at Srirangam on the occasion of Adi Perukku. Temple authorities said the processional deity was taken out from the sanctum sanctorum in a procession in the evening up to the Renga Vilas Mandapam inside the shrine premises where rituals and veda parayanams were held. Thereafter, the holy gifts such as garlands of the deity, gold thaali and other holy items were carried from the temple and offered to the Cauvery.
03 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 541 new COVID-19 cases and two deaths||The central region on Sunday recorded a total of 541 new COVID-19 cases and two deaths- one each in Thanjavur and Perambalur. A 55-year-old man from Thanjavur with severe hypertension, diabetes and coronary artery disease died at the Thanjavur Government Medical College Hospital while a 58-year-old man from Perambalur, also suffering from diabetes and hypertension and had breathing difficulty, died at a private hospital. Meanwhile, 136 patients in Tiruchi, many from within existing containment zones tested positive for the viral infection, while 125 tested positive in Pudukottai. In Thanjavur, a doctor at a private hospital, a coordinator of the Chief Minister’s Health Insurance Scheme at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, two priests at a church in Thanjavur, deputy superintended at Kumbakonam Sub Jail, a receptionist at a private hospital were among those who tested positive. Many cases were detected at fever camps. Ariyalur saw a sharp increase in cases with 73 patients testing positive. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district is now 1,023. Of them, 840 patients had recovered and returned home. Meanwhile, 189 new samples were lifted from containment areas and patients with symptoms and sent for testing. Tiruvarur recorded 45 new COVID-19 cases. In Perambalur, 27 tested positive, among whom four were employees of a private manufacturing company. All remaining patients were patients with influenza-like Illnesses and primary contacts of patients who had previously tested positive. Five of the patients were admitted to a private hospital in Tiruchi, one to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital while the remaining were admitted to the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital. Karur recorded 28 new cases, among who were 11 women. Meanwhile, 18 patients, including two from Tiruchi and one from Dindigul, were discharged from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital after recovering from the viral infection. Among the 16 who tested positive in Nagapattinam were four police personnel, one man from Erode, three primary contacts and patients with influenza-like illnesses. One patient who travelled from Bahrain also has tested positive.
03 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Barricades irk some traders||A section of traders staged a protest on Sunday demanding removal of barricades put up on the peripheries of the Gandhi Market. Traders of fruits and flowers, and pavement vendors questioned the Corporation officials about the rationale behind closing the roads around Gandhi Market. Emphasising that it was not right to close the entire area citing that a few traders had tested positive for COVID-19, they said the barricades would totally prevent movement of lorries bringing vegetable, fruits and flower loads to the area. They also took strong objection to the non-closure of the road that led to a Tasmac outlet. On information, the police rushed to the spot and held talks. The traders withdrew the protest after the Tasmac shop was closed.
03 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BDU to offer UGC training online||The University Grants Commission’s Human Resource Development Centre of Bharathidasan University is poised to offer UGC-sponsored faculty induction programmes, refresher courses, short term courses and workshops online this academic year. In an order issued on July 1, 2020, UGC instructed universities to switch over to online mode for conducting in-service training programmes for higher education teachers. The detailed standard operating procedure for the conduct of these programmes online explain that the trainings will have all the features of face-to-face programmes including evaluation of teachers learning outcomes through electronically proctored tests, assignments, quizzes and presentations. G. Gopinath, Registrar said that the HRDC of Bharathidasan University was among 37 out of 66 HRDCs to get UGC’s allotment of courses this year. The university’s ICT infrastructure would enable the HRDC to conduct the online training programmes effectively and efficiently, Prof. Gopinath said. Vice Chancellor P. Manisankar said that necessary ICT infrastructure for offering online courses to college and university teachers regularly in the post-Covid 19 scenario would be created with the Rs. 3.5 crore the university has received under Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan for an exclusive academic and administrative building at Khajamalai Campus for the HRDC. S. Senthilnathan, Director of the HRDC, said short-term courses will be offered initially and refresher courses and faculty induction programmes will be conducted in due course.
03 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fever camp schedule||The Tiruchi City Corporation has announced a schedule for fever camps to screen residents for COVID-19 after observing the positive outcome of the two weeks of continuous screening. The civic body announced that in areas under the aegis of the 18 Primary Healthcare Centres: Bheema Nagar, Irudayapuram, Periyamelagu Parai, Woraiyur, Ramalinga Nagar, Thennur, Thiruvanaikoil, Srirangam, Kamaraj Nagar, Subramaniyapuram, Teppakulam, East Boulevard Road, M.K. Kottai, Edamalaipatti Pudur, Gandhipuram, Beerangikulam and Thiruverumbur, fever camps would be conducted in two shifts from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Four teams of doctors are deployed per shift, S. Sivasubramanian, City Corporation Commissioner, told The Hindu . An average of 1,900 people are screened for fever, cough and other COVID-19 symptoms per day at the fever camps. Around 300 samples were lifted and sent to the testing facility at K. A. P. Viswanatham Government Medical College. Of the 18,000 test swabs lifted from across the district, 300 come solely from these camps. “Of the 300 swabs, around 7%, which is around 20 patients, tests positive each day on an average,” Mr. Sivasubramanian said.
03 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||BSF soldier cremated with full State honours||The mortal remains of Border Security Force soldier S. Thirumurthy was cremated with full State honours at Pullavarayankudikadu village in Tiruvarur district on Sunday. The BSF soldier who was serving in Kathua district in Jammu and Kashmir sustained grievous injury when an assault rifle he was handling accidentally went off. The bullet apparently hit his eye. He was rushed to the military hospital but died while undergoing treatment. The body of Thirumurthy was brought by a team of BSF personnel to his native village Pullavarayankudikadu in the early hours on Sunday. The body was kept in his house for relatives and general public to pay homage. State Food Minister R. Kamaraj, Tiruvarur District Collector T. Anand, and Superintendent of Police M. Durai paid their homage. Members from various political parties also paid their respects. The body was thereafter taken in a military truck to the cremation ground at the village and cremated with full State honours. The BSF soldier is survived by wife Tamizharasi, son Agathiyan and daughter Ahalya.
03 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||There will be power shutdown from 9.45 a.m. to 2 p.m. on August 4 in the areas served by Ambikapuram sub-station in view of maintenance works: Ariyamangala, Nehruji Nagar, S.I.T, Ponmalai Military Colony, Keela Ambikapuram, Venkateswara Nagar, M.G.R. Nagar, Mela Ambikapuram, Anna Nagar, Golden Nagar, Cauvery Nagar, Andal Nagar, Rajappa Nagar, Rail Nagar, Kamaraj Nagar, Kattur, Malayappanagar, Pappakurichy, Kailash Nagar, Sakthi Nagar, Balaji Nagar, Mela Kalkandarkottai, Alathur, Keela Kalkandarkottai, Keelakurichy, Nathamadipatty, Thirunagar, Adaikala Annai Nagar, Ponneripuram, a part of Ponmalaipatty, Sangliyandapuram and Senthaneerpuram, a TANGEDCO press release said.
03 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Rare brain surgery performed on a 10-year-old boy||A successful brain aneurysm surgery was done on a 10-year-old boy and he has recovered well at the Meenakshi Multi-Speciality Hospital in Thanjavur. The child, who hails from Jayankondam, was brought in a comatose state, hospital sources said. After multiple tests, the presence of an aneurysm in the left blood vessel of the brain (ICA Bifurcation Aneurysm) was identified A team of doctors led by N. Arunkumar, Chief of Neurological Surgery, performed a procedure known as aneurysm clipping. After the surgery, there was a marked improvement in the child’s health. The child was sent home after he regained consciousness.
03 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||Water level in Mettur dam was at 64.05 feet on Sunday morning against the full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 3,994 cusecs and discharge 3,000 cusecs
03 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||NGO alleges lack of safety on SH-37||Dalit Liberation Movement, an NGO based in Alanganallur in Madurai district, alleged lack of safety on State Highways (SH) – 37 on the stretch between Oddanchatram in Dindigul district to Avinashipalayam in Tiruppur district. In a letter to the Divisional Engineer of Tamil Nadu Road Sector Project – II (TNRSP-II), Tiruppur district, the organisation’s district general secretary S. Karuppaiah alleged that the road was opened for the public while construction works are under way. Motorists travelling on SH-37 from nearby villages have met with accidents due to the alleged lack of safety, he claimed. Mr. Karuppaiah alleged that no action was taken by the State Highways Department and the private construction company despite representations in the past. The private company involved in the ongoing construction works must pay adequate compensation to the victims, he said. Warning signs When contacted, Special Tahsildar (Land Acquisition) of TNRSP-II of Tiruppur district G. Boopathy said that the State Highways Department will place warning signs with speed limits on the stretch between Oddanchatram to Avinashipalayam on SH-37.
03 August 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide community certificates to Ezhava, Thiyya communities soon ’||The Nilgiris district committee for Ezhava and Thiyya rights has appealed to the district administration to provide community certificates to the members of the two communities soon. In a petition to District Collector, an office-bearer of the committee K. Vijayan stated that the Ezhava and Thiyya communities were finally accorded Backward Class status by the State government after a more than a three-decade-long struggle. Taking into account that the academic year for schoolchildren was about to start, the district administration should expedite the granting of certificates. “Moreover, as Ezhava and Thiyya youth have not been able to get community certificates so far, we request the government to ensure that they get exceptions from having to produce the certificates when applying for government jobs or while getting admission in educational institutions,” he said. The district committee for Ezhava and Thiyya rights also appealed to the government to form a panel comprising members of the two communities to grant the community certificates. They also urged the government to ensure that the community certificates of the parents are not demanded when providing certificates to children. “As thousands of people will have to be granted community certificates, we also appeal to the government to organise camps to grant the certificates,” said Mr. Vijayan.
03 August 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR/ MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases unabated in Virudhunagar district||Virudhunagar district on Sunday recorded 337 new COVID-19 positive cases and six deaths, which took the district’s toll to 96. All the six victims, including two women, had died between July 29 and August 1. The number of positive cases in the district is 8,491 and active cases 2,297. Aruppukottai Town police station was closed on Saturday as six police personnel tested positive. Around 20 persons – many of them are employees of fireworks units – from Perapatti near Sivakasi tested positive on Sunday. A total of 178 persons tested positive in Madurai, taking the district’s tally to 11,352. All the new cases were indigenous. As many as 114 persons were discharged from hospitals. Six patients died, taking the death toll to 253. There are 2,354 active cases in the district. Thoothukudi reported 278 fresh cases, which took the district’s tally to 7,628. There were 241 discharges in the district, which has witnessed 54 deaths. A total of 178 tested positive in Tirunelveli, pushing the district’s tally to 5,572. There were 10 discharges from hospitals. Fifty deaths have been recorded in the district. Tenkasi added 105 new cases, with which its tally rose to 2,315. Eighteen people were discharged. The virus has claimed 27 lives in the district. Kanniyakumari recorded 201 new cases, which took the total number of cases in the district to 5,092. As many as 162 people were discharged on Sunday. The district’s overall toll stands at 49. Theni district’s tally went up by 309 to reach 5,664. There were 95 discharges. The district has registered 63 deaths. Dindigul added 97 new cases, with which the total number of positive cases in the district rose to 2,990. The district saw 179 discharges. The overall toll in the district is 55. Forty-five fresh cases were reported in Ramanathapuram. With 101 patients having been discharged on Sunday, the district’s tally stands at 3,338. The district’s overall toll is 66. Sivaganga recorded 45 new cases, which took its tally to 2,471. A total of 80 patients were discharged. The district has marked 46 deaths.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Private hospitals in districts too overcharge patients||Chennai apart, cases of COVID-19 have been rising in the rest of the State since last month. As more and more persons are testing positive in some of the major districts, resulting in an increased demand for hospital beds, a number of private hospitals have been overcharging patients, in spite of a cap on treatment cost and warnings from the Health Department to adhere to the stipulated ceiling on charges. Complaints about the collection of excess charges by various private hospitals prompted the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services (DMS) to issue a circular on July 18, cautioning hospitals that any deviation from the rates fixed by the government would be viewed seriously. Inquiries with a number of hospitals in Coimbatore, Tiruchi and Madurai in July to check the prevailing rates revealed that many charged in excess. A representative of Kovai Medical Center and Hospital, one of the private hospitals in Coimbatore handling COVID-19 cases, said the treatment cost would be at least Rs. 3 lakh, when contacted under the pretext of making an enquiry to shift a 65-year-old patient from a hospital in Madurai to Coimbatore. The approximate rate quoted by a person in charge of the COVID-19 ward was for hospitalisation for a minimum of 14 days, excluding the expenses for ventilator support, oxygen and treatment for co-morbid conditions, if any. In Tiruchi, admission to a general COVID-19 ward of Apollo Hospitals cost Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000, which included Rs. 3,000 for PPE kit and medicines. Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan Medical College Hospital in Perambalur charged patients Rs. 11,000 for a general COVID-19 ward, and Rs. 15,000 per day for ICU. This was inclusive of PPE kit, food and medicine charges. In Madurai district, three major hospitals — Apollo Hospitals, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Velammal Hospital — quoted around Rs. 15,000 for normal wards and upwards of Rs. 25,000 for ICU wards. This is in violation of the upper limits of Rs. 7,500 and Rs. 15,000 per day for the normal and ICU wards in hospitals in A1 and A2 categories, respectively. A senior representative of Meenakshi Mission Hospital said their understanding was that the government-fixed rates applied only to those availing themselves of treatment under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS). “We are strictly following these rates for the CMCHIS,” he said. A representative of Kauvery Medical Centre and Hospital, Thennur, said the hospital charged the government-fixed rate of Rs. 7,000 per day. Similarly, SRM Medical College Hospital, Tiruchi, charged Rs. 6,000 per day for moderate COVID-19 patients, including medication and food, while an additional Rs. 2,000 per day was charged for PPE kit. For ICU, the hospital collected Rs. 10,000, while the cost of PPE kit and other charges were additional. An official in charge of COVID-19 treatment at Velammal Hospital in Madurai  said the rates applied only to those covered under the CMCHIS. An official of the Health Department said they had issued a reminder to all private hospitals to strictly adhere to the treatment cost fixed by the government. In a letter to all private hospitals approved for COVID-19 treatment, the DMS noted that despite the government order stipulating a ceiling on charges, many complaints were received about collection of excess charges by various private hospitals. “We are acting on specific complaints... A team of the Joint Director (Clinical Establishments Act) goes to the hospital and conducts an inquiry,” he said. ( W ith inputs from Kathelene Antony in Tiruchi, Sanjana Ganesh in Madurai, Wilson Thomas in Coimbatore and Serena Josephine M. in Chennai )  Inquiries with a number of hospitals in Coimbatore, Tiruchi and Madurai in July to check the prevailing rates revealed that many charged in excess
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SITRA tests fabrics for viral penetration||The South India Textile Research Association (SITRA) here has started conducting viral penetration tests in fabrics that are used to make coveralls. An official at SITRA said it started the viral penetration tests two weeks ago and has got 10 to 15 samples so far. The Association was one of the laboratories in the country that was recognised to conduct blood penetration tests for PPEs to be supplied to the government when COVID-19 spread started. Just two or three samples have passed the viral penetration test. “Even some of the fabrics that had the best results for synthetic blood penetration test are finding it difficult to pass the viral penetration test,” the official said. SITRA tests for viral penetration for both, Indian and European standards. It offers packages, with a series of tests, to manufacturers for coveralls, gowns, masks, etc. It has also applied for government approval to conduct anti-viral tests on fabrics. Sri Venkatalakshmi Spinners at Udumalpet is one of the companies that has developed fabrics - branded as Doctor Shield - that have passed the viral penetration tests done by SITRA. Gopinath Bala, Managing Director of the company, said the fabric can be used to make coveralls and surgical wear. With a capacity to produce fabric that can make 40,000 garments a month, Sri Venkatalakshmi Spinners now plans to tap the opportunity in the domestic and overseas markets. Probably, some buyers abroad may ask for tests again, but, since SITRA is an accredited laboratory, the results of tests done at SITRA will be acceptable, he says. According to one of the leading PPE fabric and mask manufacturer here, SITRA currently tests fabrics for synthetic blood penetration and viral penetration and masks for particle filtration efficiency and and bacterial filtration. The coverall manufacturers will have to get the products tested again even if they use fabrics that are tested and certified. With the emergency situation because of the spread of COVID-19 spread, some countries need coveralls in large quantities and they are likely to accept the SITRA certification.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Follow COVID-19 norms, tea manufacturers told||Tea manufacturers were issued a series of instructions to follow to prevent the spread of COVID-19 among their workers in the Nilgiris. In a meeting held recently, Supriya Sahu, Principal Secretary and Managing Director of The Tamil Nadu Small Tea Growers’ Industrial Cooperative Tea Factories’ Federation Limited (INDCOSERVE), advised owners of tea factories to ensure that the workers employed in their factories are mandatorily made to wear masks and regularly use hand sanitisers. She also urged them to provide the workers with hand sanitiser every hour while they were working in their factories and ensure personal distancing. Ms. Sahu also advised officials from tea manufacturing units who had to travel outside the district to self-isolate themselves once they returned, and get tested for COVID-19. The meeting, which was held in the end of July, was attended by the Nilgiris District Collector, J. Innocent Divya. Speaking at the event, the Collector said that more than 34,000 swab samples had been lifted from residents across the Nilgiris and tested. She urged the people to inform the administration regarding persons who recently returned to the Nilgiris from other districts by contacting the COVID-19 helpline at 1077. After the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases ticked past the 800-mark on Saturday, the district administration announced that 650 of the total people who tested positive have recovered and returned home. Also, present at the meeting was District Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan, Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Tea Plantation Corporation Limited Srinivas Reddy and officials from the health department in the Nilgiris.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. begins desilting of channels||The Salem Corporation has begun desiltation works at water channels in its limits in view of the seasonal rains to prevent water-logging and inundation of residential areas and major roads here. According to corporation officials, the desilting works are being carried out at major water channels as a precautionary measure to prevent water-logging on major roads and low-lying areas. Officials said that the works are being carried out ensuring COVID-19 safety measures. They said that in its four zones, four water channels in Sooramangalam, five in Hasthampatti, 10 in Ammapet and 12 in Kondalampatti are being desilted by health officials. The civic body has procured and provided four zones under it with four JCB machines and four mini JCB machines to conduct the desilting works. Besides this, mini excavators are also being used in smaller lanes where JCBs cannot enter. As part of preventing flooding of rainwater, drains are being constructed under Smart Cities Mission in places like Narayan Nagar and a few other places. The Corporation, under the Smart Cities Mission, is also constructing a canal to let surplus water from the Kumaragiri Lake to prevent stagnation in residential areas near the water body.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||167 more test positive in Coimbatore district||As many as 167 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday while Tiruppur and Salem districts witnessed one death each. While the total number of positive cases reported in the district increased to 5,230, the official death toll stood at 71 on Sunday. Health Department confirmed the deaths of seven patients at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital and the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on July 30, 31 and August 1. Two male patients aged 67 and 69 died at ESI Hospital on July 31 and August 1. CMCH witnessed deaths of four patients aged 54, 46, 63 and 80 on July 31 and one patient aged 59 on August 1. The new cases were from places including Pollachi, Alandurai, Elachipalayam, Ganapathy, Jothipuram, Saravanampatti, Madukarai, Sundarapuram, Uppilipalayam, Ukkdadam, Kovaipudur and Vadavalli. As many as 224 persons, who recovered from the disease got discharged from different hospitals in the district on Sunday. A total of 134 cases were reported in Salem. Of these, 130 cases are indigenous, including 95 in Salem Corporation limits. Four patients returned from Maharashtra and Bihar. A 77-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 disease at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital died on Sunday. Health officials said the deceased, a resident of Shevapet was admitted to the hospital on July 31 and was undergoing treatment here. The patient died on Sunday without responding to treatment. The patient was suffering from hypertension and diabetes, they said. Tiruppur district reported one death and 40 fresh cases, taking the district’s tally to 949 cases. A 37-year-old man from Tiruppur Corporation limits, who was COVID-19 positive and was admitted in CMCH on July 30, died on Saturday at 5 a.m. The deceased was suffering from seizure disorder, health officials said. A 25-year-old woman working as a staff nurse at the primary health centre at Vellakoil tested positive. Two girls, aged nine and 10 respectively, from Corporation limits were also among the fresh cases. In Krishnagiri, 59 cases were reported. According to health officials, 52 are indigenous and seven patients have returned from other districts. Twenty-eight cases were reported in Namakkal. Of these, five have travelled from other districts like Salem, Erode, Karur and Coimbatore. One patient has returned from Andhra Pradesh. Erode district reported 22 new cases taking the district’s tally to 754. While seven cases were reported in corporation limits, six in Bhavani, four in Modakurichi, two each in Perundurai and Chithode and one case at Nambiyur were reported. A total of 32 persons were discharged on Saturday, 162 persons continue to be under treatment at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Nine deaths were reported, so far, in the district. In Dharmapuri, 17 cases were reported. While seven patients have returned from Karnataka, four have travelled to other districts like Kanchipuram, Tuticorin, Krishnagiri and Thirupathur. In the Nilgiris, 14 people tested positive, bringing the total number of recorded cases in the district to 812. The district administration said that 672 people have recovered and 138 people are undergoing treatment.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level at less than halfway mark in Siruvani worries water managers||As of 8 a.m. on August 2, water level in the Siruvani Reservoir stood at 15.22 feet, lower than the halfway mark of 24.75 feet. The full reservoir level is 49.50 feet. The water level has worried the city’s water managers at the Coimbatore Corporation, who have renewed their hope on the South-West Monsoon rain in August and September. In a normal South-West Monsoon season, which extends from June to September, the water level touches and sometimes cross the full reservoir level. But since 2019 there has been a reduction in water storage level in Siruvani Reservoir to 44.50 feet as the Kerala Government had reduced the level citing dam safety. Last year, the water level had touched the permitted level of 44.50 feet and with that the Coimbatore Corporation had managed to meet the city’s needs in Summer 2020. But this year, the water position, right from the start of the monsoon season, had put the Corporation on tenterhook as the water level had almost touched the dead storage level in May-June this year. If the city were to have a water scarcity-free Summer 2021 the remaining monsoon season would be crucial, the water managers said and added that they hoped that the Monsoon would not be disappointing this time. And, there seems to be good news for the city’s water managers as the Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University had predicted good rain in August and in the first fortnight of September. The Centre’s head Prof. S.P. Ramanathan said in August 2019, the city had received 221.3mm as against the long-term (50 years’) average of 40.9mm for the month. And, in September that year the city had received 57.3mm as against the average of 70.7mm. This year, the prediction for August was that there would be good rain. In the two months of the monsoon season that ended July 31, the city had received 22.5mm in June and 83.5mm in July. The average for the two months were 38mm and 37.8mm respectively. The South-West Monsoon average was 187.4 mm and, thus far, the city had received 106 mm, he said and added that the chance that the city would have surplus rainfall in August was high. The city’s water managers said if the city were to get good rainfall it would naturally translate into increase in water level in Siruvani as the monsoon usually gave more rain in Siruvani catchment than in Coimbatore, a rain shadow region.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen to resume fishing from today||Fishermen associations here have thanked the State government for consenting to grant diesel subsidy to mechanised boats. Jesu Raja, an association leader, said Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar had agreed to their demand. A resolution passed at the meeting urged the government to reduce taxes imposed on petroleum products like in other States. The government should waive tax on the fuel consumed by fishermen. Fishermen resolved to collect tokens from the Department of Fisheries and go for fishing from Monday. The fishermen here were on a strike since last week urging the government to provide diesel subsidy.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Venturing out||
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fuel station staff attacked||Miscreants allegedly attacked employees of a fuel station and damaged its properties at Kolumam in the district on Sunday. According to the police complaint filed by the owner V. Kannappen, two men visited the fuel station at around 2 a.m. and demanded petrol. Two employees refused to provide the fuel citing the Sunday lockdown, following which the miscreants allegedly attacked the employees and damaged the glass pane of a door.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three booked in cheating case||The Kattoor police have booked S. Senthilkumar, coordinator of Friends of Police (FoP) in Coimbatore, and two of his associates for allegedly cheating a woman of Rs. 4.35 lakh by promising to allot a housing site near Annur. Senthilkumar, who was into real estate business, his associates R. Eswaran and Krishnamoorthy, were booked for offences under Sections 120B (Criminal conspiracy) 406 (Punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (Cheating) of the Indian Penal Code on Friday based on a complaint filed by J. Dhanalakshmi of Masakalipalayam. The police said that the accused had approached the complainant and assured her of allotting a housing site through their ventures Selvanayaki Promoters and Sri Selvanayaki Real Estate. The complainant paid Rs. 4.35 lakh to the accused for the property. However, the accused did not allot her the land or return her money.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||Despite the COVID-19 lockdown, cases continue to rise and hospitals are overflowing. People themselves must obey the rules on their own accord without insistence by the government agencies. G. S. Mani,      It is difficult to use 120-Foot-Road ever since vendors from flower and vegetable markets in Mattuthavani area were temporarily shifted here. Moreover physical distancing norms are not followed here. Since the lockdown has been extended, they may be shifted to either MGR bus stand, Race Course, some ground or Ring Road, so that they can do business without causing hindrance. S. Bala,  Madurai    Just two months after Tenkasi district was carved out of Tirunelveli, it remains cut off from the latter because of lockdown norms. Daily wagers, carpenters, construction workers, small vendors and even the general public of find it difficult to go from one place to the other between these two districts. So the Collectors of the two districts should take steps for easy movement without e-pass. P. Victor Selvaraj,  Palayamkottai    The very purpose of total lockdown on Sundays - to prevent crowding in meat shops - gets defeated as people flout physical distancing norms and crowd meat shops on Saturdays. People must be educated on the perils of crowding, be it on any day. Or else the total lockdown may not be of any use. A.M.N. Pandian,  Tirunelveli
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||Traffic congestion at MGR Circle near the District Court complex has become a persistent problem, warranting steps on a war-footing to rein in irresponsible motorists. The traffic signals that would ameliorate the congestion and prevent accidents are not functional Kanagaraj Arthur Ramalinganagar South Extension   The approach road to the road over bridge (ROB) near the LA Cinema Maris Theatre complex on Salai Road, Tiruchi, had suffered extensive damage during the recent unseasonal heavy rain. The old road and the ROB have become too narrow to meet the present day heavy vehicular traffic. The stretch from Salai Road traffic signal up to the Main Guard Gate junction must be widened. C.S. Ananthakrishnan Srirangam   Firemen ought to stick to Standard Operating Procedure while undertaking rescue missions. The death caused by poisonous gas to a fireman involved in rescuing labourers trapped in a open well at Selliampalayam village in Perambalur district could have been avoided had he taken the safety measure of wearing an oxygen mask with an attached cylinder. Thirumeni.J Cantonment   Real estate market is in need of a fillip by way of decrease in stamp duty and registration charges. The govt. has to take a favourable decision suiting the realty sector to improve cash flow in the current situation. G. Srinivas Tiruvanaikoil   Though it is common knowledge that agriculture and related activities like sericulture, horticulture and pisciculture sustain the economy to a major extent, no effective measures are visible for preventing wastages, much to the chagrin of the farming community. Processing of food produce is vital for extricating rural masses from poverty. Promoting the concept of consuming de-hydrated vegetables will be a game changer. V. Srinivasan Thiruppanandal    Students should be initiated into learning with an approach that would infuse creative thinking. A healthy competition between deemed-to-be and State universities with focus on life skills and character formation will go a long way in remedying the situation and preparing students for bright careers. The syllabi needs to be upgraded at par with the content in elite univerisities and the spirit of competition must be fostered to promote innovations and research. R. Pichumani Thippirajapuram
03 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||NGOs join hands with the govt. in the fight against pandemic||Some non-governmental organisations (NGOs) are helping poor patients battle COVID-19 by providing them free oxygen cylinders. The Anjuman-e-Islam committee in Belagavi has tied up with industrial gas industries and plans to provide oxygen cylinders to the needy. The committee will provide 120 cylinders in the first phase. It plans to increase the numbers in the next few weeks. “Our members wanted to help society in some way in the battle against COVID-19. Some of us observed that the number of bodies being cremated in the city had nearly doubled. We were getting around two bodies per day before June. But in recent weeks, it had shot up to four bodies per day. This was alarming and we decided to join the government’s efforts in helping patients,” committee chairman Raju Seth. “A background study helped us understand that a large number of patients were from poor families. Some of them could not afford industrial oxygen supply, especially if they were home quarantined and needed cylinders. We have enlisted the services of volunteers and are providing door delivery of cylinders,” Mr. Seth said. “We are supplying cylinders to people from all communities and faiths. We also have a list of doctors on call. We are sending them to the houses of those with symptoms who want advice on the epidemic, like whether they need a test or if they should choose a hospital or should stay home,” Mr. Seth said. Residents of Belagavi and nearby areas can contact the committee’s volunteers Samiullah Madiwale on Ph: 7676686778 or Ameen Pattekari on Ph: 7676513526.  Holistic services In Bidar, a group of organisations has come together to provide holistic services to people of the city and nearby areas. A helpline has been set up for free counselling and medical advice. The group can be contacted through Amir Pasha on Ph: 886197540, Yousuf Raheem on Ph: 9845628595 or M. Asaduddin on Ph: 7975298728. Whenever a family feels that one of its members is having symptoms indicative of COVID-19, it can call these numbers to get its doubts clarified. Then, a group of two volunteers will go to the family’s house with a pulse oximeter and a pamphlet on managing the disease. Already, the volunteers have supplied around 50 cylinders and provided free counselling to 60 families till now. The group has also pressed into service two ambulances to ferry patients to hospital and to take them back home. All these services are given free. Other organisations such as the Idgah Committee, Alimoddin Foundation, Rahim Khan Trust, Safa Baitul Maal, Jamiat Ahle Hadees, Jamaat-e-Islami and Pharmacists Association have joined hands in these efforts.
03 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 laboratory may reopen today||COVID-19 testing was temporarily hit after the biggest COVID-19 laboratory in Belagavi was sealed following some of the staff members tested positive. The laboratory set up on Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Traditional Medicine campus on Kakati Road was sealed on Friday. The RT-PCR laboratory used to test nearly 2,000 swab samples per day. This is higher than the facilities in KLE Society’s Prabhakar Kore Hospital or the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences. As many as three persons in the ICMR lab and 10 persons on NITM campus tested positive on Friday. The lab was closed for three days for sanitisation. Those persons were non-symptomatic and have been shifted to COVID care centres. Tracing of their primary contacts has begun. Nearly 200 family members and visitors to the canteen where some of the positive persons were working have been among the contacts. All of them would be referred for home quarantine. The list could be longer, a health officer said. Regional Commissioner Amlan Aditya Biswas said that the RT-PCR lab is likely to be reopened on Monday. This is the second time since the epidemic broke out that work in the lab has been stopped. It was sealed for sanitisation in June following some cases.
03 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Chikkodi hospital OPD closed||The out-patient department (OPD) of the government hospital in Chikkodi was closed on Sunday after one staff member tested positive for COVID-19. The COVID-19 ward in the hospital, however, remains open. The closure of the OPD caused inconvenience to poor non-COVID-19 patients who came there for out-patient treatment. It has also caused great stress to pregnant women from poor families who want to avail themselves of free delivery services in the hospital. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath has said that the hospital would be opened in a day or two.
03 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Trains cancelled||South Western Railways has cancelled some trains to West Bengal from the State due to the complete lockdown in that State. The Howrah-Yesvantpur Special (Train No 02245) that is scheduled to leave Howrah on August 5, 8, 16 and 23 has been cancelled. Yesvantpur-Howrah Special (Train No 02246) scheduled to leave Yesvantpur on August 7, 10, 16, 18, 23, 25 and 30 has also been cancelled, said a press release from Hubballi.
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||On average, primary contacts per patient range from 2 to 25||A district-wise analysis of primary contacts per patient in the last fortnight shows there is a stark difference in the average number of primary contacts traced from every patient who tested positive in the State. According to data provided by the State COVID-19 war room, Chamarajanagar has reported the highest number of primary contacts, with an average of 25 for every person who tested positive in the last fortnight. However, in some districts such as Davangere and Bengaluru Rural, on an average only two primary contacts have been traced for every positive case. In Bengaluru Urban, which is reporting the highest number of positive cases in the State, on an average three primary contacts were traced from every patient who tested positive in the last fortnight. Public health experts and doctors pointed out that the district administrations that have identified very few primary contacts should pull up their socks and ensure they do not give up on contact tracing. Giridhara R. Babu, professor and head, Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru, who is also a member of the COVID-19 technical advisory committee, said, “Priority should be given to contact tracing as much as possible, with focus on household contacts, healthcare workers, high-risk closed settings, and vulnerable contacts. Identifying the cases immediately and extensive contact tracing are critical to maintaining low levels of transmission. This will help us to rapidly identify and break new transmission chains and save lives.” Madhu S., a resident of west Bengaluru, said no Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike official called them and asked about the people they had come in touch with after one of their relatives tested positive. “We ourselves had to make calls to our friends, relatives, and neighbours, and inform them to remain in home quarantine,” she said. “Initially, when the pandemic started, we ensured that we traced not only traced the primary contacts, but also the secondary contacts, and asked them to strictly maintain home quarantine. But now, we are short on manpower and all our focus is on ensuring that the patients who test positive get the necessary medical intervention,” said a senior BBMP official. Officials in some districts, however, pointed out that while contact tracing was being done “rigorously” on the field, the numbers were not being updated in the system as many officials were not tech-savvy.
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||10 burial grounds to be opened on the outskirts of city this week||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is set to open 10 burial grounds on the city’s outskirts this week for people who died after contracting COVID-19. “The Revenue Department is in the process of handing over the land they have earmarked for the grounds. Once it is done, we will immediately open them,” said civic Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad. Owing to protests by residents living around burial grounds in the city, most of those who die of COVID-19 are being cremated, even those who were members of communities that traditionally bury their dead. The Archdiocese of Bangalore has written to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa seeking grant of land on the city’s outskirts for burial grounds for those who die of COVID-19. “Christianity doesn’t consider cremation as the mode of last rites. Giving the bodies of patients who die of COVID-19 for cremation causes much mental trauma for the family members,” Peter Machado, Archbishop of Bangalore, said in his letter, a copy of which is available with The Hindu .  The Revenue Department has now identified two parcels of land in Dasanapura hobli of Bengaluru North taluk, one site in Uttarahalli hobli of Bengaluru South taluk, one each in Jigani and Sarjapur hoblis of Anekal taluk, and six parcels in Jala hobli of Yelahanka taluk — totalling to just over 23 acres. The department had in fact identified over 35 acres of land, of which many were dropped due to virulent protests by the locals. The 10 burial grounds will be open to everyone irrespective of their religion. At the recent BBMP council, Mr. Prasad said many communities living around the plots identified for burial grounds had expressed reservations. Despite officials trying to convince them that there is no chance of spread of COVID-19 once the body is buried, residents had opposed the move, forcing the authorities to look for new land.“There is a misconception that burial of COVID-19 victims is potentially dangerous. There is scientific evidence that it is not. We will take up an awareness campaign in the media and also hold meetings with local villagers and convince them,” said Mr. Prasad. J.A. Kantharaj, spokesperson, Archdiocese of Bangalore, said the church owned several land parcels across the city and were prepared to bury COVID-19 victims from the community if the civic and police administration stood by them against protests by local residents. “In several cases, the police have tried to diffuse the situation by asking the families to not bury at the site, the most recent being in Vidyaranyapura,” he said.
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Expansion of COVID Care Centres put on hold because of low occupancy||With the occupancy of beds at existing COVID Care Centres hovering around 60-64% over the past 10 days, the ramping up of such facilities has been temporarily put on hold. According to data from the civic body, till Sunday evening, of the 4,076 beds in the 10 COVID Care Centres, 2,643 were occupied and 1,433 were vacant. Private centres set up by hospitals and hotels are seeing a similar trend. Of the 2,611 beds across 42 private centresin the city, only 599 were occupied as on Saturday. At the few facilities set up by residents’ welfare associations and apartment complexes, of the 31 beds available, only one was occupied. This being the case, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad has directed officials not to immediately set up COVID Care Centres at the Assembly constituency level. Rajender Kumar Kataria, who heads the task force formed to set them up, told The Hindu that the issue was discussed during a review meeting with the Chief Minister recently. He pointed out that the average number of positive COVID-19 cases being reported over the past 10 days has been around 2,000. Of these, around 80% of the patients have been asymptomatic. “Around 45% of those who have tested positive and are asymptomatic are able to opt for home isolation, while around 15% opt to get admitted to private facilities, and another 15% opt for government-run CCCs,” he said. He added that 300 to 350 people were getting admitted to government-run facilities. “There are at least 300 people getting discharged every day,” he said. Mr. Kataria said that given the current scenario, there was no point in opening more centres. Concurring, Mr. Prasad said that once the occupancy at Bangalore International Exhibition Centre increases, the option of decentralised centres would be explored. He has directed zonal teams to identify locations suitable for setting up such centres. “We do not foresee a requirement as of now,” he said, adding that with increased testing, the number of positive COVID-19 cases might increase. As of now, around 10,000 tests are being performed every day. The number is soon likely to touch 50,000, he added.
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Peripheral Ring Road project will claim 33,838 trees: EIA||The proposed eight-lane Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) on a stretch of 65.5 km will come at a huge environmental cost: 33,838 trees will have to be removed. The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) on the project states that of the trees identified, 9,304 trees fall under T.G. Halli catchment. “The removal of these trees in the catchment is likely to have an impact on the hydrological regime and water quality in the catchment area,” read the report. Around 631 trees are in Jarakabande reserve forest. The project also needs a diversion of 10.117 hectares of forestland. The Bangalore Development Authority has already submitted an online application to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to divert the forestland. “The alignment is surrounded by agricultural land, reserve forests followed by a good number of lakes that provide habitat for avifaunal and faunal species. About 107 species of trees were recorded in the entire alignment (65.5 km) with ecological, economic and social importance. The removal of 33,838 trees and clearance of vegetation will cause disturbance in microclimate, habitat loss and disturbance of vegetation and sensitive plant communities, said the report. The report states that 2,597 trees have been identified for transplantation. However, the success rate is 70%. The proposed alignment is 7.21 km away from the Bannerghatta National Park and 1.49 km from the Puttenahalli lake bird’s conservation reserve. Environmentalists pointed out that the project would have a catastrophic impact. “Over the years, green space in the city deteriorated to a great extent. I don’t know who is lobbying for the project, which will create nothing but a desert by removing our green cover. It will kill more lakes located on the alignment of the road. The younger generation should raise their voice for a better future,” said environmentalist A.N. Yellappa Reddy. Public consultation The Karnataka State Pollution Control Board in a recent notification said that environmental clearance for the project was accorded by the Karnataka State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority in November, 2014. The environmental clearance was challenged in the National Green Tribunal, which directed the BDA to prepare a fresh Environmental Impact Assessment Report. The Supreme Court too upheld the NGT’s orders on preparing a fresh EIA. An official of the BDA said that the pollution control board, Bengaluru Urban Deputy Commissioner, and BDA will conduct a public consultation on the project.   The removal of 33,838 trees and clearance of vegetation will cause disturbance in microclimate, habitat loss and disturbance of vegetation and sensitive plant communities: EIA
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IIMB welcomes new batch; asks students to embrace changes||A new batch of students were welcomed to the Indian Institute of Management Bangalore’s (IIMB) two-year full-time MBA programmes — Postgraduate Programme in Management (PGP) and Postgraduate Programme (Business Analytics) on Saturday amidst the pandemic. As many as 488 students joined PGP and 46 students joined PGP BA. An IIMB release quoted Rishikesha T. Krishnan, Director, IIMB, as saying: “The current time has seen a lot of previous assumptions on business, management and economy being questioned. This may prove to be an exciting time for you students, who can embrace the changes and write new playbooks in business and management.” In his welcome address at an inauguration programme on Saturday, he also said analysts expect a recovery in the economy by mid-2021, and said manufacturing growth is projected in India with new schemes. Padmini Srinivasan, Chair of the Master of Business Administration programme, said this year, apart from students from across the country, two students from Korea are also joining. Ashis Mishra, Chair, Admissions and Financial Aid, said for PGP, out of the 488 students, 423 are from engineering background; there are 146 women and 342 men; the average work experience is about two years, and the average age 25. For PGP BA, out of the batch of 46, there are 86.96% men and 13.04% women; the average age is 23; the maximum number of students are from engineering background - 53% from the IITs/NITs and rest from deemed universities. However, there are also students from other backgrounds such as Computer Science, Physics, Mathematics, Economics, Biotech, etc. A total of 54% of the batch have some work experience, while 45% have no experience, he added. U. Dinesh Kumar, Chair, Master of Business Administration (Business Analytics), pointed out the IIMB has introduced a two-year full time MBA (PGP BA) after almost 47 years. Abhoy K. Ojha, Dean, Academic Programmes, added that IIMB was quick to adapt to changes. “The school held a virtual convocation, invested in technology to provide online education, for both faculty and students. We have support staff to help the cause of digital education.”
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. will have to submit documents in court now’||Welcoming the legal notice served on him by the BJP for having charged the State government with committing irregularities in COVID-19-related purchases, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Sunday said that at least now, the government had to submit the documents that they had asked for in court. “We had decided to seek legal recourse. By issuing legal notice, the BJP has made our job easy. At least now the documents have to be submitted in court and the government has to face us [there],” he tweeted. “It has been over 24 days since the government said that the documents would be sent home within 24 hours. Not a single sheet of document has reached me yet. Why this fear?” In another tweet, he said the “public loot” had reduced since he openly questioned the purchases, and orders worth crores of rupees have been stalled. They are attacking me because they are angry at me for preventing the loot, the Congress leader said.  He claimed that while people were struggling because of lack of beds, medicines, food, and employment, all the government could see was making money out of the purchase of medical equipment. In another tweet, he said, “There is a direct link between corruption and increase in cases in the State. That is why we are creating awareness directly among the public through the abhiyan.” The former Chief Minister also criticised the Union government’s decision to allow export of ventilators. “A reason for the increasing COVID-19 fatality rate in the State is shortage of ventilators. There are 57,000 active COVID-19 cases in BBMP [region] and there are 801 ventilators available. The situation is critical in the State. Karnataka is reporting about 5,000 fresh cases daily and 80 to 90 deaths. Inhuman government,” he tweeted.
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PHANA condemns action against hospitals||The Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA) has written to the Department of Health and Family Welfare (DHFW) urging it to refrain from initiating coercive action, particularly against small hospitals. The association also said that cancellation of licence of hospitals shouldbe withdrawn. In a letter to the Commissioner, DHFW, PHANA said that the recent action of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) in cancellation of the trade licence of small hospitals seems “inappropriate” and was adding to the misery of small hospitals which “were not equipped to treat COVID-19 patients due to infrastructural and manpower constraints”. “Private hospitals in Bengaluru are doing their best to support the government’s efforts to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic, even though we are facing acute shortage of doctors, nurses and related manpower,” the letter stated. The association also complained that the BBMP was allegedly putting up banners in front of hospitals threatening them of closure, which was not only demoralising for healthcare workers, but was also sending out the wrong message to the community at large and was likely to create unrest. This will make it more difficult for private hospitals to serve the communityin these difficult times, they said. They have urged the BBMP and the State government to stop insisting on reservation of even 50% of the beds even in small hospitals for COVID-19 care. “The difficulty faced by the small hospitals and the risk of mixing COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients, which is likely to enhance the spread of COVID-19 and compromise the safety of healthcare workers, has been brought to the notice of the government on many occasions,” the letter added.
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kin of deceased patient target ICU at Jayadeva||Relatives of a 56 -year-old man who died after suffering a massive heart attack targeted the Intensive Care Unit of the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research on Sunday. A watchman posted at the hospital was injured. According to officials, the ICU at the basement was hit and the windowpane at the casualty section was damaged. C.N. Manjunath, Director of the institute, told The Hindu that a complaint had been filed at Tilaknagar police station. “The incident has created fear among the staff and many doctors and paramedical personnel in the emergency ward are refusing to work. We had posted gunmen, but they returned to their home towns after the COVID-19 outbreak,” he said. Sources said that the incident is said to have occurred late in the afternoon after the 56-year-old patient, Syed Ansar Pasha, was brought to the hospital after he suffered a heart attack. “He was attended to by the emergency staff and despite our best efforts, he could not be saved. So, family members who were attending to the patient targeted the hospital premises,” said Dr. Manjunath. A senior police officer from Tilak Nagar police said that the family members of the deceased alleged the patient died because of negligence of the hospital “They hurled a stone that shattered the windowpane next to the entrance of the hospital,” the officer said. The ICU is next to the hospital entrance. “We will analyse CCTV footage from the camera and identify those who were involved in the vandalism,” the police officer said. A case is yet to be registered in connection with the incident. The hospital has denied allegations of delaying treatment.
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New COVID-19 hospital||A BBMP building on Broadway Road, Shivajinagar, which is being converted into a 200-bed COVID-19 hospital, will be up and running in two weeks. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar tweeted this on Sunday and thanked Sudha Murty of Infosys Foundation for providing all the infrastructure. All necessary staff, including doctors and nurses, have been deployed, said a release.
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Call to not cut syllabi||The Samvidhana Odu Abhiyana Samiti has appealed to Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar, urging him not to cut the school syllabi without consulting experts. The government announced 30% cut in syllabi on account of COVID-19 and lost academic time, but has since put it on hold. In a statement, H.N. Nagamohan Das, Vimala K.S. and Vittal Bhandari have said that if the syllabi has to be cut short, it should be done involving subject experts besides maintaining transparency. They added that it is not reasonable to remove lessons related to the Constitution from the syllabi and urged the State government to abandon this idea and ensure that students are educated elaborately on the Constitution.
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||After FIR, Sakra says it will provide 117 beds||After an FIR was lodged against Sakra Hospital for allegedly failing to provide 50% of its beds under the government quota, the hospital has committed to providing 117 beds, including 91 oxygen beds, 14 ICU beds, and 12 ventilator-equipped ones. In a letter to the Deputy Commissioner (Bengaluru Urban), the hospital authorities claimed that the 117 beds made up exactly 50% of the operationalbed strength of 234 (of various categories). The hospital also claimed to be sending daily reports to multiple authorities on bed status and occupancy, while requesting the authorities to not pursue the FIR. Claiming to have treated over 300 COVID-19 patients, the hospital stated it was the first to set up a fever clinic and had provided consultation and evaluation over the past five months to many patients free of cost. “We are cooperating whole-heartedly with the government...,” the letter stated.
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||168 Indians land in KIA from Amsterdam||Early on Sunday morning, as many as 168 people who were stranded in the Netherlands and other European countries landed at Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru from Amsterdam. They were among the 269 Indians who flew back into the country in SpiceJet’s maiden long-haul charter flight from Amsterdam. The flight arrived at KIA at 8.58 a.m. and proceeded to Hyderabad with the remaining 101 passengers, said SpiceJet in a press release. Ambassador of India to the Netherlands Venu Rajamony, in a video message, said, “Happy that the first ever SpiceJet flight to Bengaluru and Hyderabad from Amsterdam has reached safely. Passengers have gone on in other connecting flights to other destinations as well,” he said, pointing out that it was the first budget airline to operate from Europe during the pandemic. In a video message, one passenger thanked the Indian Embassy, various South Indian associations, and SpiceJet. “This was a massive evacuation exercise and it is now our responsibility to take care of ourselves after landing in Bengaluru,” he said.
03 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jarkiholi to meet Ministers||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi will be meeting experts and forest officials in New Delhi regarding clearances for water projects in the State. The discussion will be held on Monday and Tuesday during which he is also scheduled to meet Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Shekawat, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, and Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi. Mr. Jarkiholi’s Office stated that he will meet subject experts, legal experts and officials to hasten the projects that have been affected.
03 August 2020||Chikkamagaluru/Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Notification on ESZs has locals worried||In the past 45 days, the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) has notified two eco-sensitive zones (ESZs), spread over Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, and Udupi districts, in Karnataka. A major section of residents are worried about their future as the notification imposes several restrictions on development activities. The MoEF declared 740.56 sq.km around the Bhadra Wildlife Sanctuary (Tiger Reserve) as an ESZ through a notification issued on June 15. In another notification, issued on July 2, the ministry declared 316.63 sq.km around the Kudremukh National Park as an ESZ. These zones will act as transition areas for the highly protected places. Both the notifications list flora and fauna unique to these localities and stresses on the importance of protecting them. Though there is no restriction on agricultural activities, any development activity in the zone has to be according to the Zonal Master Plan to be prepared by the State government in next two years. A monitoring committee, to be headed by the Regional Commissioner, will have the final say on the activities. Several residents of Umblebailu, Kakanahosudi, Lingapura, which fall under the Bhadra Wildlife Sanctuary ESZ, have submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner in Shivamogga opposing the notification. Many of these families were shifted to the present location when the Tunga and the Bhadra dams were constructed decades ago. “Our parents struggled hard to rebuild their lives after they were forced to move out. Only in the recent years, we could develop our lands and lead a decent life. This notification has brought back the old nightmares,” said R. Dinesh, member of the Shivamogga Taluk Panchayat. Many have criticised the notification for not consulting the people to be affected. The MoEF issued draft notifications a year ago. However, the people hardly knew about them. The residents maintained that the ministry issued final notifications without consulting the people to be affected. B.A. Ramesh Hegde, member of the Shivamogga City Corporation, said there was no need for declaring areas as ESZ, as there had been many laws meant to conserve forest areas already. “If we have retained forests all these years, it is because of the native dwellers. There has been no public hearing before issuing the notification,” he said. Even the people’s representatives claim ignorance of this development. Many villages of Mudigere taluk come under the ESZ, but M.P. Kumaraswamy, Mudigere MLA, had no clue about this. “There has been no harm to the forest or the wildlife by the people in the area. It is because of mining operation that devastation occurred. I will raise this issue with the State government and urge it to take a stand against the notification,” he said. The district administration of Chikkamagaluru is already facing the shortage of revenue land for development works, including housing schemes. The notification will further intensify this problem. “A major portion of Sringeri taluk comes under the Kudremukh National Park ESZ. Hardly any land is left for other activities,” pointed out Kalkuli Vittal Heggade, a social activist based in Sringeri. The notification, he said, had listed many animals, but left out the farmer, whose existence in Malnad is in real danger. “Let the MoEF tell us what harm these local people have done to the forest or wildlife all these years. I demand that the State government take a stand against the report and convey it to the Centre,” he added.
03 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman, daughters found dead||A woman and her two daughters were found dead in a tank at Hunasekoppa in N.R. Pura taluk on Sunday. The dead were identified as Lakshmi (30), Sowjanya (5) and Adhya (2). Lakshmi had been missing for the last two days. Her husband is a daily wage worker. He had not filed a complaint after they went missing. It is suspected that Lakshmi committed suicide after pushing her two daughters into the tank. Balehonnur Police have registered a case. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help. )
03 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Toll hits 101 in Ballari district||With four new COVID-19 deaths reported on Sunday, the number of fatalities in Ballari district reached 101. As per information provided by Ballari Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul, the district also reported 375 new cases, taking the total number of infected persons to 6,957, which included the deaths and 3,521 patients who have recovered and have been discharged. There are 3,335 active cases. Ballari taluk reported the maximum number of positive cases — 172 — on Sunday, followed by Hosapete (87), Sandur (32), and Hagari Bommanahalli (28). Of the total number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district, Ballari taluk has the maximum with 2,799, followed by Hosapete with 1,984, Sandur (1,134), Siruguppa (287), Hadagali (255), Kudligi (196), Hagari Bommanahalli (159), and Harapanahalli (92). There were 26 such cases from other States and 25 from other districts reported in Ballari district.
03 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Zoological park to be open on Sundays||Just as COVID-19-forced Sunday curfew ended, the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Zoological Park near Kamalapur in Ballari district would thrown open its gates to animal lovers on Sundays as well. In a release, the Deputy Conservator of Forests said that the park would be open throughout the weeks except on Tuesdays.
03 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Remove touchable castes from SC list’||The Karnataka Asparsha Samudayagala Mahasabha has demanded that the State government remove four “touchable castes” from the Scheduled Castes category. The former Minister and honorary president of the mahasabha K.B. Shannappa, addressing presspersons here recently, said that Lambani (Banjara), Vaddar (Bhovi), Korama and Koracha were found in the list of Scheduled Castes category only in the State. Mr. Shannappa said that the inclusion of these communities deprived benefits allocated to genuine Scheduled Castes beneficiaries. The mahasabha also said that it would launch an agitation if the government failed to address the demand.
03 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Are you exempted from quarantine rules, BJP asks Congress leaders||Taking on Congress leaders in connection with their violation of COVID-19 quarantine rules, BJP spokesperson and former MLC Ganesh Karnik on Sunday asked them to clarify whether they have been exempted from the law of the land and rules thereof. In a statement here, he said that president of Dakshina Kannada unit of the Congress Mithun Rai, who tested positive on July 17, should have been in home quarantine. But he participated in several programmes attended by Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar and KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed in Dakshina Kannada on July 31. He was seen closely mingling with many other Congress leaders, including the former Ministers B. Ramanath Rai and U.T. Khader on that day. In addition, the former MLC Ivan D’Souza, who also tested positive for the disease on Saturday, was seen with the Congress leaders on that day. “When will the Congress leaders who were in contact with Mr. Mithun Rai and Mr. D’Souza go into self-quarantine?” Mr. Karnik questioned. He asked these leaders to clarify whether quarantine rules are binding on them or not. Meanwhile, Mr. Khader, also MLA from Mangaluru, tweeted on Sunday that he was in self-quarantine for a few days days as he was a primary contact of Mr. D’Souza. He urged those who came in contact with Mr. D’Souza to get themselves tested if they developed any COVID-19 symptoms. Mr. Khader said that he has cancelled all his scheduled programmes and meetings. Mr. D’Souza had on Saturday told The Hindu that he underwent a COVID-19 test with his wife on Tuesday which came out negative. However, he underwent another test on Friday and the result came positive on Saturday. In a communique to media persons here on Sunday, the Department of Information and Public Relations said that Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra has asked media persons who attended the Congress programmes to contact hospital if they developed any symptoms. Media persons who came in contact with Mr. D’Souza have been asked to go into self-quarantine.
03 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||11 deaths in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||As many as 11 COVID-19 patients with co-morbidities died, while 345 new cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Sunday. According to a bulletin, 10 persons died in Dakshina Kannada taking the total number of such deaths to 169. Of the 163 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, 107 were from Mangaluru taluk, 19 from Belthangady, 13 from Bantwal, 11 from Puttur, nine from other districts, three from other States and one from Sullia taluk. As many as 45 persons were discharged. The total number of active cases in Dakshina Kannada is 3116, the bulletin said. With 182 new COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, the number of active cases in Udupi district rose to 1,943. Of these, 75 were from Udupi, 55 from Kundapur and 51 from Karkala. As many as 76 persons were primary contacts of COVID-19 positive persons, while 45 persons had influenza like illness. A 54-year-old COVID-19 patient from Udupi taluk died. While 78 persons were discharged, 779 are under home isolation.
03 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Now, a video lesson on ‘Love for Animals’||Sunil Kumar, an English teacher from Government Higher Primary School, Aletty village, near Sullia in Dakshina Kannada, has made available his video lesson on “Love for Animals” of Class 5 not just for his students but also others. The lesson, which relates to Ramana Maharshi’s Love for Animals, is the first of his video lesson series titled “Study Clinic”. It is available on YouTube. Since its posting on Saturday, it has seen 1.6k views. Mr. Kumar has been shooting short video lessons and sharing them with his students on WhatsApp as part of his daily online teaching activity since July. “When I showed this to my cousins, they asked me to make use of technology and help other students. This made me launch the video series,” he added. “Love for Animals” is the first English lesson for students of Class 5 studying the State syllabus. His experience in holding Gubbachhi Spoken English sessions for students helped him in framing the lesson plan. “The e-content, which is used in the smart classroom sessions, helped me in refining my content,” he said.
03 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Experts call for augmenting buffer zones and corridors||The tiger population distribution pattern in Karnataka calls for the augmentation of buffer zones and ensuring protection to corridors connecting national parks and wildlife sanctuaries, according to experts. This is imperative to ensure that buffer zones act as a sink to absorb tigers, from sites where their numbers have reached saturation levels. The ‘tigers, co-predators and prey’ report, based on the enumeration exercise completed two years ago, also highlights this aspect. In some parts of Karnataka, there are as many tigers or more in the territorial division as there are in the designated tiger reserve, and hence securing buffer zones and corridors connecting them with core areas is critical, the report states. For instance, in the Madikeri territorial division, which is spread over 369 sqkm, at least 10 tigers were identified by camera traps. Similarly, 11 were identified in the Hunsur division and nine in the Virajpet division based on their stripe patterns. This matches the figures for Bhadra, which harbours a minimum of 30 tigers, and it is more than what was present at M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary, where eight tigers were identified. Sanjay Gubbi, conservation biologist, said tigers are found in Hunsur, Madikeri, and Virajpet divisions because they constitute a single ecological unit and absorb spillover population from Nagarahole, which has a minimum of 127 tigers, as per the report. “One should not view territorial divisions in isolation as the ecological boundary of a landscape does not end just because of a demarcated administrative boundary,” he said, pointing out that Madikeri, Virajpet, and Hunsur forests act as a sink to Nagarahole. The co-predator and prey report identifies various corridors connecting different forest reserves and wildlife sanctuaries in Karnataka to sustain tiger population growth. Mr. Gubbi pointed to reserve forests outside protected areas in Hassan, Uttara Kannada, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, and Belagavi which, if protected, will provide for contiguous forests to sustain wildlife.
03 August 2020||Praveen B. Para,KARNATAKA||Fatality rate in Kalyana Karnataka is lower than State, national average||Even though Kalyana Karnataka region opened India’s COVID-19 fatality account by reporting the country’s first death from one of its cities — Kalaburagi — in the second week of March this year, the region continues to maintain lower death rate as compared to State and national average. An analysis of COVID-19 data showed that the region recorded a 1.48 % death rate as against the national average of 2.1 % and the State average of 1.86 % as on July 31, 2020. As per records available with The Hindu , 37,403 of the total 17,51,836 COVID-19- infected persons have died in the country as compared to 2,314 of the total 1,24,115 patients in the State. Kalyana Karnataka region comprising six north-eastern districts of the State — Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal and Ballari — has, however, reported 292 deaths from among 19,622 patients. Men outnumber women in the total deaths reported in the region. Of the 292 deaths so far, men accounted for 195 (66.78%) and women 97 (33.21%). Among the districts in the region, Kalaburagi recorded the highest number of deaths with 95 (32.53 %) followed by Bidar 75 (25.68 %), Ballari 74 (25.34 %), Raichur 25 (8.56 %), Koppal with 19 (6.50 %) and Yadgir with four deaths (1.36 %). Kalaburagi district reported 66 deaths (69.47 %) till July 25. However, it saw a sudden spurt by recording 29 deaths (30.52 %) in just four days between July 26 and July 30. Bidar reported the first death on May 2, more than one-and-half months after India reported its first COVID-19 death. The district, however, reported 75 deaths in the last three months, of which 23 deaths (about one-third) were reported in three days between July 4 and July 6. Ballari has registered 74 death cases of which 12 were reported on a single day on June 29. Recovery Kalyana Karnataka has put up a better performance in terms of recovery as well, by registering a higher recovery rate as compared to the State average. It saw 10,716 (54.61%) among the 19,622 infected persons recovering from the disease as compared to 49,788 patients (40.11 %) among the 1,24,115 infected across the State. Among the districts in the region, Yagdir showed the best performance with 1,879 (80.05%) patients recovered out of the 2,347 infected persons. Ballari was at the bottom of the grid in the region with 2,710 (42.32 %) patients recovered out of the 6,403 infected persons.
03 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||251 fresh cases in Yadgir, Raichur||As many as 251 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were reported from Yadgir and Raichur districts on Sunday. Of these, 212 cases were from Raichur district and 39 from Yadgir. With this, the total number of positive cases went up to 2,594 in Raichur and 2,425 in Yadgir. In Raichur district, 153 patients were discharged taking the total number of discharged people to 1,624. At present, 943 patients are getting treatment. Two patients have died and the number of such fatalities has been put at 27. In Yadgir district, nine patients were discharged taking the total number of discharged people to 1,903. There are 515 patients under treatment. No death was reported today. The total number of such deaths is seven so far.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||While there have been murmurs about JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy “going soft” on the BJP government, newly sworn-in MLC C.P. Yogeshwar(in picture)surprised everyone by saying that the former was indirectly a “complete supporter” of the government. Not content with that, he said Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar too was constantly seeking favours from Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. In a nutshell, he was suggesting that both these Opposition leaders had struck a compromise (what is often described as “adjustment politics”) and voters might as well directly support the BJP, the party Mr. Yogeshwar joined in 2017 after quitting the Congress. As expected, both the Opposition leaders bristled at the insinuation and flatly denied the charges. What is interesting is that all three leaders from the Vokkaliga community are keen on the political turf of Ramanagaram district and surrounding areas. Mr. Yogeshwar, a ministerial aspirant, is keen to establish his hold over the region, where Mr. Shivakumar and his brother D.K. Suresh have a strong presence. Mr. Kumaraswamy (to whom Mr. Yogeshwar lost in the 2018 polls) and his party, identified with the Vokkaliga community, are also not easy to dislodge in this belt. Carving a niche for himself, therefore, is not an easy task for Mr. Yogeshwar. His remarks, discrediting two leaders in one shot, says a lot about this turf war.   Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi(in picture)skipping the first anniversary of the BJP government in Karnataka and his presence in the national capital on the same day set the rumour mills buzzing. The speculation was it was an indication of an impending leadership change in the State, with Mr. Savadi vying for the top post. This garnered him more publicity in the media than he ever had since he took over as Deputy Chief Minister, possibly next only to the time when he was caught allegedly watching a porn clip while the Assembly was in session back in 2012. And how did Mr. Savadi deal with the controversy arising out of his Delhi visit? As soon as he landed back in Bengaluru, he called on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and then informed media that the incumbent leader would continue to be in power for another three years. Mr. Savadi, who was made Deputy Chief Minister with party high command’s blessings despite losing in the 2018 Assembly elections, will surely spell out his tour details before catching a flight to Delhi next time.   S. Kumar Bangarappa, MLA,(in picture)on Thursday stopped his vehicle on the Sagar Road road in Sorab town as he noticed a mini-truck carrying cement bags parked over almost half the road. He took the driver and owner of the cement shop to a task, besides instructing officers to take action against the shop for obstructing movement of vehicles on the busy road. A video clip of the incident was posted on Mr. Bangarappa’s Facebook page. The MLA’s Facebook page has been extremely active of late, with him using the platform to keep the people of his constituency updated on all his routine public events, official meetings, and incidents of this kind. The MLA has a social media team of two members. “One of them always travels with me during my visit to the constituency. He records the proceedings while another person sitting at one place uploads them. Many times, we telecast public meetings live from the spot,” he said. The objective behind posting routine meetings online, the MLA said, was to keep in touch with the people of the constituency and maintain transparency. This initiative, the MLA says, has attracted the attention of people from different places. “I was moved by the response from a resident of Yadgir. He told me he was impressed by the way I conducted meetings,” the leader said.  Bageshree S.   Nagesh Prabhu   Sathish G.T.
03 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha bypass work enters final phase||The construction of the Alappuzha bypass has entered the final phase and it is likely to be thrown open to traffic in September. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran said the Public Works Department Chief Engineer and the company entrusted with the bypass work had promised to complete all works by September end. The Alappuzha bypass project was mooted four decades ago, but work got under way only on April 10, 2015. Mr. Sudhakaran said that the project got dragged as permission from Railways for placing girders over the railway track as part of the construction of two ROBs at Malikamukku and Kuthirapanthy got delayed. Earlier, after inspecting the girders brought for the construction of ROBs, Railways had recommended structural changes. Following this, necessary changes were made in the girders of both the ROBs. Railways granted permission to place girders at Malikamukku in January and for Kuthirapanthy ROB last month. ROB work The installation of girders and related works at Malikamukku has been completed. “Concreting of the ROB at Kuthirapanthy is expected to be completed by August 15. Further, the surface of the ROB will be laid with mastic asphalt. For this workers will be brought from Tamil Nadu,” he said. He said the development of the Kommady and Kalarcode junctions along with the construction of service roads would be completed by August 15.
03 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Sound is making waves on the theatre front||The COVID-19 pandemic has put a break on stage performances in the State since March. But, it has not stopped some of the theatre artists from doing what they love to do most. The Alappuzha district committee of the Network of Artistic Theatre Activists Kerala (NATAK) has taken the digital route and come up with audio plays under the title Nataka Radio (Radio Drama). It has so far produced and uploaded two audio plays on their YouTube channel and Facebook page. Its district committee members are pleased with the response to the play Thinmayil Aantappan by Santhosh Gopal Thakazhy, which was uploaded on July 27.  Every Sunday The second play Kuzhikkala Veettil Lorance Makan Lonappan by Raviprasad Haripad was made available to stream on Sunday. NATAK district committee plans to upload one audio drama every Sunday. Mr. Santhosh says that it is altogether a different experience. “As there is no visual representation, we need to convey through words and sounds in audio play. Thinmayil Aantappan was staged in several places and we transformed it into a dramatised audio performance. All 10 artists who provided sound to characters in the play recorded their dialogues from their homes using smartphones. The recordings were then stitched together by Praveen Raj Kilimanoor,” Mr. Santhosh says. Radio drama, once a popular medium, fell out of favour with the advent of television and online video platforms. But things are changing now. J. Shailaja, general secretary, NATAK, says that audio play is making a comeback. “We are receiving good response to our initiative. Radio/audio dramas have been getting a lot of audience since the outbreak. There is a huge potential for audio drama. Even a small group can produce a play and share it on digital forums,” she says. NATAK district president G. Madhu, treasurer Subair Natyalaya, subcommittee convenor Manoj R. Chandran and others are part of the initiative.
03 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Case count 38 in Alappuzha||The district on Sunday reported 38 COVID-19 cases. Of the fresh cases, 24 patients contracted the disease through contact. Ten people who came from abroad and four from other States also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Among the 24 contact cases, six were reported from Pattanakkad and five from Chengannur. Rest of the contact cases were from Kadakarappally (2), Vayalar (2), Chandiroor (2) and one case each from Kayamkulam, Pathirappally, Vettakkal, Mavelikara, Poochakkal and Vandanam. There is a lack of clarity regarding the place of one patient. The Alappuzha district panchayat has decided to set up 23 kiosks in the district for swab testing. Besides, it will sponsor 50,000 kits for antigen tests. Meanwhile, 15 people tested negative for the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 722.
03 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||42 cases in Idukki, 22 through contact||Of the 42 tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday, 22 were through local transmission. Source of four cases could not be traced. Those tested positive included the Elappara grama panchayat president, his wife, and the driver. The health authorities have suggested that all those who had contacted them to go on home quarantine. Elappara is an estate town with a large number of plantation workers. From Gulf Those who tested included two persons who came from the Gulf countries and 16 who came back from other States. Those tested through local contacts were residents of Ayyappancovil, Karinkunnam, Vannapuram-, Rajakkad, Kattappana, Thodupuzha, Cheruthoni, Mullaringad, Mariyapuram, Mankulam, Pallivasal, Elappara, Munnar, Kumily and Kokkayar. Thirty persons recovered from the virus on Sunday. Containment zone The ward number 6 of Elappara, ward number 11 of Rajakumary, ward number 10 and 11 of Nedumkandam, ward number 15 of Devikulam, ward number 3 of Karunapuram, and ward number 4 of Pampadumpara grama panchayats were included in the containment zone on Sunday. Thodupuzha police have filed a case against an wholesale fish dealer and local vendors for violating the COVID-19 regulations in place for the past few days. The regulations are in place till August 10. The police said that tonnes of fish reached the Mangattukavala road and local vendors crowded in front of the vehicle violating the regulations.
03 August 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Pinarayi to open 9 upgraded FHCs||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate nine upgraded Family Health Centres (FHC) in the district at 11 a.m. on Monday through videoconferencing. As many as 15 primary health centres in the district are being upgraded to FHCs under the Ardram project of the State government of which four centres have been already upgraded in the first phase. In the second phase, nine centres have been upgraded. They are the health centres at Ambalavayal, Meppadi, Edavaka, Vellamunda, Cheeral, Thondarnad, Kottathara, Padinharethara, and Chethalayam. The government had spent Rs. 1.46 crore for the upgradation works. Health Minister K.K.Shylaja will presided over the function.
03 August 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Civilians in Cantonment area seek relaxation in curbs||Resentment is brewing among the civilian population adjacent to the Kannur Cantonment as the restrictions imposed by the district administration by turning the wards there into a containment zone have entered the third week. The cantonment area, which comprises six wards, was turned into a containment zone after many personnel of the Defence Security Corps (DSC) Centre tested positive for COVID-19. While most of the affected personnel and possible primary contacts are getting treatment and have been put under observation within the defence campus, the civilian population living outside are severely affected due to the lockdown. With the district administration not clarifying when normalcy would be reinstated, life has been thrown out of gear for the people living here. They are unable to go for work or run their business. While residents such as Alfred Biju who dared to step out to join duty, out of sheer helplessness, were caught and fined by the police. “My salary has been cut by half since the outbreak and the family depends on me,” lamented Mr. Biju, who is an office staffer in a Montessori school. Ever since the area was converted into a containment zone, he has been forced to stay home, he said. In despair, when he stepped out, the police had fined him. Ratheesh Antony, member of the Cantonment Board, said most of the cases had emerged among the personnel who were inside the defence campus which was spread over a large area. Civilians had no access to the campus, he observed. “We requested the District Collector and police officials to rework the containment zone by imposing the restriction only in two areas which fall under the defence while relaxing the restrictions in other wards,” he said. C.Jithendra, a prominent businessman in the area, said that his business had taken a dip ever since the outbreak. But after the region was converted into a containment zone, many of the bookings had been cancelled. Even online booking was not taking place as the area was marked as a containment zone. When contacted, the health department said that the restriction were imposed as the area was close to the DSC Centre. It was a precautionary measure as there was an increase in positive cases. However, a decision to relax the restrictions had to be taken by the district administration, said Dr. Shaj, District Surveillance Officer.
03 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||West Kochi declared containment zone||As many as 21 persons from the West Kochi area tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. A 62-year-old from Kalvathy in West Kochi, who collapsed and died on Friday night, tested positive after death. The death, however, does not figure in the official release of the State government pending confirmation. He used to run a small shop in the area and had shown slight symptoms of a fever, said Zeenath Rasheed, local councillor. The Kalvathy division accounts for several of the COVID-19 positive cases in West Kochi, she added. BOT bridge closed District Collector S. Suhas said the BOT bridge at Thoppumpady connecting West Kochi to the mainland would remain closed. With divisions 16 and 18 of the Kochi Corporation being added to the list of containment zones, all divisions from 1 to 28 of the corporation are now containment zones. A total of 80 cases have been reported from the area so far, said Corporation Secretary R. Rahul. A total of 128 persons tested positive for the virus in the district on Sunday. Of them, 85 acquired the infection through local transmission. Six persons from a home for the elderly and destitute in Thrikkakara have tested positive. An infant, just eight days old, from Koothattukulam, has tested positive. Four others from Koothattukulam have also been infected. Four staff nurses at the Ernakulam General Hospital who tested positive on Saturday have been included in the district’s tally. A health worker and a staff nurse at the Piravom Taluk Hospital and a 51-year-old health worker at the District Hospital, Aluva, have also tested positive. Other positive patients are from Choornikkara, Kottuvally, Nellikuzhi, Kadungalloor, Kottapady, and Edathala. Of the 43 persons who arrived from outside the State and tested positive, 35 are from Tamil Nadu. The source of infection in four patients is uncertain. As many as 36 persons recovered from the disease and tested negative on Sunday. A total of 11,384 people remain in quarantine in the district, and 978 patients are being treated for the disease. For testing, 643 samples were sent on Sunday, and the results of 711 swabs remain pending. The death of a 70-year-old from Aluva at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, on Sunday could not be categorised as COVID-related death, as he had tested negative twice before he died of other ailments, hospital officials said.
03 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Project to rejuvenate Mullassery canal on track||Much of the waterlogging in the central parts of Kochi recently was pegged on obstructions to the flow of water in the Mullassery canal, and a project to deal with the areas’ complexities has been on the anvil for some time now. The project, to be implemented by the Kochi Corporation, in coordination with GiZ (German Agency for International Cooperation), is at a stage where design suggestions to improve the area around the canal are being invited as part of a national-level competition. Considering that the 1.3-km-long Mullassery canal connects the Perandoor canal to the backwaters, and is located within the central business district where constructions have mushroomed in the floodplains of the canal in the past few decades, resulting in waterlogging, any project to rejuvenate the canal would be a complex one, said Rajan Chedambath, director, Centre for Heritage, Environment and Development (C-HED). Besides leaving space for the natural flow of water during the monsoon, the project will also have to deal with areas where the canal has been covered with concrete. All stakeholders in the area, including colleges in the vicinity, the KSRTC bus stand, and street vendors will have to be roped in to make its implementation possible. The Jewish cemetery, a historically significant site, also lies nearby, he said. Once design suggestions are received and processed by September, the one selected for implementation could be placed before the corporation council for its approval, after which funding will have to be sought, Mr. Chedambath said. Creating accessible public spaces in the area, dealing with problems of waste finding its way into the waters, and the housing settlements by the side of the canal will all have to be factored in while preparing a plan for the canal. “With several small drains emptying into the canal, waterlogging problems and encroachments in the area will have to be addressed. Besides, the drains near the KSRTC bus stand and the adjacent garage, where the canal begins, are all clogged,” said Mayor Soumini Jain. “The plan focuses on recovering the beauty of the canal, getting rid of the concrete over it, and providing spaces along the canal that can be utilised by the public,” said K.V.P. Krishnakumar, councillor representing Ernakulam South. The project has been listed in this financial year’s corporation budget, but with the local body elections due this year, the fate of the project could be uncertain once a new council takes over.
03 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Conversion of PVS into COVID-19 hospital in limbo||Despite the number of COVID-19 positive cases climbing in the district, the conversion of PVS Hospital into a centre exclusively for treatment of COVID-19 patients remains in a limbo. Sub Collector Snehil Kumar Singh said the district administration aimed to get the hospital ready by later this week. “There is a lot of repair on the gas system, sewage network, and air conditioning to be done there, which has caused the delay. Once we start taking patients in, the repair cannot be completed, since patients need to remain in isolation. We are targeting August 5, by then we might be able to take in mildly symptomatic patients for treatment at PVS,” he added. The district administration had taken over the hospital in March, and a round of cleaning was done. “Most of the staff are ready, some deployed through the National Health Mission [NHM]. There will be 20 nurses posted initially, besides ICU specialists, nephrologists, intensivists, and pulmonologists. We have identified doctors from different hospitals in both private and government sectors,” Mr. Singh said. Going by preliminary estimates, around 200 category B and category C patients (differentiated based on the severity of their symptoms) can be treated at the hospital. The value the hospital has right now, considering the equipment it houses, is huge, he added. A official associated with the process of converting the hospital into an operational COVID-19 facility, said issues with recruiting staff persisted. Besides, some paperwork over the property was also left to be completed. “The staff requirement for a COVID-19 hospital is four times that of a regular hospital, and expense with regard to human resources is huge. The district administration has put out a call for doctors, and the response has been lukewarm. But some staff members at private hospitals have been willing to take up the work,” he said. “If the number of positive cases increases, we will need ICU facilities. All beds at PVS can be converted into ICU beds, if necessary,” he added.
03 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||NIA arrests two more||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday arrested two residents of Muvattupuzha in connection with the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. The NIA arrested Muhammad Ali Ebrahim and Muhammad Ali, after investigation revealed that they were also part of the conspiracy. They mainly assisted A.M. Jaleel, who was earlier arrested for collecting the smuggled gold from Ramees K.T. Muhammad Ali is a member of the Popular Front of India (PFI) and was earlier charge-sheeted in the palm chopping case, but was acquitted after trial in 2015, said a press release issued by the agency in New Delhi. However, PFI Ernakulam district president V.K. Salim said Ali was not a member of the organisation and there were attempts to drag the name of the organisation into the cases with ulterior motives. On Sunday, the NIA held searches at six places. The bail application of Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair will be considered by the NIA court on August 4.
03 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||NHGs get Rs. 147 cr. under Helping Hand Scheme||Neighbourhood Groups (NHGs) in the district have collectively benefited to the tune of nearly Rs. 147 crore under the Chief Minister’s Helping Hand Loan Scheme as an immediate relief from the pandemic-induced hardships. Ernakulam has been sanctioned Rs. 181 crore under the scheme, and the district is likely to further enhance the disbursal rate from the existing 92%, as the government has extended the scheme till the end of this month. The government had launched the scheme in early May with a total allocation of Rs. 2,000 crore. So far, Rs. 1,738.95 crore has been distributed across districts. Ernakulam district accounts for a total of 26,503 NHGs, of which 16,651 have been included in the scheme, benefiting 1.90 lakh members out of the total 3.53 lakh. So far, 16,614 NHGs comprising 1.86 lakh members have applied for the scheme, out of which 1.68 lakh members from 15,237 NHGs have already been sanctioned loans. Moratorium “The scheme is conceived as an immediate relief to NHG members badly hit by the pandemic. It comes with a repayment moratorium of six months, while the interest of 9% will be fully reimbursed by the State government. “All nationalised banks and cooperative societies are part of the scheme,” said Ranjini S., district coordinator, Kudumbashree Mission. Loans under the scheme are distributed in tranches of Rs. 5,000, Rs. 10,000, Rs. 15,000, and Rs. 20,000 depending on how worse the situation of the applicant is. For instance, a widow in distress with her livelihood impacted may get a bigger loan compared to someone else relatively better off. Pandemic crisis The surge in COVID-19 cases and the corresponding rise in the number of containment zones, however, have adversely hit the implementation of the scheme. With banks, especially in containment zones, functioning with minimal staff and pointedly asked now to allow customers, potential beneficiaries cannot drop in and complete the formalities for availing loans. Kasaragod, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Kannur and Wayanad districts have so far distributed 97%, 96%, 95%, 93%, and 93% respectively of the sanctioned loan under the scheme.  Need of the hour Ernakulam district has been sanctioned Rs. 181 crore under the scheme  Of the 26,503 NHGs in the district, 16,651 have been included in the scheme  Loans are given in tranches of Rs. 5,000, Rs. 10,000, Rs. 15,000, and Rs. 20,000  Surge in COVID-19 cases has hit the implementation of the scheme
03 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Youth dies of electric shock near Angamaly||A young man died of electric shock, as he and his friend were engaged in fishing near a field at Mukkannur near Angamaly late on Saturday evening. The police said Sonnet Mathew, 34, died after getting into contact with an electrified fence of a tapioca farm, at 10.30 p.m. on Saturday. His friend Robin Joseph escaped with injuries. A case of unnatural death has been registered. Two drown Two youths who were swimming in a river at Manakkappadi near Paravur drowned on Sunday evening. Two of their friends escaped by catching hold of the poles of Chinese fishing nets. The deceased are Akhil, 27, of Kaitharam and Akhil, 23, of Perumbadanna. The bodies were retrieved by Fire and Rescue Services Personnel.
03 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New education policy flayed||The Confederation of University Employees Organisations has called for strong protests on college campuses on August 5 against the Centre’s new education policy. The policy is against the tenets of unity in diversity and is aimed at saffronising the education sector under the pretext of reforms. This will have a far-reaching impact in the country, the confederation said.
03 August 2020||Kochi/Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Probe ordered into 3-year-old’s death||A controversy has erupted over the death of a 3-year-old boy from Kadungalloor, near Aluva here, on Sunday. According to his family, the boy had told them about swallowing a coin the previous day, and they had done the rounds of three hospitals before the child died. However, all three hospitals have denied allegations of negligence. The family said the child was first taken to the district hospital at Aluva on Saturday. From there, he was referred to the Ernakulam General Hospital (GH) and then to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha. They were sent home from the MCH after being told that the coin would pass from the body naturally. After they returned home on Saturday night, the child complained of discomfort. He was brought dead to the district hospital on Sunday morning. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has ordered an inquiry into the boy’s death. The Minister has asked the Secretary, Health Department, to determine whether government doctors had treated the child callously. Hospitals’ denial Prasanna K., Superintendent of the district hospital, said the boy’s X-ray was taken on Saturday. Since the hospital did not have a paediatric surgeon, he was referred to the Ernakulam GH. A senior official at the GH said the child was attended to on Saturday by the hospital’s senior general surgeon who too felt that a paediatric surgeon should examine the child. Since the hospital did not have a paediatric surgery department and the family was financially backward, the hospital provided an ambulance to take them to the Alappuzha MCH. SHRC seeks report R.V. Ramlal, Superintendent, Alappuzha MCH, said the child had not experienced any difficulty in breathing when brought to the hospital. The X-ray “showed a foreign body, suggestive of a coin in the abdomen.” “According to the standard protocol, the mother of the child was advised to give him a lot of water and watch for the foreign body in stool and review if the coin is not passed after a week,” he said in a statement. The State Human Rights Commission has sought a report on the matter by the hospital superintendents. A post-mortem examination would be conducted to determine the cause of his death. Opposition protest The incident invited scathing criticism from the Opposition parties. Bharatiya Janata Party workers staged a demonstration at the district hospital in Aluva. The police grappled with the workers when they tried to blockade Anwar Sadat, local MLA of the Congress, who is on the hospital’s advisory board. Shanimol Usman, MLA, told reporters in Alappuzha that government doctors were unwilling to treat patients from containment zones and patients with non-COVID-19 conditions rarely received attention in State-run hospitals. Hibi Eden, Ernakulam MP, echoed the sentiment. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the boy had died because the public health care system failed him and his family. He demanded compensation for the family.
03 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||69 test positive in Kollam||A total of 69 persons, including 13 inmates of Kollam District Jail, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Among the patients are 51 contact cases, 12 persons from abroad, and six others who had travelled from Arunachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Kollam currently has 8,548 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 29,624. Recovery rate While 372 persons completed home quarantine in the district on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 7,153 primary and 1,988 secondary contacts of the fresh cases of COVID-19. The district also recorded an impressive recovery rate with 168 persons testing negative for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Kollam has been reporting a higher number of recoveries during the last five days. Kollam District Jail currently has 38 cases including those tested positive on Saturday and the authorities are trying to trace the source of infection. Matter of concern “It’s a matter of great concern since jail is a closed community. We have moved all the patients to a separate block and deployed doctors and other health workers there. All the staff members and inmates will be tested in the coming days,” says Dr. R. Sreelatha, District Medical Officer. FLTC in jail Since chances are high for more people to test positive for the virus, the Health Department is planning to set up a COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) in the jail. Animal Husbandry Department has constituted an emergency veterinary team for livestock treatment in hotspots and containment zones in the district. Veterinary teams The taluk-level veterinary teams that include senior veterinary surgeon, veterinary surgeons, doctors from night veterinary service, and livestock inspectors, will follow all COVID-19 guidelines strictly. The district administration has also formed an IT-based special monitoring committee for ensuring immediate and effective treatment for COVID-19 patients. The special monitoring committee will be looking into the availability of sufficient beds for the patients, internsive care units and ventilators, helpline and telehealth.  District Jail authorities are trying to trace the source of infection reported among the inmates.
03 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||70 cases in Kottayam, 25 in Pathanamthitta||As many as 70 persons, including a House Surgeon at the Government Medical College in Kottayam, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here on Sunday. According to officials, three persons had landed from abroad and three others returned from other States while the remaining 64 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. Athirampuzha panchayat reported 14 cases while Ettumanur municipality reported nine cases. The Kottayam and Vaikom municipalities reported seven cases each. Further, six persons who had been in the contact list of a COVID-19 patient from the Vaikom market too tested positive. At the same time, 40 persons who had recovered from the disease were discharged from the various hospitals here during the day. Similarly, 278 persons including 75 people who landed from abroad were directed to go into quarantine. The total number of active cases in Kottayam currently stands at 587 while 723 persons have recovered so far. The Ettumanur municipality, which has been declared as a containment zone, wore a deserted look during the day with majority of the shops remaining closed and strict regulations imposed on vehicular traffic. Barricades have been erected along different roads leading to the municipality and only vehicles on emergency are permitted entry into the town. Pathanamthitta Meanwhile, the Pathanamthitta district reported a decline in the number of COVID-19 cases with just 25 persons testing positive for the virus. Of this, 18 persons including three health workers contracted the virus through local transmission while five persons had landed from abroad. The remaining two persons returned to the district from other State. According to officials, nine of the local transmission cases were linked to the Changaanassery cluster while the source of virus infection for at least two persons are yet to be identified. As many as 3,833 persons including 1,190 persons who returned from abroad are currently under observation in the district here.  64 cases are due to local transmission in Kottayam and 18 in Pathanamthitta
03 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Speed up quota implementation: NSS||The Nair Service Society (NSS) has urged the State government to expedite implementation of the 10% reservation for the economically weaker sections (EWS) among the forward communities in educational institutions as announced by the Union government. Order issued In a statement issued here on Sunday, NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair said the State government had already issued an order stipulating 10% reservation for the section in educational institutions, including professional colleges. “However, the Education Department has not taken any steps to implement the order even as the admission process for the current year has got underway,” Mr. Nair said. Before Aug. 18 He accused the State government and the bureaucracy of being negligent towards the various issues pertaining to forward communities. “The Education Department should take immediate steps to implement the reservation at least before publishing the trial allotment list of higher secondary admissions on August 18,” Mr. Nair said.
03 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||50 new cases in Kozhikode||Fifty new COVID-19 cases and two suspected deaths were reported from Kozhikode district on Sunday. Meanwhile, total lockdown was observed here for the third consecutive Sunday. According to sources at the Government Medical College Hospital, a 66-year-old man from Eramala and a 73-year-old man from Feroke died on the day. Both of them had been tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 during the TrueNat test conducted here. But their body fluid samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology unit for confirmation, the sources said. Thirty-five of the new cases in the district on Sunday are due to local transmission of the infection.
03 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Registration mandatory for migrant fishers||Following the demand put forth by various local self-government bodies, including the Kozhikode Corporation, the district administration has decided to introduce a proper mechanism to check the health condition of fishers who come back to the district from other States. Fishermen from other States and districts will now have to complete a mandatory self-registration process on the COVID-19 Jagratha portal. The Fisheries Department will look into the details entered on the portal and take appropriate follow-up measures to monitor their health. Decisions have also been taken to issue identity cards for such registered individuals. Entry of fishers from other districts and States without the registration process will be treated as an illegal activity. The coastal police and the marine enforcement squad of the Fisheries Department will carry out surprise inspections to ensure that migrant fishers are complying with the rules. Boat owners too will be responsible for verifying registration details of fishers. According to Station House Officers of various coastal police stations, the details of the majority of fishers who either stayed back in the district or left for home by special trains are with them for proper verification. New entrants to the field can be easily traced by verifying these records, which were collected for the purpose of issuing identity cards, they say. Fisheries Department officials say the new regulations are meant for effectively preventing the spread of COVID-19 in the coastal areas.
03 August 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||126 more test positive in Malappuram||As many as 126 more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Sunday. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that 117 of them had contracted the disease through local transmission. While 106 of them got the virus apparently by contact with the infected people, the source of infection of 11 cases, including a health worker, could not be traced yet. While four cases came from other States, five were returnees from abroad. As many as 44 infected persons recovered from the disease on Sunday. Mr. Gopalakrishnan said that 2,337 persons were infected in the district since March. Out of them, 1,412 recovered. The number of cases currently under treatment in Malappuram rose to 910 on Sunday. COVID-19 claimed 13 lives in the district. One person had died while being in quarantine after he recovered from the disease. As many as 32, 657 persons were quarantined in the district. When 857 of them were in hospitals, 1,330 were in COVID care centres. Others are in home quarantine. In Kasaragod The number of COVID-19 cases continues to rise in the district with 105 out of the 113 new patients contracting the disease through local transmission. Those infected are residents of Ajanur (2), Chemmanda (18), Chengala (6), Kallar (1), Kanhangad (7), Karaduka (1), Kasaragod (29), Kayyur-Cheemeni (2), Kinnanur Karinthalam (1), Kodambalur (1), Madikkai (1), Mangalpadi (1), Manjeswaram (2), Meenja (1), Mulliyar (2), Neeleswaram (1), Padana (3), Pallikara (2), Panathadi (2), Pullu Periya (1), Trikaripur (18), Uduma (8), Valliyaparamba (1), West Eleri (1), and Kangol in Kannur (1). Two persons, a 73-year-old resident of Mangalpady and a 76-year-old resident of Thrikaripur, died of COVID-19 in Kasaragod on Sunday. Both were undergoing treatment at private hospitals. The deaths have not been included in the official list of the government. In Palakkad Thirty-eight persons tested positive for the virus in Palakkad on Sunday. Among them, 30 were infected through local transmission, and four had come from other States. The source of infection for four cases could not be traced. As many as 417 infected persons are currently under treatment in the district. In Thrissur As many as 58 new COVID-19 cases were reported from Thrissur district on Sunday. Currently, there are 484 active cases. So far, 1,591 cases have been reported from the district. Among the 58 cases, 51 contracted the disease through local transmission. The cases were reported from Vadama cluster (19); Irinjalakuda cluster (7); Irinjalakuda KSE cluster (6); Pattambi cluster (2); Chalakudy cluster (2); Sakthan Market cluster (1); and Irinjalakuda KLF cluster (1), besides other 12 more cases. In all, 13,207 persons are under observation in the district. In Wayanad Nineteen persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Sunday. All of them contracted the infection through local transmission, District Medical Officer R. Renuka said. They were admitted to District Hospital, Mananthavady. As many as 351 infected persons are currently under treatment in the district, Dr. Renuka said adding that 2,864 persons were under observation. Meanwhile, District Collector Adeela Abdulla declared wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of Pozhuthana grama panchayat and wards 8,12 and 13 of Padinharethara and ward 5 of Kottathara grama panchayats as containment zones. In Kannur Sixteen more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Sunday.They include nine health workers — seven from the Kannur Government Medical College cluster — and three local transmission cases. One person died of COVID-19 in Kannur on Sunday. The 40-year-old resident of Munderi panchayat died at Kannur Government Medical College Hospital. He was admitted with severe respiratory infection and had diabetes. Though he tested negative for the virus on July 14, antigen test conducted on July 27 turned positive. The death has not been listed in the official release of the government.  (With inputs from Kasaragod, Kannur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Thrissur, and Wayanad bureaus)
03 August 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Impaled man survives torn lungs through sheer grit||A man who was impaled by a bamboo through his chest in a weird accident near Edakkara two weeks ago survived a severely torn lung through sheer courage and will. Even doctors who treated V. Apareesh, 34, look upon him with awe. “He would not have survived the massive impalement but for his grit,” said Nasser Yusuf, cardiothoracic surgeon, who operated upon Apareesh and removed two large pieces of bamboo that had got stuck inside his lacerated lungs, at a private hospital in Kozhikode. A bakery employee from Kalikavu, Apareesh was riding a bike on a rainy night when several large bamboo trees fell on him. He could not move for a long time, and he struggled for breath. He was impaled by a bamboo branch under his left armpit. “I wasn’t willing to die there. I thought of my wife and the little child,” said Apareesh. Mustering all the strength he could, Apareesh pulled out the branch that had gone into his lungs and reached behind his heart. He covered the deep bleeding wound with his hand and managed to reach a hospital, where he was stitched up. A few days later, when he coughed up blood, a scan found that he was carrying a piece of bamboo inside his lungs. Dr. Yusuf, who opened his chest, was surprised to find two pieces of bamboo — one 8-cm long and the other 2-cm long. “Removing the pieces was risky. Taking them out can lead to a massive bleed inside the lungs,” said Dr. Yusuf, who preferred open surgery to thoracoscopy, as it involved a huge risk. “He deserves full credit for defying a certain death through his courage,” said Dr. Yusuf. Apareesh is now recovering at hospital.
03 August 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Tuyeres found near Malampuzha throw more light on Iron Age||Archaeological explorations conducted near Malampuzha in the district have unearthed several vital pieces of evidence to establish that the site had been used for iron smelting for large-scale production of iron tools and implements in the Iron-Age megalithic period. Archaeologists in Kerala and Tamil Nadu have confirmed that the discovery of tuyeres from Kunnumpuram, a megalithic site on the fringes of the Malampuzha reservoir near Valiyakadu, was a rare find and therefore a crucial pointer to the predominance of Iron-Age activity in Kerala. “It is a very good find. Tuyeres or terracotta nozzles used for pumping air into smelters or furnaces used in the Iron-Age megalithic period were rarely found in Kerala. It calls for a large-scale archaeological excavation,” said Krishnaraj K., officer in charge of Pazhassi Raja Archaeological Museum, Kozhikode. Geniza Records He said the discovery of tuyeres could buttress the references found in the Geniza Records of Egypt about large-scale export of iron from Kerala over 2,000 years ago. K. Rajan from Government Victoria College here unearthed five tuyeres, a large number of brick pieces, potsherds and heaps of iron slag during the explorations he conducted over the past two years at Kunnumpuram. Mr. Rajan said that his finds threw light on the presence of forging facilities too near the site. Furnace portions Although iron slag was widely discovered from different parts of Kerala like Kinaloor in Kozhikode, Koonathara in Palakkad and Kottayam, the discovery of tuyeres and furnace portions was rare. “I do not remember having found a tuyere,” said Mr. Krishnaraj. V. Selvakumar, archaeologist from Thanjavur, confirmed the find and said it would throw better light on iron production in the area. Mr. Selvakumar said an excavation could bring out a lot more from Kunnumpuram. Earlier from T.N. Kodumanal in Tamil Nadu is one of the most important iron age sites where furnaces and tuyeres were recovered through excavation. The tuyeres found from Kunnumpuram were 8 cm to 14.5 cm long and 2.8 cm in diameter. They had 1.7 cm thickness. The slag heap had 45-50 cm thickness. They were discovered from the same hill where urn burials and cist burials were found last year.
03 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Special team to file interim report soon||The special team, constituted by the Forest Department to inquire into the allegations against the officials of the Chittar forest station in connection with the death of 41-year-old T.T. Mathai, is slated to file its interim report within two weeks. Mathai was found dead in a well near his residence on July 28, hours after being taken into custody by Forest officials for allegedly damaging a camera installed by the department on the forest fringes. Official sources said preliminary investigations by the team headed by the Chief Conservator of Forests, Southern Circle, pointed to procedural lapses from the part of the officials who had taken the victim into custody. “The interim report, which is slated to be submitted within 10 days from now, will focus on the violations with regard to the procedures and forestry rules. The final report, however, may take some more time,” said an official. Official sources said the police team too confirmed the procedural lapses by the Forest officials. A probe was also on to ascertain the alleged contradictions between the statements of the accused and details entered in the records. At the same time, a police team led by Deputy Police Superintendent R. Pradeep Kumar began recording statements of the officials, who took the victim into custody. The police were now awaiting a detailed report on the post-mortem examination.
03 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital sees highest one-day spike with 377 cases||The COVID-19 caseload scaled new peaks in Thiruvananthapuram as 377 people were diagnosed with the disease on Sunday. Several police officers, including the Attingal Deputy Superintendent of Police (Dy.SP), were among those infected. Indicating that local transmission remained high, over 96% of those infected, i.e. 363 people, are known to have contracted the infection from other patients. Eleven health-care workers also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district’s official death tally went up to 14 with the National Institute of Virology, Alappuzha, confirming that the 68-year-old woman, who hailed from Parassala, died of COVID-19 on July 29. Attingal Dy.SP S.Y. Suresh and six police officers attached to his office were among the police officers who tested positive. Several cases were reported among officers in various police stations, including Kilimanoor, Varkala, and Anjuthengu in the Attingal police subdivision limits recently. Besides, Mr. Suresh was among those who led the disinfection in the Kilimanoor police station where all officers had to go into quarantine after three officers tested positive. Attingal MLA B. Sathyan, who participated in a review meeting in the Kilimanoor block panchayat office on Saturday with the Dy.SP, has gone into self-quarantine. The other officers include a police officer and a driver attached to the Kerala Police headquarters, one officer in the Armed Reserve Camp, and two policemen and a temporary staff member at the police guest house. The COVID-19 cluster in the Thekkummoodu bund colony, spread across the Kunnukuzhy and Pattom wards, continued to grow with 17 more residents being diagnosed with the disease. In all, 53 people tested positive in the colony.  66 recoveries The number of active cases in the district has gone up to 3,472 while 66 people recovered from the illness on the day. Meanwhile, the district administration declared new containment zones in the Perunthanni ward in the Corporation, Arattukuzhy and Vellarada wards in Vellarada grama panchayat, and Udiyankulangara ward in Kollayil grama panchayat. Plathara and Mukkola wards in Karakulam grama panchayat have been removed from the list of containment zones. Total shutdown was observed in the Nedumangad municipality and Vilappil grama panchayat on Sunday.
03 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Postal ballot may play a key role in polls||The State Election Commission (SEC) and the government may have to explore the option of postal voting to ensure the participation of senior citizens, COVID-19 patients, and those in quarantine in the local body elections proposed to be held in October last or early November. The commission is understood to have proposed proxy voting and postal ballot as options for those above the age of 65, COVID-19 patients, and those in quarantine. But those familiar with the election process told The Hindu that the chances of rigging are too high in proxy voting. If a voter engages a proxy to cast her vote, she can never be sure that the former will execute her will. Proxy problems To make it foolproof, a voter sending a proxy will have to give a letter and demand that the vote is cast as per her desire in the presence of a polling official. Voting being a confidential process, demanding the presence of an official while voting is not possible. Finding proxies who are trustworthy is not easy either. Moreover, the facility may be widely misused by political parties in their strongholds. Those wielding clout among the masses may also misuse it to their advantage. Such complexities may prompt the government and the commission to settle for postal ballot. A recent proposal of the Central Election Commission to extend postal ballot to those above 80 years may also come in handy for the SEC and the government while going through various options. Polling time Even if the virus threat eases, the commission could ill-afford to completely do away with the COVID-19 protocol. If the current surge in the number of cases is an indication, a total turnaround in the next two months would not be easy, sources said. The government would discuss the commission’s proposals and issue an Ordinance for amending the Kerala Panchayati Raj and the Municipalities Act. Along with the mode of voting, the government would consider other proposals such as extending the polling time by an hour to give adequate time for all to cast their vote by adhering to the COVID-19 physical distancing norms.
03 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rain likely this week||The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has asked government agencies and the public to remain alert as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall over Kerala this week. People in low-lying regions, along river banks and landslip-prone hilly regions should be on their guard, the KSDMA said. The alert was issued on the basis of an IMD analysis that a low pressure area is likely to form over the north Bay of Bengal by Tuesday. In northern districts The weather phenomenon could trigger an increase in rainfall activity over Kerala, especially in the northern districts. Given the COVID-19 scenario, the KSDMA had recommended evacuations, when and if required, to four types of relief camps for accommodating the quarantined, the symptomatic, sections vulnerable to COVID-19 and general camps. Orange alerts Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely in Idukki, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod from Monday to Thursday. Malappuram and Wayanad can expect isolated very heavy rainfall from Tuesday to Thursday. Kottayam, Thrissur and Palakkad can expect heavy to very heavy rainfall on Tuesday. Orange alerts have been issued for these districts. The IMD has issued yellow alerts for the remaining districts till Thursday. The Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Studies (INCOIS) has issued a high wave alert for the Kerala coast.
03 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Making a lasting and meaningful difference||A couple of months after Jayalal P. assumed charge as Principal of Government Higher Secondary School, Thanneermukkom, Alappuzha, it became clear he had two options – he could leave the school or things had to change. The higher secondary wing had a notorious reputation. Most of the students were from disadvantaged families. No good students took permanent admission to Plus One. Substance abuse was rife. The students were undisciplined, and teachers had washed their hands of them. Mr. Jayalal decided to stick around. That was two years ago. It did not take him long to identify the basic problem—the students could be at fault, but the school too had not done enough to show them the right path. Having been a school Souhrida club coordinator and having attended two training sessions by NIMHANS faculty, Mr. Jayalal was aware of the importance of building a bridge with students. A programme ‘Koode’ was launched in the school to strengthen teacher-student-parent relationship. He began by meeting students who arrived to seek admission and convince them to stay on. Next, he got teachers to visit the houses of all students and meet their families. Accompanying the teachers were two members of the Kaval programme of the Women and Child Development Department who were providing psychosocial support to students in the aftermath of the floods. The home visits sparked a change in the attitude of the teachers. A teacher orientation session on understanding adolescence, led by the Kaval coordinator, was held. Then, parents were invited to an activity-based session based on a NIMHANS module. As the parents’ ties with the school started improving, so did that of the school with students. The children began opening up to the teachers. They were given life-skills training by the Kaval team. Those who required counselling for substance abuse were provided that with the help of the Excise department and the District Child Protection Unit. Many students were able to kick the habit and focus on studies. Besides the parent-teacher association, the school roped in the local people and set up a ‘jagratha samithi’ with their help. This year, the school’s pass percentage in the Plus Two examinations is 75%, a good increase from 53% earlier. Two students have secured full A + too. The two students, Sayoogya Satheesh and Anupama Rajendran, have beautiful memories of the school and how the years they spent there left an indelible impression on them.
03 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||600 families buy land under LIFE project||More than 600 families in the city Corporation have bought land under the Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment (LIFE) housing project of the Left Democratic Front government. Considering the number of files under processing, close to 1,000 families will get funds for buying land under the project by the end of the financial year, according to officials handling the LIFE project at the civic body. The funds for land purchase are provided from the plan fund of the respective local body, while the LIFE mission provides funds for the construction of houses. The State government had last year increased the funds for the land purchase scheme. Under the scheme, a family from the general category living in a municipal Corporation area will get Rs. 5.25 lakh to purchase a maximum of 3 cents of land, compared to the Rs. 2.5 lakh provided at the beginning of the scheme in 2016. Beneficiaries from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes categories will get Rs. 6 lakh, compared to the Rs. 2.5 lakh provided earlier. Three per ward “Although we are receiving a lot of applications, we have limited it to three applications per ward per year. The beneficiary has to identify the land and submit the application at the Corporation. An overseer from the respective ward will visit the site and check whether it is suitable for house construction,” says an official. The beneficiary families who purchase land under the LIFE scheme will be considered for the housing project under PMAY-LIFE in the next phase. The State government has now given a call for the next phase of applications for the housing project that can be submitted online to the respective local body from August 1 to 14. “This will be the first time that the entire process will be online. Beneficiaries can either approach Akshaya centres or the help desk set up at the Corporation if they do not have internet access,” says the official.
03 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Additional Chief Secretary to probe treasury fraud||The Finance Department on Sunday ordered a comprehensive probe by Rajesh Kumar Singh, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance), into the July 27 incident where a senior accountant at the Additional Sub Treasury, Vanchiyoor, illegally withdrew Rs. 2 crore from the Special Treasury Savings Bank Account (STSB) of the District Collector. Lapses on the part of treasury officials which enabled the embezzlement will come under the ambit of the investigation, according to Finance Minister T. M. Thomas Isaac. The Treasury Savings Bank (TSB) accounts of M.R. Bijulal, the accused senior accountant now on suspension, and his wife have been frozen. Of the Rs. 2 crore, the accused had transferred Rs. 60 lakh to another account from which withdrawals were made. The department has ordered banks to freeze the accounts to which cash transfers were made. The accused has not been taken into custody yet. Accounts handled by the accused during postings at other treasuries will go under scrutiny. The department would also scrutinise cases across the State pertaining to cancelled treasury cheques, the Minister said. Troubleshooting steps Simultaneously, the department has kicked off a series of troubleshooting measures. The treasury software will undergo security/functional audits to pinpoint loopholes as part of this exercise. For the government, the incident has raised a number of disturbing questions. The Finance Minister, in a Facebook message on Sunday, hinted at reforms for preventing the recurrence of similar crime. The accused had transferred Rs. 2 crore from the STSB account to his personal TSB account on July 27 using his user ID and password. However, the transaction required the approval of a senior officer. The accused got it passed using the user ID and password of a sub-treasury officer who retired on May 31. Rules require deactivation of user IDs and passwords when officers retire. This security procedure, apparently, was overlooked. Action would be taken against officers responsible for the oversight, the Finance Minister said. The department would also probe whether passwords could be deactivated automatically when an officer retired, he said. Secondly, the accused had deleted the transfer after removing the money from the STSB account. This technically reinstated the money in the Collector’s account. But Bijulal’s account did not show a corresponding deduction. In such a scenario, the transactions will not tally and the ‘Day Book’ — a daily register of payments and receipts — cannot be closed. This discrepancy had, in fact, led to the discovery of the crime. This, again, throws up other questions, according to the Finance Minister. Why did it take two days for the discovery to be made, and whether the treasury was closed on July 27 without resolving the discrepancy. The investigation will look into all these issues. Investigations by the Joint Director, Treasuries, (in charge of vigilance) and the police also are progressing. The Vanchiyoor police had registered a case on Saturday.  Minister hints at reforms to prevent recurrence of similar crime.
03 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||WhatsApp ‘hijack’ sparks concern||Deepa Lekshmi realised something was amiss when she found herself logged out of her WhatsApp profile. Little did she realise that her account in the social networking platform was “hijacked” by fraudsters who managed to gain access, though she had not parted with any sensitive information. A now-viral voice clip in which the victim, a teacher of a government school at Vaipur, Pathanamthitta, recounts her plight has renewed the focus on the dangers lurking within social networking platforms. Ms. Deepa, a native of Kottayam, says she began to receive messages seeking verification codes to access her WhatsApp account during the last week of July. On July 29, she found herself unable to access her profile. She was apparently “blocked” and could not seek a verification code through SMS as many normally would do while logging in. Obscene image “The problem took a turn for the worse when a colleague alerted me that my WhatsApp display picture was replaced with an obscene image. I began to receive calls from Hindi-speaking men who accused me of sending them pornographic content from my mobile with some even threatening legal action,” she says. She decided to seek police assistance. Her local police station referred her to the Kottayam Police Cyber Cell where she lodged a complaint. An officer there advised her to reinstall the application and try to log in to her account. She managed to access her profile, this time through voice verification since the SMS option remained blocked. Several victims While there has not been any more calls from strangers, Ms. Deepa has decided to switch to a new phone number. She said that after she put the voice message, several people, including college students, called her from Pathanamthitta and Wayanad saying that they too faced similar plights. While it is yet to receive any complaints, the Kerala Police Cyberdome has issued an advisory. All WhatsApp users have been urged to enable the two-step verification that will ensure that any attempt to log into accounts will require a six-digit PIN. Pointing out that the chances of accounts getting hacked were remote unless a specific malware has been installed, Manoj Abraham, ADGP, Headquarters and Cyberdome nodal officer, says cell phone numbers could be hijacked through SIM swaps.
03 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nod for 13.64 lakh water connections||The district-level water and sanitation missions have cleared proposals worth Rs. 3,407.04 crore for adding 13.64 lakh household water connections in rural Kerala under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) during the current financial year. The district-level missions have approved the detailed engineering reports (DER) for 666 schemes so far, Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty said on Saturday. Kerala’s target for 2020-21 has, in fact, doubled from 10 lakh functional household tap connections to 21.42 lakh connections. This is on account of the fact that Kerala delayed the launching of JJM by a year. Consequently, the revised annual action plan reflects the targets for two years. This year, JJM schemes will be implemented in 791 panchayats.  The State Water and Sanitation Mission (SWSM), which oversees JJM implementation at the State-level, will have its first meeting on August 5 to accord administrative sanction for the approved works. The Union government has, in principle, approved the revised plan for 2020-21 for projects worth Rs. 6,377 crore submitted by the State, sources in the Kerala Water Authority said. Of this, Rs. 2,869.5 crore is Central assistance, Rs. 1,913 crore is the State’s share, while Rs. 956.5 crore is panchayat share and Rs. 637.7 crore accounts for beneficiary contribution. The operational guidelines for JJM expects panchayats and beneficiaries to contribute 15% and 10% respectively towards the cost. Target set JJM envisages water connections to all rural households by 2024 at the national level. In Kerala, only 17.5 lakh out of the 67 lakh rural households have tap connections at present.
03 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Teachers find fault with NEP||Large sections of the teaching community in the State’s higher education sector have come out against the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. The Association of Kerala Government College Teachers (AKGCT) alleges that the policy has greater thrust on protecting corporate interests. AKGCT president M. Sathyan and general secretary N. Manoj caution that by phasing out the university affiliation system and setting up a dedicated agency to sanction funds for research projects, the Centre has attempted to bring the sector under a tight leash. The policy will undo the progress attained by the State since the reformation movement, according to All Kerala Private College Teachers’ Association (AKPCTA) president Jogy Alex and general secretary C. Padmanabhan. The Federation of State Employees and Teachers Organisations too has protested against the policy. ‘Against secularism’ The All Kerala School Teachers Union (AKSTU) has appealed to the Centre to reject the NEP as it “challenges the country’s secularism and nationalism.” The AKSTU alleges that the policy does not consider the educational rights of the disadvantaged. It promotes only skill development, traditions, and study of Sanskrit. Only the universalisation of pre-primary education seems to be a welcome idea, union president N. Sreekumar and general secretary O.K. Jayakrishnan say. Question of access The Aided Higher Secondary Teachers Association (AHSTA) says the policy ignores the Kothari’s commission’s directions on structure and approach to education and democratic, secular, and scientific aspects. While promising quality education till secondary level, it does not address issues such as access, equality, and participation.
03 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Port Operation Building ready at Vizhinjam||The Port Operation Building, the nerve centre of the operations of the upcoming international multipurpose deepwater seaport at Vizhinjam, near here, is ready for inauguration. The four-storey building set up near the breakwater with a floor area of 2,300 sq m will be the first facility to be commissioned at the seaport in Phase I of the PPP project by Adani Vizhinjam Ports Private Ltd. (AVPPL), the multi-port operator executing the project. “The plan is to commission the Port Operation Building in August,” a top AVPPL official told The Hindu . All managerial staff, along with critical port control systems like marine control, tower control, port control, and security control will be operating from this building which also has a viewing gallery. The ground floor will house the reception, health centre, trouble kiosk, restroom, kitchen/ pantry, workstations, manager’s cubicle, and electrical room. Six cabins, managers’ cubicles, workstations, modern conference room, and a documentation room are on the first floor of the building. Tower control, marine control, QC, operation and security control room, and the viewing gallery are provided on the second floor. Cabins of CEO, Port head, Marine head, Pilot rest room, and board room are on the third floor. Missed deadlines The commissioning of the Port Operation Building is as per the revised timeline of the AVPPL that has missed the December 2019 deadline specified in the concession pact inked with the State government to commission Phase I in 1,460 days. AVPPL was also not able to meet the 1,000-day target of September 1, 2018, announced by Adani Group chairman Gautam S. Adani while inking the pact, owing to a host of reasons, including the Ockhi cyclone and non-availability of granite for the 3.1-km breakwater.
03 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Training for volunteers||The Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA) is organising online training sessions to emergency response teams of regional volunteers as part of the disaster mitigation activities being undertaken by local bodies. The sessions, which begin on Monday, are being organised with the help of the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA). For registration, visitecourses.kila.ac.in.
03 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Diocese allows cremation of parishioner||The Latin Catholic diocese of Neyyattinkara has replicated a model that is fast gaining acceptance in the State by permitting cremation of one of its parishioners, who died owing to COVID-19, at Shanti Kavadam, Thycaud, on Sunday. The 71-year-old man, who was hospitalised after complaining of chest pain, was confirmed dead during the early hours of Saturday. The deceased was a member of a church that functions under the diocese in Vazhuthoor.
03 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Traders seek permission to reopen shops||With their businesses in doldrums owing to the extended lockdown, a section of traders on MG Road in the city have urged the district administration to permit them to reopen their shops. In a memorandum submitted to the District Collector, the traders flagged the closure of shops on one side on the MG Road that formed part of the Thampanoor ward that has been designated as a containment zone, while those on the other side, part of the Vanchiyoor ward, have been operating. They said the lockdown that came into effect in March-end had left them struggling to sustain rentals, staff salaries, and bank liabilities. They also highlighted the plight of employees who had been finding it difficult to make both ends meet. MG Road was the nerve centre of retail business in the district that catered to over 2000 employees, they added.
03 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Traders’ body to protest tomorrow||The Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi will organise protests on Tuesday against the indefinite shut down of the Chala and Palayam markets and the alleged unscientific methods used in demarcating containment zones. Memorandum  The leaders of the trade body will present a memorandum titled ‘100 black days of lost livelihood’ as part of the protests that will happen both at the Connemara market and near the Chala market at the Killipalam junction at 10.30 a.m .on Tuesday. In a press release, the Samithi said these markets were unable to function for not even 25 days since the lockdown began in March.
03 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Save Kerala campaign||The Congress will organise ‘Save Kerala Speak Up Campaign’ on August 5 to expose the LDF government’s corruption, nepotism, lapses in COVID-19 containment measures and links to the gold smuggling racket, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran has said. KPCC office- bearers and DCC presidents will stage sit-in dharnas as part of the campaign which will be held from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Mr. Ramachandran will inaugurate the campaign at the KPCC headquarters here.
03 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Funds sanctioned for new roads||A sum of Rs. 2.2 crore has been allocated for constructing new roads in the Nedumangad constituency as part of the Chief Minister’s project for improvement of local roads, C.Divakaran, MLA, said. The government also accorded administrative sanction for renovating eight roads in the Vattiyurkavu constituency at Rs. 1.51 crore.
03 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM to inaugurate 102 health centres today||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate 102 family health centres (FHCs) in the State on Monday. The online inauguration is scheduled for 10.30 a.m. Primary health centres (PHC) are being upgraded as FHCs under the Ardram Mission. In the first phase 170 PHCs were upgraded. The 102 FHCs to be inaugurated were among the 504 PHCs that were being upgraded in the second phase of the programme, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said.
03 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Hunger strike by Minister in Delhi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has become ‘don’ of corruption, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary Muralidhar Rao has said. Mr. Rao was inaugurating a hunger strike staged by Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan in New Delhi demanding the resignation of Mr. Vijayan over the Thiruvananthapuram airport gold smuggling case. The Chief Minister’s Office had knowledge of the smuggling, the BJP leader alleged.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Crucial link||
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Indelible images||
03 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur sees curfew for second consecutive Sunday||With COVID-19 cases rising by the day, the Anantapur district administration has for the second consecutive Sunday imposed a curfew which was implemented stringently by the police personnel, allowing only those on emergency duties. The district recorded 696 new cases taking the tally to 16,523 with 8,390 patients undergoing treatment at the hospitals as of Sunday. Meanwhile, Kurnool added 996 cases to its tally of 19,077 while 8,819 persons were undergoing treatment. The total number of persons discharged in Anantapur and Kurnool were 8,011 and 10,055 with 122 and 207 deaths respectively. Trainee Collector G. Surya Sai Praveenchand was entrusted with the job of coordinating between various wings of the Government General Hospital, Anantapur--the only designated hospital for COVID in the district. Mr. Praveenchand would be addressing the issues, including the supply of oxygen through pipeline, pertaining to the hospital.  Oxygen support at triage centre On Sunday, a patient with 57% oxygen saturation and who was gasping for breath, was immediately provided oxygen support with the help of a mobile cylinder carrier at the ‘First Point of Contact’ - Triage Centre at the entrance of the GGH. Within 24 hours, the man’s condition improved and oxygen saturation went up to 85%. “We are able to improve the health condition of some of our patients after giving the medicine Remedisivir,” Mr. Praveenchand said. The low oxygen saturation patient was immediately given ‘dexamethasone’ at the Triage Out Patient desk itself to reduce further risk.
03 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four years on, super-speciality hospital still under construction||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) leader and former Anantapur Urban MLA Vaikuntham Prabhakar Chowdary on Sunday began dharna in his house demanding immediate commissioning of the superspeciality hospital that is under construction for the last four years. Several TDP leaders supported his dharna while a few of them joined him expressing displeasure at the “lack of interest” among the YSRCP leaders in getting the work on the hospital done. “I brought the hospital to Anantapur with much persuasion as it was part of the A.P. Reorganisation Bill provision,” Mr. Chowdary said. The district administration had been promising to complete the project for the past four months, but not even a single floor has come in handy for the growing demand of hospital beds for the COVID-19 victims, he observed. He asked the YSRCP leaders to shift their attention to completing the hospital by deploying additional manpower instead of concentrating on some temporary measures of acquiring possession of hospitals or COVID Care Centres. There are oxygen-supporting beds and ventilators lying idle at the new building and oxygen cylinders have also been put in place, but lack of proper supervision to complete the work is keeping a world-class facility unusable, he lamented.
03 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||3-year-old branded with hot iron||A three-year-old girl was reportedly branded with hot iron rods on her hands and legs by her mother for asking the whereabouts of her father after the lady walked out of the marriage and was living with another person at Kadiri. The child, who had been missing her father, had asked her mother about him which allegedly angered her. Though the incident took place 10 days ago, it came to light now after the neighbours noticed the suffering child and informed the police personnel. After questioning her, the police learnt that the mother had allegedly sold another daughter for Rs. 50,000. On Saturday, officials from the Integrated Child Development Services(ICDS) and Child Welfare Department questioned the mother and lodged a complaint against her in the Kadiri police station. Chief Welfare Committee chairperson N. Rajeswari said that for now, the girl is with the mother as she was still suffering from pain. Both the girls would be taken to a shelter home run by the government on Monday after testing them for COVID-19, she said adding that an investigation would be conducted into both the incidents. The police are meanwhile keeping a watch on the house of the girls.
03 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to end stigma over last rites of COVID-19 victims||During the times when many lives are being lost due to COVID-19, the horrific images of bodies being disowned by families have been shocking. Responding to a series of incidents, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has announced that the government would provide Rs. 15,000 to families for conducting the last rites and in cases where families are not willing the State government will take up the responsibility of conducting the final rites. Following the directions of the Chief Minister, the district administration has decided to launch a campaign to destigmatise the controversy over cremation/burial of bodies. Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar along with revenue personnel attended the funeral of a 57-year-old man who died at Vijayawada. The funeral that was done at the Maha Prastanam in Bongaralabeedu in the presence of NGOs and managing committee members was an eye-opener.  ‘No risk’ Mr. Dinesh Kumar wore a mask and stood at a distance watching the funeral while Amma Charitable Trust president lit the funeral pyre. It was conducted as per COVID-19 protocol.  “There is nothing to fear about cremating or burying the body of a COVID patient. Studies have proved that the virus does not stay in the dead body for more than 5-6 hours and all viruses have only a life of 24 hours in a body. We are giving a call to families to make sure that their near and dear ones are given a decent funeral and the government will give all support. We have identified three places where gas-based crematoriums would be installed soon with the support of corporates and NGOs,’’ said Mr. Dinesh Kumar. Mandal Revenue Officer, Guntur East, Srikanth and Maha Prastanam committee member Narayana Rao were present.
03 August 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A stitch in time saves nine||An armed reserve police constable saved the life of a retired Sub Inspector by donating him his plasma for treating COVID-19 in Kadapa district. Salla Srinivasulu Reddy, who is posted as the driver of Rakshak vehicle in Proddatur, tested positive some time back and recovered from the virus after undergoing the mandatory 14-day treatment. After turning hale and healthy, he volunteered to offer the plasma on coming to know that retired Sub-Inspector M.D. Ramakrishna (64), also hailing from Proddatur, was suffering from the virus, higher risk in view of his age. Having experienced the ordeal, Srinivasulu Reddy decided to turn a saviour and donated his plasma at Sunshine Hospital to save the life of a fellow cop. Pat from SP Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan, who congratulated the constable for his humanitarian gesture, appealed to the recovered patients among the public to contribute their plasma to save the lives of seriously ailing patients. The constable also received accolades from fellow policemen and officers from across the district.
03 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Procure shrimp through MPEDA in A.P., says NaCSA member||National Centre for Sustainable Aquaculture (NaCSA-Kakinada) General Council Member Sykam Bhaskara Rao on Sunday appealed the State government to ensure procurement of shrimp by the Marine Products Exports Development Authority (MPEDA). It is learnt that the shrimp farmer had been badly hit due to the spread of COVID19, which impacted on the availability of workers in the processing units, disturbing the export operations. In an official release, Mr. Bhasakara Rao has said; “The monopoly in the shrimp trade could only be tackled only when the MPEDA begins the procurement of the shrimp, which prices are normally dictated by the individual exporters. Despite Andhra Pradesh being the leading shrimp exporting State, there is no regulated marketing system in place to guarantee the remunerative price for the shrimp”. “A majority of the farmers engaged in the shrimp cultivation is small or middle scale farmers. The financial assistance from the Centre must be spent on creating shrimp purchasing centres, where the fair trade will ensure remunerative price for the farmer”, said Machilipatnam-based Mr. Bhaskara Rao.
03 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu instigating Amaravati farmers’||Making Visakhapatnam the Executive capital will not affect the farmers, but TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu is trying to instigate them to protect his interests in Amaravati, BC Welfare Minister Chelluboyina Venugopala Krishna has said. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Mr. Krishna said, “Mr. Naidu did not settle the package offered to those who had parted their lands for Amaravati during his five-year term. He had only shown graphics of the capital city.” High Court Asserting that Amaravati continue to be the Legislative capital, the Minister said, “Rayalaseema has been demanding the High Court for long, and the decision to make Kurnool the Judicial capital is in tune with the demand. The backward North Andhra region will witness development with the location of the Executive capital in the region,” the Minister observed. Mr. Naidu had not taken into consideration the recommendations of the Sivaramakrishnan Committee, and instead chose Amaravati as the capital to further his political interests.
03 August 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Celebrations in Kurnool after nod to three capitals Bill||Lawyers, political leaders and student leaders raised slogans, waved placards and held celebrations at the Kondareddi Buruju here on Sunday and conducted several programmes in various other towns in the district to show their happiness at the approval of the three capitals Bill by Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan. Students leaders garlanded the statue of Mahatma Gandhi and conducted ‘palabhishekam’ to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s photo placed near the statue under the leadership of Kurnool MLA M.A. Hafeez Khan. Students were now confident of accelerated development of the region and were nursing hopes of getting jobs locally, the MLA said. Meanwhile, the BC, SC, ST, Minority Student organisations’ Joint Action Committee leaders Shaik Riyaaz and Vankiri Ramachandrudu garlanded the statue of Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy at Nandyal and thanked the Chief Minister for declaring Kurnool as Judicial Capital. The student leaders had been agitating for the past six months to set up the A.P. High Court at Kurnool, said Mr. Ramachandrudu and wanted Mr. Jagan Mohn Reddy to take a similar interest in completing the pending projects in the Rayalaseema region to bring assured irrigation water to Kurnool and Anantapur districts at the earliest.
03 August 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore tally nears 10,000||The spread of coronavirus continued unabated in Nellore and Prakasam districts with 10 more patients--four in Prakasam and six in Nellore--succumbing to the viral disease and 764 persons contracting the disease in the last 24 hours, a health bulletin released by the State government said. With this, the death toll rose to 69 in Prakasam where 316 new cases pushed the tally to 5,699 and 299 persons were discharged. Prakasam district has witnessed 19 deaths in just a week. The COVID-19 hospitals were overcrowded with patients as the total number of positive cases rose to 9,026 in Nellore district with 448 more patients testing positive. The toll stood at 50 while 604 patients were recovered. Four new clusters were formed in Prakasam district with 212 containment zones, including 23 very active clusters. As many as 44 patients were put in intensive care unit and another 268 patients put on oxygen support. Health officials were on their toes and identified 3,027 primary and secondary contacts of the newly-infected patients and tested them.
03 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurichedu tragedy toll increases to 16||The death toll in the Kurichedu tragedy rose to 16 with five more persons with alcohol dependency succumbing to the hand sanitiser they had consumed in Prakasam district in the last 24 hours. The situation has turned alarming as 40 more tipplers, most of them labourers, reported sickness caused due to consumption of a hand sanitiser. They were rushed to the GGH here, where one person died on Sunday. “The remaining are responding to treatment,” GGH Superintendent D. Sriramulu told The Hindu . Of the four other deceased, two died in their homes and one each at the Government Hospital at Vinukonda and GGH, Guntur, late on Saturday, police said. Police drive Meanwhile, police conducted a special drive in the district to unearth incidents of misuse of alcohol-based hand sanitisers. Over 55 alcoholics who were in the habit of consuming sanitiser were taken into custody at Addanki bus stand centre, railway station, new market centre, Sangamitra hospital centre and other areas. SP Siddharth Kaushal counselled them on the ill-effects of consuming a hand sanitiser which could prove fatal. He promised them government support for de-addiction. He ordered the personnel to step up raids on illegal belt shops.
03 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Victim’s kin demand CBI probe into custodial death||Family of the deceased Dalit youth Y. Kiran Kumar who was picked up by police for not wearing a mask has demanded a probe by a sitting judge or the Central Bureau of Investigation into his alleged custodial death. Dissatisfied with the arrest of the Sub-Inspector K.Vijay Kumar under IPC304A(causing death by negligence), victim’s father Y. Mohan Rao has demanded that case be altered with the section of 302 IPC and that the provisions of the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act be invoked. Reiterating that his son had succumbed to the injuries sustained when police allegedly thrashed him, he said he did not believe the police version that his son had sustained the fatal injury while trying to escape from police custody. Justice could be ensured only by ordering a probe either by the CBI or a sitting judge of the High Court, he opined. Meanwhile, Dalit Hakkula Parirakshana Samiti(DHPS) Prakasam district president Neelam Nagender Rao told mediapersons in Chirala that Home Minister M. Sucharita should visit the bereaved family and reassure them that justice would be done to them. He also demanded that protection be given to the victim’s friend S. Abraham, who was riding the motorcycle that day, after recording his statement.
03 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Victim’s kin die in accident||Three persons were killed and two others were injured when the vehicle in which they were travelling hit a stationed lorry near Jalantrakota in Kanchili mandal in the district in the early hours of Sunday. According to police, the five, who were kin of one of the victims of the crane accident at the Hindustan Shipyard, were heading to Visakhapatnam from Kharagpur to console their family members. The victims were identified as Nagamani, Lavanya and driver Dwaraka. The other two received serious injuries and are undergoing treatment at Kanchili government hospital.
03 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan dares MLAs of Krishna, Guntur to resign||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan on Sunday asked the MLAs of the YSRCP and the TDP in Guntur and Krishna districts to resign if they were really worried about the plight of the farmers, whose sacrifice of giving their precious lands for the development of Amaravati was being wasted due to the shifting of the capital to Visakhapatnam. Mr. Pawan Kalyan insisted that the MLAs join the protests against the “divisive politics being played by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy.” ‘Land given to govt., not Chandrababu Naidu’ Addressing the party’s Political Affairs Committee (PAC) meeting through a tele-conference, he said, “The JSP is the only party that has maintained a consistent stand right from day one that no injustice should be done to the farmers of Amaravati, who gave their lands to the government and not TDP president N. Chandrabaabu Naidu.” He said the government’s intention behind the decentralisation move was aimed at diverting the people’s attention from its “inept handling of the COVID-19 crisis.” Referring to those criticising the JSP, he said, “They should instead pull up the TDP, which made grand plans and failed to deliver, and the YSRCP, which has taken the three capitals’ decision that has far-reaching implications without proper consultations.” The BJP had expressed its commitment to Amaravati, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said, and alleged that the State government spurned the World Bank offer of financial assistance for its development. The JSP chief further claimed to have questioned Mr. Naidu the rationale behind taking over 30,000 acres for the capital, and whether he could guarantee that the future governments would not change the plans. The so-called decentralisation would create differences among people of the three regions, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said, and asserted that his party would chart its course of action after having a thorough discussion with legal and other experts. PAC chairman Nadendla Manohar, and party leaders K. Nagababu, Thota Chandrasekhar, Bollisetti Satyanarayana, T. Siva Sankar, and Kandula Durgesh participated.
03 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan leading a destructive regime, alleges Yanamala||Making light of the YSRCP claims on comprehensive development of all the three regions of the State, TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on Sunday wondered whether “trifurcation” of the capital qualified to be call development. In a statement, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had established the Pulivendula Area Development Authority to develop his constituency, but had abolished the A.P. Capital Region Development Authority that was aimed at developing all the 13 districts of the State. “There is zero development in all the three regions of Rayalaseema, Coastal and North Coastal Andhra in the last 14 months,” the TDP leader alleged. ‘Many projects shelved’ Over 139 companies in the Amaravati capital region and thousands of jobs had vanished into thin area due to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s decision on capital, he said. “The MedTech Zone and FinTech Valley projects in Visakhapatnam have been shelved. The Rs. 70,000-crore Adani Data Centre has been driven away from the North Coastal Andhra region. Similar is the fate of the Lulu Group’s multi-crore project in Visakhapatnam. The YSRCP rule has turned the Port City into a haven for land grabbers and property offenders. The common people in the city are feeling insecure,” Mr. Ramakrishnudu said. In Rayalaseema, the YSRCP cadres were threatening the managements of solar power plants, he alleged. In Prakasam district, the Rs. 25,000-crore paper and pulp industry had gone back. “From these instances, it is clear that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is running a destructive, and not a development regime. Violence, demolitions and destructions are the foundations on which the Chief Minister is building his empire,” he ridiculed.
03 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC plans go awry as COVID graph rises||Due to a sharp spike in COVID-19 positive cases, the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is unable to implement its plans to improve its revenues by resuming both intra-State and inter-State operations in a full-fledged way, thus adding to the huge revenue losses it has been incurring of late. With an increasing number of areas coming under lockdown in the State, (73 of the 79 municipalities and 14 of the 16 municipal corporations are under lockdown), the APSRTC officials are forced to restrict the operations from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. In July, the revenue of the public sector transport giant hit an all-time low. “The revenue in July dipped to mere Rs. 1.5 crore against Rs. 2.3 crore in the previous month,” the Corporation’s Executive Director (Operations) K.S. Brahmananda Reddy told The Hindu.  After Unlock 1.0, the corporation officials took swift measures to first resume intra-State bus services and then held talks with neighbouring States for starting inter-State services as well. Although things worked for the APSRTC as far as operations to Karnataka are concerned, the same cannot be said about Telangana. The first round of talks held at the APSRTC office here remained inconclusive and the two sides decided to iron out differences by holding further rounds of confabulations. But the sudden spurt in COVID cases in Telangana and employees in the TSRTC office getting infected by the virus put a break in the talks. After a prolonged lockdown, RTC resumed services to Karnataka from June 17 and plied 168 buses to the neighbouring State, against the usual 500. But with Bengaluru going under a fresh lockdown, the APSRTC suspended its services from July 15 to 23 and resumed the services recently, it is operating 82 buses from Bengaluru to different destinations in the State. ‘No response’ The inter-State buses from Bengaluru operate in eight districts. “We are trying to put in place e-pass based operations between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana but the latter has not been responding,” said an RTC official.
03 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police go on drive to rein in cybercrime||A sharp rise in cybercrime cases has become a cause for concern among public. Cyber-stalkers have been targeting women, girls and children. Some fraudsters are luring youth by organising online betting and banned games. In order to check the cybercrimes, the police have been enlightening people on how to avoid landing in the trap of cyber-stalkers and fraudsters. “Stalkers are trapping women and girls by creating fake IDs and stealing photos and data. They are then blackmailing the victims by threatening to post their personal data on porn sites, reveal it to their family or put it publicly on social media platforms. The criminals are resorting to sexual exploitation and extortion,” said an investigation officer. ‘Need to educate public’ Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang said that people should have awareness about cyber-stalking, bullying, cyber grooming, honeytrap, matrimony phishing and other offences and the ways to protect themselves from such crimes. A CID team led by Additional DGP P.V. Sunil Kumar had been conducting many awareness programmes and workshops on cybercrime, Mr. Sawang said. CID Superintendent of Police (cybercrime) G. R. Radhika said cyber offenders were targeting children by sending free games and developing intimacy with them. In some cases, criminals were using children for drug peddling and making them addicted to ganja and other drugs. “In cyber grooming cases, criminals were filming children in an objectionable manner and sexually exploiting them,” Ms. Radhika said. “Frauds related to online shopping, jobs and OTP were also high in the State. Fraudsters were resorting to financial crimes by stealing IDs, QR codes, creating fake accounts, impersonation and cloning,” said a cyber expert. The CID police, in association with an FM radio channel and a few NGOs will organise a month-long online awareness drive, particularly for women, children and school and college-going girls to help them from falling prey to cyber offenders. Webinars, workshops, FM radio programmes and competitions will be a part of the drive. Named aseRakshaBandhan,the programme will be conducted from August 3 to 31. Cyber experts will speak on topics such as cyber bullying and online safety, digital parenting, how to stay safe online in social media groups, cyber crimes against children and women, cyber laws and reporting, online job frauds, online scams, cyber crimes – punishments, virtual cyber security hackathon/ideathon, matrimonial frauds and cyber laws and Acts, said CID DIG Sunil Kumar Naik. Livestreaming of the programmes would be done every day at 11 a.m. onhttps://www.youtube.co m/channel/ UC9HKN13ztEyKg5q8Dcn -LHMQ?view_as=subscriber, Mr. Naik added.
03 August 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gutkha, foreign cigarettes worth Rs. 6.32 lakh seized, 4 arrested||The West Godavari police seized banned gutkha and tobacco products and foreign brand cigarettes, all worth about Rs. 6.32 lakh at Palakol and arrested four persons. On a tip-off, the team led by Narsapuram Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) P. Nageswara Rao and CI Ch. Anjaneyulu took four persons into custody in the Surya Teja Nagar area on Sunday. The arrested have been identified as Puli Roshan Seethal of Palakol, Tallapalli Venkata Shiva Satyanarayana of Tuni, Kankipati Raju Veera Venkata Satyaprasad of Mandavalli and Adhikari Solmon Raju of Narsapuram, said district Superintendent of Police (SP) K. Narayan Naik. Modus operandi The modus operandi of the accused was to import the stocks from Berampur in Odisha and sell them to retailers in different districts in AP. The accused, Shiva Satyanarayana, was involved in several crimes in Kakinada, One Town and Three Town police stations, Rayavaram, Vuyyuru, Anakapalli, Patamata and Kambham police stations and underwent imprisonment in a few cases, Mr. Naik said.
03 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Give top priority to suspected patients’||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz asked the officials of the Health Department in the district to admit persons with severe COVID symptoms such as fever for more than a couple of days and breathing problems to hospitals even they are not tested for COVID. At a review meeting with the officials here on Sunday Mr. Imtiaz asked them to form mandal, divisional and district-level COVID Committees to focus on people with symptoms. He said ANMs, Asha workers and other health workers should be deployed to identify people suffering from COVID symptoms and such persons should be admitted to the nearest hospital. He said the availability of beds in the nearest hospitals could be found out by calling the COVID Command Control Room.
03 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Declare health emergency in State: TDP MLA||TDP legislator D. Bala Veeranjaneya Swamy has demanded that a health emergency be declared in the State. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Mr. Veeranjaneya Swamy said there was an immediate need to increase the number of beds, ventilators, and ICUs in the hospitals treating COVID-19 patients. There was also a need to increase the number of doctors and other paramedical staff, he added. Calling for improving the testing facilities, he said the government testing centres were not doing it promptly. There were instances of patients being asked to approach private labs, he alleged. Expressing concern over the rise in new cases and fatalities, he said officers were not answering the phone calls of MLAs. “A helpless situation has set in. People are approaching MLAs seeking recommendation letter for allotment of beds or for test result,” he said.
03 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P.’s MSME sector selected for national energy study||In a significant move, the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) has selected MSME sector in Andhra Pradesh at the national level to initiate a unique study of the energy efficiency potential in refractory clusters, to develop a roadmap for Indian refractory sector to become energy and resource efficient. The Energy and Resource Institute (TERI) has been entrusted the task the undertaking a detailed study in the refractory clusters in East and West Godavari districts. This in turn would help to introduce advanced global technologies in energy efficiency in the State at cost-effective basis. The TERI will undertake detailed energy audits in MSME units and interact closely with stakeholders, including manufacturing units and industry associations in AP, and identify opportunities for energy and resource saving. “We will conduct energy audit in one district each in three States for glass industry clusters in Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and two states for refractory clusters. One district in Jharkhand and two districts in Andhra Pradesh- East and West Godavari, are selected. The findings of the study in AP will be utilized to develop a roadmap for making the refractory sector in the country energy efficient and environment friendly. Apart from these, energy study is contemplated in the Refractory Clusters in Asansol and Solanpur in West Bengal and Katni in Madya Pradesh,” said Milind Deore, Director/BEE in a webinar with APSECM, Energy Department, Andhra Pradesh.
03 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Extend aid to construction workers’||The CPI has urged the government to provide a cash assistance of Rs. 10,000 to each construction worker in the State in view of the lull in the industry due to the prevailing pandemic. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said it was not correct on the part of the government to discriminate against the construction workers. “Initially, sand scarcity hit the industry. COVID-19 has only upped the ante. Sand, which was available for Rs. 1,500 per tractor, is not available even for Rs. 6,000 now. The construction workers are not finding any work,” he said.
03 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu prays for Shah’s recovery||BJP State president Somu Veerraju tweeted on Sunday that he was praying for the good health of Union Minister of Home Amit Shah, who tested positive for COVID-19. He expressed the confidence that Mr. Shah would “defeat corona as he defeated many anti-India forces.”
03 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers’ union alleges bias in transfers||Leaders of the AP United Teachers’ Federation (UTF) have alleged that without releasing any notification, transfers to municipal teachers were being made based on recommendations made by political leaders. In a statement on Sunday, federation president Shaik Sabjee and general secretary P. Babu Reddy demanded that such transfers be cancelled. They said even while claiming that accountability and transparency were the bedrocks of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, a few Ministers were resorting to gross favouritism by recommending transfers to certain candidates.  ‘Go by the rule book’ This practice should be stopped immediately, they said, adding that the transfers be effected as per the rule book.
03 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. eyes hilltop spaces to locate offices||With the Governor giving his assent to the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of all Regions Bill-2020 and the AP CRDA (Repeal) Bill-2020, which paves the way for making Visakhapatnam the Executive capital, Kurnool the Judicial capital, and Amaravati the Legislative capital, the focus has now shifted to the infrastructure available in the Port City. As per sources, officials will start moving to Visakhapatnam from mid-August, and by October, the EC will become operational. Many are keen to know where will the office of the Chief Minister come up, and the locations of the Secretariat, the Police Headquarters and the DGP office. Though the officials are tight-lipped, the focus seems to be on the six hills abutting the picturesque Bay of Bengal on the Rushikonda - Bhimili Road. The three IT sector hills, the tourism hill, the hill allotted to the Adani Groip to set up an IT Park, and the hill where a private resort exists are under focus. On Hill No.1 in the IT sector, where the Ramanaidu Studios, Miracle Software, and Fluentgrid are located, the total available built-up area is 47 acres. On Hill No. 2, where software companies such as Symbiosys Technologies, Mahati and Asian Infotech are based, the space available is around 25 acres. On Hill No.3, where companies such as IBM, Conduent and the government-owned Startup Village exist, the available space is 90 acres. Of it, 22 acres belongs to the APIIC. Though there is much vacant space, plug-and-play facility is available in about 20 buildings belonging to the IT companies, some of which are owned by the companies and the others are on lease. The built-up space of all the companies could be close to 20 lakh sft. But hardly 50% of it is occupied. It is learnt that the government is negotiating to hire the free space available with the companies. “We have approached several companies seeking lease of the entire building. If that works out, then it is just plug-and-play for the government offices and departments,” says a senior officer in the district administration. The hill allotted to the Adani Group has about 1,500 acres space, with 400 acres of ‘ready to build’ space. The approach road has been laid, the water tank is ready, and street lighting is in place. “The tourism hill, which belongs to the government, has a space of over 280 acres,” says Director of the A.P. Chamber of Commerce and Industry O. Naresh Kumar. CM’s residence According to sources, negotiations are under way with the management of the hilltop resort to lease it out, and it may be converted into the Chief Minister’s residence and camp office. The DGP’s office and the Police Headquarters are likely to the located at the existing Greyhounds facility at Kapuluppada. The Greyhounds facility is likely to be shifted to Anandapuram, where over 300 acres of land has been identified and surveyed for the purpose. Housing With the CMO, the Secretariat and other offices likely to be based on the hills, it is learnt that negotiations are under way to make available the residential flats and row houses in the vicinity for the staff. There are a number of residential projects coming up in the area, including the VMRDA’s Harita Project.
03 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HSL to pay ex gratia of Rs. 50 lakh to kin of crane accident victims||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that the Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL) would pay Rs. 50 lakh as ex gratia to the families of each of the workers, who died in the crane mishap. The Minister visited the scene of the mishap on Sunday. HSL Chairman and Managing Director L.V. Sharat Babu explained to him about the sequence of events, which led to the mishap on Saturday. He also spoke to the workers and trade union leaders and other officials about the accident. Later, he held discussion with the officials, trade union leaders and members of the bereaved families. The Minister said that it was the responsibility of the management to safeguard the lives of the workers and to provide relief to the family members, when mishaps occur. He assured the bereaved family members that the State government would also consider provision of additional compensation. Mr. Sharat Babu announced that the HSLwould provide Rs. 50 lakh to the dependents of the deceased workers, though the company was in losses. This would be in addition to the compensation payable to the permanent and contract workers by their respective companies. He explained that not even a minor accident had occurred at the shipyard before. It was unfortunate that the new crane had collapsed, while the final trials were in an advanced stage of completion. All the trade unions expressed happiness at the ex gratia announced by the company. They also appreciated the gesture of the Minister in sending the District Collector to the accident spot soon after the accident and coming all the way from Vijayawada on Sunday. Probe committee formed A seven-member expert committee has been constituted by District Collector V. Vinay Chand to conduct a detailed inquiry into the accident at Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL), which led to the collapse of a crane and death of workers. The committee will study various aspectsand whether there was any human error, according to an official statement issued on Sunday night. The committee has been directed to submit its report to the Collector within seven days.
03 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘18 BMT procedures performed in a year’||The Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital and Research Institute (MGCHRI) has successfully treated 18 cases with life-saving bone marrow transplant(BMT) procedures in the last one year, since the first such transplant was done at the hospital in August, 2019. BMT is a special life-saving curative treatment for many haematological malignancies like leukaemia, myeloma, lymphoma and some benign haematological conditions like aplastic anaemia, sickle cell anaemia, thalassemia and immunodeficiency disorders. The hospital’s Centre for Advanced Haematology and Haemato-Oncology is a dedicated state-of-the-art unit equipped with all the required technologies like apheresis, stem cell preservation and Class-10000 BMT Suites, and is managed by a team of experts, according to Dr. Murali Krishna Voonna, MD of the hospital. The State government has included certain indications of Autologous Bone Marrow Transplant under YSR-Arogysri scheme and hence BMT treatment was being provided free of cost to BPL patients under the scheme. Dr. Murali Krishna expressed his gratitude to the State government for excluding super-specialty cancer hospitals from COVID-services because of the urgency and sensitivity of the cancer patients.
03 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag case tally zooms past 13,500-mark||As many as 1,227 new COVID-19 cases were reported from the district, taking the tally to 13,559 in Visakhapatnam district on Sunday. The district reported more than 1,000 cases in a single day on the second consecutive day on Sunday. This is also said to be the biggest-single day spike reported in the district since March 2020. As per the State Health bulletin, the district reported highest number of cases on Sunday, while no other district crossed the 1000-mark. The death toll is also inching towards the 100-mark, as four more persons succumbed to the coronavirus taking the toll to 98. On the brigh side, 465 persons, who were undergoing treatment, have been discharged from COVID-19 hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres. A large number of people, who have been given the option of home quarantine, are also recovering well, said an official from the Health Department. As per the district COVID-19 bulletin, the total number of active cases is 8,930 while 4,531 persons were discharged. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, the total number of clusters in the district was 847. Among them, very active clusters are 325. The number of active and dormant clusters is 145 and 377 respectively. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said. For information regarding tests in Visakhapatnam, citizens can contact Control Room on the landline numbers: 0891-2501233 or 0891-2501244. The State Government has also updated the information regarding the availability of beds in the districts in the COVID-19 dashboard on Saturday.
03 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bodies of two missing youth traced at beach||The bodies of two youth, who had reportedly drowned in a beach near the Naval Coastal battery (NCB) here on Saturday evening, were found on Sunday morning. The deceased were identified as G. Vardhan (17) and Ch. Rohith (13), both residents of Gnanapuram area in the city. According to the police, the victims came to the beach along with a few other friends. The duo went into waters for swimming and went missing on Saturday. Efforts to trace them proved futile and the search was given up on Saturday after dark. On Sunday morning, the bodies were washed ashore. A post-mortem was conducted and the bodies have been handed over to families, police said. One Town police registered a case.
03 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Manikyala Rao’s death condoled||The death of former Minister for Endowment Pydikonda Manikyala Rao was condoled by BJP leaders here on Sunday. Former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju recalled his association with the late Minister. He said that he had met Manikyala Rao, a week before he was admitted to the hospital for treatment. He expressed his condolences to the bereaved family members and prayed that the late leader’s soul would rest in peace. BJP Parliamentary district president M. Raveendra described the death of Manikyalara Rao as a great loss to the party.
03 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police examine records in one more private hospital||The Special Team, constituted by the Commissioner of Police R.K. Meena to investigate the Universal Srushti Hospital’s involvement in the alleged child trafficking case, had conducted searches in yet another children’s hospital at Seethammadhara here late on Saturday night. The team, led by Assistant Commissioner of Police (East) Murthy, examined the records at the hospital. The police also reportedly questioned the head of the hospital, it is learnt. Police sources say that some of the cases from the Srushti Hospital were referred to the private hospital in Seethammadhara.
03 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 900 beds available at TIMS||Health Minister Eatala Rajender has directed officials not to turn away any patient seeking admission at the 1,035-bed Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS), Gachibowli. Wearing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), he met COVID-19 patients admitted at the hospital on Sunday to enquire about medical services and other facilities being provided to them. This is the second time that he met COVID-19 patients in person. In March, he had met the first COVID-19 patient in the State admitted at Gandhi Hospital. Mr Rajender inspected TIMS and directed a Resident Medical Officer to be appointed to oversee the works of staff. The Minister and officials in the Health department have urged people to avail services at TIMS rather than spending exorbitantly and selling their property for private hospital treatment. Only around 130 of the 1,035 beds are occupied by COVID-19 patients. There are 50 ICU beds and officials said they are planning to have 150 more ICU beds to attend critically-ill patients. Apart from patients with severe symptoms, those above 60 years or with severe co-morbidities such as hypertension or life threatening diseases are admitted at TIMS. COVID patients with mild symptoms and co-morbidity too are admitted there. Later, he held a meeting with doctors and administrative officials. Most of the doctors who are young informed him that they are staying at the hospital so that they will be available to provide medical services at any point of the day. Earlier, the healthcare professionals had requested for accommodation to be provided so that they can stay away from family, thus preventing the risk of infection transmission to their family members in case they are carriers. The Minister also inspected the quality of medicines being administered to patients. He said while families of patients admitted to private hospitals are struggling to find some medicines used for COVID-19 treatment, there is no shortage of the drugs such as Remdesivir at the hospital. He urged people to avail services at government hospitals. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy and COVID Expert Committee member Gangadhar accompanied him. Webinar on protocol On Monday, the Health Minister will hold a webinar on the treatment protocol being followed in government hospitals. Prominent doctors, superintendents of government hospitals, and senior officials from the State Health department would take part in the session.
03 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water released to Kalwakurthy ayacut from Gudipalli reservoir||Minister for Agriculture Singireddy Niranjan Reddy released water to the ayacut of Mahatma Gandhi Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation Scheme (MGKLIS) from Gudipalligattu balancing reservoir, the third phase of the project, in Nagarkurnool district on Sunday. Over two-thirds of the 3.65 lakh acre ayacut under Kalwakurthy project gets water from Gudipalligattu reservoir. The Minister along with legislators Guvvala Balaraju, G. Jaipal Yadav and Kasireddy Narayana Reddy, Zilla Parishad chairperson P. Padmavathi released water to the Kalwakurthy and Achampet main canals from the reservoir. Stating that water to Kalwakurthy ayacut had reached before time, he said that water would also be given to the tail-end ayacut. Attributing the irrigation of the entire ayacut under the project to statehood to Telangana, Mr. Niranjan Reddy assured that farmers in the ayacut would be given water both for Vaanakalam and Yasangi seasons this year. He, however, appealed to farmers not to breach the canals in between in a hurry to get the water stating that every acre under the project would be given water. Irrigation authorities would make arrangements to take water to all distributaries, if any distributary fails to get water and the matter was taken to their notice. The Minister said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s resolve was to help farmers, come what may, adding that in spite of Rs. 50,000 crore revenue loss due to coronavirus, the government had procured Yasangi crops with Rs. 30,000 crore and had given Rs. 7,253 crore investment support to farmers under the Rythu Bandhu scheme.
03 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress asks KCR to stop AP’s RLIP tender process||The Congress has asked Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to take steps to stop the process of tenders being taken up by the AP government to execute Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP), as part of its plans to divert 8 tmc ft of Krishna water every day from Srisailam. AICC secretary S.A. Sampath Kumar said on Sunday that either the CM or any of his senior Cabinet colleague could participate in the Apex Council meeting, scheduled to be held virtually on August 5, in spite of having a Cabinet meeting. “If the Chief Minister failed to stop the process of finalisation of tenders for RLIP, he would be reduced to a betrayer of Telangana people,” he said. Mr. Sampath Kumar also demanded that the Centre direct AP government to stop the process of tenders before the Apex Council meet. Former Minister and Congress leader Dr. Nagam Janardhan Reddy said that by planning to divert 8 tmc ft of Krishna water every day from Srisailam, the AP government was violating the riparian rights of Telangana people by taking more water than their rightful share. He suggested the State government to move the Supreme Court and stop the process of tenders being called by AP in violation of the riparian rights of Telangana as stopping the works would be practically not possible once the tenders were finalised and the agreements were entered into.
03 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Boost hospital infra, not crematoria: TPCC to govt.||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) has expressed serious concerns over reports of the State government’s plans to set up five new LPG-based crematoria in Hyderabad in view of the rising number of coronavirus cases. TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy, quoting media reports, said that the government was planning to install LPG-fuelled crematoria at Charminar, Khairatabad, Secunderabad, Uppal and Kukatpally zones with a capacity to cremate 12 bodies a day and these were expected to be ready in the next two weeks. The government’s move is raising eyebrows as the COVID death toll in the State, according to the official bulletin, had not exceeded 15 so far, he said. He sought to know from the government whether making arrangements to cremate 60 more bodies every day in addition to the existing facilities was an indication of the worsening situation. “Governments that do not establish hospitals for improving the public healthcare system end up building crematoria,” Mr. Narayana Reddy said, adding sarcastically that CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao would be remembered as the leader who did nothing to save people’s lives but made arrangements for their last rites. The Congress leader felt that the CM should have dedicated all resources to handle the situation in the initial stages itself. He pointed out that the government was not upgrading hospitals and strengthening the healthcare infrastructure in spite of rise in the number of positive cases and deaths. He attributed the death of COVID patients in government hospitals due to lack of oxygen support.
03 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Relief tinged with anxiety for gyms||As gyms in Hyderabad get set to reopen on August 5, there is a palpable sense of excitement as well as anxiety among gym trainers and fitness freaks. “We will have a meeting on August 4 to decide steps that we need to follow. We have been waiting to reopen as the lockdown impacted us in a big way,” says Ravi who manages a gym in Hafeezpet. Gym owners have taken to social media to raise their grievance about the COVID-19 lockdown and its impact on their business. “Please look after gyms in Hyderabad. Due to lockdown, we gym owners cannot pay rents and look after our staff. Many gym owners have invested lakhs in starting gyms but now there is no source of income to pay rents,” a gym owner tweeted a few days ago, tagging Minister for Sports and Youth Affairs V. Srinivas Goud. “Gyms might open but I don’t know whether people will come to train. Can we completely sanitise the space every 45 minutes? I am seeing clients in the US and Australia sanitising the place every half an hour, but most gyms will not be able to do that,” says Bilon Aristotle, a trainer at a Banjara Hills gym. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is yet to issue guidelines for SOPs to be followed by gyms though the Ministry of Home Affairs promised them on July 29. Badly hit Many gyms which operate out of large rented spaces on the main roads are facing a financial crisis due to backlog of rent, electricity bills, salaries to trainers, and extension of membership to patrons. A gym spread over 10,000 square feet which opened in June 2019 had 400 members when it was forced to down shutters in March leaving the owner-partners high and dry. “I am not planning to go to the gym till the pandemic dies down. I will let go the membership fee; it is not very important. We cannot exercise with masks and the gym is a closed space. Nobody wants to take a risk. My training partner too is worried and is unlikely to step into a gym anytime soon,” says Sanjay who trains at a gym in Khairatabad. Incidentally, many gyms have reinvented themselves for home training. “Training at home began tentatively but now many people have bought weights and other equipment, and are regularly exercising. In gyms, we had to pester them, but now they are punctual and dedicated,” says Mr. Aristotle. Reopening of gyms will prove to be another crucial test for life returning to normal in the shadow of COVID-19 pandemic.
03 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘WFH method is the surest way to ensure continuity’||Quess Corp entity Conneqt Business Solutions (formerly Tata Business Support Services) is a leading customer lifecycle management and business process management service provider. Put simply, it ensures smooth operations of many tasks for client companies, from digital transformation, managing customer calls, collections to KYC verification. When the coronavirus-induced lockdown set in, the Hyderabad-headquartered firm had to ensure business continuity for them as well as for itself like never before. CEO Neeraj Tandon explains how the challenges were met, the learnings and road ahead. Edited excerpts: With over 100 clients, headcount of more than 30,000 and multiple facilities, how did Conneqt Business Solutions ensure business continuity during the lockdown? The lockdown hit us suddenly. Until then, work from home (WFH) was a fashionable concept and we had very few working from home. With the lockdown we got into a war zone. Our tech and operations teams got into gear and pushed for WFH like we have never done before. Everyone pitched in. By April, we had 55-60% working from home. WFH is easier said than done for many. What were the challenges and how did you manage? When we began WFH, we gave opportunity to our known employees. It was seen as a privilege that they will be able to work when everybody had a little bit of uncertainty about continued employment. That helped. While our technology team did a lot to facilitate WFH, it was the motivation levels of employees that mattered. Several made innovative space arrangements in their house and even used their 4G mobile network to hook on to our VPN and provide work for clients. In terms of productivity, we were truly overwhelmed and surprised. In most cases we had far better productivity than we had in office. Is WFH here to stay? Absolutely, we have more than half of our people working from home. But with Unlock, we have lots of people working from offices as well, maintaining social distancing and safety norms. The surest way for our customers to ensure continuity is to ensure WFH. Not all are comfortable, like the financial services industry because there is sensitive financial information that gets shared. There also are clients proactively telling us even if the disease goes away we want certain percentage of our employees WFH. Will WFH result in rationalisation of your facilities? There will obviously be some rationalisation, but not a great deal because there is a place for work from office. We have to also provide for business growth and started hiring again. Rationalisation will be limited, looking for new facilities will be far less now. What are your hiring plans? Following COVID [outbreak], some employees working away from their hometown were asked to return by their parents. As a result, there was some attrition. As we grow 10-15% every quarter for the next two quarters, we should be looking at low single digit thousand hires every month. Do you see WFH helping women resume their careers? It will bring to mainstream a large number of people who were unable to work, especially women. I think many women would look at the opportunity to work for a few hours a day. It will mean more people coming to resource pool and government is also changing regulations to support WFH.  (Full interview on www.thehindu.com)
03 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID deaths under-reported, say healthcare professionals||The official number of COVID-19 deaths shared by the government has baffled healthcare professionals who attend the patients at government hospitals. They vouch that the fatalities are much more than the daily data published in the media bulletin issued by the Health department. Till August 1, a total of 540 COVID deaths were officially reported in the State. Every day, statistics recorded till 8 p.m. of a day are mentioned in daily media bulletin. July spike “In a day, anywhere between 15 to 20 COVID-19 patients die at Gandhi Hospital. But that is a modest count. From July last week, around 25 to 30 deaths a day were reported at the hospital, including the ones who die while being shifted from private hospital. From 10 p.m. of July 29 to 2 p.m. of July 30, at least 24 COVID patients died at the hospital,” sources said.  The Hindu accessed details of the 24 patients who died between 10 p.m. of July 29 to 2 p.m. of July 30. The oldest of them was a 70-year-old woman from Secunderabad who breathed her last at 8.15 a.m. of July 30, and the youngest is a 27-year-old woman from Hyderabad who died at around 1.45 a.m. of July 30. Seven among the suffered from pneumonia, and two suffered from hypertension too. However, according to the media bulletin based on data from July 30, only 14 deaths were recorded across the State. This is the highest number of deaths recorded in a day. In fact, number of deaths in a day officially recorded across the State never crossed 14 till August 1. “We don’t understand why deaths are under reported in media bulletin. We are talking only about Gandhi Hospital. There are more government hospitals where COVID patients and suspects are admitted. And aren’t COVID patients dying at private hospitals? Put together, the numbers will be much higher,” sources said. They opined that more than being accountable, presenting the true numbers helps the State government and people understand the reasons leading to high number of deaths and address them if there are any issues.  ‘Not hiding data’ However, senior officials from the Health department, who did not wish to be quoted, said that COVID deaths are not being under reported. “Case sheets of every patient who dies is checked,” the officials said. Earlier, Health Minister Eatala Rajender reiterated that they are not hiding the number of deaths.
03 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Local doctors, politicians not letting me recruit new faculty’||Shortage of medical professionals at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Adilabad, is directly impacting patient services. While the State government has given administrative sanction to recruit doctors, the disgruntled faculty at RIMS are ‘impeding’ the recruitment process. Lamenting over lack of support from the doctors, RIMS director Balaram Naik said it is unfair of doctors to prevent capacity building in these difficult and crucial times. “COVID cases are rising by the day. But, the recruitment process is vitiated due to unfounded insecurities within the faculty here,” he told The Hindu , adding that the act of doctors is against the ‘Hippocratic oath’. Mr. Naik said around 50 doctors have responded to the recruitment notification to fill up existing posts. Now, he has to vet the applications, and conduct interviews online. “But, I am under intense pressure from the doctors’ community here and local party leaders not to go ahead with the recruitment as they believe it would have an massive impact on their jobs. We are here to serve the society, not to do politics. They are confronting me,” he said. For instance, there are four associate professor posts for civil surgeon, but only one is filled. “That one post is stopping me from filling the rest. The existing doctors have been under Foreign Service Deputation since 2008, when the government hospital was converted into a medical college. Their term ends in five years, but with the help of local politicians, they are continuing,” he alleged. “The doctors are saying that I don’t have authority to recruit faculty, though I got written permission from the Collector and the Director of Medical Education, a few weeks ago,” Mr. Naik said, adding that the sanctioned posts are 239, but currently he is running the hospital with 100-odd faculty. Collector Sikta Patnaik said the concerns expressed by Mr. Naik will be examined within the framework of guidelines. “We will make sure issues within the institute are resolved at the earliest,” she said.
03 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man found dead at Sanjeev Reddy Nagar||A 30-year-old man was found dead at his residence in SR Nagar here on Sunday. The victim, S. Mahesh, who hailed from Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh, died by suicide owing to financial problems. “He hanged himself from a ceiling fan in his room,” SR Nagar police said,adding that a case under Section 174 of CrPC was registered and the body was sent to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy.  Body found A watchman of Kakatiya Hills in Madhapur was found dead in an open plot here on Sunday. Banoth Venkanna (35), who hailed from Mahabubabad, was lying near Alamgir Mosque at Kakatiya Hills. His body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy and later it was handed over to family members, Madhapur police said, and added that the exact reason for his death is yet to be ascertained.There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni
03 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IAF band display ahead of I-Day||Indian Air Force band has organised a live band display as a prelude to Independence Day Celebrations at the backdrop of Golconda Fort on Saturday. The event was conducted to communicate the supreme sacrifice of our freedom fighters and tireless efforts of frontline warriors. About 20 Corona Warriors of Hyderabad witnessed the event which inspired them to participate in the fight against nationwide pandemic. Many famous tunes like; ‘Sare Jaha Se achha, Teri Mitti,Ye Mere Watan Ke Logo and Jai Ho’ etc. were played in the evening which touched many hearts with a sense of patriotism and pride, said a press release issued on Sunday.
03 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Badruka College Platinum Jubilee year||Badruka College of Commerce and Arts is celebrating its Platinum Jubilee during the current academic year 2020-21. The college offering different courses in the commerce stream was founded in 1950 when a proposal for setting up a commerce college in Hindi medium was mooted by Raja Bankatlal Badruka and Pannalal Pittie. The then Vice-Chancellor of Osmania University Nawab Ali Yawar Jung Bahadur appreciated the initiative and wanted a college to be started in either English or Urdu medium with an endowment fund of Rs. 2.5 lakh. The college thus came into existence on August 2, 1950. More than 70,000 students who passed through the portals of the college since past 70 years are well settled in various parts of the world and gained name for themselves as well as the college in business, corporate, defence services, politics and other various fields.
03 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State BJP announces 33 office-bearers||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (T-BJP) president Bandi Sanjay announced a 33-member team of officers, including eight vice-presidents, and four general secretaries on Sunday. The vice-presidents include G. Vijayrama Rao, Ch. Ramachandra Reddy, S. Venkateswara Rao, Y. Lakshminarayana, NVSS Prabhakar, Y. Srinivas Reddy, G. Manohar Reddy and B. Shobha Rani. General secretaries are G. Premender Reddy, D. Pradeep Kumar, K. Bangaru Shruthi and M. Srinvasulu (organising secretary). Treasurers include Bavarlal Varma and B. Shanthi Kumar. Bhanu Prakash is the Yuva Morcha president, K. Geetha Murthy is Mahila Morcha president, K. Sridhar Reddy is Kisan Morcha chief, K. Basha for SC Morcha, Hussain Nayak is for ST Morcha, Ale Bhaskar for OBC Morcha and Afsar Pasha is Minorities Morcha. The three spokespersons are Krishna Sagaar Rao, P. Rajani Kumari and A. Rakesh Reddy.
03 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Demand to test the homeless and mentally ill||Social workers and NGOs have requested the government to use mobile testing labs to test the homeless population, as they more vulnerable to COVID-19. They sought requirement of Aadhaar card, photo ID proof and phone numbers be waived off for those who don’t have those. Apart from the daily wage jobs which put them at risk, the homeless use the same public facilities such as Sulabh Toilet and stay either in shelter homes or by the road side. Health Minister Eatala Rajender launched the mobile labs for tests in containment zones. Hyderabad COVID-19 Health Advocacy Collective has also requested a waiver on requirement of photo ID and a valid mobile number to conduct tests on destitute persons with mental illness or suspected mental illness.
03 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Contributions sought to help those in distress||Confederation of Voluntary Organisations has appealed to philanthropists and citizens to come to the aid of workers in travel, hospitality, sales, marketing, accounting and others who lost their jobs due to COVID-19 impact. Most of these workers do not have ration cards, and are not eligible for government benefits, said executive director Mazher Hussain on Sunday. Contributors can call on 93945-44244 or send mail to info@covanetwork.org, a release said.
03 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Glyphosate sale continues unabated in Khammam||Despite restrictions on the sale and usage of glyphosate, an herbicide, the clandestine stocking and sale of the weed-killer continues unabated in several mandals of the district. The illegal stocking of glyphosate has come under the scanner after the task force of the district police unearthed a huge quantity of glyphosate stocks from ‘unauthorised premises’ in separate raids in Bonakal, Tirumalayapalem and Konijerla mandals in recent weeks. In the first week of July, a task force team raided a godown in Ravinuthala village of Bonakal mandal and confiscated 930 litres of illegally stocked glyphosate. The joint raids by the task force police and the personnel of the Agriculture Department unearthed illegally stored stocks of glyphosate at Beerolu and Singarayapalem in Tirumalayapalem and Konijerla mandals respectively, a couple of days ago. Sources said that some errant traders stocked glyphosate in huge quantities in unauthorised premises for sale among farmers, mainly cotton growers, in violation of the severe restrictions on the usage of this particular herbicide due to its alleged harmful effects on health and environment. A strict vigil is being maintained to check clandestine stocking and sale of glyphosate in the current crop season, said Joint Director of Agriculture in Khammam district Vijaya Nirmala. When contacted, she told The Hindu that the joint raids by the task force and agriculture department staff resulted in seizure of 1,112 litres of glyphosate stocked in unauthorised premises at separate villages in three mandals recently. Cases were registered under the relevant sections of the Insecticides Act 1968, and further investigations are underway.
03 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Police unearth Maoist ammo dump||An “ammunition dump” of Maoists was unearthed and three Maoist militia members were arrested by the Mahabubabad district police on Sunday. Acting on a tip off, a police team raided a house in Dubbagudem village and detained three alleged Maoist militia members — 34-year-old Bandi Sudhakar alias Ashok, 55-year-old K. Sammaiah and 38-year-old P. Saraiah on Sunday morning, police said. A cache of ammunition including 414 bullets of SLR and other weapons were seized from their possession, sources added. Producing the arrested trio before mediapersons in the district headquarters town of Mahabubabad on Sunday, Superintendent of Police Koti Reddy said the three Maoist militia members stocked the secret ammunition of Maoists at the behest of the Maoist outfit’s State leaders. “The ultras are conspiring to lure gullible tribal people to unleash violence, disrupt peace and obstruct development in the remote areas of the State,” he said, adding that the “nefarious designs” of the rebels will be foiled.
03 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Two women farm workers drown in well||Two women agricultural workers drowned while three others rescued when they entered into an agricultural well to fetch water on the outskirts of Konijerla mandal headquarters town late on Sunday afternoon. The victims were identified as B. Mallika, 30, and T. Rama, 38, of Konijerla, police said. Five women farm workers, who were engaged in paddy transplantation, ventured into a 25- feet-deep open well to collect water. They climbed down the open well through the makeshift stone steps to draw water, which was available at 20 feet. As one inbuilt step collapsed under their weight, they fell into the well. A woman mason rushed and saved three of them.
03 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Cong. leaders do not have right to flay CM’||Asserting that CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao would not take any decision against Telangana farmers with respect to sharing of water with AP, Legislative Council chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy said that Congress leaders should not criticise the government on this. “Mr. KCR had already petitioned the KRMB on this issue,” he said. He added that they were the same Congress leaders who not only remained silent when they were in power in united AP, but also supported it. “Congress leaders do not have the moral right, or even qualify, to criticise KCR. The rightful share of Telangana, even if a drop lost, will be achieved,” he said.
03 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||PIC BRF||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that coronavirus patients must be treated with respect and honour. COVID patients should not be socially boycotted. They are part of the society. Not allowing them into villages is improper. We have to give them strength and confidence,” said Mr. Harish Rao in Hyderabad on Sunday. He was addressing a small gathering after receiving 500 PPE kits and 2,000 N 95 masks from Maheswara Medical College for government hospitals in Siddipet and Sangareddy.
03 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Two-day INYAS virtual meeting||The Indian National Young Academy of Sciences (INYAS) hosted two-day mid-year virtual meeting on August 1-2. This meeting ended with a special session with two other national young academies of Bangladesh and Thailand. Global Young academy headquartered in Germany also participated in this session, where all young scientists across different countries realised the very need to come together to promote science education and address grand challenges in a more unified approach.
03 August 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Food processing units to come up Tunkibollaram||In a move to give flip for employment activities, the district administration plans to establish food processing units near Tunkibollaram in Mulug mandal. Tunkibollaram is a small village which has now become a centre of activities. For the past three years the village has been witnessing a surge in construction activity as the government has allotted site for the construction of houses for the oustees of Kondapochammmasagar. The Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) Colony was established for the ousteees in the village and majority houses were already occupied by the oustees of Thanedarpally tanda, Thanedarpally, Bahilampur and Mamidayala. Some 1,200 families from all these villages were allotted houses here. While convincing the oustees to sacrifice their land and houses for the construction of Kondapochammasagar, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has promised to provide them employment. He gave them the same assurance while releasing Godavari water into the reservoir on May 29, 2020. “It only because of your sacrifices that we have been able to construct irrigation projects and complete them. We will not forget the sacrifices made by you and fulfill all promises,” Mr Chandrasekhar Rao said during the inauguration. Accordingly, the efforts are on to establish food processing units near Tunkibollaram. The authorities have already identified about 400 acres for this purpose and another 200 acres will also be acquired shortly. Discussions are already on with some industries in this regard. “The CM is very particular about establishing food processing units so that value can be added to farm produce thereby benefiting farmers. Not only that, the establishment of these units will also provide direct and indirect employment in large scale,” said an officer.
03 August 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Seed balls dropped with drone||In an innovative approach to increase the forest cover in the State, for the first time the Forest Department has used drones for dropping seed balls in interior forest areas. The experiment was successfully done at Siddipet district which would be replicated in other districts shortly Padma Shri awardee Daripalli Ramaiah also known as Vanajeevi Ramaiah said that dropping seed balls in forest area is a good effort to increase greenery. Addressing a gathering after launching an innovative dropping of seed balls in forest area with drones along with Finance Minister T. Harish Rao at Marpadaga village in Siddipet mandal on Saturday, Mr. Ramaiah said that naturally grown plants will be strong and healthy. “Environmental destruction has been taking place across the world and everyday forest is degraded in about 50,000 hectares. We can have a healthy living only by growing trees,” he said, adding that everyone should participate in Haritha Haram programme voluntarily. Mr. Harish Rao said that serving the nature is serving the people and we can have fresh air with planting more saplings. Oxygen shortage “People at places like New Delhi have been suffering due to lack of proper oxygen. Everyday we are consuming about three cylinders worth of oxygen coming to a total cost of Rs. 2,100 per day and it counts for Rs. 5 crore worth of oxygen in the life time of a person,” said Mr. Harish Rao, adding that the people are consuming oxygen at free of cost and not returning what they are due to society. The Minister said that drones are being used to drop seed balls at interior forest areas where people can not reach and priority was given to plants that can feed monkeys and other animals. He has also stated that the Telangana government has been according top priority to increase greenery in the State and increasing forest cover.
03 August 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||BRF-1||A young couple was electrocuted while working in their maize field at Chowdarpally village in Wargal mandal on Sunday. According to Wargal Sub-Inspector Veeranna, Venkatesham (28) and his wife Anitha (25) were in their maize field on Sunday morning. Anitha got electrocuted while trying to fetch water and Venkatesham died trying to save her. The couple had two children. The bodies were shifted to a government hospital for post-mortem. Wargal police have registered a case and are investigating.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Hitting the headlines||A COVID sensation? The escape of ten coronavirus patients from the Rajiv Institute of Medical Sciences at Adilabad district on Saturday night was sort of a sensation that hit the headlines in next morning’s newspapers. People are used to hear about prisoners giving the slip to police and running away from hospitals. But, here are plain and simple people who quietly walked away from the ‘unguarded’ isolation ward at the prestigious hospital under the cover of darkness. The reason given was: they were not cared for. The escape of the coronavirus-affected persons triggered another controversy at the hospital next morning as the hospital superintendent accused the in-service doctors of setting up obstacles to fresh recruitment at the institution in connivance with local political leaders. He was quoted as saying that the recruitment will not prejudice the position of existing doctors but would have nothing of it. Only preaching In tune with the adage “it is easier to preach than practice”, here are a couple of episodes of legislators who wronged officials while doing the same themselves. At the mandal parishad meeting of Kodmial in Karimnagar district, Choppadandi legislator Sunke Ravi Shankar took a veterinary officer to task for attending the meeting without wearing a mask and made the MPDO to impose a fine of Rs. 1,000 on the officer. Interestingly, the MLA did not wear a mask at the meeting but only hung it around his neck. In another such incident in Nagarkurnool district recently, the local legislator was also seen not wearing a mask but hanging it around his neck during inspection of Palamuru-Rangareddy project works. Such COVID norm violations have in fact become the norm of the day both in case of ruling party leaders and those of the Opposition since it is they who are going to people for one reason or the other. Tough time The city traffic police are apparently facing a tough time these days. Keeping a constant watch on movement of vehicles for traffic violations for hours at a stretch is in itself an arduous task. The traffic police are now entrusted a new responsibility of monitoring vehicle drivers who do not wear masks, made compulsory as part of coronavirus containment measures. The city police have accordingly launched a special drive to identify the erring drivers and penalise them. The intensity of the drive could be seen from the way e-challans have been sent to 2,275 people who neglected the warnings. With traffic gradually rising after relaxations during Unlock 3.0, the police will be forced to be more vigilant obviously making their job tougher.  (With inputs from N. Rahul, B. Chandrashekhar and M. Rajeev.)
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Without a care||
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Desperate times||
03 August 2020||Ahmedabad,||74 IPS officers transferred in Gujarat||The Gujarat government has transferred 74 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers and appointed new police chiefs for Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara. The order was issued late on Saturday, a day after Ahmedabad Police Commissioner Ashish Bhatia was appointed the State Director General of Police. Sanjay Srivastava, DGP-CID (crime and railways), has been appointed Police Commissioner of Ahmedabad. Special Commissioner of Police (crime), Ahmedabad, Ajay Kumar Tomar, has been appointed Commissioner of Surat, replacing R.B. Brahmbhatt, who has been appointed Commissioner of Vadodara.
03 August 2020||Mumbai,||Anil Deshmukh says actor’s death is being politicised||Breaking his silence on the ongoing series of allegations in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday said the case is now being politicised for personal gains. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, have demanded that the probe be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Meanwhile, the Bihar Police have arrived in Mumbai to conduct inquiries following allegations from family members of the late actor. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is also getting involved to probe the angle of alleged money laundering. No names taken Mr. Deshmukh said, “I condemn the demand that the Sushant Singh Rajput case be handed over to the CBI. The case is now being politicised for selfish gains.” The minister, however, did not name any specific person or a particular party. Mr. Deshmukh said the Mumbai Police have already begun its investigation into the unfortunate incident. “Even if the Bihar Police registered an offence in Patna, under Chapters 12 and 13 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it has to be investigated, inquired and tried by the police and courts within whose jurisdiction the offence is committed,” he said. The Home Minister also said the State police are inquiring into the case professionally and are competent enough to find out the truth, leaving no stone unturned. Mr. Fadnavis and senior BJP MLA Ashish Shelar had recently demanded a CBI investigation into the death of the actor, prompting a riposte from Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. CM stands by city police “Mr. Fadnavis should understand that this is the same police with whom he worked for the last five years. It is the same police that has given so many sacrifices during the fight against COVID-19. I would like to condemn those who are raising questions over the efficiency of the police,” Mr. Thackeray had said. He said the Mumbai Police is not inefficient. “If anyone has any proof about the case, they can bring it to us and we will interrogate and punish the guilty. However, please don’t use this case as an excuse to create friction between the States of Maharashtra and Bihar. Bringing politics into the case is really the most deplorable thing to do,” Mr. Thackeray had said.
03 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Roha murder case: investigation reveals victim was gang-raped||Close to a week after the rape and murder of a 14-year-old girl from Roha, the investigation into the incident has revealed that it was a case of gang rape. After the first arrest on July 27, the police identified six accomplices, including a minor. “When we arrested the accused, we thought he was the only perpetrator, but his contradictory statements raised suspicion and he later confessed that there were more people involved,” police inspector Jamil Shaikh from Local Crime Branch (LCB), Raigad, said. While the minor was apprehended, the other five were arrested on Friday night. Interrogation of the accused revealed that on July 26 afternoon, the victim and a friend had gone to a waterfall to bathe. The accused were also present at the spot and they tried speaking to her. But she ignored them. ‘Kept eye on victim’ “The accused then decided to keep an eye on her,” Additional Superintendent of Police Sachin Gunjal, Raigad police, said. One of them kept watch over the girl’s house at Tambadi village. When she left her house at 5.45 p.m. to pick up her grandfather from Tamhansheth village, which is three km away, the man alerted his accomplices. They then waited for the girl near the turning of a ghat and blocked her way. When the men made advances at her, the girl abused them. One of the accused then slapped her and dragged her into a nearby valley, where she was raped. When the victim tried to resist, the accused hit her head with a stone and killed her. A police officer privy to the investigation revealed that the girl was also abused after death. Police officers have refused to reveal the names of the accused considering the sensitive nature of the case. Accused in early 20s Mr. Gunjal said, “All of them are in their early 20s and worked as labourers.” He added that a charge of gang rape has been added to the case along with murder and criminal conspiracy under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.
03 August 2020||New delh,||S urge in solar power connections in Delhi||Power discoms in the national capital are witnessing a “surge” in residential rooftop solar power connections, with more than half of over 3,700 net metering connections installed in recent years falling under this category, officials said. The BSES so far energised over 2,700 solar net metering connections in the city, an official spokesperson said.
03 August 2020||New Delhi,||Capital sees surge in residential rooftop solar power connections||Power discoms in the national capital are witnessing a “surge” in residential rooftop solar power connections, with more than half of over 3,700 net metering connections installed in recent years falling under this category, officials said. The BSES so far energised over 2,700 solar net metering connections in the city, an official spokesperson said.
03 August 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra tally crosses 4.40 lakh with 9,509 cases||Maharashtra recorded 9,509 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking its total case tally to 4,41,228. The State also reported 260 deaths, pushing its death toll to 15,576. Mumbai recorded 1,105 new cases, raising its case load to 1,16,436, of which 21,394 are active cases. With 49 more deaths, the city’s death toll has risen to 6,447.  The total recoveries in the State has climbed to 2,76,809, with 9,926 patients being discharged, while the number of active cases has dipped to 1,48,573, said State Health Department officials.  “The State’s case fatality rate has marginally dipped to 3.53%, while its recovery rate has risen to 62.74%,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune district reported a surge of over 2,500 cases and 51 fatalities as its tally and toll rose to 94,911 and 2,226 respectively. The district administration, however, said the number of active cases was less than 29,000. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane district reported 16 deaths to take its toll to 1,078. With 499 new cases, the district’s case tally nudged the 35,000 mark. Vasai-Virar saw a spike, with 15 deaths taking the area’s cumulative death toll to 310, while 208 new cases took the total case tally to 12,441. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 12 fatalities, pushing its death count to 456, while 402 cases took its case load to 23,347. Navi Mumbai recorded 400 new cases, taking its total cases to 17,819. Eight deaths saw its cumulative toll climb to 461. Satara district saw a spike of 215 cases, taking its total tally to 4,290, of which 1,689 are active cases. Six deaths took the district’s toll to 150. Solapur district in Pune division reported 12 more fatalities, pushing its death toll to 523. With 184 new cases, the district’s total case tally has climbed to 9,538, of which 4,250 are active cases. Nashik, a major hotbed in north Maharashtra, reported a spike of 390 cases as its cumulative case load rose to 15,617, of which 5,547 are active. With eight more deaths, the district’s death toll has reached 483. Raigad reported 247 new cases as its total tally touched 9,901. With five more deaths, its cumulative toll has now reached 242. Dr. Awate said, “Till date, of a total of 22,55,701 laboratory samples, 4,41,228 (19.56%) have tested positive. Nearly 61,000 samples across the State were tested in the last 24 hours.” He said a total of 9,25,269 people across the State are in home quarantine, while 37,944 are in institutional quarantine.
03 August 2020||Pune,||IISER team maps evolutionary dispersal patterns||The prestigious U.S. biology journal Evolution has published the findings of a team of researchers at the Pune-based Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) dealing with the dispersal patterns of organisms across different environments. The three scientists, Professor Sutirth Dey at IISER’s Biology Department, Abhishek Mishra and Partha Pratim Chakraborty, carried out experiments to study the phenomena of ‘density-dependent dispersal’ by observing around 29,000 fruit flies to see if evolution had modified their tendency to move towards or away from crowded regions. “Many animals, including humans, move from one place to another. Such ‘dispersal’ is generally to find resources like food or escape from potential threats. The study of this biological dispersal finds applications in epidemiology, conservation of biodiversity as well as control of agricultural pests,” said Prof. Dey. The scientists authored a paper titled ‘Dispersal evolution diminishes the negative density dependence in dispersal’. “Just as some species live in large groups while others are solitary, movement occurs away from a crowd in some species and towards it in some others. This pattern, termed as ‘density-dependent dispersal’, is central to our understanding of which life forms occur where,” said Prof. Dey. Strangely, little is known about how or why ‘density-dependent dispersal evolves’. “In fact, there had been no report of an evolutionary change in the direction of this movement in sexually reproducing species. It was to address this that the team published their findings in the journal. If we don’t know how the pattern of density-dependent dispersal emerges or changes over time, prediction of movement patterns becomes difficult,” he said. The team first “evolved” tens of thousands of fruit flies for over 75 generations (or three years), thus making them “better” dispersers than their ancestors. “We observed around 29,000 fruit flies over this period to see if evolution had modified their tendency to move towards or away from crowded regions. Not only did we find a sharp change in this behaviour owing to evolution, but a crucial discovery was that the dispersal rates of males and females had changed completely,” said Prof. Dey. Crucial finding The scientist said while females had been dispersing more than the males initially, the males overtook females in movement after evolution. He said that this finding was perhaps the first evidence for an evolutionary reversal in the dispersal of the two sexes. Prof. Dey said by establishing that these behaviours are evolutionarily malleable, the study highlights the need to frequently assess movement patterns of ecologically relevant species.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A bond of love||
03 August 2020||Melbourne,||Australia imposes curfew, while S. Africa’s count tops 5,00,000||Australia’s second-largest city Melbourne imposed an overnight curfew on Sunday to halt the spread of COVID-19 cases, as South Africa’s infection count topped more than half a million. Six months after the World Health Organization (WHO) declared a global emergency, the virus has killed more than 6,85,000 people and infected more than 17.8 million since it first emerged in China late last year. Fresh clusters have been reported in countries — such as Australia — that had previously brought their outbreaks under control, forcing governments to reimpose lockdown measures to curb the spread despite worries over more economic fallout. Restrictions in Victoria Australia’s Victoria State imposed fresh, sweeping restrictions on Sunday, including a curfew in Melbourne for the next six weeks, a ban on weddings, and schools and universities going back online in the coming days. “Anything short of this will see it drag on for months and months and months,” said Victoria leader Daniel Andrews. Despite a lockdown, Melbourne has continued to report hundreds of new cases daily even as other States in Australia have reported zero or a small number of cases. Many other parts of the world are struggling with much bigger outbreaks. Health authorities in South Africa, who had been expecting a surge in cases after the gradual loosening of a strict lockdown, reported that infections had exceeded the half-million mark. The nation is by far the hardest-hit in Africa, accounting for more than half of diagnosed infections, although President Cyril Ramaphosa said the fatality rate is lower than the global average. Latin America and the Caribbean passed a grim milestone on Sunday as fatalities in the region climbed over 2,00,000, with Brazil and Mexico accounting for nearly three-quarters of those deaths, according to an AFP tally compiled from official sources. Iran’s highest count Iran — battling West Asia deadliest outbreak — on Sunday also reported its highest single-day infection count in nearly a month, warning that most of its provinces have been hit by a resurgence of the disease. With infections and deaths soaring the WHO has said that the pandemic is likely to be protracted and warned of possible “response fatigue”. “WHO continues to assess the global risk level of COVID-19 to be very high,” the agency said, adding that the effects of the pandemic “will be felt for decades to come”. Mexico overtook Britain to become the third hardest-hit country in virus deaths — after Brazil and the United States — with more than 46,600 fatal cases. The U.S., the worst-hit country in the world, has now tallied more than 4.6 million cases and 1,54,319 deaths. Virus impact in Europe Even as the race for a vaccine heats up, the pandemic and the lockdowns to stop its spread have hammered the global economy. France, Spain, Portugal and Italy all reported huge contractions in their economies for the April-June quarter, while Europe as a whole saw gross domestic product fall by 12.1%. While many of the continent’s outbreaks were largely brought under control, Switzerland's case numbers have crept up again in recent weeks, while Norway recorded its first virus death in two weeks. Austria’s month-long Salzburg festival celebrates its 100th anniversary, but now with a reduced programme and strict safety measures, including masks for spectators until they are seated and its 80,000 tickets — down from the usual 2,30,000 — personalised to enable contact-tracing.
03 August 2020||Polonnaruwa,||In Sri Lanka’s rice hub, a tale of rural neglect and mounting debt||A week ahead of Sri Lanka’s parliamentary elections R.A. Karunavathi, a farmer in Chandana Pokuna village in Polonnaruwa, located in the island’s North Central Province, is looking for a reason to vote. “Why not boycott? We are forced to think like that,” she says, obviously fatigued with polls and politicians. Polonnaruwa district is known internationally for its evocative rock-cut Buddha sculptures and ancient city — now a UNESCO World Heritage Site — that one strand of popular history traces to the Cholas. It is also the country’s rice bowl, with the district’s farmers producing the highest amount — 3 lakh metric tonnes last year — of paddy in the country. Trapped in debt As droughts, floods and pests took turns in affecting their crop over the last few years, nearly 60 women farmers in Ms. Karunavathi’s village are neck-deep in debt. “It began with one loan to cope with a failed crop.” And then led to another loan to cope with the first loan. And soon, to a third. “Today, we’re trapped in four, five loans each with no way to repay,” she says, speaking of the stifling impact of microfinance loans that came to their doorsteps, with the exorbitant interest rates hidden in fine print. “We didn’t know or understand the terms when we signed up for these loans. But now, we realise we are paying up to 200 % interest in some cases,” says K.A. Irangani Siriyalatha. Struggling to repay their loans, some women in their group mortgaged their farmland, while a few died by suicide, amid growing anxiety and harassment from collection agents of the lending companies. They met several local and national leaders in power. Their campaign drew attention from the highest levels of the former Maithripala Sirisena–Ranil Wickremesinghe government. They even got specific assurances from the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Except that none of the promised relief plans was executed in time. They voted for a new promise last year. “When President Gotabaya Rajapaksa stood for presidential elections, he said he would solve our problem. He even mentioned it in his manifesto. Since he is not a regular politician, we felt he might be different,” Ms. Karunavathi says, explaining her vote for the retired Lieutenant Colonel nine months ago. “Nothing much has changed so far, but we really hope his government will do something after this election.” It is widely expected that the Rajapaksas’ Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP or People’s Party)-led alliance will secure a parliamentary majority in the August 5 general elections. But the women of Chandanua Pokuna have very low expectations from the aspiring elected representatives, including former President Sirisena, from their district.   Mr. Sirisena, who hails from the neighbouring Laksha Uyana village, is in the fray to enter Parliament after re-aligning himself with the Rajapaksas.   Paddy distribution The challenge facing the women is a more recent symptom of a long-ignored problem, according to farmer groups. Nearly three lakh people in this district are engaged in agriculture, some of whom are landless. While paddy production here is the highest in the country, its procurement and sale are controlled by a handful with known links to powerful politicians, according to M.K. Jayatissa, a farmer and long-time activist. “It is an irony that farmer producing all this paddy are kept like beggars. And those procuring their paddy for low prices, sell it in the market for millions and make huge profits. This situation will change only when farmers are able to take control of the value addition as well,” he notes. The discontent among farmers, in a country where people eat at least one rice meal a day, tells a larger story of Sri Lanka’s diminishing focus on agriculture, according to T.B. Sarath, General Secretary of the All Ceylon Farmers’ Federation affiliated to the Opposition Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna, who is also contesting polls from Polonnaruwa. Liberalisation in 1977 In his view, the trend began after Sri Lanka liberalised its economy in 1977. The sector’s contribution the GDP dropped significantly since. A World Bank survey of 1973 on agriculture, “the largest productive sector” then, states that it contributed 34.7% of the GDP in 1970. By 2018 agriculture’s share to the national GDP dropped to 7%, according to official data. The last few years have not only witnessed severe droughts and floods, but also recurring farmer protests in different parts of the country, demanding irrigation, fertilizer subsidies and better paddy prices. “But we have not had any serious discussion on our national agriculture policy. Governments don’t care,” Mr. Sarath notes. Barring a few garment factories, the district has seen few industries being set up. Wary of hasty or thoughtless industrialisation, locals emphasise the need for industries based on local resources, including paddy, vegetables and fruits such as wood apple and guava. Meanwhile, farmers leading precarious lives, wait to see if their distress might reduce, at least a little. “That is why we vote despite everything, but sometimes I wonder what is the point,” says N.R. Gnanavathy Menike, another farmer repaying multiple loans. “You know, it has been a long time since I slept at night.”
03 August 2020||Washington,||Trump to act against Chinese firms||U.S. President Donald Trump will take action shortly on Chinese software companies that are feeding data directly to the Beijing government, posing a risk to U.S. national security, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Sunday. “President Trump has said ‘enough’ and we’re going to fix it and so he will take action in the coming days with respect to a broad array of national security risks that are presented by software connected to the Chinese Communist Party,” Mr. Pompeo said on Fox News Channel’s “Sunday Morning Futures.” The news comes after Mr. Trump told reporters on-board Air Force One on Friday that he would issue an order for social media platform TikTok to be banned in the United States. Over the last several months, U.S. officials have repeatedly said TikTok under its current Chinese parent company, Beijing-based software firm ByteDance, poses a national risk because of the personal data it handles. “They’re true privacy issues for the American people and for a long time, a long time the United States just said ‘well goodness if we’re having fun with it, or if a company can make money off of it, we’re going to permit that to happen’,” Mr. Pompeo said. Possible sale to Microsoft In response, under a recent proposal, ByteDance is willing to divest the U.S. operations of TikTok to Microsoft in a bid to make a deal with the White House, two people familiar with the matter told Reuters on Saturday. That offer has gained some support from allies of the President, including Republican Senator Lindsey Graham. In a separate interview on Sunday, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, which reviews the national security implications of foreign business deals, is looking at the matter.
03 August 2020||Detroit,||Black voters wary of voting by mail||Despite fears that the COVID-19 will worsen, Victor Gibson said he’s not planning to take advantage of Michigan’s expanded vote-by-mail system when he casts his ballot in November. The retired teacher from Detroit just isn’t sure he can trust it. Many black Americans share similar concerns and are planning to vote in person on Election Day, even as mail-in voting expands to more States. For many, historical scepticism of a system that tried to keep black people from the polls and worries that a mailed ballot won’t get counted outweigh the prospect of long lines and health dangers from a virus that’s disproportionately affected communities of colour. Ironically, suspicion of mail-in voting aligns with the views of President Donald Trump, whom many black voters want out of office. “I would never change my mind” about voting in person in November, said Mr. Gibson, who is black and hopes Mr. Trump loses. “I always feel better sliding my ballot in. We’ve heard so many controversies about missing absentee ballots.” Decades of disenfranchisement are at the heart of the uneasy choice facing black voters. Widespread problems with mail-in ballots during this year’s primary elections have added to the scepticism at a time when making black voices heard has taken on new urgency during a national reckoning over racial injustice. Patricia Harris of McDonough, Georgia, voted in person in the primary and said she will do the same in November. In Georgia, roughly 12,500 mail-in ballots were rejected in the State’s June primary, while California tossed more than 1,00,000 absentee ballots during its March primary. Reasons vary, from ballots being received after the deadline to voters’ signatures not matching the one on file with the county clerk. Multiple studies show that mail-in ballots from black voters, like those from Latino and young voters, are rejected at a higher rate than those of white voters.
03 August 2020||Kabul,||300 Taliban prisoners freed during ceasefire||A rare ceasefire between the Taliban and Afghan government appeared to hold for the third and final day on Sunday, with hundreds of militant prisoners released in a bid to bring peace talks closer. Calm prevailed across much of Afghanistan, with officials not reporting any major clashes between the two foes since the truce began on Friday to mark the Muslim festival of Id al-Adha. President Ashraf Ghani and the Taliban have both indicated that long-delayed negotiations could begin straight after Id. In restive Zabul province, several residents recited poems calling for the ceasefire — only the third official halt in fighting in nearly two decades of conflict — to be made permanent. The National Security Council said on Sunday that 300 Taliban prisoners had been released since Friday, taking the total number of insurgents freed so far to just over 4,900. Authorities however have refused to free hundreds of inmates accused of serious crimes that the insurgents had requested for release. The Taliban said it has already fulfilled its side of the exchange.
03 August 2020||Washington,||No media at Republican convention||Media will be barred from the Republican National Convention in North Carolina later this month, U.S. news outlets reported, when President Donald Trump will receive his party’s nomination. “We are planning for all of the Charlotte activities to be closed press: Friday, August 21-Monday, 24th given the health restrictions and limitations in place in the State,” the convention spokesperson told the Arkansas Democrat Gazette . The vote to formally nominate Mr. Trump will, however, be livestreamed, according to CNN, which cited a Republican official.
03 August 2020||Berlin,||Berlin, Aug 2, 2020 (AFP) -||Some 45 police officers were injured in a wave of weekend demonstrations in Berlin, including protests against COVID-19 restrictions, police said as protesters gathered again in smaller numbers on Sunday. A total of 133 people were arrested during Saturday’s protests, which included a demonstration against curbs, police said.AFP
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Rebuild India’s confidence, revive the economy||These are extraordinarily difficult times for our nation and the world. People are gripped with the fear of disease and death from COVID-19. This fear is ubiquitous and transcends geography, religion and class. The inability of nations to control the spread of the novel coronavirus and the lack of a confirmed cure for the disease have exacerbated people’s concerns. Such a heightened sense of anxiety among people can cause tremendous upheavals in the functioning of societies. Consequently, disruption of the normal social order will inevitably impact livelihoods and the larger economy. The economic impact of COVID-19 has been much discussed. There is unanimity among economists that the global economy will experience one of its worst years in history. India is no exception and cannot buck the trend. While estimates vary, it is clear that, for the first time in many decades, India’s economy will contract significantly. An event with deep impact Economic contraction is not merely a GDP number for economists to analyse and debate. It means a reversal of many years of progress. A significant number among the weaker sections of our society may slip back into poverty, a rare occurrence for a developing nation. Many enterprises may shut down. An entire generation may be lost due to severe unemployment. A contracting economy can adversely impact our ability to feed and educate our children owing to a shortage of financial resources. The deleterious impact of an economic contraction is long and deep, especially on the poor. It is thus imperative to act with utmost urgency to nurse the economy back to good health. The slowdown in economic activity is both a function of external factors such as the lockdown and behavioural changes of people and enterprises, driven by fear. The foundation for reviving our economy is to inject confidence back in the entire ecosystem. People must feel confident about their lives and livelihoods. Entrepreneurs must feel confident of reopening and making investments. Bankers must feel confident about providing capital. Multilateral organisations must feel confident enough to provide funding to India. Sovereign ratings agencies must feel confident about India’s ability to fulfil its financial obligations and restore economic growth. On NREGA and cash support There is extreme duress among India’s poor. At a time when agriculture activity has been robust, data show that just in the month of June, 62 million people demanded work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) programme at minimum wages. This is thrice the usual number and 10 times more than the total number employed by the entire listed corporate sector. It is evident that most of them are displaced non-agricultural workers, struggling to make ends meet. Such is the scale and enormity of despair in our labour force. Fortuitously, the MGNREGA programme has proved to be a bedrock of support in such times but it is not enough. A meaningful cash transfer can restore confidence in these families. Money in the hands of people can provide an immediate sense of security and confidence, which is the cornerstone to restoring economic normalcy. India is perhaps the only large democracy that has not provided direct cash assistance of a significant amount during the COVID-19 crisis. There seems to be a misplaced sense of apprehension that providing large cash assistance may deter people from returning to the workforce when needed and starve industry of labour. Such fears are stale and unfounded. In the United States, as per reports, nearly three-quarters of unemployed workers received higher pay and benefits under their government’s COVID-19 assistance than from their employers. But this has not prevented American industry from reopening. While it is inordinately late, it is still prudent to provide a significant sum as direct cash assistance to the poor which can inject confidence in them to weather this COVID-19 storm. Look at the financial system There is also a dire need to restore confidence in the financial system which acts as the vital lubricant for the economy. COVID-19 assistance measures undertaken by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the government such as interest rate reductions, credit guarantee and liquidity enhancement schemes are welcome steps, but they have largely failed since banks are not confident of lending. Reviving the health of the banking sector is not merely about capital infusion or disinvestment of public sector banks. Allowing institutions such as the RBI, public sector banks, bankruptcy boards, securities and insurance regulators to function freely and professionally is the foundational step to restoring confidence in the financial system. It is critical to allow processes such as the insolvency process to function smoothly without intervention. If there is confidence among people to spend and among bankers to lend, then the private sector will spontaneously derive the confidence to reopen and invest. When firms feel confident of availability of capital and consumers, they do not need much else to kick-start production and investment. Corporate tax cuts, such as the one announced last year, are misguided luxuries that will neither boost private investment nor are fiscally affordable. Knee-jerk reaction such as protection of Indian industry through trade restrictions cannot catalyse economic activity immediately but instead, is a dangerous reversal of established industrial policy that has generated enormous economic gains over the last three decades. A large direct cash assistance to people, improving capital adequacy of banks and providing credit guarantee schemes for corporates require significant financial resources. Government finances are already stretched with a major shortfall in revenues. New avenues for tax revenues are not feasible in the short term. Higher borrowing by the government is inevitable. India cannot afford to be too fiscally restrained in these distressing times. Government needs to borrow India must make full use of loan programmes of international institutions such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Our long track record as an impeccable borrower with no default, timely repayments and full transparency make us an ideal borrower for these institutions. However, these will not suffice, and the government needs to borrow more. Some have opined that India should hark back to the old ways of deficit monetisation by the RBI, also known as printing money. This is understandable given the current unforeseen circumstances. But we must be cognisant of the unhealthy impulses that seemingly free money creates for governments. Deficit monetisation imposes high intangible and institutional costs, as we have experienced in the past. It is perhaps prudent to adopt deficit monetisation as the last resort when all other options are exhausted. India is confronted with a dangerous trinity of military, health and economic threats. Diverting people’s attention from these threats through choreographed events and headlines will not make them disappear. India entered the COVID-19 crisis in a precarious position, with slowing growth, rising unemployment and a choked financial system. The epidemic has manifestly made it more painful. Setting things right It is important to enlarge one’s diagnosis of India’s economic woes from mere GDP numbers to the underlying sentiments of fear, uncertainty and insecurity prevalent in people, firms and institutions. Restoring confidence in people through direct cash assistance and other welfare programmes can help them live their lives and spend. Restoring confidence among bankers through autonomy of institutions and processes will help them lend. Restoring confidence among businesses with greater access to capital will help them invest and create jobs. Restoring confidence among international organisations by re-establishing the credibility of our institutions will help get funding assistance and objective sovereign ratings. Without being lured into complacency over illusionary recovery of headline numbers, the path to India’s sustained economic revival is through the philosophical pursuits of improving confidence and sentiments of all in our society, using the economic tools of fiscal and monetary policies. Dr. Manmohan Singh was the Prime Minister of India from 2004 to 2014. Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and a senior office-bearer of the Congress party
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A policy with many a right intention||Thirty-four years after the last National Policy on Education was introduced, in 1986, the National Education Policy, 2020 has been announced. It has been approved by the Union Cabinet, and will hopefully be approved by Parliament soon. It has several innovative ideas and daring proposals, but also makes a few problematic assumptions. A majority of the path-breaking proposals submitted by the Dr. K. Kasturirangan Committee, in the 2019 draft National Education Policy, seem to have been approved. Those proposals saw extensive debates and discussions in the country and generated a lot of feedback. Very few important proposals that figured in the draft have been ignored in the final policy. There are a couple of major new proposals in the 2020 policy which were not proposed in the draft or which have been marginally modified from the draft policy. While I welcome the policy as it promises a large set of transformative reforms of the entire education system, I refer to some proposals and issues here. Bold moves It is heartening that there are statements in the policy such as “education is a public good” and “the public education system is the foundation of a vibrant democratic society”. I wish these statements forcefully guide the formulation of the policy in all aspects. The recognition of education as a public good has important implications for public policy in planning, providing, and financing education. It also has important implications for the state’s approach towards private education. In fact, benevolent private players and private philanthropists draw inspiration from the nature of education as a public good. It is public education that contributes to the building of nations, their growth — socially, economically, politically, culturally, and technologically — and the building of a humane society. There are many more statements in the policy that may be welcomed. For instance, the policy promotes a holistic education as well as “each student’s holistic development in both academic and non-academic spheres”, emphasises extra-curricular activities, emphasises research, speaks of “substantial investment in a strong, vibrant public education system”, and so on. The major recommendations of the Committee that have been approved include a 5+3+3+4 system in school education that incorporates early childhood care and education; universal education that includes the secondary level; adoption of school complexes; breakfast in the school meal programme; and introduction of vocational education at the upper primary level. A series of reforms have been proposed in higher education too. These include a multidisciplinary system offering choices to students from among a variety of subjects from different disciplines; integrated (undergraduate, postgraduate and research levels) education; a four-year undergraduate programme; and overhauling of the governance structure in higher education. There will be just one regulatory body for the entire sector in the Higher Education Commission of India. The policy also places emphasis on the liberal arts, humanities, and Indian heritage and languages; facilitates selective entry of high-quality foreign universities; aims to increase public investment in education to 6% of the GDP; promises to provide higher education free to about 50% of the students (with scholarships and fee waivers); and aims to increase the gross enrolment ratio in higher education to 50% by 2035. Some of these proposals were suggested by earlier committees such as the Yashpal Committee and C.N.R. Rao Committee, and several experts. As they have immense scope in revitalising the system, we may applaud many of these moves. Some policy decisions are bold. For instance, the policy says, “Wherever possible, the medium of instruction until at least Grade 5... will be the home language/mother tongue/local language/regional language.” It also says the three-language formula will be implemented. The first proposal, which should apply to all schools including private schools, will reduce elitism and dualism in schools to a great extent, though one might expect a bolder move like a common school system, which would be a greater equaliser. The three-language formula will promote national integration. Reforms like revamping the University Grants Commission and abolishing the affiliating system were only dreamt of earlier by many experts. Of course, implementation of these audacious reforms is still a major challenge. Missing in the final policy What are the proposals or statements that were emphatically made in the draft but are missing in the policy? One important statement that was repeatedly made in the draft policy, that all commercially oriented private institutions will be closed, is missing in the final policy — though the 2020 policy promises closure of substandard teacher education institutions only. Now the policy simply states, “The matter of commercialization of education has been dealt with by the Policy through multiple relevant fronts, including: the ‘light but tight’ regulatory approach that mandates full public self-disclosure of finances”, though almost every policymaker and administrator in education recognises that there is a serious problem with the private education sector in India. Second, the draft policy promised doubling public expenditure on education to 20% of the total government expenditure, from 10%. The 2020 policy simply reaffirms the commitment to allocation of 6% of GDP. A few other recommendations of the Committee did not find a place in the final policy. They include setting up of a National Education Commission at the national level and a similar one at the State level. There is no mention of State School Education Regulatory Authorities in the 2020 policy. At the State level, the Department of School Education is regarded as the apex body. There is also no promise of ‘full’ recruitment of teachers at all levels, though the policy promises robust recruitment mechanisms to be put in place. Among the few new proposals, the establishment of a model Multi-Disciplinary Education and Research University in every district is one. In school education, a National Assessment Centre has been promised to make assessment and evaluation more holistic. The policy, unlike the draft, rightly recognises the need to strengthen the Central Advisory Board of Education. Apart from a few controversial proposals, a few untenable basic beliefs and assumptions of the Committee prevail. The Committee seems to have great faith in “light but tight” regulation, confidence in the private sector in making honest self-disclosures of all aspects of their operations, and faith in the adequacy of common norms for public and private institutions. It also seems to have faith in the government’s ability to implement many reforms — for example, in doing away with the affiliating system and making all colleges autonomous degree-awarding colleges of high quality, ensuring institutional and faculty autonomy, and in the autonomous functioning of institutions of governance with no external interference. Policymakers and administrators have been struggling unsuccessfully with some of these issues for years. A major challenge policymakers will continue to face is how to differentiate the benevolent philanthropic private sector from undesirable but powerful market forces in the education sector and regulate the entry and growth of the latter. Jandhyala B.G. Tilak is ICSSR National Fellow, New Delhi. Jtilak2017@gmail.com
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The significance of the Char Dham board verdict||In a major setback to Hindutva arguments on the state’s control of Hindu temples, the Uttarakhand High Court on July 21 upheld the constitutionality of the Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board Act, 2019 that was surprisingly enacted by the Bharatiya Janata Party government though Hindtuva forces are opposed to such kind of laws. All religious reforms are resisted. Thus the Sabrimala judgment (2018) saw huge public protests similar to those after the Shah Bano judgment (1985). From the bogey of ‘minority appeasement’, the nation has now moved to injustices against Hindus. Hindus are under threat is the new battle cry. This writer favours grant of autonomy to Hindu temples in managing their religious affairs as state control of temples is neither constitutionally permissible nor desirable. But in the last six years, the central government has not taken any initiative to release temples from the clutches of the state. The Uttarakhand law allegedly takes control of four of the most sacred places in the State including Kedarnath and Badrinath, which was challenged by MP and former Minister Subramanian Swamy. Such laws are in place for a number of temples such as Jagannath Puri (1955), Vaishno Devi(1988), Shrinathji at Nathdwara (1959), Mahakal at Ujjain (1982), Kashi Vishwanath (1983), and Tirupati Balaji temple (1987). Interestingly even Manu’s code provided that priests do not have the absolute right in temple management; instead, kings (state) in ancient India had a vital say in temple management. Even Kedarnath and Badrinath were under state management as prescribed by the Shri Badrinath and Kedamath Temples Act, 1939. The newly enacted law merely replaced this Act. The Chief Justice of the Uttarakhand High Court, Ramesh Ranganathan-led Bench in its 129 page order not only cited 144 judgments but also examined all issues connected with the violation of religious rights of Hindus in temple management. Laws upheld by the judiciary Though Hindutva forces blame the Congress party and secularism for these laws, these laws were upheld by courts. Thus, the Shri Jagannath Temple Act was upheld by the Supreme Court of India in Raja Birakishore vs The State Of Orissa (1964), the Nathdwara Temple Act in Tilkayat Shri Govindlalji Maharaj vs The State Of Rajasthan And Others (1963), the Tirupati Balaji law in Shri A.S. Narayana Deekshitulu vs State Of Andhra Pradesh & Ors (1996) and the Uttar Pradesh Sri Kashi Vishwanath Temple Act in Sri Adi Visheshwara Of Kashi ... vs State Of U.P. And Ors (1997). There are consistent judgments of the Supreme Court such as State Of Orissa And Sri Jagannath ... vs Chintamani Khuntia & Ors (1997) and M.P. Gopalakrishnan Nair & Anr vs State Of Kerala & Ors (2005) holding that the management of temple is primarily a secular act. Chief Justice Ranganathan (he retired on July 27, 2020) accordingly held that though offerings (of money, fruits, flowers or any other thing) are given to the deity, religious practice ends with these offerings, and that collection and distribution of these offerings for the maintenance and upkeep of temple are secular activities. The Supreme Court in Nar Hari Sastri And Others vs Shri Badrinath Temple Committee (1952) had already held Badrinath to be a public temple of Hindus and not confined to any family or denomination, and that secular activities of these temples can be regulated by the state. The Court explicitly said that legislature is not bound to demonstrate mismanagement of temples while enacting such laws.  One of the major arguments of Hindutva victimhood is that this kind of state control is absent for Muslim waqfs and Sikh gurudwaras. But then as many as 27 waqf laws have been enacted so far. The Shiromani Gurudwara Parbandhak Committee Act too was enacted in 1925. In the latest judgment, Chief Justice Ranganathan rightly observed that it is not necessary that the legislature should make a law uniformly applicable to all religious or charitable institutions or endowments. Acknowledging the diversities of our society, he went to say in paragraph 34 that ‘enactment of a uniform law in one go, though desirable, may perhaps be counter-productive’. Thus, the concept of one nation, one law was impliedly rejected. Moreover the right to management under Article 26 (Freedom to manage religious affairs) can only be claimed after the fact of establishment has been proved. Dr. Swamy could not prove ‘who established the Badrinath temple after Hindu temples were destroyed by Buddhists’ and who has been deprived of right to management. The judgment thus acknowledges that the history of temple destruction in India certainly pre-dates Muslim invasion. The court held that Article 26 cannot be invoked if the denomination never had the right to manage temple properties. It merely acknowledges the pre-existing right. Dr. Swamy failed to convince  the court about any denominational sect having managerial rights in respect of these temples. Relying on earlier decisions, the court clarified that ‘in matters of religion’, right to management is a guaranteed fundamental right under Article 26(b) but in respect of properties, the right to administer properties under Article 26(c) is to be exercised in ‘accordance with law’. Thus, the state is entitled to regulate administration of religious or temple properties by means of validly enacted law. But a law that completely and permanently takes away the right to management will clearly be violative of Article 26(c). As a denominational sect The biggest setback to the Hindutva group is the rejection by the High Court of recognising Sanatan Dharma as a Hindu denominational sect. In paragraph 83, the court observed that the “Hindu dharma is said to be ‘Sanatana’, i.e. one which has eternal values: one which is neither time bound nor space bound.” Since all Hindus by and large have faith in Sanatan Dharma, they cannot be equated to any religious denomination, for the chord of a common faith and spiritual organisation which unites the adherents together, is absent. Citing the Sabrimala judgment (2018), the court observed that Hindu believers including those of the Shaivite and Vaishnavite forms of worship, are not denominational worshippers. No caste or sub-caste or sect of the Hindu religion, who worship mainly a particular deity or god, can be termed as a religious denomination. The judgment is likely to be stayed on this point by the Supreme Court as a nine-judge Bench of the court is reviewing the Sabrimala verdict on the rights of denominational sects. Finally, the plea based on Article 31-A(saving of laws providing acquisition of estates) was also rejected though the 2019 Act indeed vested the administration of these temples in the Char Dham board in ‘perpetuity’ rather than for the limited duration as is permissible under Article 31A(b) because properties of these temples will continue to be owned by the deities and mere possession will be vested with the board.  Faizan Mustafa is Vice-Chancellor of NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad. The views expressed are personal
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Cyberbullying must stop||As I was trying to collate ideas on how journalism could survive during a pandemic, I received a draft petition from the Network of Women in Media (Tamil Nadu chapter) to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister seeking effective action against a cyberbully engaging in character assassination of women journalists. Gap between words and deeds In Tamil Nadu, various groups have documented the multiple acts of harassment by such offenders. These include telling brazen lies, making sexual innuendos, cyberstalking and posting obscenities. But their attempts to get the government to act against these offenders have been consistently thwarted by vested interests. While government representatives and the police make the right noises, there is a huge gap between their words and deeds. For instance, when the Tamil Nadu Women Journalists Forum filed a complaint against a habitual offender on July 29, the Chennai Police issued a statement that failed to give confidence and courage to women journalists that it would shield them from cyberbullying. The offender was booked and released within a couple of hours. The same thing happened when another complaint was filed last October against him. The police statement read: “During enquiry, the mobile phone used to access the social media, viz. Twitter and Facebook, was seized. The investigation is going on. The general public are advised to maintain decency while posting messages, comments in social media. They are advised not to post hate speech, fake news and defame others.” One member of the Tamil Nadu Women Journalists Forum said in her anguished response: “The City Police’s statement means that the action has been taken against the mobile phone and not its user.” She felt that unless the government makes it clear that it is committed to protecting the dignity and the safety of women journalists, we cannot expect its various arms to act firmly. Hence, the decision to reach out to the Chief Minister. Among the various reasons to defend the rights of women journalists to have a good working environment that is free from toxic personal attacks, the most important one for me is newsroom diversity. The presence of women journalists in newsrooms was low even in the first decade after India liberalised its economy in 1991. Only in this millennium has the composition of newsrooms become more inclusive. And we cannot permit a few cyberbullies to pull us back to the early centuries. Disturbing trend The issue is not restricted to Tamil Nadu or even India; it is a global problem. In June 2019, UNESCO organised a symposium, “Standing Up against online harassment of women journalists — What works?” UNESCO recorded the fact that women journalists face ever-increasing amounts of gender-based threats and attacks, simply for being women. UNESCO’s input for the symposium read: “While the Internet is a valuable tool for journalists to acquire and disseminate information, it is also increasingly being utilized by sexist abusers to commit violence on an unprecedented scale. Insults, public shaming, intimidation, hacking and cyber-stalking are but a few of the types of behaviour that women journalists are systematically confronted with on the Internet. Faced with the growing ubiquity of online harassment, some women journalists are forced to restrict the scope of issues they report on in order to protect themselves.” While studies since 2012 have been showing a disturbing trend of growing gender-based cyberbullying, unfortunately the governments and courts have done little to address this malady. Women journalist groups have been trying to reach out not only to governments but also to large platform conglomerates like Twitter and Facebook to come up with gender-sensitive algorithms. On November 2, 2019, the International Day to End Impunity for Crimes against Journalists, a study from International Media Support looked at the status of women in journalism in nine countries across four continents. Titled “The safety of women journalists: Breaking the cycle of silence and violence”, it covered a range of issues that affect women in journalism and documented the growing cases of attacks on the Internet and their impact. All researchers who have been studying journalists’ safety agree that online stalking has profound emotional and physical consequences for women journalists — many women experience long-lasting fear, anxiety and trauma. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Fraudulent claims||President Donald Trump imperilled the confidence of his fellow citizens in the November 2020 U.S. presidential election, when he asked via Twitter whether he ought to postpone it due to concerns surrounding the possibility of fraud owing to mail-in voting. This form of voting, which includes absentee voting but can include broader measures for voting via the postal system, is expected to occur on a large scale owing to social distancing measures necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic. His tweet has raised a furore, with speculation that the President may be toying with the idea of delaying the democratic exercise beyond November 3 after trailing his Democratic challenger, former Vice-President Joe Biden, in the opinion polls. The U.S. elections, the dates for which are fixed by federal statute through Congress, have never in history been delayed, including during the Civil War era and the World Wars. Further, five States offer universal mail-in voting to all their registered voters. Nevertheless, this is not even the first occasion on which the 45th President has lashed out at mail-in voting as a fraudulent process. In May 2020 he attacked the California government for sending out mail-in ballots and was swiftly fact-checked by Twitter, showing little evidence to support the claim that mail-in voting will lead to fraud. While it is safe to assume that there is a near-negligible chance of the election getting postponed, principally due to the wisdom of the country’s founding fathers in separating power across the executive, legislature and judiciary, the bigger question that looms in the shadow of the first Trump presidency is the damage done to the fabric of American democracy so far. At the formal level, Mr. Trump has suffered the ignominy of being only the third U.S. President ever to get impeached by the House of Representatives, on the serious charges of abuse of power, potentially including a compromise of national security involving a foreign government, and of obstructing justice during a Congressional investigation into allegations of wrongdoing against him. However, even this political embarrassment pales in comparison to the torrents of hateful rhetoric associated with his administration. Racism, sexism, xenophobia, nativism and economic and geopolitical isolationism appear to be the buzzwords that have shaped White House policy outlook since 2017. The sheer depth of rancour and disenchantment that this has generated across America can only be understood over the decades to come. Now, with exactly three months remaining until the scheduled presidential poll, voters at last have an opportunity to ask themselves whether their rightful indignation about elitism and stasis in Washington warranted electing in a President who brazenly disregarded innumerable tenets of the law.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Contraction slows||The latest data on output at the eight core industries point to tentative signs that the pandemic-spurred economic contraction may have begun to bottom out. Commerce Ministry provisional figures show that while overall production at the infrastructure industries extended their year-on-year decline to a fourth straight month in June, shrinking 15%, the pace at which activity contracted slowed for a second consecutive month following April’s precipitous 37% plunge. The sector-wise performance also affirms that the gradual reopening since June appears to have helped tease back some smattering of demand in the economy. Of the seven industries that extended their contractions, only coal shrank at a faster pace (-15.5%) than in May, when production had declined 14%. Refinery products, the largest weight on the index contributing 28%, shrank 8.9% marking an improvement from the 21.3% contraction seen the previous month. The lifting of restrictions on inter and intra-State movement of persons and goods revived both vehicular movement and, consequently, demand for auto fuels. With personal modes of mobility preferred given the fear of infection, petroproduct consumption grew 11% month-on-month in June. Electricity output too fell at a slower 11% pace than the preceding month’s 14.8% slump, again signalling an uptick in demand from some manufacturing clusters including in western and northern India. Among the other sectors, while steel production continued to tumble — output shrank by more than a third (-33.8%) from June 2019 — cement appeared to have put the worst behind as urban construction and projects under the rural job guarantee scheme spurred demand. Cement output fell 6.9%, a sharp deceleration in the pace of decline from May’s 21.4% contraction. Fertilizers, the only industry to post growth for a second straight month, however, saw the expansion ease to 4.2%, from 7.5% in May. Still, with monsoon activity above normal so far this year, kharif sowing was almost 14% higher as on July 31 than at the same time in 2019. With the IMD forecasting above average rainfall in August and September as well, the outlook for the agriculture-reliant rural economy is far more promising than for most other sectors. To be sure, the economy is still a fair distance from a sustained turnaround with other data flagging the risks to a recovery. For one, the significant shortfalls in GST collection point to the difficulties the central and State governments are facing in garnering crucially needed revenue. This has already swelled the fiscal deficit at the end of the first quarter to 83% of the full year’s target. With the new infections curve showing no signs of plateauing as yet, policymakers have the unenviable task of stemming the COVID-19 tide without dampening economic momentum.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Parents, the first and natural tutors||The National Education Policy (NEP) emphatically makes the case for early childhood care and education (ECCE). It says, “Schools providing quality ECCE reap the greatest dividends for children who come from families that are economically disadvantaged.” Over 85% of a child’s cumulative brain development occurs before the age of six. Yet, over 5 crore children are estimated to not have attained foundational literacy and numeracy in India. At present, says the policy, children from socio-economically disadvantaged backgrounds do not have access to ECCE. The NEP lays out a detailed paradigm for educators to provide high-quality ECCE through preschools and anganwadis. It also talks of how parents can be active stakeholders in their children’s education. Indeed, it is crucial that we dig deeper into how parents can help, as any learning in school can be reinforced or undone at home. Parents are their children’s first and natural tutors at that age. Involving them is necessary to ensure that children learn the foundational skills they need to succeed in school. But how can low-income parents, with constraints on their time and energy, start getting more involved in ECCE? Through our work with low-income communities and youth, we believe the answer is through AIM (aspiration, information, and motivation and measurement).  Building aspiration At present, 30% of low-income parents don’t send their children to any ECCE institutions. Instead, many opt to send their children to primary school too early, when they are still cognitively and emotionally unprepared for Class 1 studies. These are often the children who get left behind in primary school and beyond, with limited scope for recovery. Evidence suggests that low-income parents do value education from primary school onwards, spending a disproportionate amount of their monthly income on it. However, awareness of the importance of education at the preschool age is missing. Indeed, while high-income parents face a huge amount of social pressure to help their children achieve developmental milestones before the age of six, low-income parents lack such social incentives. Building aspiration through role modeling, mass media and social media involving examples of celebrities and influencers is the crucial first step.  Providing information Once awareness and aspiration have been built, we must provide low-income parents with educational tools to support their children that they can themselves confidently administer. Preschool-aged children usually have an attention span of 5-15 minutes, which is not enough to focus on learning materials themselves, so parental involvement is necessary. Fortunately, all parents are usually equipped to understand the foundational skills that their children are learning at this age, especially now that 70% of mothers and even more fathers are educated up to Class 5 themselves. We need to assist them in combing through the vast wealth of print and online content. Information must be simplified and contextualised — creation, curation, and dissemination of content that is in their local language, relevant to their context, and relatively convenient to administer is essential. Measuring progress The last essential piece of the puzzle for sustained engagement from parents is to motivate them on a regular basis and give them measurable indicators of progress and change. Behavioural research on nudges, social incentives, and the power of creating habits demonstrates some possible ways to provide continuous feedback and encouragement. Measurement also acts as a powerful motivation mechanism. The child’s progress and growth can be measured through rigorous assessments and through visual learning journeys. Sharing results with parents, and developing plans in partnership with them, can ensure that truly no child is left behind. Namya Mahajan and and Utsav Kheria are co-founders of Rocket Learning, an organisation focusing on school and life readiness for all young children
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Mr. Montagu as viceroy. (From an editorial)||The campaign that is being carried on in England to secure the appointment of Mr. Montagu as the next Viceroy will create more amusement than approval in this country. Apparently that campaign is being pursued with all the vigour and verisimilitude that one has learnt to associate with Montaguite enterprises and, besides banquets and luncheons which have resolved themselves into mutual admiration societies, there is talk, according to our special correspondent, of getting up a deputation to the Premier which will impress upon him the fact that the whole of India is single-mindedly swelling the chorus of “We want Montagu.” So far as Mr. Montagu is concerned, we do not suppose he particularly longs to grace the Viceregal throne. In the present temper of the European community and of the bureaucracy as evidenced by Sir Michael O’Dwyer’s statement that many officers are preparing to resign, his position will not exactly be a bed of roses.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Ceylon’s Stateless (From an editorial)||Those who have watched the agony of the million or so of stateless persons of Indian origin in Ceylon hope that, with the co-author of the Sirimavo-Shastri Pact again firmly in the saddle in the island, the Agreement will be fairly and speedily implemented. The latest directive of Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike to speed up repatriation of those persons of Indian origin by removing such bottlenecks as the settlement of the provident fund and other dues to such would-be repatriates may well reflect anxiety on her part to get the Pact moving faster. For it is well nigh six years since it was signed, Ceylon thereby agreeing to confer its citizenship on 3,00,000 stateless persons to match the grant of Indian passports to 5,25,000 persons. But for a variety of reasons, political and administrative, Ceylon has lagged far behind India in granting Ceylon citizenship, the actual figures being only 7,316 persons given Ceylon citizenship as against 72,000 persons given Indian passports. What is causing greater concern is the apparent emphasis on Ceylon’s part on matching its grant of citizenship with the actual number of repatriates to India rather than the number of those given Indian citizenship, but whose repatriation may be delayed.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Should you time MF investments?||Many investors who invest in mutual funds (MFs) do so to leave it to the experts; to avoid trying to time the market, which can be like catching a falling knife sometimes. But few stick to this discipline for the rest of their investing lives. Investors who start out well, with the intention of doing an SIP in a disciplined manner in an asset-allocated portfolio, get this urge to start timing the market, start timing SIP, start dynamically shifting between asset classes and start booking profit often. And, if they get hurt in the process, they ask for a product/scheme that will effectively time the market or dynamically manage it. Here are some queries that are most often asked and strategies that are sought but best avoided. Timing SIPs The idea of an SIP is not to get high returns; nor is it about timing the market. It is only about rupee-cost averaging. Yet, many want to stop SIPs when markets are at a peak and wait for the right time to deploy it at a low. And, what if markets remain elevated for a longer period? Nothing happens other than your losing out your disciplined savings and not allowing the money to compound. SIPs are simply meant to give you a regular savings vehicle to invest in. SIPs are not infallible, and can deliver negative returns. For example, a 5-year SIP in the Nifty 50 would have given a negative 8% IRR (internal rate of return) in the March 2020 lows. Had you held it for another 4 months, it would have bounced back to 6% IRR. That is the nature of the market. SIPs can’t skip it. An AMC did a study by taking the 1990-2019 period and calculated monthly SIPs on the Sensex on the worst days of each month (where you think you are averaging better) and also on the best days (where you think it is too expensive). The return differential was less than 30 basis points on an annualised basis (IRR). This was to drive home the point that trying to time SIPs isn’t really going to significantly change your fortunes. If any, you will only disrupt your savings habit. There are two simple ways to tackle the market volatility instead of trying to time the market: one is to have asset diversification and two, rebalance; that is, periodically shift from the asset class that has swelled (from your original allocation) to the one that is deflated in your own portfolio. This needs no market timing. Just a periodic review of your own portfolio would do. At best, when there are deep market falls, you can always add more to your investments. But remember, you need deep pockets for this. For averaging to be meaningful, on top of your existing investments, you need to deploy funds substantially. Otherwise, at best, it gives you some psychological satisfaction. Managing asset allocation Some investors have asked us for price earnings ratio (PE) ranges to deploy into equity or to exit. It is indeed true that had you invested at lower PEs, you would have gained. But what if you stayed away from markets too long because valuations are high? Even fund managers who took such cash calls have burnt their fingers. Let me explain some of the limitations of this strategy if you try to do this based on a playbook. Markets can remain expensive for prolonged periods, sometimes. For example, the Nifty 50 PE was over 20 times almost at all times in 2015, although the historical average has been 18-19 times. In such periods of steady, high valuations, your PE-based investing model will likely keep you entirely away from equity or invest less. This may impact your corpus creation as you will not be investing steadily towards your goals. Any dip in PEs, as happened in March 2020, is often so short-lived that an investor who has stayed away too long seldom has the courage to deploy everything in one go and hence, deploys too little to meaningfully buy at lows. Again, simple acts of annually rebalancing asset allocation should do the job, rather than trying to disrupt your portfolio too often. You can still use PE signals to deploy additional sums. Selling when ‘expensive’ Many of you are happy with the returns in some of your funds and when the market also looks bullish, you want to sell the high-returning fund and go for a lower returning (or lower NAV) fund or an NFO. Why? Because you think the fund valuation has turned expensive. Funds are not stocks. They only hold stocks. And they can exit a stock and buy better ones if a stock turns expensive or is underperforming. If a fund returns high, it is true that it may not be able to replicate such performance yet again. But to sell it in favour of a lower returning fund (which may be simply an underperformer) or to go for an NFO, which has no track record, cannot possibly provide you cheaper alternatives. So, in essence, MFs, unlike stocks, are not ‘buy low, sell high’ instruments. They are ‘buy when you have money, sell when you need money’ instruments. Understanding this basic truth will serve you well.  (The author is co-founder, Primeinvestor.in)
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Do you know what you want?||Many feel that insurance agents and other intermediaries don’t share enough information, don’t give sound enough advice and perhaps don’t know enough to provide the clarity we need to buy insurance. The point is, you should do your research yourself and only then bring an intermediary into the picture. Take the process of buying a policy. We recognise the need for insurance, but feel anxious and out of depth while buying it. Maybe, because the product is complex with a lot of legality and legal language involved. Perhaps, it is because the product itself is intangible and it is uncomfortable to contemplate loss or death. Reluctance to buy All this ends in a reluctance to buy insurance and, ironically, poor analysis and application of mind when actually buying it. Which is why the intermediary, who sells you the policy, can be the biggest help. Or, just the opposite. There are multiple distribution channels for insurance policies. You can buy from agents, insurance brokers, an insurance marketing firm, a corporate agent, a web aggregator or, even directly from the insurance company, usually online. Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) regulations lay down the framework within which all these types of intermediaries can sell insurance policies. Proper licensing, basic educational qualifications, adequate and updated product knowledge, needs-analysis skills and a code of conduct are all part of it. Agents are the most common type of intermediary from whom we buy personal insurance. They are individuals who earn a commission by selling policies of a single insurer whom they represent. They can be composite agents too, representing one life insurer, one non-life insurer and one standalone health insurer. It is not a job where they get a salary at the end of the month, so, they are impelled to make the sale to earn their living. Hence their persistence, when they approach you to buy a policy or press you to make a quick decision. Facilitator’s role What do you get when you buy from an agent? You plug into his ecosystem of an insurance company. He is familiar with all their policies and options, their documentation and procedures and can take you through the process of buying a policy, maintaining it and renewing it. He will also handhold you at the time of a claim. So, he plays the role of facilitator. As for the role of adviser, most agents play this role adequately and can get you specific information and clarification about their company’s products. But before an agent can even enter the picture, you have to do the initial research, understand your needs and decide which policies fit the bill. Fortunately, today, compared with about 25 years ago, information is the easiest thing to access. Once you have a fair idea of what policies are available, you can approach the agent of the company or companies offering the appropriate product to fine tune your buying decision. At this point, the agent’s knowledge and willingness to get answers to your questions comes into play. His ability to guide you to the right variant of the right product will help here. But remember, the agent can sell you only policies of his company. So, your first decision should be the type of coverage you want, which leads you to your option of insurers, and then, to an agent. ( The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance and corporate history)
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Gold shines again||Precious metals regained lustre with gold and silver recording handsome gains in July. The rising number of COVID-19 cases, along with the weakness in the U.S. dollar, was the driving force behind the surge in precious metal prices. Concerns around U.S.-China tensions too aided sentiment. Comex gold gained 10.3% to settle at a high of $1,985.9 an ounce. This is the biggest monthly gain for Comex gold in the last 8 years. The price action in Comex silver was even more interesting, as it rose a whopping 30.6% in July to $24.2 an ounce. This was the biggest-ever monthly gain in silver. Gold futures at MCX rose 9.5% in July to Rs. 53,544 per 10 gm. MCX silver futures closed 29% higher at Rs. 64,984 per kg in July. As observed last month, comex gold ruled firm and moved well past the target of $1,835-1,840. The recent uptrend in comex gold is likely to sustain in the short term. The price could head to the next target of $2,020-2,030 an ounce. A fall below $1,920 would invalidate the positive outlook for gold. After several months of consolidation, Comex silver posted a massive breakout in July. The price moved well above the target zone of $19.9-20. The short-term outlook remains positive and a move to the next target zone of $25.75-26 is likely. The trend in Comex silver would turn negative below $22. The price action in MCX gold futures was broadly in sync with earlier expectations. MCX gold moved well above the target of Rs. 50,700-51,000 and is currently at life-time highs. The short-term outlook is positive; the price appears headed to the immediate target of the Rs. 55,200-55,500 zone. The short-term trend would turn weak if the price falls below Rs. 51,000 per 10 gm. MCX silver posted handsome gains in July. A rise to the target of Rs. 68,500-69,000 appears likely. The short-term positive outlook would be under threat if the price closes below the support level of Rs. 60,000-60,500.  (The writer is a Chennai-based analyst / trader. This is not meant to be trading or investment advice)
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Ask Us||Q.Please tell me whether the annual premium paid under Atal Pension Yojana and accident death claim of the Union government are eligible for deduction under Section 80CC ? Ravinddra Kumar A.Contribution to Atal Pension Yojana is deductible under Section 80CCD(1B) of Income Tax Act, 1961. It is treated on par with NPS. This section provides for deduction of up to Rs. 50,000 over and above the overall limit of Rs. 1,50,000. provided under Section 80CCE. Q.I am a bank pensioner and senior citizen. I have deposited some funds with banks. Kindly guide me on the following: 1. Is standard deduction applicable to pensioners ? 2. How do I claim exemption under Section 80TTB?  Vijayakumar O A.Standard deduction is available for pension received from your old employer to the extent of Rs. 50,000 per year. Deduction under Section 80TTB is allowed for all senior citizens up to a limit of Rs. 50,000 per year for interest received from the funds deposited in banks, post office schemes and co-operative societies engaged in the functions of bank. Section 80TTB deduction benefits can be claimed from the respective ITR under deductions under Chapter VIA. You may enter the appropriate deduction amount based on your interest income subject to a limit of Rs. 50,000. Q.I am a senior citizen with only interest income. However an amount of Rs. 1,500 is credited to my bank account every month by LIC P&GS Department, being my employers’ superannuation annuity. In addition, I receive an annuity of Rs. 830 per month from LIC Jeevan Suraksha Policy. I am including these receipts in my income tax return. The question is am I eligible for standard deduction of Rs. 50,000?  Two, my wife, being a Central government retiree, has opted for CGHS and I am also a beneficiary under the CGHS Scheme. She made a lump sum payment (whole life coverage for both of us) at the time of retirement. We do not have any other health insurance coverage at all. But, we do incur approximately Rs. 5,000 each year on out patient consultations / medicines that are not allowed by CGHS for reimbursement.      This being the case, how much can we claim under Section 80D? Kindly clarify.  Janakiram Ramamurthy A.First, you will be eligible for a standard deduction of Rs. 50,000 for the amount received from your former employer as superannuation annuity pension, as the same is declared under “Income from Salaries”.  However, the annuity pension received from the life insurance policy is covered under “Income from Other Sources” and thus, standard deduction cannot be availed of. Two, under Section 80D for senior citizens with no coverage whatsoever from any policy, medical expenses incurred can be availed up to Rs. 50,000. However, in your case, since you are covered under CGHS, you will not be eligible to claim deduction towards medical expenses incurred for which reimbursement is not received.  (The author is partner, GSS & Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||
03 August 2020||MUMBAI,||IPL in UAE gets provisional govt. nod||With the Union Government granting provisional clearance for IPL 2020 to be shifted to the UAE in the wake of COVID-19, the IPL governing council, which met on Sunday, decided that the tournament will be held from September 19 to November 10. The date for the final was fixed following a request from the broadcaster. Besides deciding to stage the first-ever weekday final – coinciding with the Diwali celebration – the governing council finalised the proposal to advance the start of the night matches to 7.30 p.m. from 8 p.m. While the squad size will be capped at 24, it was also decided to not allow spectators in any of the three venues — Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah — during the initial phase of the tournament. The council decided to not tinker with any of its sponsorship deals. While a statement issued by BCCI secretary Jay Shah said that the governing council’s decision was “subject to necessary clearances” from the government, a governing council member revealed that the BCCI had secured “verbal clearance” from the government. “The governing council also discussed the comprehensive Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), which will be finalised and published in due course, including the agencies to execute and deliver a bio-secure environment for safe and successful conduct of IPL 2020 season,” the statement added. Capping the squad size to 24 players won’t affect the teams much because only three of the eight franchises — Kings XI Punjab, Rajasthan Royals and Sunrisers Hyderabad — have a squad size of 25, the maximum limit at the time of the auction. In the wake of the government’s increased curbs against Chinese entities following a border standoff, the BCCI had announced that it would review IPL’s sponsorship deals, including the one with Chinese mobile company VIVO, the title sponsor. Sticking with sponsors However, it was decided to “stick to the sponsors,” citing a lack of time to look for alternatives.  Key decisions IPL in UAE from Sept. 19 to Nov. 10 Each team can take a maximum of 24 players Night matches to start at 7.30 p.m. SOPs and fixtures to be announced later this week Chinese sponsors to be retained for this edition
03 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Women’s T20 Challenge will happen, says Sourav Ganguly||In a major development, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has decided to host a three-team Women’s T20 Challenge in the UAE between Nov. 1 and 10. “Yes, it will (happen),” BCCI president Sourav Ganguly confirmed to Sportstar . A camp is likely to be held in October and the Indian team will play against South Africa before the Women’s T20 Challenge. After the tournament, the Indians will play a series against the West Indies. As the dates clash with the Women’s Big Bash League (WBBL) — scheduled to be held in Australia from October 17 to November 29 — most of the Australian players are likely to miss out. This could result in more Indian and Asian players getting a chance.  Fantastic news “It is a fantastic news on a Sunday morning. What else can a cricketer ask for?” India’s pacer Jhulan Goswami told Sportstar . “We are glad to be returning to the ground at the earliest.” Spin ace Poonam Yadav, who has resumed training, said: “Everyone was asking me why the women’s team isn’t playing. None of us had an answer to that. But now I am really looking forward to the season ahead.” Mithali Raj took to social media to congratulate the BCCI for taking the initiative to organise the Women's T20 Challenge. Australia’s Alyssa Healy and Rachael Haynes were, however, disappointed that the T20 Challenge was being held at the same time as the WBBL.
03 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Dhoni’s instincts and behind-the-scene work reasons for CSK’s success’||Batting great Rahul Dravid has attributed Chennai Super Kings’ consistent run in the IPL to skipper M.S. Dhoni’s instincts, game-smarts and the incredible amount of work that goes behind the scenes. Former BCCI president and head of India Cements, which owns the CSK franchise, N. Srinivasan, agreed that Dhoni is a man of instinct who doesn’t believe in attending team meetings and poring over data. Both were speaking at a webinar organised by Great Lakes Institute of Management. “If you look at the success CSK has had, they’ve got really good access to data and they’ve got really good access to people behind the scenes and they’ve run cricket teams at the junior level,” Dravid said at the webinar according to ESPNcricinfo . “They understand talent and they’ve obviously got a good scouting process in place. But, what they also have is a captain who really understands instincts. Dhoni is probably not one to look at reams of data and statistics,” the former India skipper added.   Srinivasan also recalled how Dhoni once refused to take “one outstanding player” suggested by the franchise boss as that could have broken the team’s cohesion. “There was one outstanding player that we suggested to MS, he said: ‘no sir, he will spoil the team’. The cohesion within the team is important and see in America, franchise-based sport has been there for such a long time. “In India, we’re just starting and we’re new to it. But we, at India Cements, have had a lot of experience running teams at the junior levels.”  I know Dhoni is probably not one to look at reams of data and statistics— Dravid   We at India Cements have had a lot of experience running teams at junior levels— Srinivasan
03 August 2020||Mumbai,||Call for naming Wankhede stadium blocks after Vengsarkar||Mumbai Cricket Association Apex Council member Nadim Memon has demanded that three blocks of the north stand at the Wankhede Stadium here be named after former India captain Dilip Vengsarkar. “It will be a honour and respect to the cricketer of Mumbai,” added Memon, also a noted curator. Currently, two stands of the Wankhede Stadium are named after batting greats Sunil Gavaskar and Sachin Tendulkar, who have represented Mumbai in domestic cricket. Memon urged his colleagues to approve his proposal at the next Apex Council meeting. The 64-year-old Vengsarkar isa former chairman of selection committee.
03 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Angad asks SAI for ammunition and clay||To have a shotgun range at home is a blessing, especially during the time of pandemic. Reigning Asian skeet champion Angad Vir Singh Bajwa is happy to train at home in Chandigarh, but has been compelled to slow down. “I have been rationing ammunition as I don’t have enough. I have asked the Sports Authority of India (SAI) for ammo and clays. I am waiting for the approval,” said Angad. He makes up for lack of ammunition by using the simulator for about 30 minutes every day. “It is a machine similar to Scatt system that rifle and pistol shooters use. I managed to get the simulator before the lockdown. “My coach Tore Brovold used it before the Beijing Olympics. It has been very useful for me during this time.” Brovold won the silver in the Beijing Olymipcs. Frustrating wait While it has mostly been a frustrating wait of one more year for the Olympics, Angad feels it is a blessing in disguise. “I am constantly in touch with my coach via video calling. I have made good progress in my shooting during this time. Getting an extra one year for the Olympics is a blessing for me. I have become a stronger shooter,” he said. If he can afford to have a shotgun range at his farmhouse, it is not such a big task for Angad to have a gym at home. Focus on fitness “Tore told me to train less at the moment and focus more on my physical fitness and diet. I workout at the gym every day.” Angad was clear that travelling to Delhi, a “hot spot’’, would not be safe, especially considering he has world class facilities at home. Even though the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) had announced an Olympic core group camp, it did not make any attempt to assemble the concerned shooters. “I have almost finished all shows on Netflix”, joked Angad, who reads a bit and watches a lot of football.  Getting an extra one year for the Olympics is a blessing for me
03 August 2020||KOLKATA,||A welcome boost for Bajrang Punia||Three-time World championships medallist wrestler Bajrang Punia is eagerly waiting to welcome personal coach Shako Bentinidis to chart his course of action leading up to the Olympics. Georgian Bentinidis returned to India on Thursday night by a special flight. “Shako will undergo seven days of quarantine in Delhi and another seven days of quarantine in Vijayanagara before joining me at the Inspire Institute for Sport (IIS) campus for training,” Bajrang told The Hindu . Bentinidis has been overseeing Bajrang and partner Jitender Kumar’s (74kg) training over video calls. Bajrang, who won an Olympic quota place in men’s freestyle 65kg class last year, said Bentinidis’ presence would help him. “Shako and I will sit down and discuss how to go about the training. We will start by addressing smaller areas. However, it is difficult to make a concrete schedule (up to the Olympics) as we don’t know about the upcoming tournaments yet.” About his decision to move to IIS, Bajrang said, “It is a secure and safe campus, having the best of facilities and scientific support. The coach here is an Olympic champion (Cuban Yandro Quintana), he has got different ideas and I can learn a few things from him. “There is a good trainer here. I can put myself through various tests and work on different areas of my game.” Bajrang fondly recalled the time he spent at home during the lockdown. “I trained with Jitender at home. We trained on a smaller mat and with limited gym equipment. “I stayed positive and thought whatever happened was for good. I could never spend enough time at home due to my tight training and competition schedule. This was an opportunity to spend quality time with my parents. “I love cooking, I prepared desi food items. I also got time to read two books (Laukik Vyavahar and Pauranik Kathayen).” Looking forward to the Tokyo Olympics next year, Bajrang said, “I will use the time to work on my weaknesses. There is a lot of hope (from me), it’s a dream of 135 crore people (that I win a medal). I never take pressure because of expectations. Rather, it motivates me to give my best.”
03 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Online ACEP concludes||The three-week online Athlete Coach Education Programme (ACEP e-Pathashala) for intermediate athletes (in the 14 to 18 age group), organised by SAI in association with AFI, concluded here on Saturday. The online programme had lectures by experts followed by an interactive session with the participants. The topics included fundamentals of all track and field events, sports nutrition, recovery and mental training. The expert panel included Volker Hermann (High Performance Director AFI), Radhakrishnan Nair (Acting Chief coach AFI), Uwe Hohn (Head coach throws), Joy Joseph (Chief Athletics coach NCOE) and T.P. Ouseph (senior coach). Prominent athletes like Shiny Wilson, K.M. Beenamol, Anju Bobby George, Preeja Sreedharan, Parveen Jolly, Renjith Maheshwary, Sanjay Kumar Rai and Dutee Chand shared their experiences.  P.T. Usha was the chief guest at the valedictory function on Saturday. She appreciated the efforts of SAI and AFI for conducting the online course, adding that a continuous and systematic approach was needed to bring success at major junior level competitions. Former international athletes Sriram Singh and T.C. Yohanan were guests on the final day. SAI-LNCPE principal Dr. G. Kishore welcomed the participants. Dr. Jayaram presented a report while Joy Joseph delivered the vote of thanks.
03 August 2020||Southampton,||England clinches series||Jonny Bairstow equalled the England record for the fastest One-Day International fifty as the World champion beat Ireland by four wickets in a series-clinching victory here on Saturday. England was cruising to a target of 213 while opener Bairstow, whose 21-ball half-century equalled skipper Eoin Morgan’s mark against Australia at Nottingham two years ago, was at the crease. His exit for 82 sparked a mini-collapse that saw three wickets fall for six runs. But Sam Billings made 46 not out and David Willey 47 not out to take England home.
03 August 2020||SILVERSTONE,||Daruvala storms to fourth-place finish||Jehan Daruvala fought back strongly and stormed to a creditable fourth-place finish in the reverse grid sprint race of the FIA Formula 2 championship here on Sunday. It was his best till date in the championship, and fetched him eight points, taking his tally to 18. The Indian, part of the Red Bull Racing junior team, started 12th and was stuck there for the first part of the race and despite showing good pace, couldn’t move up the road. He continued to struggle in getting a good start and failed to gain positions off the line. However, a late safety car allowed most drivers to pit. On fresh tyres, racing for Carlin, the Indian charged through the field in the last three laps and gained six positions. On the final lap, he produced a superb move in the penultimate corner on Nikita Mazepin, who won the feature race on Saturday. “The last two laps were super exciting. The team did a great job with the tyre strategy,” said Daruvala. “Moving from P12 to P4 in the last few laps and hanging around the outside at Brooklands to pass four cars was good fun. Looking forward to being back here next week.”
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Surendhar and Jabir to get gold||J. Surendhar (110mH) and M.P. Jabir (400mH) were upgraded and are set to receive gold medals in the 13th South Asian Games held in Kathmandu (Nepal) in December 2019. This, after gold medallists, Mohammed Naeem and Mehboob Ali of Pakistan tested positive for a banned substance and decided not to appeal their dope results. Santosh Kumar of India, who had won bronze in men’s 400mH will now get silver. Similarly, India’s Maymon Poulose will get bronze in 110mH while silver will go to Roshan Dhamika of Sri Lanka.
03 August 2020||New Delhi,||Giri lets Nepomniachtchi off the hook||An upbeat Anish Giri made Ian Nepomniachtchi suffer before their first game of the deciding set ended in a draw in the semifinals of chess24 Legends of Chess on Sunday. At one stage, Nepomniachtchi was six minutes ahead on the clock but Giri was toying with ideas of forcing the issue, after gaining a pawn-majority on the queenside. But Giri did not find the right continuation in time and let Nepomniachtchi improve his position. Eventually, the Russian recovered the pawn and forced a draw after 40 moves.  The results:   Semifinals: Set Three: Game One: Anish Giri (Ned) drew with Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus).   After two sets: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Peter Svidler (Rus) 2-0; Giri level with Nepomniachtchi 1-1 .
03 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Gomathi files appeal with CAS||Gomathi Marimuthu, who received a four-year doping ban by the Athletics Integrity Unit, has filed an appeal with the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS). Speaking to The Hindu on Sunday, Gomathi, who had won the 800m gold at the 2019 Asian track and field championships in Doha, confirmed she has filed an appeal. “Yes, we filed an appeal [with CAS] as per the procedures (30 days from the date of receipt of the decision by the appealing party). We are appealing against the four-year ban and the fine of £1,000 imposed on me,” she said.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 07:43 IST,||Sudoku - August 3, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The mental health market||It was the week following Sushant Singh Rajput’s tragic death. Farheen Meraj, a Noida-based research fellow with the DRDO, stumbled upon a post by a someone who called themselves a mental health counsellor. The person used the actor’s name and photo to advertise an online session on depression. Dismayed at what she perceived as a blind eye to ethics, she took to Facebook to voice her concern. A debate ensued in the comments, with some mental health professionals claiming it helped increase awareness, and others saying the deceased was being used as a “marketing mascot”. While Sushant’s death was a flashpoint in the discussion on mental health in India, the conversation has increased since the pandemic began. Google Trends reveals that the search words ‘anxiety’ and ‘mental health’ were slowly climbing before shooting to a peak on June 14, and plateauing. New ventures such as Emotionally have started with the express intent to address the emotional repercussions of our times. Existing ventures such as VentAllOut, which invites people to either rant (for free) or talk to them for five minutes (paid) have seen growth. On social media too, ‘positivity’ accounts have been mushrooming. And as the chatter increases, regulation decreases. Influencer Santoshi Shetty’s now-taken-down video, offering unqualified mental health advice in exchange for money, (she later apologised) is a case in point. For every account helmed by clinical psychologists, there will be one led by ‘mental health coaches’, ‘life coaches’, ‘wellness mentors’, and ‘motivational speakers’. But what do these job titles mean? Dr Soumitra Pathare, director of Centre for Mental Health Law and Policy chuckles at the question. “They hold whatever meaning you make of them, really,” he says. “These are not formal or official terms.” Illness not wellness Dr Pathare who was involved in drafting the Mental Health Care Act of 2017, points out that in India, “there is no particular set of qualifications you need to call yourself a therapist. Anyone and everyone can set up shop calling themselves therapists.” Not only is it a field that is poorly regulated, he adds, but it has inherent multiplicity; “there are many different kinds of therapies, including religious ones.” Clinical psychologists are required to be licensed by the Rehab Council of India, which recognises clinical psychology degrees, and in many states, certain Master’s degrees in psychology are enough to provide employment. However, there is a new law in the offing, the Allied and Healthcare Professions Bill of 2018, which when passed, will include a therapist as a healthcare professional. It seeks to maintain a central register of all healthcare professionals, and hand out penalties to those practising outside of it. Until such a law is passed, it’s a free market for all ‘mental health influencers’. “Regulation right now, is focussed on illness, and not wellness,” says Dr Pathare. But given the boom in India’s wellness industry, how wise is this? “Certain accounts online do not follow the basic tenet of not being judgemental,” says Farheen Meraj, who has a Master’s in Clinical Psychology from Amity University. She has called out some of them for it. “A psychologist’s job is to give you advice related to your emotions, and not your situation, it is to help you navigate through your thoughts.” A presence on social media with several thousand followers creates a halo effect, so no matter what they call themselves, “You tend to believe what they are saying, even if it is about an area that they do not have expertise in.” “It’s easier regulating in countries like the US, where you pay for these services using medical insurance, or the UK, where you have the NHS paying for them,” says Dr Pathare. “In India, we pay out of our own pocket, so ultimately what is driving it is commerce.” As long as there is a demand, there will be alternative therapy suppliers, he believes. Ayushi Khemka, co-founder of Mental Health Talks India, says mental health has become a sort of “hobby project” for many influencers. Currently pursuing a PhD from Jawaharlal Nehru University, her research involves looking at the prevalent dialogues on social media. Are these spaces safe? Her organisation, started in 2018 following the suicide of a college batchmate, calls itself a ‘safe space’ that offers help free of cost. “We recognised that there were people who wanted to talk, but not to a crisis helpline. So we leave our DMs open. While we are doing that, we make sure that if a person is in crisis, we direct them to suitable resources. We are not psychotherapists, we can only listen to you without judgements, and talk to you about what our own experience has been,” she says. Ayushi feels such online spaces should not be restricted to psychotherapists. “Doing that negates the lived experiences of people who have mental health issues, and of their caregivers.” In fact, the existence of these online safe spaces point to the inadequacy of formal services. Says Dr Pathare, “The number of psychologists in India is half the number of psychiatrists. If you were to shut down all these informal spaces, where would people go? Formal spaces can’t cope with the demand; they are working at full stretch anyway.” There is also the question of expense: a one-hour session online can cost anywhere from Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 3,000. Perhaps what India needs, besides more professionals in the mental health space, are volunteers who work in the area between structured therapy and unstructured support. These members of the community, who come from a position of lived experience and want to help, can avail themselves of courses and be affiliated to mental health professionals, who can in turn guide, counsel, and support them in their work. They can feed into the mental healthcare system, be the community’s eyes and ears, identifying a crisis before it happens, and having the support system to go back to, when they need help too.  0.75  The number of psychiatrists India currently has, per 100,000 people; we need at least three for that number  Source:Indian Journal of Psychiatry
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The end of saying hello||In this new, post COVID-19 world, we don’t have to worry about saying hello anymore, and that’s a good thing. Of course, COVID-19 has been bad as well, and many are living in fear. But we can’t just live in fear, and it’s important to look on the bright side. Saying hello has always been a big source of stress, especially in the office. Big offices with many co-workers are the worst. Not all of your colleagues are your best friends, but you can’t ignore them. What do you do when you meet your vaguely familiar approximately equal ranked co-worker in the corridor for the third time in the day? The first time you said a cheery hello, conveying how tremendously happy you were to see them, even if you weren’t sure of their name. The second time you were less effusive but still upbeat, to show that the thrill was not totally gone, but you saw no point in overdoing things. But the third time? That’s when it got tricky. You could smile uncertainly. You could pretend not to see them. You could sidle across the wall like a crab with your face turned away. You could pretend to see someone else just behind them and shout out, hoping they didn’t turn around and discover that the corridor is, in fact, empty. It was a tough one. Chance encounters with bosses were equally fraught with peril. You wanted to register your presence, but you didn’t want to be too familiar. It was also an opportunity to showcase how hard working you were. One of my friends, frequently promoted, used to look very thoughtful and walk with an extreme sense of purpose, even if he was just headed to the bathroom. It all depended on the nature of the boss. Sometimes it was just safer to keep your head down and slink past. But what if that made you come across as too timid? How did you convey that you were worthy in those few fleeting moments? This is where the mobile phone has been such a boon to society. I used to pretend to have imaginary conversations, where I provided insights and dominated the narrative. It was extremely impressive, and worked like a charm. Now COVID-19 has freed us from all of this. Saying hello has become simple. There’s nothing much to decide at your average Zoom meeting. You just say hello or wave and get on with it. Since you’re mostly wearing a mask, the quality of your smile and the extent to which you are happy to see your colleagues no longer matters. Poor Internet connections are an additional plus. Taking advantage of this, in the majority of meetings that I attend, most people don’t even turn their video on, so there’s no way to tell whether they’ve shaved, or they’re wearing pants. Hair care has become irrelevant. Executives used to be marked out for promotion based on the quality of their hair, but this is no longer the case. Now only true merit can shine, instead of hair gel. There is much to fear about COVID-19, and we all have to take precautions. But one thing it has definitely done is free us from the tyranny of saying hello, and brought us all closer to a kinder, gentler, more meritorious world. For this, we must be thankful. In Shovon Chowdhury’s most recent novel,Murder With Bengali Characteristics, the hero has no social skills whatsoever, and it does not seem to bother him.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A fine balance||A balance board is a plank that rests on a hub or is placed on a cylindrical roller to give it more movement and instability. A piece of physiotherapy equipment, it is now widely used by fitness trainers as well. It comes in many avatars: with round, oval and rectangular surfaces. Under Rs. 2,000, it is easy to store, and needs zero maintenance. The main benefit of the balance board is that it can be used even without expert supervision, to improve basic fitness, balance, and stability. Professional athletes, especially gymnasts, surf boarders, roller skaters use it widely. The board improves the ability to move efficiently. It helps to strengthen weak and unstable ankles, and can also be used for a full body workout. Squats, lunges, planks, pushups and all the other body weight exercises can be done on the board. The unstable surface makes the exercises more challenging and interesting.  Before you start  Exercises can be done with or without shoes.  Avoid the equipment if you have a history of ankle injury.  Post injury training is usually done under guidance, specific to the need of the joint, so consult a rehab trainer or physiotherapist before you begin.  Maintaining the right posture is important. Position your feet shoulder width apart, shoulders back and down, chin parallel to the floor, weight equally distributed on both feet. Keep knees unlocked at all times.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Wellness on the shelf||Frequent washing of hands is a need during these COVID days. Over use of soap and sanitisers is, however, making our skin dry and flaky. Nourish Mantra has curated a set of ayurveda products to keep the skin mositurised. The newly launched and 100 per cent vegan hand wash and lotion have been formulated with natural ingredients like vetiver and lavender root oil, shea butter, aloe vera, coconut and almond oil. The company says hand washing and maintenance will be a luxurious experience with the gentle cleanser and the buttery concoction suitable for all skin types. The products are priced at Rs. 550 for 250 ml bottle and available at www.nourishmantra.com   ASICS has launched advanced carbon racing shoes called Metaracer with guidesole technology to help runners perform better and protect against injuries. The shoe has a pronounced toe-spring shape that reduces the load on the calf muscle by up to 20 per cent for better energy efficiency, according to a press release. The flytefoam technology helps to keep the shoe lightweight, the supportive upper mesh is engineered to keep feet cool in humid weather and the wet grip rubber sponge enhances grip in wet conditions. The Metaracer promises to improve an athlete's well-being and break new ground in long distance performance running. Available at all ASICS retail and online stores   Statistics suggest that newborns and infants change 10 diapers a day and the disposable diapers wreak havoc on the environment. Heyday has launched the an all-natural biodegradable diaper, from the product to packaging. The organic diapers are made with plant-based fibres of corn and bamboo grown in chemical-free vertical farms. They are woven through a spunlace technology and uses a biocomposite absorber to ensure high absorbency. The disposal covers are made from corn starch and boxes are made with soy coated oxo-degradable paper bags. The diapers come in sizes S to XL, ensure zero rashes and help babies sleep better. Available in 300 retail touch points and chains (Guardian Pharmacy, Organic World, Spencer’s, Nature’s Basket, Health & Glow), the diapers can also be ordered on www.heydaycare.com besides amazon.in and flipkart.com
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Keep the focus on education||In June, the Kerala government had formed a committee headed by M.P. Poonia, vice-chairman of the All India Council for Technical Education, to study the feasibility of setting up an ‘education city’ in the State. The idea had its genesis in the government-supported Loka Kerala Sabha Conference — a platform for the cultural, socio-political and economic integration of non-resident Keralites — held in Thiruvananthapuram, a few months ago. Although Kerala may be able to offer a good environment for an ‘education hub,’ the government’s decision has surprised many for two reasons. First, when the previous Congress-led government organised a Global Education Meet in Thiruvananthapuram in 2016 to discuss establishing an Academic City and International Higher Academic Zones, the Left-affiliated organisations, who were then in opposition, had strongly opposed the move. Second, it comes at a time when globally “the halcyon days of growth in educational hubs and franchise operations and other forms of transnational education are diminishing”, an important argument raised by Philip G. Altbach and Hans de Wit, who are known for their extensive contributions on the field of internationalisation of higher education. Favourable national policy environment A careful look at Kerala’s policy retreat shows that it is closely linked to ongoing reforms at the national level. The Central Government has, in recent years, brought out a number of blueprint documents on higher education, including the National Education Policy (NEP), approved by the Union Cabinet last week. Currently there are many legal hurdles in India regarding the operation of foreign universities. The NEP addresses this and recommends for the operation top foreign universities through a new legislative framework. Another important development is the growth of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in the Indian education sector. It is important to note that the last Union budget had proposed to encourage External Commercial Borrowings and Foreign Direct Investments (FDI). Shifting priorities In India, many States had attempted to establish ‘education hubs’ in the past. However, only Haryana and Gujarat have been successful to some extent, as reflected in the ‘Rajiv Gandhi Education City’ in Sonipat and the ‘Knowledge Corridor’ in Gandhinagar. Although branch campuses of foreign universities are not legally permitted in the country, many other forms of international collaborations are happening within the existing legal framework. In Kerala, the Start-up Mission under the government recently established Fab Labs — technical prototyping platforms — in association with the Center for Bits and Atoms, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Last year, the State established the Institute of Advanced Virology in Thiruvananthapuram with the support of Global Virus Network, an international coalition of medical virologists based in Baltimore, the United States. Focus on human capital development A UNESCO study conducted by N.V. Varghese on institutional restructuring in higher education had highlighted the links between the quality of professionally trained human resources in achieving international competitiveness. Kerala’s aspirations to establish a new ‘education city’ can be situated in this broader context. Kerala has been facing unique challenges in developing human resources over the past few decades. Although the State has a good network of public schools, most higher education institutions are ill-equipped to address the skill requirements of the future workplaces. A large number of students go outside the State for higher studies every year. The fact that many private professional colleges in the State have been running with less than 50% of the intake capacity for many of their courses underlines the relationship between students’ choice and employment opportunities. Identifying and overcoming challenges Globally, whether in the Education City of Qatar or the Dubai International Academic City, ‘education hubs’ are examples of neo-liberal market model in education. Therefore, the State’s involvement is of utmost important from the stage of identifying a suitable location to addressing challenges related to equity and equality. Along with foreign institutions, the proposed ‘hub’ should have space for reputed Indian institutions as well. Many private institutions in India have already started operating out of their headquarters in this way within the existing framework. For instance, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham in Coimbatore and Jain University in Bengaluru have satellite campuses in Kerala. Along with generous funding, the government should try to rope in the huge Kerala diaspora and institutions connected to the state in some way. The success of the initiative in a State like Kerala will, however, largely depend upon on the government’s ability to attract philanthropists focussed on education rather than commercially oriented actors who view education as a commodity. The writer is a researcher in higher education based in New Delhi.  Disclaimer: The views expressed are personal   Although Kerala has a good network of public schools, most higher education institutions are ill-equipped to address the skill requirements of the future workplaces
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Creating global citizens||Change is not an overnight journey. It is both extensive and exhaustive, and begins within us and eventually spreads its wings externally. The idea of bringing change and considering the entire planet as one’s home has to be instilled from the beginning. This is possible only if educational institutions inculcate the concept of global citizenship. A global citizen is one who is aware of and understands the wider world and his/her place in it. He/she takes an active role in the community and works with others to make the planet more equal, fair and sustainable. Today, this concept seems more relevant than ever before. Change your approach Universities have, for long, been empowering students to change the world while simultaneously making them more compassionate, empathetic and kind. Today, apart from the pandemic, the world faces other disasters such as melting ice caps, frequent wildfires, burning of natural gas wells, and riots in various parts of the world. It is time to change our approach and promote responsible and sustainable living. This will allow us to be responsible professionals contributing to our respective industries, allowing us to lend our expertise for a good cause while becoming a better version of ourselves. Universities should stir inquisitive minds to pay attention to new insights and global concerns. Collaborations with institutions across the world and international tie-ups to encourage experiential learning will provide students with exposure that not only helps with field-specific knowledge and theoretical concepts but also builds empathy, as students learn about different cultures and concerns. The changing curriculum and the acknowledgement of world issues provide young minds with deeper insights and allow students to come up with innovative ideas to create a better world. Technological progress has also been instrumental in bringing the world together. Digital lectures, webinars, discussions and other sessions allow students to imbibe knowledge in different ways. Tech-enabled platforms and spaces allow them to have an overview of the world from the comfort of their institutes or homes and form a perspective of global issues in their own way. Student exchange programmes effectively prepare youngsters to navigate, work and volunteer in global and multicultural environments and help them understand and appreciate other cultures and ways of life in the host country. A university education may lead to a rewarding job after graduation. But including the concept of global citizenship within the curriculum is an investment that is far greater than simply procuring a job. Helping students explore their highest potential and making them global thinkers and citizens will help develop holistic individuals who are competent and compassionate enough to transform the world into becoming a better place for us all to coexist. The writer is the Vice-Chancellor, Ansal University  It is time to change our approach and promote responsible and sustainable living
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Stay safe online||Most of us are leading much of our lives online, whether for work, education, entertainment or keeping in touch with people. Even after the pandemic is over, experts suggest that ‘online’ will continue to feature in a big way. Everyone, especially youngsters, needs to know how to navigate cyberspace, including the threats it poses. Threats Part of being cyber resilient means being ready to tackle threats, which may include:  Compromise of accounts and data: Social media, gaming, and chat platforms make up a major part of our online presence. These accounts often get compromised due to malicious apps, phishing links, unsafe browsing and downloading habits.  Financial frauds: Youngsters fall prey to phone or email-based social engineering attacks that dupe them of money. For those engaged in online gaming, coming across game cheats and workarounds may seem tempting but often leads to financial and other frauds.  Exposure to sensitive content: The Internet exposes one to a wide range of content and people. People are often exposed to sensitive content by luring them into other activities.  Cyberbullying and online crimes: Among the most potent threats that youngsters face online is cyberbullying. This directly links to the ethics and norms of responsible online behaviour, which doesn’t find a lot of mention.  Video teleconferencing and online classroom hijacking: Due to COVID-19, many institutions have started online classes, and businesses too have started running meetings through various teleconferencing platforms. But security loopholes have caused a number of problems with unwanted participants posting lewd content, and interrupting learning/meeting sessions. Safety tips What can one do to stay safe? Here are a few tips:  Make use of security and privacy settings: One often underestimates the security and privacy features of platforms that include two-factor authentication, login alerts, app passwords, managing logged in devices, regulating audience of content that we share and so on. Almost all platforms behave differently, so review each one from time to time.  Update apps and download only from trusted sources: All apps or services should be updated regularly and content should only be downloaded from trusted sources.  Respect and empathise: The two pillars of responsible online behaviour include being respectful of others and their opinions, while empathising with them. Courtesy: Cyber Peace Foundation    When something goes wrong... Don’t delete accounts or any problematic content you receive.  Store all communication including chats, email messages, push notifications, SMS and so on.  If a problem can be solved by reporting to the platform, make sure to do so under the correct heads.   Report with all evidence gathered to your nearest police station or online at www.cybercrime.gov.in
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||More or less||Creative work, in any domain, are pieces that stand out based on parameters laid down by the field in question. When it comes to creative endeavours, most people believe we need to focus on the quality of the painting, writing, musical score, scientific premise or mathematical model. Likewise, if you are a teacher who wants to inspire students to produce original works that make a mark, shouldn’t you ask your students to centre their energies on producing pieces of stellar quality? If we want to nurture creativity, shouldn’t we emphasise quality over quantity? An informal experiment, cited by James Clear in Atomic Habits , casts doubt on this premise. Professor Jerry Uelsmann divided students in his film photography class at the University of Florida into two groups. Those on the left side of the room were in the “quantity” group, while pupils on the right fell into the “quality” group. He then told the first group that their final grade would depend exclusively on the amount of work they submitted. Those who gave in 100 photos would garner an A, while 90 plus photos would fetch a B and so on. For the quality group, their grade would reflect the merit of their work. Students would have to submit only one photograph that was as close to ‘perfect’ as possible. When all the work was submitted, Professor Uelsmann found that all the outstanding pieces were from students in the quantity group. Apparently, the act of taking myriads of photos enhanced students’ photographic skills. On the other hand, students, who had to focus on quality, contemplated on what an outstanding piece of work entails. However, armchair reflection alone did not help them produce masterpieces. The outcome This experiment illustrates several important principles regarding creativity. First, creative acts require us to manipulate material directly. You need to get your hands dirty. Merely thinking about or watching others is not sufficient to produce noteworthy compositions. We need to engage in acts of doing, whether it is analysing, experimenting, composing or problem-solving. Second, we should expend our efforts on actually producing pieces of work without necessarily obsessing over perfection. If we set unattainable standards for ourselves, then we are unlikely to produce anything. Of course, this does not suggest that we don’t pay heed to quality. Instead, we should focus on learning and making continuous improvements with subsequent pieces. Quantity and quality aren’t diametrically opposed but rather complement each other. The more you create, the more creative you are likely to grow provided you reflect on each piece or stage of work to see how it may be honed. Soliciting and incorporating feedback from experts in the field may also be helpful. In fact, it might be worthwhile asking others for their assessments at various stages of your work. But know that mistakes are an endemic part of the creative process. As author and comic strip creator, Scott Adams, attests, “Creativity is allowing yourself to make mistakes. Art is knowing which ones to keep.” The writer is Director, PRAYATNA. arunasankara @gmail.com
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Tap into new options||Will I still be able to appear in the exams or tests that are needed for my admission application to be accepted? Is my chosen university still accepting international applications? Will I be able to pursue my degree in-person, or has the university switched to online learning? Such thoughts have been wandering in every student’s mind during the COVID-19 pandemic. Students should use this time to brush up their knowledge and find out which institutions provide the best academic facilities, career opportunities, placements and overall growth depending on their interest. Here are some points to consider while choosing a university: HIE in India Due to the pandemic, many students and their parents will now prefer to pursue higher studies in India rather than go abroad. The Indian higher education system is considered to be on a par with foreign ones. It is the third largest in the world after the U.S. and China and several institutions have collaborations with foreign ones. These collaborations enable Indian institutes to design their curriculum in alignment with international ones and offer a mixed portfolio of subjects and specialisation. Some institutes also offer courses in foreign languages and cultures to prepare students for an international work culture. Technology ready To prepare ourselves for a changed future, we should first get used to online teaching and learning. It is, therefore, important for parents and students to choose institutes that are in the forefront of using online technology for their academic activities. IT gets a boost The emergence of a new business environment, in the wake of COVID-19, is expected to boost digitisation. The current scene in companies, with respect to work-from-home and data accessibility during the lockdown, has resulted in tremendous increase in enquiries for cloud space services. This trend is expected to gather further momentum, resulting in huge demand for IT and electronics professionals in all sectors. Build entrepreneurs An important learning and outcome of this pandemic is that we have understood the importance of self-reliance. While we gradually work towards reducing our dependence on imports, we need to prepare our future generation for the immense opportunity in the field of manufacturing. Students should aspire to become entrepreneurs and choose institutes that have facilities to promote entrepreneurship. The writer is Vice Chancellor and Director, IIIT-NR.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Take the digital plunge||With the closure of educational institutions during the lockdown, approximately 1.72 billion learners have been affected worldwide, and around 32 crore in India alone, resulting in high socio-economic costs for education stakeholders. The inaccessibility to physical classrooms encouraged ed-tech platforms to announce free live sessions, thereby questioning the role of education institutions. In response, private schools were quick to adopt, mandate, and implement new educational pedagogy — learning through digital means. Learning for all In this situation, the teacher’s role was challenging. Besides, teaching online, they also had to support students to complete assessments and tests. They stayed in constant touch with parents about their wards’ progress through WhatsApp groups, and virtual parent-teacher meetings. This blurring of professional and personal boundaries took a toll but they got the opportunity to gain more knowledge and skills. Parents had to invest in seamless wi-fi connectivity and ensure that their children paid attention to classes. In some cases, new gadgets had to be bought as well. However, students were quick to adapt to online classes and, even if they missed a session, teachers shared recorded sessions. Thus it became possisble to independently navigate the world of online learning. Impact of government initiatives The government has also encouraged digital learning through initiatives such as DIKSHA and eVidya. However, students belonging to less affluent families or living in remote places with no mobile network were left behind because of the cost of digital devices, data plans, or network connectivity. All this led to the broadening of the digital divide. State administrations took the plunge to fill the gap for children studying in government schools by developing apps, sharing content through WhatsApp groups, and broadcasting content on radio, Doordarshan or other regional TV channels. Blended learning Various tech and ed-tech companies supported live classes, made recorded classroom sessions available on YouTube channels, allowed access to interactive study material rich in video and graphics, and helped students understand concepts easily. Considerable planning will be required once the lockdown lifts. It is imperative to re-evaluate every school activity and emerge with new systems, which will become the ‘new normal’. Following strict social distancing measures and regimented one-desk-one-child seating arrangement could be implemented once schools re-open. Parents may opt for home schooling, if the situation worsens. While this strategy may not result in finishing the quarterly curriculum, it will at least reduce the learning gap that students are likely to experience if schools continue to remain shut. Blended learning could also be the next normal. Schools can explore tutoring platforms with video conference facilities, customised modules, and assessments using technology and data that can help analyse what students like, their learning patterns, and their understanding of the concepts. With the challenges and gaps associated with digital learning, the launch of the new education policy could serve as the first step for Indian education to transition into the digital sphere. The writer is Head, Digital Initiatives, Schoolnet India Limited.
03 August 2020||August 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Free webinar on the Civil Services exams||Kingmakers IAS Academy, in association with The Hindu, presents “Unakul Oru IAS”, a free guidance webinar for the Civil Services exams.    This will be held on August 9 at 10.00 am . Speakers include V. Irai Anbu, IAS; M. Ravi, IPS; and Beno Zephine, IFS. According to the academy director Sathyashree Boominathan, participants can avail up to 100% scholarship for the training programme through a scholarship test. To register, send a text message (SMS) to +19444227273 with your name, qualification and contact number. The programme for the 2020-21 batch will begin on August 16 (regular) and August 20 and will be conducted both online and offline. For more details, visit www.kingmakersias academy.com
03 August 2020||New Delhi,||Trying to find traction||Five months after it was nearly razed to the ground by rioters, the renovated Gokulpuri Tyre Market is struggling to get back on its feet. Small, mostly Muslim-owned shops at the market were vandalised, looted and set ablaze episodically for three consecutive days during the riots in February. The owners said they were struggling to ensure that shops, which once boasted daily turnover of lakhs of rupees, could just open from one day to the next. Some shopkeepers had to sell jewellery set aside for their children’s marriage to afford renovations. Others had to sell their destroyed stock as scrap. Compensation claims Most of the compensation claims filed with the government are yet to be honoured. Huddled around a team of representatives from the district administration to find out the status of their compensation claim, shopkeepers alleged that only five individuals had been disbursed money in as many months. District Magistrate (North East) Shashi Kaushal remained unavailable for comment on alleged delays in the disbursement of compensation and assessment of damage alleged by shopkeepers, despite repeated attempts by The Hindu . Of the total 224 shops in the market, an estimated 97 were either reduced to ashes or partially burnt. The other workshops were vandalised and looted. “What the fire could not consume, the looters did,” said the shopkeepers. “I am on the street now after losing stock worth Rs. 30 lakh-Rs. 35 lakh,” said Mehmood Khan, affectionately called Kallu Kabari by the locals. “All I have now is stock worth Rs. 5 lakh, purchased after selling family jewellery meant for my children,” he said, adding that he barely escaped being lynched during the riots. The market was relocated from Meena Bazar in Old Delhi in 2001. It deals in everything from tyres for vehicles of all makes and sizes, to accessories, tools, CNG kits and even merchandise for bikers. Most of the shops have a vehicle-repair corner as well. A stone’s throw from the Gokulpuri metro station, the market was among the first locations targeted by mobs when communal violence broke out on the evening of February 23. The market was repeatedly attacked till tensions simmered on February 25 midnight. Mr. Khan said rioters started vandalising and setting shops on fire around 7 p.m. on February 23. Fearing imminent attack, the shopkeepers had fled to safety around 5.30 p.m. He added that his shop was still standing when he came back to check on it around 10 a.m. the next day. But the good fortune was not to last. “Someone called and told me to get out quickly as the rioters were coming back. I saw 20-25 people with swords and bombs on two-wheelers shouting slogans. My shop was the first to be targeted that day. It was a heap of rubble the next time I visited,” he said, as he displayed a set of pictures to prove his claim. The lockdown to contain COVID-19 has also affected business as supply of fresh stock is hard to come by and customers are afraid to visit the market, despite renovation and change in name. Renovation efforts The market has been renamed Jamiat Tyre Market to acknowledge the efforts of humanitarian organisation Jamiat Ulma-i-Hind in rebuilding. Maulana Hakimuddin Qasmi, secretary of Jamiat Ulma-i-Hind, said the organisation took over renovation efforts with the support of shopkeepers who decided to take matters into their own hands. Work started on February 26 and the market was reopened on July 24. “What happened here was not the destruction of property of individuals but of the nation’s property. It is very important to rebuild homes, but if someone is left without employment such a home cannot survive,” he said. One of the affected shopkeepers was Naim Ahmed Khan, who over the past 18 years had built up his establishment into one of the most lucrative and “fanciest” shops in the market, dealing in everything from accessories for superbikes to CNG components. “The rioters looted my shop and then set it on fire on February 24. I had to sell two truckloads of scrap — rummaged from ransacked remains — in order to renovate and open the shop again. My sons are sitting idle as there are no customers. I never thought I would see a time in my life when even arranging daily bread would be a struggle. I filed for compensation with the Delhi government on March 3 but nothing has happened so far. The only addition to my life has been piles of paper work,” he said. “I had built the shop through sheer hard work... Life as I knew it has gone down the drain along with the ashes of my stock,” he rued, adding: “Stock worth Rs. 40 lakh was either looted or destroyed. There has been no business since the market reopened. I used to sell parts valued between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 25,000 all over north India. These days I sell accessories, some of which I rent for display, for as little as Rs. 150 to survive. Five months ago, I used to sell biker jackets that cost between Rs. 7,000 and Rs. 20,000.” Dull business Sameer Khan, another shopkeeper, said business was almost non-existent and customers were avoiding visits to the market. “Even if customers come, there is lack of fresh stock since supply has been affected due to the lockdown. Whatever the shops had got destroyed. Innumerable families survive on business from this market. There are 5-6 people employed at each shop. Where will they go if things continue like this?” he asked. Market’s president Mohammad Rashid, however, expressed hope. “Not too long ago, we could not bring ourselves to even entertain the thought of our businesses becoming operational again; but it gradually happened. Slowly, but steadily, business is improving. Hopefully, customers too will return to the market in large numbers like before,” he said.
03 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam decides to unlock as virus positivity rate declines||The Assam government on Sunday announced a slew of lockdown relaxations but as an experiment for 12 days in view of the decline in the COVID-19 positivity rate. This follows the decision on reopening schools and colleges from September 1 if the situation improves and the Centre gives the go-ahead. An order issued by the State government, effective from 7 p.m. on Sunday, said the permitted activities would be allowed till 7 p.m. on August 14. The State might open up further from August 15 if the infection rate does not get worse. State lockdown, however, will remain on Saturdays and Sundays until decided otherwise. The government has allowed shopping malls and gymnasiums to operate from Monday to Friday alternately on one side of the road in Kamrup (Metropolitan) district and on both sides in case of other districts. Retail and wholesale shops were allowed to operate from mid-July. Restaurants, hotels and other hospitality services have been allowed to function for five days a week with adherence to social distancing. The government has also allowed inter-district movement of people but only on Mondays and Tuesdays. Offices, banks to open All government offices, banks, insurance companies, etc., have been allowed to operate with 100% workforce except pregnant women subject to buses ferrying the staff. Non-contact sports too have been allowed in open space on the condition of maintaining social distancing. “The decisions were made after due consideration of the situation and the latest directives issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs,” a government spokesperson said. However, cinema halls, swimming pools, parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places of public gathering and social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, religious functions and other large congregations shall remain prohibited. Assam has so far recorded 41,726 COVID-19 cases, including 101 deaths. There are currently 10,180 active cases. Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said Assam’s mortality rate of 0.24% is the lowest in the country and the recovery rate of 75% is the fourth best. He lauded police personnel for donating plasma at a camp on Saturday. Officials said 67 personnel had turned up but 43 were found eligible after the screening.
03 August 2020||New DELHI,||Hard drives, account book seized from Hany Babu’s house, says wife||The National Investigating Agency (NIA) on Sunday seized a hard disk, two pen drives, some receipts and an account book of the GN Saibaba Defence Committee from the house of Hany Babu, Delhi University professor who was recently arrested in the Elgar Parishad case, according to his wife Jenny Rowena. ‘Called a friend’ Ms. Rowena, who teaches in the English Department of Miranda House, said around 12 officials visited their house at 7.30 a.m. As she was staying with her daughter, Ms. Rowena did not let the officials in till they could call a friend over. She said “because they don’t have anything right now” despite interrogating him continuously, the investigating agencies were trying to find some evidence before Mr. Babu’s bail hearing on August 4. Apart from the accounts book, receipts related to the committee and bookings at the Press Club of India were also seized, she said. “They came for specific items,” she added. While Ms. Rowena was not aware of the contents of the hard disks, she said she demanded a clone of the devices as she was worried about them being tampered with, but was not given the same. ‘Bizarre probe’ “They have done it [tamper] before, when they added a folder on his hard disk… Why would Babu put a folder of incriminating evidence on his hard disk?” she said, adding that the investigation was “becoming more and more bizarre”. The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) said it stood with Mr. Babu and his family and expressed faith and hope in the judicial system to uphold constitutional rights and demanded a fair probe into the case. The union added that both Mr. Babu and his wife are known for “their commitment to the cause of the anti-caste struggle, social justice and have actively taken up the matter of denial of OBC seats in DU through RTIs and social mobilisation, forcing the authorities to uphold the letter and spirit of constitutional provisions”.  Around 12 officials visited our house at 7.30 a.m. They came for specific items. Jenny Rowena Hany Babu’s wife
03 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||With 961 fresh cases, city’s virus tally reaches 1,37,667||The Capital on Sunday recorded 961 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 1,37,667. Also, 15 deaths were recorded in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 4,004, according to a heath bulletin issued by the Delhi government. The bulletin added that 1,186 more have recovered and the total number of recoveries now stands at 1,23,317. There are 10,356 active cases in the city at present. A total of 4,289 RT-PCR and 8,441 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the city in the last 24 hours, the bulletin added. So far, 10,63,669 tests have been conducted. The number of people in home isolation stands at 5,663 and out of the total 13,578 hospital beds, 10,692 are currently vacant. There was a fall in the number of RT-PCR and rapid antigen test conducted in the Capital. The bulletin released on August 1 showed that 5,140 RT-PCR and 13,014 rapid antigen tests were carried out. Sources said that the number of tests conducted was lower on account of Id-ul-Zuha being a holiday. The government said that 4,170 beds at dedicated COVID Care Centers have been occupied by persons under quarantine, including travellers who came on Vande Bharat Mission and Bubble flights. The number of containment zones in the city now stands at 497, which was scaled down from 715 after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal conducted a review on August 1. The Chief Minister also said that several containment zones were very large in size and the reduction of containment zones would provide relief to people in the city who have been a part of red zones and have been contained for months. The number of residents in Delhi’s containment zones now stands at 1,06,211, which came down from 3,48,099.
03 August 2020||NUH,||‘My son was battered with hammers’||“My son, the sole breadwinner, was battered with hammers. His knees, ankles, toes, arms, ribs, forehead and scalp are all broken. This is bad,” broke down Hafiz Bilal struggling to find the right words to describe the attack on his son Lukmaan. He paused to add: “Even animals should not be beaten up so mercilessly”. Lukmaan (25) was driving towards a meat market in Gurugram on July 31 when he was waylaid by some local youth and beaten up in full public view on the suspicion of beef. Mr. Hafiz, a fruit vendor, had called up his son, like everyday, on the fateful morning when one of the assailants took the call and told him that his son had been “murdered” and now they would come for him. Left alarmed, the 64-year-old called up the village Sarpanch who, in turn, informed the area MLA and senior Congress leader Aftab Ahmed. “Mr. Ahmed spoke to the Gurugram police and the assailants were then held in Badshahpur,” Mr. Hafiz recounted the sequence of events to his neighbours as relatives gathered at his house in Ghasera village here on Sunday. Lukmaan’s cousin Mohammad Ishtiaq alleged that the assailants had plans to burn him alive. “He pleaded with them and said that it was buffalo meat, but they would not listen. When he cried “Allah” in pain as they rained hammers and rods, the assailants told him to chant “Jai Shri Ram” instead,” said Ishtiaq. Lukmaan, the eldest among three brothers, mostly transported vegetables and meat to earn his livelihood. Married two years ago, Lukmaan has a year-old daughter. Hafiz said the assailants also took away Rs. 70,000 kept in the vehicle and a mobile phone worth Rs. 30,000. Lukmaan’s uncle Soraabh alleged that the police were also present when Lukmaan was being beaten up near Jama Masjid meat market. He regretted that people from the meat market too remained mute spectators to the brutal attack. Jamiat Ulema-i-Hind’s Gurugram president Mufti Mohammad Saleem Qasmi said that a video of the incident showed that police officers were also scared to step out of their vehicle and face the mob. “The police have invoked very lenient sections. The accused should be booked under the most stringent sections to ensure that they are punished,” said Mr. Saleem. Mr. Ahmed termed the assault on Lukmaan “an attack on the Gandhi’s ideology and the democracy by those who believed in Godse’s ideology”. He demanded to know from the Haryana Chief Minister as to why such attacks had taken place in Nuh over the past six years. Police Commissioner K.K. Rao said eleven accused were identified in the case and two were arrested. He said the accused were charged for attempt to murder. Badshaspur Station House Officer has been sent to lines and three officers suspended in this connection.
03 August 2020||Bhopal,||Relief eludes the transgender gharanas of Bhopal||“They came for men and women but not us,” lamented Devi Singh, 30, from the Mangalwara gharana [family] of Bhopal’s transgender community. Sitting at a haveli in the old city, she pines to return to work soon — collecting donations door-to-door — but for the lockdown, as no relief has reached them so far. Vehicular traffic, marriages, religious festivals and birthdays — social gatherings now restricted in view of COVID-19 — brought the only income for Ms. Singh, head of a household nurturing 17 transgender persons dependent on collections from the once-bustling New Market. “The crowd is our earning but the pandemic has stolen that away,” said Ms. Singh, biding time singing bhajans at the haveli. Around 500 members of the Mangalwara and Budhwara gharanas here, with no formal employment and already battling discrimination and stigma, are awaiting the easing of movement restrictions and businesses to get back on track for donors to be charitable. “The economy is floundering under the lockdown, so how can people think of giving to us?” asked Ms. Singh. “But even if gurus have to stay hungry, chelon ko bhookha nahi rehne denge. [We may starve but we will not let our disciples go hungry].” The meals, now chapatis with chutney, are two-time instead of three a day earlier. Initially, the gharanas distributed food items in slums, not knowing the lockdown would persist this long, draining their savings. Each transgender household among the gharanas, with areas divided for collection, earlier made Rs. 20-50,000 a month. But marriages are small scale now, birthdays a closed affair. “Our yearly peak collection time during the monsoon is going by,” said Tamanna Jaan, 41, head of a 15-member household dependent on the Khajuri area. Even the yearly procession called ‘Bhujariya’, which invites more than 1,500 transgender persons from across the country days after rakshabandhan, will be smaller this year. “It’s a yearly ritual to invite rain that began centuries ago on the insistence of local rulers. To keep the tradition alive, we will organise it this year too but with precautions,” said Shilpa Tiwari Nair, 50, head of a 35-member household under whom BHEL and Ashoka Garden areas fall. Different traditions Those belonging to the Mangalwara gharana claim their tradition to dancers in royal courts while the Budhwara gharana derives its heritage from medieval court harems. Bhopal, in its uniqueness, is the only city to be a home to both, claim the members. “Though homosexuality was decriminalised two years ago, the ghosts of the archaic law, declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court, still haunt us,” said Ms. Singh.
03 August 2020||Guwahati,||Lessons not learnt from earlier Assam oil well blowouts: WII||The Wildlife Institute of India (WII) has slammed a petroleum exploration major for not learning any lesson from two earlier oil well blowouts in Assam during the past 15 years and taking steps to restore the environment. The observation was in the context of the May 27 blowout at Baghjan natural gas well number 5, one of 23 that Oil India Limited (OIL) operates near the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district. The well burst into flames, yet to be doused, on June 9. The Dehradun-based WII was one of the agencies engaged to carry out the blowout impact study from May 29 to July 7. It submitted a 178-page report to the government on July 15, flagging the poor management of oil spills from wells and emergency response readiness and effectiveness during major accidents.  ‘Major damage’ “The oil well spill due to blowout at Baghjan has destroyed 60-70 hectares around the site, which includes crop fields, grasslands and swamps. The oil spread out not only on land but also dispersed into the surrounding rivers and wetlands,” the report said. “There is a leakage of hazardous and toxic chemicals... There is a substantial decline in the biodiversity of the area, resulting in an unsuitable habitat for aquatic and terrestrial life, which is clearly visible in the mortalities observed. Humans in this area are also impacted,” it said. The WII report cited two earlier blowouts — at Dikom and Naharkatia-Deohal — to underscore the damage done to water and soil due to leaching of oil. But in Assam, “The entire focus seems to be on closure of well and no restorative process is put in place for remediation of the effect of oil in the terrestrial or aquatic system”, it said.
03 August 2020||Lucknow,||U.P. govt. recommends CBI probe into kidnap-murder of technician||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday recommended a CBI inquiry into the kidnapping and murder of a Kanpur lab technician whose family had accused the police of allegedly allowing the kidnappers to escape with a ransom of Rs. 30 lakh. “The State government has decided to recommend a CBI inquiry into the incident in Barra Kanpur on the request of the family,” a government spokesperson said. On July 24, an IPS officer was among 11 police personnel suspended for negligence. It was found that lab technician Sanjeet Yadav had been killed and his body dumped into a river in June. Five persons, including a woman, were arrested on charges of kidnapping and murder, police said. The accused were known to him and two of them worked with him at a previous lab. Sanjeet had gone missing on June 23 following which an FIR was lodged under charges of kidnapping on June 26. The first ransom call was received on June 29, said police. Sanjeet’s family had alleged that he was kidnapped in June, following which they were asked to arrange a ransom of Rs. 30 lakh and hand it over to the kidnappers. The family claimed they threw a bag containing the cash on a road from the top of a flyover as instructed in the presence of police force who could not prevent the kidnappers from escaping with the bag and also failed to get Sanjeet back. The arrested persons had confessed to the police that Sanjeet was murdered on June 26 or 27 by them along with other friends and they dumped the body in the Pandu river, the district police chief said last month. The accused were identified by the police as Gyanendra Yadav, Kuldeep Goswami, Neelu Singh, Ramji Shukla and Preeti Sharma. On June 22, Kuldeep called Sanjeet and he had barely crossed 500 metres on his motorcycle from his workplace that the four men took him in a car saying they were going for Gyanendra’s birthday party. The accused and Sanjeet started drinking alcohol in the car but the victim’s drink was laced with a sedative. He was taken to a rented apartment in an unconscious state. On June 26, Sanjeet tried to escape, and the next day the accused strangulated him as they feared getting caught, police said.
03 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Rescued child labourers clear Class 10 exam with flying colours||In a few months from now, Jitendra Naik will step into college to pursue his higher studies, which is something he could not have dreamt of six years ago when he was doing the dishes in a hotel as a child labourer in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district. Like Jitendra, his schoolmate Ajay Kumar Patra too cleared this year’s matriculation examination with flying colours. He was rescued while working as a daily wager around 2014. Along with them, ten other students, mostly tribals and rescued from child labour, have cleared the exam. Under normal circumstances, their milestones would have called for a big celebration, given the difficult circumstances they overcame. However, the news received a rather muted reception due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “I don’t dream big. My next challenge is to complete the college. I have requested my relatives to give financial assistance to help me climb the next ladder of education,” said Jitendra. Ajay, however, wants to be a teacher to give back to society. The two have secured more than 60% marks in their Class 10 examination. Rescue mission Foundation of these tribal students’ success was laid around 2014 when the then Mayurbhanj District Collector Rajesh Pravakar Patil initiated a programme to make the district child labour-free. Subsequently, children were rescued from eateries, houses and hazardous work places and kept in hostels for ‘urban deprived children’.
03 August 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for killing cab driver; accomplice on the run||A man was arrested for allegedly killing a 35-year-old taxi driver, the police said on Sunday. Vikas Tomar and his accomplice had dumped the body in a canal in Uttar Pradesh before fleeing spot with his vehicle, they said. The matter came to fore two months ago after family members of the victim, Pradeep Singhal, approached Vijay Vihar police station alleging that he was missing along with his vehicle since June 12. DCP (Rohini) P.K. Mishra said call detail records of the missing driver was analysed and later Singhal’s body was recovered from an area in Gautam Budhha Nagar. The man had sustained head injuries. In order to nab the accused, who belongs to Bamdoli village in U.P., raids were conducted at several locations. He kept changing his mobile phones and SIM cards to evade arrest, the officer said. However, Tomar was arrested by the police on July 25. On his instance, the robbed taxi was recovered from Kaushambi in U.P., he said. “During interrogation, the accused confessed his involvement in the killing. He told police that he was in dire need of money and then hatched a conspiracy with his associate for looting the taxi, which they had hired on June 12. They took the taxi driver to Meerut and then got him drunk. Thereafter, they hit him on his head and killed him,” he said. The duo dumped his body and took a taxi to Kanpur to sell it for Rs. 2 lakh through his accomplices, the officer said. The duo would hire taxis through app-based taxi services and then after winning the trust of the driver, they would book the car. On the way, they would kill the driver and run away with the car. In 2008, Tomar had also looted a taxi in a similar way. Efforts are on to nab his accomplice, the police said.
03 August 2020||New Delhi,||Film producer arrested for alleged fraud schemes||Delhi Police has arrested a film producer from Chandigarh for allegedly duping several people of crores by trapping them into his investment schemes on the pretext of fetching high returns, officials said on Sunday. The accused Chanderkant Sharma (41), who co-owns CineMirchi Production, has produced two movies — ‘The Great Indian Casino’, which was released last year, and ‘Lust Wala Love’ — which is yet to be released, they said. A probe was initiated against Sharma by the Economic Offence Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police as it received at least 88 complaints against him. The complainants alleged that they were trapped into a collective investment scheme floated by Sharma through his company M/s Cinemirchi Productions Private Limited. He lured them to invest in entertainment sector and other undefined projects, promising them returns of more than 70%, the police said. The promised high returns with weekly payouts was discontinued abruptly by the accused. He also vacated his Najafgarh residence and closed his Dwarka-based office before shifting his base without informing the investors, they said. Hefty sum According to the police, the approximate amount of money invested by the complainants is close to Rs. 6 crore. But the number of complainants in the current case could go up and the cheated amount could go up to several crores. Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW) Dr. O.P. Mishra said the accused indulged in extensive publicity campaigns in relation to his purported business in entertainment sector and also published his photographs with some leading celebrities of Bollywood and Hollywood to lure investors. “The company invited investors to luxury hotels in Delhi and Mumbai where they held seminars to trap them in their multi-level marketing schemes. Sharma also publicised his plan to make an international movie every year,” he said. A case was registered against Sharma under various sections of the IPC, the police said.  Moreover, several of his bank accounts were traced and action was taken to safeguard the interest of gullible investors by freezing debit from those accounts. A Look Out Circular was also issued against Sharma, they said. “During investigation, we got to know that the accused continued with his investment schemes and was re-launching his fraudulent plan from an unknown destination. In the meantime, he started threatening the complainants of dire consequences if they did not withdraw the criminal case registered against him,” the officer said. The investigating team conducted raids at various locations in and outside Delhi. Raids were also conducted in Jaipur but by the time police arrived, he left the city before he was traced from Chandigarh, he added.  The accused was produced before the court on Sunday and has been remanded to police custody, the police said.  The company invited investors to luxury hotels in Delhi and Mumbai where they held seminars to trap them in their multi-level marketing scheme Dr. O.P. Mishra Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW)
03 August 2020||New Delhi,||Rescued minor labourers to be tested for COVID-19||The Delhi High Court has ordered COVID-19 testing for 10 child labourers, who were rescued from Vivek Vihar area here and are currently housed in a child care institution run by Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA). A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan ordered that the test will be carried out by the government and the sample shall be collected either at the institution or at the office of the sub-divisional magistrate of the area. “The authorities will ensure that all precautions for the welfare of the child are taken, and that the sample is expeditiously collected, so that the child can return to the home/institution,” the HC Bench said. The High Court’s order came on plea by BBA seeking to make arrangements for COVID-19 testing of rescued children to be done at children’s home and not by physically taking the child to a government hospital. Recording statement Advocate Prabhsahay Kaur said the Child Welfare Committee directed the police to get the statement of the rescued children recorded in a local court. The investigating officer, took five of the rescued children to the court despite BBA’s request to hold the statement recording proceeding through videoconferencing in view of the prevailing pandemic.
03 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||792 new virus cases reported in Punjab||Punjab recorded 792 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday and reported 18 more deaths, taking the toll in the State to 423, according to an official statement. The major chunk of new cases, 147 and 100, were reported from Ludhiana and Patiala districts respectively. The Health Department said the active cases were 5,964 and 11,466 patients have so far recovered. In Haryana, 761 new cases and five deaths were reported on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 36,519 in the State.
03 August 2020||New Delhi,||DUTA writes to V-C over ad hoc teachers, salaries||The Delhi University Teachers’ Union (DUTA) wrote to the Vice-Chancellor on Sunday demanding reinstatement of all ad hoc teachers and timely disbursement of salaries. The letter comes prior to the start of the new academic session at Delhi University on August 10. The teachers called for immediate release of salaries for ad hoc teachers, which have not been released since March. They also demanded the release of renumeration of several SOL, NCWEB and regular teachers that had not been paid. Academic calendars Apart from this, with regard to opening of the university, the union appealed that staggered academic calendars that are being prepared must not interfere with the teaching-learning process or the livelihoods of teachers. It also called for immediate recruitment of guest teachers to avoid loss of teaching time. Physical presence It appealed to the Vice-Chancellor to convey to all colleges that physical presence of teachers not be demanded in order to declare institutions open and that all teachers be considered to have joined duties after the end of summer vacation on August 10.
03 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||July rainfall 12% above normal: Met||The Met Department in its month-end bulletin for July said while the normal amount of rainfall for the month was 210.6 mm, this year the Capital received 236.9 mm rainfall, which was 12% above normal than the average. The mean maximum temperature, it said was 36.2 degrees Celsius against its normal — 35.5 degrees Celsius — which is 0.7 degrees Celsius above the climatological mean for the month. The highest maximum temperature was 41.6 degrees Celsius recorded on July 4. The mean minimum temperature during the month was 26.7 degrees Celsius against its normal value of 27.4 degrees Celsius, which is 0.7 degrees Celsius below the climatological mean for the month. The lowest minimum temperature was 22.2 degrees Celsius recorded on July 5.
03 August 2020||Chandigarh,||BSF jawan, two smugglers arrested||The Punjab police on Sunday said they have busted another Pakistan-backed cross border drugs and weapons smuggling racket, with the arrest of two smugglers and yet another BSF constable, posted along the Pakistan border in Tarn Taran district. DGP Dinkar Gupta said the Jalandhar rural police, which unearthed the racket, had recovered a .30 bore pistol (made in China), along with five live rounds and Rs. 24.50 lakh as drug money, from the three — identified as Surmail Singh, Gurjant Singh and BSF constable Rajendra Prashad. The smugglers revealed that they were working for a man who was closely linked with Pakistan-based smugglers for smuggling of heroin and weapons, Mr. Gupta said.
03 August 2020||Greater Noida,||Page 2 brief||Marking the occasion of 33rd Commencement Day, Birla Institute of Management Technology (BIMTECH), Greater Noida, rolled out a virtual red carpet to welcome 420 students of its 33rd batch of PGDM 2020-22 and their family members on July 31, 2020 via Zoom platform. Dr. Pooja Mishra, Program Head of Retail Management at BIMTECH, gave an introductory speech, which was followed by the welcome address by renowned industry dignitaries such as the members of the Board of Governors - Jayshree Mohta, Alok Gupta, Saket Khaitan, Kamal Singh, Rajiv Kishore Dubey, and Vikas Kandoi. This was followed by welcome address by the Director, Harivansh Chaturved.
03 August 2020||New Delhi,||NCDRC tells developer Rs. 3.22 cr. to refund buyer||The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has ordered Pioneer Urban Land & Infrastructure Ltd., the developers of Araya housing complex in Gurugram Sector 62, to refund Rs. 3.22 crore deposited by a buyer along with 9% interest for failing to deliver the apartment despite lapse of five years.
