04 June 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai escapes Nisarga’s fury, Gujarat heaves sigh of relief||Torrential rain, accompanied by wind speeds of up to 120 kmph over a radius of 60 km, marked Cyclone Nisarga’s landfall at Murud in Raigad district of Maharashtra on Wednesday. Nisarga, which was categorised as a severe cyclone and which had kept the authorities on their toes for the past few days, made landfall around noon. At least two died in the cyclone. While one died when an electric pole fell in Raigad district, a senior citizen lost her life and five of her relatives were injured in a house collapse in Khed taluk of Pune district. “The landfall of the cyclone began at 12.30 p.m. at Alibaug and the process was completed by 2.30 p.m,” India Meteorological Department (IMD) Director-General Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said. IMD officials said the cyclone might weaken into a “deep depression” by midnight. Given its final trajectory, the cyclone spared Mumbai any damage. But nine incidents of slab collapse and 117 complaints of trees falling, causing damage to vehicles, were reported from the city. Plane skids off runway A U.S. cargo aircraft skidded off the runway while landing at the Mumbai airport from Bengaluru, leading to a temporary closure of all flight operations. Wind speeds of up to 90 kmph were recorded in the city. A total of 117 complaints of falling trees and branches was reported from Parel, Churchgate, Kalachowki, CST, Kurla and other areas. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) moved people to safer locations at Cuffe Parade, Worli Koliwada, Mahim Causeway, Juhu and Shimpoli in Borivali. Navi Mumbai reported 147 tree-falls, while the Panvel Municipal Corporation recorded 150. In Raigad district, Murud, Alibag, Shrivardhan and Uran taluks bore the brunt and around 13,541 people were evacuated to safety. After reaching Diveagar in Shrivardhan, the speed of the cyclone lowered to 115 km per hour. As the cyclonic storm lost its intensity, it moved north-eastwards at a speed of 65-75 kmph. It was located about 100 km from Alibagh and headed to Nashik, Dhule and Nandurbar late on Wednesday evening. In Gujarat, the cyclone did not hit the coastal areas as expected. The authorities were, however, fully equipped to deal with any eventuality. The government on Wednesday shifted over 60,000 people living in low-level areas in south Gujarat to safer places as a precautionary measure.
04 June 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. to boost infrastructure in areas along China border||To ramp up infrastructure along the China border, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has decided to spend 10% funds of a Centrally sponsored scheme only on projects in Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Sikkim. The Border Area Development Programme (BADP) has been allocated Rs. 784 crore in the 2020-21 fiscal and the money is distributed to the border States and Union Territories depending on various criteria such as the length of the international border and population. In 2019-20, Rs. 825 crore was granted for the scheme. According to the new guidelines, approved by Union Home Minister Amit Shah effective April 1, the projects for developing strategically important villages and towns in border areas that have been identified by the border guarding forces will be given priority. Around Rs. 78.4 crore has been parked for projects in areas inhabited along the 3,488 km China border. 10 km of border Construction of roads, bridges, culverts, primary schools, health infrastructure, playfields, irrigation works, mini-stadiums, indoor courts for basketball, badminton and table tennis can be undertaken within 10 km of the border. The creation of infrastructure “would help integrate these areas with the hinterland, create a positive perception of care by the country and encourage people to stay on in the border areas leading to safe and secure borders”, the MHA said.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 cases: State’s tally crosses 4,000 mark||With 267 new positive cases on Wednesday, Karnataka’s COVID-19 tally touched 4,063 and this is just three days after the number crossed 3,000. It took 69 days for the cases to cross 1,000 on May 15 [after the first case was reported on March 9], and thereafter the number doubled in nine days, touching 2,089 on May 24. Then, in seven days the tally crossed 3,000, and now in three days another 1,000 cases have been added. In May alone, the cases saw an almost six-fold increase and the huge rise is predominantly owing to the influx of people from Maharashtra and a few other States. From 565 cases on April 30, the number of positive cases rose to 3,221 till May 31. In fact, the number of cases began to increase ever since the State eased lockdown restrictions on May 18. Apart from the 267 new cases on Wednesday, one more death from the virus has been reported taking the toll to 53, apart from two non-COVID-19 deaths. An 80-year-old female patient, a resident of Davangere district, developed symptoms of fever, cough, and breathlessness on May 28, after she came into contact with another positive patient. She was brought dead to a designated hospital on May 29, and her test results came out positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. Among the new cases, 250 are inter-State travellers. A major chunk of the new cases were reported in Kalaburgi with 105. These include 27 children. With Wednesday’s tally, Kalaburagi crossed the 500 mark, making it the district with the highest number of positive cases. With 128 discharges so far, this district has 375 active cases now. Meanwhile, Udupi continues to be the district with the most active cases, with 408 patients in various designated hospitals. The coastal district, which reported its highest numbers on Tuesday, saw 62 cases on Wednesday.  With 111 discharges, the number of active cases across the State is 2,494 now. While 16 of these are in the ICU, the condition of others is stable.  Meanwhile, sources in the Health Department said that random testing was stopped in Padarayanapura since June 1, owing to the shortage of swab collection tubes and kits. With a total of 67 cases, including four policemen and the area councillor, nearly 12% of Bengaluru Urban’s 417 cases are from this containment zone. Most of them have recovered and there are only eight active cases from this area now. The area was sealed on April 10 after four cases were reported from a single family there. Subsequently on May 14, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) started random testing and so far, over 1,200 samples have been tested here. Sources said that the BBMP will now take up only testing of symptomatic primary contacts, SARI and ILI cases here.   How the COVID-19 numbers doubled  March 9: 1st case reported in Karnataka March 31: 100 cases April 10: 200 cases April 16: 300 cases April 20: 400 cases April 25: 500 cases May 2: 600 cases May 7: 700 cases May 10: 800 cases May 12: 900 cases May 15: 1,056 cases May 24: 2,089 cases May 31: 3,221 cases June 3: 4,063 cases
04 June 2020||Chennai,||India registers massive spike of 9,577 cases; toll rises to 6,077||India on Wednesday registered a massive spike of 9,577 new COVID-19 cases and 253 fatalities, according to data from the State Health Departments. The number of active cases stands at 2,16,735, including 1,06,658 actives ones, while 1,04,000 people have recovered. The death toll rose to 6,077. The Indian Council of Medical Research said that 1,37,158 samples were tested on Wednesday, going up from 1,28,868 on June 2, when India registered 8,917 cases. India, in terms of its confirmed cases, is closing in on three European countries, whose health systems collapsed under the pandemic. These are Italy with 2,33,836 cases, the U.K. with 2,81,264 cases and Spain with 2,40,326 cases. While cases continue to climb in these countries, they are much fewer than India. Italy, for instance, registered slightly more than 300 cases on Wednesday, the U.K. is adding around 1,800 cases a day on an average, while Spain has been adding less than 600 cases since May 25.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Ankit was killed while pacifying the crowds’||The Delhi Police Crime Branch on Wednesday filed a chargesheet in the Karkardooma courts in the murder case of Intelligence Bureau staffer Ankit Sharma during the north-east Delhi riots in February this year. Ten persons, including suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, have been charged with kidnapping, murder and rioting in the Chand Bagh area on February 25. Statements of 81 witnesses were recorded during the investigation. According to the police report, Ankit was killed when he was trying to pacify the crowd on both sides near Hussain’s house. “Several witnesses in the case stated that on February 25 at about 5 PM, Ankit Sharma had moved ahead from the crowd of Hindu people standing a few distance away from Tahir Hussain’s house to pacify the people of both sides, the rioters numbered in 20-25, equipped with stones, rod, lathi, danda, knife etc came from the side of Chand Bagh Pulia, caught hold of Ankit Sharma on the instigation of Tahir Hussain from the front of Tahir Hussain’s house and dragged him to Chand Bagh Pulia (sic),” states the chargesheet. Ankit’s post-mortem report, as per the chargesheet, has revealed 51 injuries caused by sharp-edged and blunt objects. Based on the witnesses’ account, a rough site map of Ankit’s murder and dumping of his body was prepared by the police. He was allegedly attacked on the main Karawal Nagar road opposite a bakery shop at the corner near the Chand Bagh culvert. The building of Hussain, which is 50-60 metres away from the spot, was allegedly used by the rioters for throwing bricks, stones, petrol bombs and acid bombs. No CCTV footage of the violence was found as all cameras were either burnt or damaged during the riots. In the chargesheet, the witnesses have categorically stated that Hussain was present at the spot where Ankit was murdered and he was leading the mob which later moved to his building. Some witnesses have also claimed that Hussain was present in the building when the mob was pelting stones and petrol bombs from his terrace. Video footage recovered from a witness’s mobile phone shows a person wearing a red shirt, along with two others, throwing the body of Ankit into a drain near the Chand Bagh culvert. The faces of three men are not visible, says the chargesheet. One of the accused, Haseen alias Mullaji, was arrested by the Special Cell on the basis of interception of his phone calls. In a call to his relative, Haseen allegedly spoke about murdering a person and dumping his body in a drain, says the chargesheet.
04 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,||Scaling new heights to attend online classes||For hours together, she sat on the tiled roof of her two-storey house learning lessons online. Engrossed in her class, fifth semester BA English student Namitha Narayanan was almost oblivious of people watching her in curiosity. Namitha found the rooftop of her house at Areekkal, near Kottakkal, the only place with fairly good signal strength for mobile data. “We tried all places in my house, including verandas and roofs. And finally I got fairly good signal strength on the top of our two-storey house,” she said. A student of KMCT Arts and Science College, Kuttippuram, Namitha had tried different mobile networks. But all of them had feeble signals at her house, making it tough for her to attend the online sessions when classes began on Monday. When it rained on Monday and Tuesday, she used an umbrella, which shielded her from the bright sun on Wednesday.  Her father, K.C. Narayanan Kutty, an employee at Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala, and mother, M. Jeeja, a teacher at GMLP School, Malappuram, lent her support as Namitha attended online classes from their rooftop. They did not mind when she broke a few tiles. They propped up an iron ladder for her to climb atop the roof from the first floor terrace. “Rain is not an issue, but thunder and lightning are. Like me, there are many students without good connectivity. Several of them are trying out different alternatives,” Namitha said, sharing the experience of her friends. Her elder sister Nayana, who is a fourth year BAMS student at Vaidyaratnam P.S. Varier Ayurveda College, Kottakkal, too is full of support. “I too have to find a corner with good connectivity,” she said. Mr. Narayanan Kutty said they had approached several data operators to support their study. But lack of cable availability denied them better data services.
04 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Rising trend continues in the State with 82 new cases||The number of active COVID-19 cases in the State is slowly moving towards the four-digit figure, with 82 more testing positive on Wednesday. While 53 of the new cases were detected in people who came from abroad, 19 cases were found in returnees from other parts of the country. Ten persons, including five health-care workers, are believed to have contracted the disease from the community (known/unknown sources of infection). Kerala has a total of 832 active cases now, a figure which spiked from 16, in less than a month’s time. Of the 1,494 cases reported in the State so far, 651 persons have recovered from the disease. On Wednesday, 24 patients recovered from the disease. Thiruvananthapuram district has 14 new cases, Malappuram 11, Idukki 9, Kottayam 8, Alappuzha and Kozhikode 7 each, Palakkad, Kollam and Ernakulam 5 each, Thrissur 4, Kasaragod 3 and Kannur and Pathanamthitta 2 each. Of the active cases, Palakkad has the highest number of COVID-19 patients at 148. Kannur has 118 patients, Malappuram has 90 cases and Kasaragod has 86 cases. The number of persons under surveillance has gone up to 1,60,304, of whom, 1,58,864 are either in home or institutional quarantine, while 1,440 with mild symptoms are isolated in hospitals. The State is currently testing an average of 3,000 samples daily and in the last 24 hours has tested 4,004 samples. The cumulative number of samples tested so far is 73,712, apart from the sentinel surveillance samples, which number 16,711. Six more regions from Kollam, Wayanad, Ernakulam and Kasaragod have been designated as hotspots and add up to a total of 128 hotspots in the State.
04 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Border opens after 48 hours of flip-flop||After going back and forth for 48 hours on the issue of movement to and from Delhi, the Gurugram district administration finally withdrew the curbs on inter-State movement on Wednesday. The Haryana government had on May 31 decided to open borders with all neighbouring States in the wake of the Home Ministry’s guidelines on “Unlock-1”. However, the Gurugram administration on Tuesday imposed curbs on inter-State movement. Within a few hours, another set of directions were issued withdrawing the restrictions on the movement. The confusion persisted till the final order on lifting the curbs was made public on Wednesday evening. The two conflicting orders came on the heels of Chief Minister Manohar Lal explaining during the day how movement between Delhi and Haryana was a matter of “mutual understanding” and the national capital had shut its borders despite the State willing to open them. The decision of the Gurugram administration has come as a huge reprieve to a large workforce commuting to the Millennium City for work. They are however keeping their fingers crossed over the permanence of the Gurugram order. A Twitter user underscored his fear saying: “Hope they don’t change it next morning.”
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Record rise takes T.N. tally past 25,000-mark||Tamil Nadu reported a record rise in COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. With 1,286 fresh cases, its tally breached the 25,000-mark. Chennai, for the first time, accounted for 1,000-plus cases on a single day. With this new high, T.N.’s COVID-19 count has surged to 25,872*. Meanwhile, another 610 persons were discharged from hospitals, taking the total number of patients discharged so far to 14,316. The State’s toll crossed 200 with 11 more fatalities in Chennai, Tiruchi and Chengalpattu. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 1,012, taking its tally to 17,598. The city currently has 8,405 active cases, and accounts for 158 of the 208 deaths in the State. After several days, the number of samples tested went up to 14,101, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 5,28,534. Among the 11 fatalities was a 47-year-old man from Chennai. He was admitted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on May 31, and died on June 1 due to respiratory failure. A 48-year-old man from Chengalpattu was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai with fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for three days. He had systemic hypertension. He died on June 2 due to respiratory failure. Tiruchi reported its first death due to COVID-19 after a 70-year-old woman with diabetes and hypertension died at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on June 2 of COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. Of the new cases, which included 498 women and one transgender, Tiruvallur district reported 58 and Chengalpattu 61 cases. With this, the total number of cases increased to 1,087 in Tiruvallur and 1,370 in Chengalpattu. There were 19 new cases in Kancheepuram, 17 in Thoothukudi and 16 in Tiruvannamalai. Coimbatore reported four indigenous cases. Forty-two persons, who returned from other States and abroad, also tested positive in various parts of the State. Of this, 13 persons from Dubai and two from other parts of UAE tested positive during entry and exit tests. Four persons who flew in from Gujarat tested positive, while 16 persons from Maharashtra, five from Delhi and two form Karnataka - who returned by road and rail - also tested positive. Till date, a total of 1,724 persons who returned to the State from other States and countries have tested positive. A total of 846 persons, who returned by ship to Chennai and Thoothukudi, were screened. So far, a total of 1,437 children aged 0 to 12 and 2,536 persons aged above 60 have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||No need for third party intervention, says China||China’s Foreign Ministry on Wednesday said there was “no need for third party intervention” on the border row with India and both nations were “capable” of resolving the issue. This comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President Donald Trump discussed the border situation in a telephone call. New Delhi on Tuesday said the border situation was discussed by the two leaders during the call. Last week, Mr. Trump offered to mediate between India and China amid the ongoing border tensions and New Delhi appeared to reject the offer, with officials saying that India and China remained “engaged” through diplomatic and military channels. China’s Foreign Ministry said “there is no need for third party intervention” and that bilateral channels were open to resolve the tensions along the LAC. “China’s position on the border issue is consistent and clear,” said Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Lecturers reluctant to come to Bengaluru to evaluate II PU Science answer scripts||The evaluation of answer scripts of the second pre-university examination is likely to hit a roadblock as lecturers — particularly those evaluating Science papers — have decided to skip the process. The Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE) has identified evaluation camps for Science subjects only in Bengaluru and lecturers are unwilling to travel owing to the rise in COVID-19 cases. While 40% of the evaluation of Commerce and Arts scripts has been completed, there is uncertainty over the correction of Science papers as it was supposed to commence on June 5. Results on July 8 Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar had announced that the II PU examination results will be announced on July 8. Ninge Gowda A.H., president of the Karnataka State Pre-University College Lecturers’ Association, said they will participate in the evaluation only if it is decentralised at the district level. “The number of COVID-19 cases are increasing daily and we do not want to risk our health by travelling. Moreover, most of us are dependent on public transport,” he said. A total of 49 lakh answer scripts will have to be evaluated in 39 different subjects and 7,500 evaluators have been roped in. However, M. Kanagavalli, Director, Department of Pre-University Education, said that they have taken all precautions. “We will make arrangements for lecturers to stay in lodges and PGs in Bengaluru,” he said, adding that lecturers under home or institutional quarantine, those with comorbidities, and those who are pregnant are exempted. Department officials said that they could not decentralise the Science evaluation for fear of anything going wrong. “While transporting answer scripts, even if one sheet is misplaced, it will cause problems. We are accountable to the students,” said an official.
04 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi sees 1,513 new cases, 50 more deaths||A total of 1,513 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 23,645, according to a government health bulletin. This is the biggest single-day jump in the number of cases in the city so far. Six of the last seven days, including Wednesday, saw more than 1,000 cases being recorded, it was 990 cases on one day. Also, 50 more deaths have been reported, pushing the toll to 606. But only nine of these deaths were declared in the past 24 hours. The number of patients on ventilator was 42 on Monday, said the bulletin.
04 June 2020||WASHINGTON,||U.S. to bar Chinese flights from June 16||The Trump administration on Wednesday barred Chinese passenger carriers from flying to the U.S. starting on June 16 as it pressures Beijing to let U.S. air carriers resume flights amid simmering tensions between the world’s two largest economies. The move penalises China for failing to comply with an existing agreement on flights between the two countries.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India registers massive spike of 9,501 cases||India on Wednesday registered a massive spike of 9,501 fresh COVID-19 cases and 253 fatalities, according to data from the State Health Departments. The number of active cases stands at 2,16,659, including 1,06,582 actives ones, while 1,04,000 people have recovered. The death toll rose to 6,077. The Indian Council of Medical Research said that 1,37,158 samples were tested on Wednesday, going up from 1,28,868 on June 2, when India registered 8,917 cases. India, in terms of its confirmed cases, is closing in on three European countries, whose health systems collapsed under the pandemic. These are Italy with 2,33,836 cases, the U.K. with 2,81,264 cases and Spain with 2,40,326 cases. While cases continue to climb in these countries, they are much fewer than India.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||A noble exercise that didn’t take off fully||Bengaluru The South Western Railway (SWR) had converted 320 coaches into COVID-19 care centres to house patients. However, to date, these converted sleeper coaches have not been used for their new purpose as there is no demand for them by the State government. The SWR is now using around 160 of these modified coaches to ferry migrant workers in Shramik Special trains.
04 June 2020||MANGALURU,||DK-Kasaragod border opens for travellers||Thousands of regular commuters between Dakshina Kannada (DK) and Kasaragod districts can heave a sigh of relief. The district administrations have agreed to facilitate their daily movement after obtaining online passes with immediate effect. Movement is allowed only through Talapady check-post for now. Those travelling have to register on https://bit.ly/dkdpermit for the daily pass.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,||HC declines to stay FIRs in Padarayanapura case||The Karnataka High Court has declined to stay multiple First Information Reports (FIRs) registered against accused persons in connections with the attack on health workers and police during a drive to identify persons for COVID-19 quarantine in Padarayanapura on April 19. Justice P.B. Bajanthri passed the order on petitions filed challenging the legality of registration of multiple FIRs.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Protests against new citizenship law go online||Members of over 190 student organisations as well as activists and individuals from across the country held protests on Wednesday to highlight the “repression of anti-CAA activists and democratic voices of dissent”, and uploaded photos of their stir on social media.
04 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan tops in virus management index||Rajasthan has occupied the first rank in COVID-19 management index analysed for 10 States by the Central government. Though the tally of COVID-19-positive cases in the State is heading towards 10,000 mark, the graph of active cases has been constantly declining.
04 June 2020||New Delhi,||Nurses’ union warns of strike over working hours||Nurses working at AIIMS protested for the third consecutive day on Wednesday, demanding that their working hours on COVID-19 duty wearing Personal Protective Equipment be brought down to four from six hours.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||7-day home quarantine for arriving passengers||All asymptomatic passengers who enter/deboard in the Capital will have to home quarantine themselves for seven days, the Delhi government said on Wednesday. The government modified the earlier rule of 14-day quarantine issued by the Central government.
04 June 2020||RAICHUR/YADGIR,||44 fresh cases in Raichur, Yadgir districts||As many as 44 fresh positive cases of COVID-19 were registered in both Raichur and Yadgir districts on Wednesday. Of these cases, 35 are from Raichur and nine from Yadgir. In Yadgir, all nine persons who tested positive had returned from Maharashtra, while 30 of the 35 patients in Raichur had returned from the neighbouring State.
04 June 2020||UDUPI,||62 test positive in Udupi||As many as 62 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Wednesday. These included 43 men, 15 women and four children in the age group of three to 10. All the 62 had returned to the district recently from Maharashtra. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said here that all these persons had been shifted to COVID-19 hospitals in the district.
04 June 2020||KALABURAGI,||105 new positive cases in Kalaburagi district||Kalaburagi district registered 105 new COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday taking the total number of such cases to 510 which included seven deaths and 128 people discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection. The district has 375 active cases.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Fee structure to come for COVID treatment||The State Branch of the Indian Medical Association has drawn up a fee structure for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals. With the Health Department announcing that it would fix a price cap for treatment in the private sector, the IMA has urged the Department to hold discussions before arriving at the final structure. Officials said the decision on the fee structure would be announced soon.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||T.N. moves SC for 50% BC quota in medical courses||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court for a direction to the Centre to implement 50% reservation for Backward Classes in the State in the All India Quota seats for medical and dental courses. The government accused the Centre of violating the “right of the people of Tamil Nadu to have a fair education” by not implementing the quota.
04 June 2020||Chennai,||‘Contact info, Aadhaar details must for testing’||Flagging concerns about incomplete information provided by some private laboratories, Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash has urged all labs to ensure that they collect and verify contact information as well the Aadhaar numbers of all persons who get tested for COVID-19.If a person does not have an Aadhaar number and a sample has been taken, he shall be placed under quarantine till the results are declared, he said.
04 June 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat moves 60,000 to safer places||Though Cyclone Nisarga did not hit the Gujarat coast as was expected, the State authorities were equipped to deal with any eventuality that could have arisen. The Gujarat government on Wednesday shifted over 60,000 people living in low-lying vulnerable areas in south Gujarat to safer places as a precautionary measure against Cyclone Nisarga. “We have shifted more than 60,000 people living in coastal areas of south Gujarat. Special measures were taken in Valsad and Navsari districts as the cyclone was expected to make an impact there. The administration has taken all precautions regarding COVID-19 at shelter houses where people were taken to,” said Pankaj Kumar, Additional Chief Secretary (Revenue), in Gandhinagar. Safe terrain "More than 250 pregnant women in vulnerable areas have been moved to safer places and more than 250 ambulances put on stand-by. Around 170 medical emergency teams have been deployed to tackle the situation in south Gujarat," Mr. Kumar added. The government had deployed more than a dozen teams of NDRF and six teams of SDRF in coastal districts in South Gujarat and Saurashtra, while around a dozen extra NDRF teams were put on standby mode in neighbouring districts. The State had also asked all industrial units in Vapi to remain shut for a day on Wednesday and other industrial areas were directed to take all safety measures. According to Mr. Kumar, the administration also ensured that no power cuts occur at COVID-19 hospitals in these areas during the severe cyclone. All fishermen in these areas were asked to return from the sea. People associated with prawn cultivation and salt pans have been shifted to safer places. The district administration had pulled down 236 large hoardings in Surat, Valsad, and other cities in south Gujarat. As many as 125 high masts too have been pulled down as a precaution.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lt. General-level talks with China on June 6||India and China will hold talks at the level of Lieutenant Generals on June 6 in an effort to resolve the tensions on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), sources said. The Indian side will be represented by the General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the Leh-headquartered 14 Corps that covers eastern Ladakh, sources said. The meeting will take place at one of the designated border meeting points. The groundwork for this was laid at the third meeting at the level of Major Generals held on Tuesday, it has been learnt. Ahead of the important talks, Northern Army Commander Lt. Gen. Y.K. Joshi is in Leh, the sources said. He was earlier supposed to reach Leh on Tuesday, but that got delayed. Daily discussions are on between the militaries on the ground at various levels, including at the Brigadier level and twice by Major Generals earlier. But there has been no breakthrough so far to end the impasse. Transgressions, and with that face-offs, tend to increase sharply in summers as both sides increase their patrols. According to data, there were 273 transgressions by Chinese troops in 2016, 426 in 2017, 326 in 2018 and 356 in 2019. A proposal to set up a hotline between senior officers to resolve such issues quickly has been held up for several years due to procedural differences. In January last, Army Chief Gen. Manoj Naravane stated that all issues had been resolved and the procedural aspects ironed out. The hotline would be between the Directors General of Military Operations from India and China’s Western Theatre Command.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet nod for agri marketing reforms||The Union Cabinet has approved an amendment to the 65-year-old Essential Commodities Act, removing cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes from the list of essential commodities. The amendment will be made effective immediately via an ordinance, according to the Agriculture Ministry. At its meeting on Wednesday, the Cabinet also approved ordinances to remove restrictions on farmers selling their produce outside notified market yards, as well as to facilitate contract farming and allow farmers to engage in direct marketing, according to an official statement. All these measures were promised in the Aatmanirbhar package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month. Foreign investment The amendment to the ECA, which has been under discussion for more than a decade, will deregulate the production, storage, movement and distribution of these food commodities. By removing the private sector’s fears of “excessive regulatory interference,” the Centre hopes to increase private and foreign investment, especially in cold storage facilities and the modernisation of the food supply chain, said the statement. Adequate processing and storage facilities will reduce wastage and increase income for farmers of perishable commodities. To protect consumers, the amendment allows regulation during war, famine, extraordinary price rise and natural calamity, while providing exemptions for exporters and processors at such times as well. The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 aims to open up agricultural marketing outside notified mandis for farmers, and also remove barriers to inter-State trade. While both agriculture and markets are State subjects, the Centre is counting on the fact that trade and commerce in foodstuffs is part of the concurrent list to push through its ordinance. “We are not touching markets. We are simply saying that the full country outside the physically demarcated premises of mandis run by APMC committees should be open to a farmer to sell his produce to anyone with a PAN card,” said Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal. “Why is the farmer, who is the producer, restricted from selling his own produce? Those who buy from the farmer are unlimited in their further marketing or export, but the farmer is being curbed. By allowing the farmer more choices, it will raise his income and also reduce wastage and improve quality,” he added.  In fact, industry sources suggest that 60% of agricultural trade already takes place outside the mandis through unregulated sales. By legalising and facilitating such sales, the Centre hopes that farmers will benefit, rather than middlemen. Not all States have been on board with these reforms, especially as State governments will not be allowed to levy fees on these sales. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020 is aimed at facilitating contract farming, where a private buyer contracts to purchase a crop at a certain price at the beginning of a season, transferring the risk of market unpredictability from the farmer to the corporate sponsor. However, farmers groups have expressed concern that corporates will benefit more than small farmers from such direct marketing measures, and wish to see the specific provisions of the ordinance before welcoming it.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Virus claims 7 lives in Telangana, one in Karnataka||Eleven more COVID-19 patients have died in Tamil Nadu, taking the toll to 208 while four COVID-19 deaths and 180 new cases were reported in Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday. In Karnataka, apart from 267 new cases, one more death was reported, taking the toll to 53. Karnataka’s tally touched 4,063. While it took 69 days to cross 1,000 cases on May 15 (after the first was reported on March 9) the number doubled in nine days touching 2,089 on May 24. Later, in seven days the total crossed 3,000, and in three days, 1,000 more cases were added. In May alone, the number of cases saw almost a six-fold increase, and the huge spike was mainly due to the influx of people from Maharashtra and a few other States. From 565 cases on April 30, the number of positive cases rose to 3,221 by May 31. The number of cases started shooting up ever since the State eased lockdown restrictions on May 18. An 80-year-old woman of Davangere district, presenting with fever, cough and breathlessness on May 28 after contact with a positive patient, was brought dead to a designated hospital on May 29. She tested positive. Among new cases, 250 were inter-State travellers. Many new cases were in Kalaburgi - 105, including 27 children. Udupi had the highest number of active cases at 408, in designated hospitals. The coastal district added 62 cases on Wednesday. While Raichur reported 35 cases, Bengaluru Urban and Mandya saw 20 and 13 respectively. Of the total new cases in Andhra Pradesh, 79 were those of local people, 94 of migrant returnees or people from other States and seven were foreign returnees. Chittoor district reported two deaths and Krishna and Kurnool, one death each. The toll in Kurnool at 26 was the highest among districts. It was followed by Krishna (19), and the two districts account for 66% of the deaths in the State. The toll had gone up to 68. Tamil Nadu reported a record rise with 1,286 fresh patients, its tally breaching the 25,000-mark. Chennai, for the first time, accounted for 1,000-plus cases on a single day. With this new high, T.N.’s COVID-19 count surged to 25,872. Meanwhile, another 610 persons were discharged from hospitals, taking the total number of patients discharged so far to 14,316. The State’s toll crossed 200 with 11 more fatalities in Chennai, Tiruchi and Chengalpattu. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 1,012, taking its tally to 17,598. Kerala’s active cases were up on Wednesday, with 82 more testing positive for the disease. While 53 of the new cases were among people who came from abroad, 19 cases were in people who returned to Kerala from other States. Ten persons, including five healthcare workers were believed to have contracted the disease from the community. Kerala has a total of 832 active cases of COVID-19 now, up from 16, in less than a month’s time.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, and Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai bureaus )
04 June 2020||New Delhi,||Disaster Management Act is a good law: Sibal||The National Disaster Management Act (NDMA) 2005, enacted by the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, is a good law but the Narendra Modi government is not following it in its entirety, former Law Minister Kapil Sibal said on Wednesday. Denying it to be a badly drafted law, Mr. Sibal, in an exclusive interview with The Hindu , said, “In fact, my opinion is just the opposite. I have referred to the statutory provisions of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, in terms of which the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), chaired by the Prime Minister, along with nine nominated members is to approve a National Plan to deal with a national disaster.” Several Opposition parties, including the Congress, in the past, have accused the Centre of ‘taking over most administrative power and disempowering States’ using the Disaster Management Act. “The NDMA is charged (Section12) with the responsibility of issuing guidelines prescribing minimum standards of relief to persons affected by the disaster including minimum requirements to be provided in relief camps in relation to shelter, food, drinking water, medical cover and sanitation. Special provisions are to be made for widows and orphans along with ex gratia assistance on account of loss of life and for restoration of means of livelihood. Unfortunately, the NDMA has washed its hands of these obligations... In fact, this good law has been followed more in its breach than in compliance thereof,” Mr. Sibal added. Workers’ issue Asked if the Supreme Court should have intervened earlier on the migrant workers’ issue, he said, “The decision not to interfere earlier and to have accepted the Solicitor General’s statement that there were no migrants on the road is certainly a decision that is open to criticism.” On the issue of institutions, including the Supreme Court, coming under attack from social media platforms — an issue highlighted by Supreme Court judge Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul — that can lead to erosion of faith, the former Law Minister said social media was not the only factor. “There are many things that have happened within the court in the recent past that have contributed to this, which is why retired judges of the court have expressed their misgivings about the functioning of the court. The fact that in January, 2019, four distinguished judges at a press conference expressed concerns about the functioning of the court and the threat to democracy, had nothing to do with the social media. The fact that an ex-Chief Justice presided over a Bench on a Saturday in respect of allegations concerning him, had nothing to do with the social media. It is time for the institution to introspect and not blame only those beyond court precincts,” Mr. Sibal said.
04 June 2020||Chennai,||‘Border strife more serious than in the past’||The ongoing border tension with China at multiple points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is more serious than past incidents, indicating China’s planning and the likelihood of a protracted stand-off, two senior former Generals said on Wednesday. Unlike previous LAC incidents that were localised, the current stand-offs were spread over at least four points along the LAC and involved more troops than before, which complicated the possibility of an early disengagement and return to status quo, they said. “The fact of the matter is some kind of planning has gone through before these multiple face-offs,” said Lt. Gen. (retd) S.L. Narasimhan, Member, National Security Advisory Board. “Earlier, they used to take place in one place. This time there have been multiple face-offs and geographically spaced out, in Sikkim, Pangong Tso and Galwan. The kind of numbers we see is also not what we saw earlier, and the aggression has been more than normal.” ‘Well-prepared’ “Normal face-offs happen every year, they don’t lead to these kind of incidents,” added Lt. Gen. (retd) D.S. Hooda, former Northern Army Commander. “This is much more serious. They have come completely well-prepared ... We have never seen this level of violence,” he added. Both were speaking at a webinar organised by the Institute of Chinese Studies. Stand-offs in at least four locations along the LAC remain unresolved, with reports of a build-up in Galwan valley, Pangong Tso and Hot Springs in Ladakh, and Naku La in Sikkim, with Chinese troops present on India’s side of the LAC in some of these spots. Talks at the level of Lieutenant Generals are set for June 6. Gen. Hooda said a key difference was that past incidents, including in Depsang in 2013, Chumar in 2014 and Doklam in 2017, were localised, triggered by road-building activity. “We were absolutely clear of the red lines and demands of two sides. One wanted to build, the other said no. Therefore, we knew the steps towards resolution. I am not sure we know that in this case. What is it the Chinese want, and why [are there incidents] in so many areas? Will they ease off and go back having invested so much and come into these areas? That adds to risk and possible difficulty in resolving it. We are in for tough hard negotiations and maybe a protracted stand off,” he said. Also new in this instance is the stand-off at Galwan valley, which is not one of the points on the LAC where there have been differing perceptions of alignment. In Pangong lake, face-offs had occurred in the past, as India has been patrolling up to its LAC at Finger 8 while China would come up to Finger 2 ( the “fingers” from 1 to 8, running from west to east, refer to mountain spurs on the lake’s northern banks). Here also the stand-off is different, as Chinese troops are now present in the area between Fingers 4 and 8 and are preventing India from patrolling up to Finger 8, effectively altering the status quo. Gen. Hooda suggested that clarifying the LAC in all key areas needed to be done “on an urgent basis”.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Need new stimulus of Rs. 10 lakh cr.’||The Centre needs to announce a Rs. 10 lakh crore fiscal stimulus package providing universal food ration and cash transfers for 80% of households in order to revive the economy at this time, the Heterodox Economists Collective has urged. Employment guarantees must be expanded for both rural and urban workers at a time of soaring joblessness, the group of economists added during a webinar on Wednesday. Funding such a package would require suspension of fiscal deficit targets, which could impact the country’s credit rating. “It does not help if you have a wonderful credit rating if your economy is going down the drain,” warned JNU professor and economist Jayati Ghosh. “If fear of credit rating agencies are what drives the government’s policies, they are doomed to failure,” she added. Presenting an analysis of the government’s Rs. 20 lakh crore Atmanirbhar package on Wednesday, the Heterodox Economists Collective observed that the fiscal component amounted to only Rs. 3 lakh crore, which includes already announced budgetary measures. The measures announced for MSMEs would only benefit larger players within that segment, they said, adding that provisions for higher liquidity may not increase actual credit offtake. Minimum support prices for farmers had not kept pace with inflation, while real wages were being suppressed. In order to mitigate the crisis, the public distribution system must be universalised, with free cereals, pulses and cooking oil provided to all for the next six months, said the economists’ group. It proposed cash payments of Rs. 15,000 to the bottom 80% of households as compensation for lost incomes during the 75 days lockdown. Employment guarantees needed to be expanded to urban areas, while agricultural work needed to be included under the existing rural scheme, with 200 days of guaranteed work, said the economists. To fund the package, they suggested the issue of special bonds for low-interest public borrowing, increased central transfers to States and, if required, a monetisation of the central fiscal deficit.
04 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Pinarayi allays concern over NoRK flights||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has sought to play down the Opposition argument that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government was impeding the smooth repatriation of Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) by delaying nod for operating international flights to the State. By categorically stating on Wednesday that the State was not reluctant to accept NoRKs and had not held back approval for operating flights, Mr. Vijayan cleared the air without directly targeting the Opposition. The political slugfest began with the United Democratic Front (UDF) triggering a row, mainly on the strength of Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan’s statement that Kerala had written to the Centre seeking leave for putting in place COVID-19 screening, testing and quarantine facilities once the NoRK arrivals picked up momentum. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran too joined issue and placed the onus for the alleged delay in flying back NoRKs on the State government. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) asked the government to direct local self-government institutions to provide free quarantine facilities for NoRKs. The government had already asked local bodies to utilise their Plan funds for COVID containment, but the panchayats facing paucity of resources were finding the going tough. The latest Opposition move to politicise the repatriation issue is seen as a bid to further buttress its earlier argument that the government was demanding NoRKs to bear the quarantine expenses. Mr. Vijayan had earlier specified the priorities set by the government for bringing back NoRKs and assured that those rendered jobless and the impoverished would not have to bear the quarantine cost. But the Opposition sought to keep the issues alive.
04 June 2020||MUMBAI,||‘India must gird for sharp slowdown’||India should brace itself for a sharp economic slowdown and a difficult fiscal situation by the end of this financial year, former Chief Economic Advisor Arvind Subramanian said on Wednesday. He added that the government could have done much more after the ‘sudden’ lockdown including with helping States deal with the COVID-19 pandemic, enhancing public health infrastructure, on tracing and testing efforts, as well as providing social insurance to the worst affected such as the urban poor. Dr. Subramanian also called for a complete revision of this year’s budget framework, which itself was based on ‘unrealistic numbers’ amid an already slowing economy, as facts on the ground had changed ‘so much’ since it was presented. Similarly, he said there was a need to reframe the terms of reference for the Fifteenth Finance Commission and the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management law, as spending to revive growth would have to take precedence over fiscal considerations in the coming months. “Long-term fiscal macro questions need to be carefully considered whenever this dust settles,” he said at a webinar on the economic and business impact of the COVID-19 pandemic hosted by EY India. “How much should we spend now and what should be the debt reduction path… should we spend an extra 5% of GDP now… I would still say anything that we can spend on public health, cushioning the impact on the poor and those sectors worst hit by the crisis — we should spend as much as necessary.” While the damage on Indian firms’ balance sheets would be far more widespread now compared to the 2008 global financial crisis when infrastructure firms were most affected, the former CEA said more efforts were needed to ensure that firms don’t face permanent damage from the temporary setback due to the pandemic. On the decision to allow States to expand their deficits, Dr. Subramanian said the ‘conditional’ nature of this relaxation made it ‘almost like an IMF rule that the Centre has imposed on States.’ “No doubt States have to reform, but whether this is the time to do this is questionable,” he said.
04 June 2020||PALAKKAD,||Row over death of pregnant elephant in Kerala||The death of a pregnant elephant in a stream at Thiruvizhamkunnu, near Mannarkkad, in Palakkad district on May 27 has kicked up a row with a section of the national media as well as social media branding it as an act of human cruelty. The elephant death came to light two days ago when a forest officer played it up in a sensational way on his Facebook post. The elephant was found sick and had waded into the Velliyar stream near the Thiruvizhamkunnu forest station under the Mannarkkad forest division. It spent more than two days in the stream, often coming to the shore for a brief while. Forest officers tried to save it by using a kumki elephant. However, before the kumki could touch it, the pachyderm succumbed to its injuries. Death due to asphyxia After conducting an autopsy, the elephant was found to have been pregnant and had its jaw bone broken. The death was due to asphyxia as a result of water entering its lungs and trachea. However, it was presumed that the elephant had died after biting an pineapple allegedly filled with explosives. Following the FB post, news spread that the elephant had been fed by some people with the intention of killing it. “We are suspecting that the elephant had fallen prey to an explosive snare used to fend off wild boars. But there is no evidence to suggest that it was intentional,” said K.K. Sunil Kumar, Mannarkkad Divisional Forest Officer. Forest officers said there was no proof of the elephant having eaten the explosive-filled pineapple. But it is a practice among some farmers living in the forest fringes to use such explosive-snare to kill wild boars. A detailed report of the autopsy is expected soon. The State government, meanwhile, has ordered a high-level inquiry into the incident. Forest officers indicated that they had information about some people who could be suspected in the case. Reward offered Meanwhile, ANI quoted animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi as linking the elephant’s death to Malappuram and its people. She said Malappuram was the most violent district in the country. The Humane Society International (HIS), India, one of the largest animal protection organisations in the world, has offered a reward of Rs. 50,000 for helping to identify those who were believed to have set the explosive trap that killed the elephant. Team to probe While condemning the alleged killing of the wild elephant, the HSI asked the people who can provide any information leading to the identification of the culprits to contact it on 7674922044 or atindia@hsi.org. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday constituted a wildlife crime investigation team to probe the killing of the pregnant elephant.
04 June 2020||Srinagar,||IED expert among three Jaish militants killed in Pulwama operation||Three Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) militants, including an improvised explosive device (IED) expert and the mastermind of the recent foiled car bomb attack, were killed in an operation by the security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama. “Among the slain trio, one was a top commander of Jaish and his killing is a big success. He was an IED expert of the outfit and participated in the Afghan war. He was also the mastermind of the foiled car bomb attack in Pulwama on May 28,” said Kashmir Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar. The police identified him as Abdul Rehman, alias Fouji Bhai, a resident of Multan, Pakistan. “Rehman had been active in Kashmir since 2017.An ongoing investigation indicates that the foreign terrorist was the mastermind of the recently averted car bomb attack in Pulwama in addition to two other terrorists of JeM. The identification of two other terrorists is being ascertained,” Mr. Kumar said. Over 40 kg explosives hidden in a car were recently defused in Pulwama. “The trio was trapped in the Kangan area by a joint team of the police, the Army and the CRPF,” the police said. Mr. Kumar said the police have called some people to identify the other two militants. “If they turn out to be locals, their parents will be allowed to participate in the burial at Baramulla district of north Kashmir”. Mr. Kumar said two more Jaish militants and IED experts, identified as Waleed Bhai and Lamboo Bhai, both foreigners, were still active in the area. “We have also identified Jaish chief Abdullah Rashid Gazi, who operates in Khrew area of Pulwama district and is hiding in the woods.” The security forces killed 75 militants, majority of them top commanders, this year in J&K.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet sets up Secretaries’ group to attract investment||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the setting up of an empowered group of secretaries (EGoS) and project development cells (PDCs) in Ministries and departments for attracting investments to India, said Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar. Speaking at a press briefing after the meeting, Mr. Javadekar, referring to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, said: “We know the world’s situation. Industries are thinking to diversify their investments in different localities, so to ensure that investment is enhanced in India, an EGoS has been formed. And simultaneously in every Ministry, there will be a project development cell. This will make India a more investor-friendly destination and we will also hand-hold the new industries.” $5 trillion economy He added that the two decisions would help domestic industries and lead to direct and indirect employment.   The government said the decisions taken at the Cabinet meeting, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, would “reinforce India’s vision of becoming a $5 trillion economy by 2024-25”.   The EGoS would be chaired by the Cabinet Secretary and would include the Secretary of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade as member convener and the NITI Aayog CEO, the Commerce Secretary, the Revenue Secretary and the Economic Affairs Secretary as members. The Secretary of the Department concerned would be co-opted, depending on the project.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rahul calls for clarity on border crisis||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday asked the government to clarify whether or not Chinese soldiers entered into Indian territory. “Can GOI [the Government of India] please confirm that no Chinese soldiers have entered India?” he wrote on Twitter. He also shared a news report that said India and China would hold a top-level military meeting on June 6. Earlier, too, Mr. Gandhi had asked the government to come clean on the stand-off as its silence is fuelling speculation and uncertainty. His tweet came after the Press Information Bureau (PIB) “clarified” that Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had only talked about a differing perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the presence of Chinese troops. On Tuesday, Mr. Singh said in a television interview that a “sizeable number” of Chinese troops had been moved near eastern Ladakh on the LAC and India, too, had taken necessary steps to deal with the situation. “It is being misinterpreted as if Chinese troops entered Indian side of LAC,” read a tweet on the PIB’s official fact-check handle. Congress spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Abhishek Singhvi said the PIB’s clarification “reveals more than what the government is trying to conceal”. “I want to make it clear that we stand with the nation on this issue and we will support any proper policy of the government. To be very aggressive with China, to be neutral, diplomatic or to be negotiatory is the government’s call,” Mr. Singhvi said. “But, with great regret, we must bring to your attention that becoming an Ostrich, putting your head in the sand and trying to avoid and ignore an issue is not to face the real fact...” he said. Mr. Singhvi also questioned the Centre’s claim that the Centre had paid 85% of the cost of the Shramik Special trains run for migrant workers. “The learned Solicitor-General has repeatedly said in the Supreme Court that all of the cost of the Railways, travel for the migrants, is to be borne by the sending States or by the receiving States ... Unless the government of India clarifies, we must take this statement, made in solemnity of court proceedings, as true... Which means whatever the Railway Minister [Piyush Goyal] and other Ministers have been saying is not true,” he said, demanding Mr. Goyal’s resignation.
04 June 2020||KOCHI,||Student taking own life disheartening: HC||Observing that it is disheartening to learn that a student allegedly took away her life due to lack of access to the Internet for attending virtual classes, a single judge of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday referred to a Division Bench a writ petition seeking a direction to CBSE schools not to collect additional fee for conducting online/virtual classes. Justice C.S. Dias passed the order while restraining CBSE-affiliated Sree Budha Central School, Karunagapally, from collecting fee for online classes from Sreelekshmi S. and Dhanvin M. Pillai, third and seventh standard students. The judge observed that the right to education was mandated under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009. According to the petitioner, the school authorities had threatened several parents that unless the fee was paid, school textbooks would not be given to their wards. In fact, the students whose parents objected to the additional fees were denied Whatsapp voice tutorial and other medium of teaching of the first day classes. The school authorities were insisting on payment of fee for online classes because of the lack of proper directions from the State government in this regard. Meanwhile, Girija C.C., mother of two students from Kasaragod, filed a writ petition seeking a directive to the State government and the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) not to broadcast online classes till all State school students were provided the technical facilities for attending online classes. The government had shifted the burden of implementation of the project on the other agencies without any preparation or allotting funds She pointed out that students, especially those from remote areas and the Scheduled Caste, Schedule Tribe and economically backward class communities, were discriminated against because they were not provided with the technological facilities. She said the online classes were broadcast through Victers Channel as well as thorough smartphones and internet. The government had directed head teachers to make arrangements for students who had no high-tech facilities. But no funds had been provided for the same. The government had placed the responsibility on the family of students, libraries and Akshaya centres for providing the facility and asked Samagra Siksha Kerala, Student Police Cadre and NSS volunteers to ensure the technology in remote areas. In fact,the government had shifted the burden of implementation of the project to others, she said.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India slams defacement of rock carvings in Gilgit-Baltistan||India has reacted strongly to reports of vandalism and defacement of ancient Buddhist rock carvings in Gilgit-Baltistan under Pakistan’s control. Official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, Anurag Srivastava, said the incidents, which happened in an area known for its Buddhist carvings, shows Pakistan is dismantling the “invaluable Indian Buddhist heritage” there. “It is a grave concern that the Buddhist symbols are being destroyed and the religious and cultural rights and freedoms are being trampled with impunity in the Indian territories under illegal occupation of Pakistan,” said Mr. Srivastava. The statement has brought into focus the rich Buddhist heritage of the region found in the rock carvings and engravings, especially in areas like Hunza, which were part of the Buddhist circle covering Ladakh and Tibet. The engravings have been in news recently also because of the Diamar-Bhasha hydro power project that the Chinese and the Pakistani companies will construct nearby, as locals have opposed it, claiming it may endanger the heritage.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nation’s name plea can be sent to Centre: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered that a plea to change India’s name exclusively to ‘Bharat’ be converted into a representation and forwarded to the Union government for an appropriate decision. “Bharat and India are both names given in the Constitution. India is already called ‘Bharat’ in the Constitution”, Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde orally said in a virtual court hearing. The petioner, Namah, through his counsel, said ‘India’ is a name of foreign origin. The name can be traced back to the Greek term ‘Indica’. The counsel said, “The word ‘Bharat’ is closely associated to our Freedom Struggle. The cry was ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’.” The court said the petition be transformed into a representation and forwarded to the Ministries, primarily the Ministry of Home Affairs. The petition seeks an amendment to Article 1 of the Constitution, which says “India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States...”. It wants ‘India’ to be struck off from the Article. “This will ensure citizens of this country to get over the colonial past and instil a sense of pride in our nationality. Will also justify the hard fought freedom by our freedom fighters”, it said. The court had dismissed a similar petition in 2016. Then CJI T.S. Thakur had said that every Indian had the right to choose between calling his country ‘Bharat’ or ‘India’.
04 June 2020||Mumbai,||Train services largely unaffected by cyclone||Railway services remained largely unaffected due to Cyclone Nisarga as trains had either been diverted or rescheduled in anticipation the storm’s impact. While Western Railway (WR) reported no issues, Central Railway (CR) said foreign objects hit overhead wires due to the high winds experienced, especially in the section between Panvel and Roha. “At Vidyavihar, the overhead wires were damaged due to a tree fall. The issue was rectified by 4.30 p.m. In other places, there was tripping on the overhead equipment caused due to various objects hitting the wires, such as branches or stray pieces of cloth, etc,” a senior railway officer said. CR officials said that while the ghat section was not affected too much, they would undertake an inspection before letting trains pass. CR had postponed the departures of five train that were scheduled to leave between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. to after 8 p.m. The rescheduled trains included trains to Gorakhpur, Thiruvananthapuram, Darbhanga and Varanasi from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) to Bhubaneshwar. The LTT- Thiruvananthapuram train had to be again rescheduled to 8.20 p.m.. CR and Konkan Railway (KR) had also regulated and diverted certain trains given that the cyclone was going to make landfall near Alibaug. CR regulated two trains coming from Patna and Varanasi, while trains from Kerala were diverted at Madgaon and routed via Pune.
04 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM promises retelecast||Classes telecast on a trial basis on the Victers channel for school students in the first two weeks of the new academic year will be telecast again. No student will be deprived of any class owing to unavailability of television or mobile phone, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Offline classes facilities will be arranged by the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, in tribal settlements and other backward areas, the Chief Minister said during his daily press briefing on Wednesday. Mr. Vijayan spoke in detail about the arrangements made for the online classes. Local self-government institutions, teachers, parent-teacher associations, Kudumbashree units – all were engaged in these efforts. All-round support MLAs had been approached, and they had responded, irrespective of their party affiliations. Arrangement were being made by the Samagra Shiksha for students to view the classes in local talent centres, libraries, tribal study centres, and community learning centres. The Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE), Kerala State Beverages Corporation, and student and youth organisations too had come forward offering help. The telecast schedule of the classes too had been drawn up in a manner that all students benefited. Videos would be uploaded on YouTube and Facebook too. By time the two-week trial period was over, all students would be able to view the classes. The online classes, he reminded, were a temporary arrangement as there was uncertainty over school reopening. It was necessary to draw children into the academic process without any delay. Such a programme was also necessary for their mental development, he said. Student’s death Mr. Vijayan said the death of a Class 10 girl student of Government High School, Irimbiliyam, in Malappuram was unfortunate. As the girl’s father had said she was upset at missing out on the online classes, an investigation by the General Education Department was under way. A preliminary investigation by the department had found that 25 students in the school had no TV or Internet access. The deceased too was on the list. The student’s class teacher had contacted her and said hurdles with the online classes would be addressed. The Irimbiliyam panchayat education committee had prepared an action plan to solve the problems of students in each ward. The school PTA too had decided to provide TV and Internet access. Mr. Vijayan said the police had received information on those who had tried to abuse the teachers who had taken online classes on Victers. Strict action would be taken against them.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||India registers massive spike of 9,501 cases||India, in terms of its confirmed cases, is closing in on three European countries, whose health systems collapsed under the pandemic. These are Italy with 2,33,836 cases, the U.K. with 2,81,264 cases and Spain with 2,40,326 cases. While cases continue to climb in these countries, they are much fewer than India. According to the Union Health Ministry, India’s current fatality rate is 2.80%. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat continue to lead in terms of cases. India’s testing capacity has increased via its 480 government and 208 private laboratories (total 688 laboratories). Cumulatively, 41,03,233 samples have been tested so far for COVID-19, whereas, 1,37,158 samples were tested on Wednesday alone. As part of its healthcare preparation, India has 952 dedicated COVID hospitals with 1,66,332 isolation beds, 21,393 ICU beds and 72,762 oxygen-supported beds are available.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. not to allow Chinese flights from June 16||U.S.-Chinese relations have soured in recent months amid tensions surrounding the novel coronavirus pandemic and Beijing’s move to impose new national security legislation for Hong Kong. The order applies to Air China, China Eastern Airlines Corp, China Southern Airlines Co and Hainan Airlines Holding Co, as well as smaller Sichuan Airlines Co and Xiamen Airlines Co. Chinese carriers are currently flying four round-trip flights to the U.S. weekly. Delta Air Lines and United Airlines have asked to resume flights to China this month, even as Chinese carriers have continued U.S. flights during the pandemic. Delta said in a statement on Wednesday that “we support and appreciate the U.S. government’s actions to enforce our rights and ensure fairness.” United said it looks forward to resuming passenger service between the U.S. and China “when the regulatory environment allows us to do so.” China “remains unable” to say when it will revise its rules “to allow U.S. carriers to reinstate scheduled passenger flights,” a formal order signed by the Department of Transportation’s top aviation official Joel Szabat said.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. to boost facilities along China border||The BADP, which was started in 1980 for the western border, has over the years expanded to cover 396 blocks of 111 border districts in 16 States and two UTs.  The new BADP guidelines said, “10% of the total allocated funds will be additionally allocated to the States/UTs abutting Indo-China border [Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Sikkim and Uttarakhand] for taking up works/projects in the districts abutting Indo-China border.” It said that 10% funds would be reserved as an incentive for the better performing States. Out of the remaining Rs. 638.2 crores, the northeastern States — Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and Sikkim — would get Rs. 255.28 crore, or 40% of the remaining 80% funds. Around Rs. 382.9 crore, or 60%, would be allocated to Bihar, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, West Bengal and the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, the guidelines said. Forces such as the Border Security Force (BSF), deployed along the Bangladesh and Pakistan borders; the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on the China border; the Sashastra Seema Bal along the Nepal border; and the Assam Rifles stationed along the Myanmar border would provide independent feedback on the projects in the blocks concerned and may be tasked to conduct social audit of the works, it stated. No NGO or private institution could be hired for infrastructure related work, the guidelines said.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||No need for third party intervention, says China||Mr. Zhao repeated the Foreign Ministry’s statements from the past week describing the situation as “overall stable and controllable”, in remarks seen as suggesting that escalation along the LAC may be unlikely even if there was no agreement yet on disengagement. Standoff situations and increased deployments have been reported in at least four locations along the LAC in Ladakh and Sikkim, and talks so far have made no headway. ‘Through dialogue’ Mr. Zhao said, “China and India have a full-fledged border related mechanism and communication channel. We have the capability to resolve this issue through dialogue and negotiations. There is no need for third party intervention.” On Wednesday, China’s official media reported the Chinese military in Tibet has held night-time high-altitude “infiltration exercises behind enemy lines”. The Communist Party-run Global Times reported that the “PLA Tibet Military Command recently sent troops to a high-altitude region at an elevation of 4,700 meters at night for infiltration exercises behind enemy lines and tested their combat capability under a harsh environment”. Reports indicated that the drills were held in the Tanggula Mountains, which is not close to the border but on the other side of the Tibet Autonomous Region on the central Tibetan plateau, near the eastern border with Qinghai province. The newspaper’s report noted that “China and India share borders at the high altitude area, and incidents have recently occurred between the two countries’ troops, and both sides reportedly reinforced deployments”. Ma Qian, commander of the scout battalion involved in the drills, told state broadcaster CCTV that “more than 2,000 munitions, including mortar shells, rifle grenades and rockets were fired during the mock battle” and “the exercises not only tested the results of the troops’ training with newly commissioned equipment, but also placed them in an extremely complicated situation”.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, Bhutan ink MoU for environment cooperation||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Bhutan for cooperation in the field of environment protection and management of natural resources. The MoU, signed at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, “will enable establishment and promotion of closer and long-term cooperation in environment protection and management of natural resources on the basis of equity, reciprocity and mutual benefits...” the government said. It will cover air, waste, chemical management, climate change and other areas and will remain in force for 10 years from the date of signing.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Joy that lasts long||Prabuddha is one of the nine yogisvaras who feature in Srimad Bhagavatam, said P.T. Seshadri in a discourse. King Nimi asks the yogisvaras for spiritual advice. Prabuddha says that in this world, people want to lead a comfortable life. They do not want to experience any difficulty. And so they begin to acquire wealth, so that they will not lack any comforts. But the very wealth which they seek so ardently, leads to sorrow. You have to work hard to get wealth. And this wealth eventually becomes the cause for the loss of a person’s peace of mind. His possessions and his relatives are all impermanent. While these do give him joy, the joy does not last. Being mindful of the results of his actions, a man may do a lot of deeds that will earn him punyas. But punyas only enable him to go to svarga, which is not a peaceful place, as we imagine. It is a place where he will witness quarrels between the devas. So, there is no true joy in svarga either. The only lasting joy comes from knowing about the Supreme One, says Prabuddha. He tells Nimi that a person should find an Acharya, who will guide him. He must also serve the deity of his choice. He should have affection towards devotees of Lord Narayana. He should see God in all creatures. He should dress in simple clothes. He should not have a permanent dwelling place of his own. He should learn the Sastras and contemplate on what he has studied. He must have tolerance. He must observe a vow of silence. He must delight in hearing about God’s qualities and His avataras. He must meditate on Him, and spend his whole life in serving Him. He must perform yagas; he must give to the deserving; he must resort to penance. He must do japa. He must have good conduct. He must help God’s devotees, when they are in distress.
04 June 2020||MYSURU,||Bandipur: Licence of 3 homestays revoked||In a move that will provide reprieve to wildlife and environment, the Chamarajanagar district administration has cracked down on proliferation of homestays around Bandipur. This follows a complaint by the Forest Department calling for rescinding the permission issued for resorts and homestays after the Eco Sensitive Zone (ESZ) for Bandipur was notified in 2012 on the grounds that they were inimical to wildlife. The Forest Department had also cited a case of massive mansion with swimming pool being constructed in the ECZ and said that it was a wastage of precious resource in a water-stressed region. Based on the complaint and the report of the Forest Department, Chamarajanagar Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi reviewed the situation and rescinded the licences and permits issued for 3 homestays in the Bandipur ECZ. In one case in Hangala Hobli, Mangala village, a homestay was being renovated illegally and the Gundlupet Tahshildar has been directed to get the property closed and cleared within 10 days. It transpired that the home stay was floated after the draft notification of the ESZ for Bandipur which was issued on August 31st, 2010. The work on the home stay was stopped a few years ago.
04 June 2020||MANGALURU,||DK-Kasaragod border opens for travellers||Thousands of regular commuters between Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod districts can heave a sigh of relief after the district administrations have agreed to facilitate their daily movement by obtaining online passes with immediate effect. Movement is allowed only through Talapady check-post for now. Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada and Collector of Kasaragod districts have issued separate orders and standard operating protocols in this regard. Employees, professionals, and students may travel using these daily passes till June-end, the district heads have said. Those travelling from Kasaragod to Dakshina Kannada have to register on https://bit.ly/dkdpermit for obtaining the daily pass. They have to mention the origin and destination, complete work address in DK and upload Aadhaar, proof of workplace (clinic registration, letter of employer, work/ student ID etc). On receipt of the online application, the Assistant Commissioner, Mangaluru sub-division, will issue the pass, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said in the order. Travel to Kasaragod Those travelling from Dakshina Kannada to Kasaragod district have to register on “COVID-19 Jagratha” portal under the “emergency” pass by mentioning the reason “Interstate Travel on Daily Basis”, said Kasaragod Collector D. Sajith Babu. On receipt of the application, the Additional District Magistrate, Kasaragod, or the sub-divisional magistrate, Kanhangad, will issue the pass within one hour, valid for 28 days. Regular travellers would have to report at the respective check-posts of Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod in Talapady where they would be subjected to health screening. Only those asymptomatic to COVID-19 would be allowed entry. Travellers have to enter their name, phone number and entry time while entering as well as leaving the districts. Persons failing to exit the districts on the same day would be subjected to quarantine and penal action would be initiated against them. Ms. Rupesh said all the guidelines regarding Seva Sindhu registration and quarantine conditions would continue for other categories of travellers entering Dakshina Kannada. The pass system was only for daily travellers for work purpose, she clarified. Travel between Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod districts was restricted since March first after the outbreak of COVID-19 when State borders were ordered to be sealed. People in Kasaragod are heavily dependent on Mangaluru for their daily needs, including employment, education and essentials. While there was no bar on movement of essential commodities, movement of people was completely restricted.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Alert sounded in west M.P||The Madhya Pradesh government has issued alerts in the western divisions of Ujjain and Indore, bordering Maharashtra, anticipating heavy rain, lightning and damage to crops and grains, owing to the cyclone Nisarga. The wind speed would reach close to 50 km per hour and there was a possibility of lightning and heavy rain, Indore Commissioner Akash Tripathi told the collectors of eight districts of the division on Wednesday. “In such a situation, make sure to take appropriate action for disaster management, and if needed, through proclamations and loud speakers, and the social media, alert people,” Mr. Tripathi wrote to the Collectors. He pointed out that in a few districts, the purchase of wheat and gram was under way and grains had not been carried away entirely. “In such a situation, grains must be taken to warehouses as soon as possible and arrangements must be made to cover them with tarpaulin,” Mr. Tripathi said.
04 June 2020||Mumbai,||Flight services suspended after mishap||With a cargo aircraft overshooting the runway of the Mumbai airport around the time Cyclone Nisarga made landfall, flight operations were suspended between 2.30 p.m. and 6 p.m. The airport anyway had a restricted plan of 19 scheduled domestic flights in place for the day in view of the cyclone. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has ordered an investigation. The McDonnell Douglas 11 aircraft, which was involved in a ‘runway excursion’ or overshooting amid tailwinds, came to a halt on the paved area called stopway, making it easier for the officials to tow it away. In a statement, Mumbai International Airport Ltd. said the airport witnessed a runway excursion with FedEx flight 5033 arriving from Bengaluru. The aircraft was towed away from the runway.
04 June 2020||Chikkamagaluru,||With no roads, tribals carry body on pole||Tribal people of Mannakumbri near Kalakodu-Megalamakki in Mudigere taluk had to tie the dead body of a woman of the community to a pole and carry it back as their hamlet has no road connectivity. Sharadamma, 55, died at a private clinic at Kalasa on Monday afternoon. With the help of locals, the family could carry her body in a vehicle only upto Kalakodu-Megalamakki. However, as no road led to their hamlet where three families stay, her husband Chandu Gowda and others wrapped the body in a blanket and tied it to a pole so that they could carry it home. Vijay Kalakodu, a resident of Kalakodu, among those who helped carry the corpse, said there has not been a road between Megalamakki and Mannakumbri for ages. “The distance is about two km. For years, they have been demanding a road, but to no avail,” he said. A couple of years ago, he remembered that Sharadamma’s son Uday had suffered serious injuries after falling from a tree. He had multiple fractures. The family faced difficulty in bringing him often to the hospital. “Uday died as they could not take him to a hospital due to the lack of a road,” he added. There are a few such hamlets in Mudigere taluk with no road connectivity. “People of the Gowdlu tribe reside in such hamlets. They hardly come out. A majority of them are agriculture labourers and work in farms and plantations nearby,” said Lakshman Achar, a resident of Kalasa. The taluk administration took note of the incident and sent a team from Samse Gram Panchayat to the village on Wednesday. M. Venkatesh, Executive Officer, Mudigere TP, told The Hindu, “The distance between the main road and the hamlet is about 500 m, not two km as claimed. They have choice but to walk across private land holdings,” he said. He said that laying a road for the hamlet would include the construction of a bridge. This would require huge funds and could be taken up only if elected representatives provided money from the local area development fund. “The GP has funds for the mud road. However, to lay the road, owners of private land have to part with their land. So far, they have not agreed to this,” he added.
04 June 2020||Srinagar,||Shah Faesal, 2 PDP leaders released||The J&K administration on Wednesday released former IAS officer and J&K People’s Movement party founder Shah Faesal and two PDP leaders, who were booked under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA). An official said the release order of these leaders, who had been behind the bars since August 5 when J&K’s special status was ended, was issued after their PSAs were revoked by the Home Department. Sartaj Madni, uncle of PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, and Peer Mansoor, a former MLA, were among those released.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Defence Secretary tests positive||Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar tested positive for COVID-19, a defence official said on Wednesday. Mr. Kumar tested positive but continues to work and look into files from quarantine, one official said. ‘Source not known’ “The particular section has been disinfected and those in contact have self quarantined,” another official said. Details are not known on the likely source of infection and on the contract tracing. Necessary protocols are being followed, the official said.
04 June 2020||New Delhi,||CPI(M) protest to demand cash transfers||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Wednesday accused the Narendra Modi government of using the pandemic as an excuse to replace the secular democratic and federal structure of the country with a unitary form of theocratic government. The party will be holding country-wide protests on June 16 demanding immediate cash transfers and free foodgrains for the poor. He addressed reporters via Facebook live to brief about the decisions taken by the party’s Polit Bureau. This was the first meeting of the Polit Bureau after the lockdown was announced on March 24. The members met via video link. Mr. Yechury said the Central government had now virtually left the Indian people to fend for themselves in combating the pandemic. State governments which were on the forefront of this battle had been denied even their legitimate dues such as GST payouts. Mr. Yechury said the pandemic was being used for centralisation of authority which in turn was destroying a basic feature of our Constitution — federalism. Mr. Yechury said both the imposition and now lifting of the lockdown was unscientific.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kolkata Port renamed after Syama Prasad||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the renaming of Kolkata Port as Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port, after the founder of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh. The decision was announced by Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar at a press briefing after the Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In a statement, the government said the Board of Trustees of the Kolkata Port Trust had passed a resolution to rename the port after Mookerjee at its meeting on February 25, “considering his multifaceted genius as an eminent jurist, academician, thinker and leader of the masses”. The decision was announced on January 12 at the inaugural ceremony of the 150th anniversary celebrations of the port. The statement said that while major ports in the country were named after the city or town they are located in, some ports in special cases of “due consideration of contribution made by eminent leaders have been re-named after great national leaders in the past”.
04 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Meera Chopra gets ‘rape, death’ threats from Jr. NTR’s fans||Actor Meera Chopra lodged a complaint with Hyderabad Cyber Crime police after Tollywood actor Junior NTR’ fans sent her rape and death threats, and name-calling on Twitter. The hate campaign by Jr. NTR’s fans started after Ms. Chopra, in an interactive session under #AskMeerra on Tuesday, said that she liked actor Mahesh Babu more than Jr. NTR. Trolling When a Twitter user asked her to describe Jr. NTR in word, Ms. Chopra tweeted “I don't know him...I am not his fan.” Soon after, his fans started trolling and sending ‘rape and death threats’ to the ‘Section 375’ actor on social media, which forced her to lodge a complaint with Telangana police and the National Commission for Women (NCW). “Do you feel successful with such a fan following. And I hope you don’t ignore my tweet,” Ms. Meera Chopra tweeted to the ‘Aravinda Sametha’ actor, Jr. NTR. Responding to her tweets, the National Commission for Women said the matter was taken up with the Telangana police and a case was registered with their cyber cell. “ @NCWIndia has taken up the matter with #TelanganaPolice and your case has been registered with their #Cyber Cell. Chairperson @sharmarekha has also asked B Sumathi, DIG #WomenSafety Wing of #Telangana #Police to send the Commission a status report on the issue,” the National Commission for Women tweeted. Following her complaint online, the cyber crime police registered a case under Section 67 of the Information Technology Act, Section 506 and Section 509 of the Indian Penal Code. A probe was on to identify those involved, police said.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,||50% of coaches converted into COVID-19 wards being used to ferry migrant workers||The South Western Railway (SWR) had converted 320 coaches into COVID-19 care centres to house patients at a cost of approximately Rs. 30,000 each. At the time of launching the initiative, SWR had maintained that the move would help boost the country’s capacity for isolation wards. However, to date, these converted sleeper coaches have not been used for their new purpose as there is no demand for them by the State government. The SWR is now using around 160 of these modified coaches to ferry migrant workers in Shramik Special trains. Chief PRO E. Vijaya said: “For the last 10 days, we have been using half of the total converted coaches to ferry migrant workers especially to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The rest of the converted coaches are stationed at our railway facilities at different locations in the State. Available coaches can be used by the Health Department at the district level whenever they are in need. Till now, we have not received any communication from the department to use these converted coaches.” The remaining converted coaches are stationed at Bengaluru, Hubballi, Mysuru, Yeshwantpur, Harihar, Shivamogga Town, Hosapete, Hassan, Arsikere, Bagalkot, and other locations. Their fate remains in question, though SWR officials say that there is no proposal to change them back to their original form. In accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family welfare, each coach had been refitted to have only eight berth cabins for isolation facilities. Middle berths and ladders were removed to ensure comfort and better space, while provisions were made for oxygen cylinders. Electric sockets were provided for equipment. “We have no directions to reconvert these coaches. In the coming days, there could be a need for them,” said an official. Officials insist that it was not a wasted effort, as they were used to ferry migrant workers without any remodifications. “This helped maintain social distancing as they are spacious compared to other conventional coaches,” the official added.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IMA drafts fee structure for pvt. hospitals in T.N.||The Tamil Nadu State Branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has drawn up a fee structure for COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals. With the Health Department having announced that it will fix a price cap for treatment in the private sector, the association has urged the department to hold discussions on the issue before finalising the fee structure. The Health Department had decided to come up with a price cap for COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals following complaints that they were collecting exorbitant charges from patients. Officials said a decision on the fee structure would be announced soon. C.N. Raja, State president, IMA-TN, said the government had received complaints about excessive charges being levied by private hospitals, while a few individuals had even filed court cases on the issue. “Following this, IMA was called for a meeting with the Health Secretary, during which we sought two to three days’ time for coming up with estimates. We drew up a cost structure, keeping the charges low, and sent it to the government. We are yet to be called for a discussion,” he said. The IMA had proposed a fee of Rs. 2,31,820 for treatment at COVID Centres/COVID Health Care Centres (for persons with mild to moderate symptoms) for 10 days. This covered hospital charges including accommodation, equipment and administrative charges, pharmacy, consumables and investigation. The doctors’ consulting charges as well as quarantine and food expenses for doctors and other staff working in designated COVID centres were not included. The latter may work out to Rs. 9,600 a day. For COVID Health Care Hospitals/ICU treatment (for persons with severe symptoms), the amount fixed was Rs. 4,31,311 for 17 days. Again, this excluded consulting charges and other expenses. ‘In line with protocols’ “We have arrived at the amount, keeping in mind the protocols laid down by the State government for a COVID-19 set-up. This is in line with the duty hours stipulated by the government, investigations to be [under]taken, and medications and diet to be provided to patients,” Mr. Raja said. It was not advisable for small and medium hospitals to admit COVID-19 patients as the infrastructure and manpower would not be adequate, he said, adding, “There are costs involved in running hospitals. The fee structure that we have arrived at covers corporate hospitals.”
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Contact information, Aadhaar details must for testing: Corpn.||Flagging concerns about incomplete information provided by some private labs, the Greater Chennai Corporation has urged all labs to ensure that they collect and verify contact information as well the Aadhaar numbers of all persons who get tested for COVID-19. The city on Wednesday recorded 1,012 cases, the highest spike in a single day so far. Incomplete lists provided by private labs were hampering efforts to trace some patients who had tested positive. “As a result, untraced patients will be a source of infection to many others and may not be able to get proper treatment if they do not know the result properly,” according to a notification issued by the civic body. Apart from the complete address and phone number of the person getting tested, the labs have also been instructed to collect the Aadhaar number. “If a person does not have an Aadhaar number and a sample has been taken, he shall be placed under quarantine till the results are declared,” the notification said. There are 10 government labs and 13 private labs in the city approved to test for COVID-19, and these labs are required to report diagnosed cases to the Health and Family Welfare Department and the Corporation.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deadline to pay power bill extended in four districts||Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has extended the last date for paying electricity bill for domestic consumers to July 5. As the State government had extended the lockdown till June 30, domestic consumers in Chennai city and neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu can pay their electricity bills without penalty till July 5. For the other parts of the State, the last date for paying electricity charges without penalty is June 15. Tangedco has fixed June 15 as the last date for high tension consumers who have not paid the electricity charges for March, April and May. Tangedco has begun assessment of electricity meters in the city. The meter reading was stopped because of lockdown from March 25. Meter reading Now, despite the increase in the number of cases of COVID-19, Tangedco has asked all its revenue officials to take up meter assessment. A senior official said except in containment zones, assessors have begun reading domestic meters in all parts of the city and three nearby districts, including Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu from June 1. Assessment for low-tension commercial connections, which are billed every month, was started in May first week, he added. Tangedco had advised domestic consumers to pay previous month bill amount for April and May cycles. It had issued a circular for calculating the electricity bill for June and July cycles. As per the formula, the average of the total units consumed for the two bi-monthly cycles of April and June would be arrived at and billed as per the slab system. Based on that, the amount paid for the April month (as per the previous bill) would be deducted and the balance would have to be paid, the officials said.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cauvery Water Management Authority to hold meeting on June 10||The Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA), after being notified formally as a body under the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti in late April, will hold its first meeting through videoconferencing on June 10. The Central Water Regulation Committee (CWRC) will have its meeting a day ahead (June 9). The two events will take place a few days before the opening (June 12) of the Mettur dam, regarded as the lifeline of the Cauvery delta in Tamil Nadu, for irrigation. Sixth meeting After the establishment of the CWMA in June 2018, this will be its sixth meeting. As for the CWRC, it is the 28th meeting.. To be chaired by Rajendra Kumar Jain, who is also acting as the part-time chairman of the Authority, the CWMA meeting will see the participation of all the basin States — Karnataka and Kerala — and Union Territory of Puducherry. Secretaries of the Irrigation or Water Resources departments of the constituents of the basin are members of the Authority. K. Manivasan, Principal Secretary (Public Works) is the representative of the Tamil Nadu government. As Tamil Nadu received around 275 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) of Cauvery water during the 2019-20 water year, which was about 100 tmc ft more than the stipulated quantity, it does not have much to complain against Karnataka. With the onset of the southwest monsoon (the most important season for the Cauvery basin) on the due date, the proposed meeting is expected to deal with general matters of interest to all the participants. However, Tamil Nadu, in the meeting, may reiterate its stand against proposals of Karnataka such as the Mekadatu project. Comfortable storage It is because of the excess flow of the Cauvery water and relatively moderate rainfall during the northeast monsoon (October-December) in 2019 that the dam is now having a comfortable storage. After a gap of 12 years, the dam is getting opened on the customary date. It is after an interval of nine years, the opening is happening in June. Meanwhile, officials in charge of the Public Works and Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Departments are making attempts to ensure that channels of different categories and other water courses are made free of silt and other obstruction. These works are being executed essentially through the State government’s special scheme for desilting and Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). In addition, the “Kudimaramathu” scheme is in progress. Even though the date of opening of the Mettur dam is only a week away, the authorities have programmed the execution of the works in anticipation of the period of water flow. For example, at the tail of the Cauvery system — say in Nagapattinam district — water is likely to reach only in the fourth week, beginning from June 22, and Pudukottai will get its turn of water in August, points out a PWD official.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Leaders pay tributes to former CM Karunanidhi||DMK president M.K. Stalin led the party in paying tributes to former Chief Minister and his father late M. Karunanidhi on Wednesday on his 97th birth anniversary. He paid his tributes to late DMK patriarch at his memorial at the Marina, the party headquarters, Anna Arivalayam, at the party mouthpiece Murasoli’s office and his houses at CIT Colony and Gopalapuram. Family pays homage  The former Chief Minister’s wife Rajathiammal, DMK MP and Karunanidhi’s daughter Kanimozhi, senior leaders Duraimurugan and T.R. Baalu were among those who paid floral tributes to the former Chief Minister. Mr. Stalin, penning a tribute to his late father, said ‘Kalaignar was not only a leader of the largest people’s movement, but also a leader of the party for more than half a century, a leader of the Tamils. He was a protector of democracy, a historic leader of this century”. Mr. Stalin said his majestic voice and his emotions were guiding him to this day. MDMK general secretary Vaiko visited Anna Arivalayam and paid tributes. “He protected social justice, gave Tamil a grand stature with his writing, elevated the disadvantaged sections of society to positions of power,” he said. At his birth place, Tirukuvalai in Tiruvarur, DMK members paid their respects at his house. Party leaders led the tributes across various districts by distributing welfare measures to the people. Hailing the former DMK leader, TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said he was the finest thinker of this century. “He worked for enhancing the lives of Tamilians and worked hard for the Tamil language. He was responsible for many of the positive changes in society,” he said. Mamata tweets West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted, “Fondly remembering M. Karunanidhi Ji, former chief minister of Tamil Nadu, on his birth anniversary. He was a statesman and a great leader, loved by all”.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Religious representatives suggest caution in reopening temples, mosques||At a meeting chaired by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam here on Wednesday, a section of representatives of the Hindu and Muslim communities suggested caution in reopening temples and mosques for the public, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the Tamil Nadu Bishops’ Council favoured the reopening of churches, subject to government regulations, at least from June 8 to celebrate the Holy Eucharist. No decision was taken by the government at the meeting. Swami Satyajnananda, secretary of Ramakrishna Mission Students Home, who was at the meeting, said a majority of Hindu representatives were for delaying the full-fledged reopening of places of worship, considering the number of COVID-19 cases in the city. He also suggested that the entry of devotees into places of worship could be allowed now, while the distribution of flowers and fruits or offerings could be permitted later on. The Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, who also attended the meeting, said, “Let us wait and watch for a month as to how the novel coronavirus spreads, and then decide on the reopening of mosques, since the virus is spreading more rapidly in Chennai when compared to the other districts of the State.” He also suggested delaying the reopening of schools and colleges since children and students were more prone to contracting the infection. In its representation to the Chief Secretary, the Tamil Nadu Bishops’ Council requested him to reopen churches as soon as possible (at least from June 8), and permit the celebration of the Holy Eucharist, subject to the regulations of the State government. “If you feel that the reopening of churches throughout Tamil Nadu is not possible immediately, you may permit [their reopening] at least in the seven zones except the zone of Chennai,” said Most Rev. Dr. Antony Pappusamy, president of Tamil Nadu Bishops’ Council. Representatives of the Sikh and Jain communities were also present at the meeting. Even among representatives of a particular religion, there were a range of suggestions made to the State government, informed sources said. Revenue Secretary Atulya Misra, Home Secretary S.K. Prabakar, Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy, Chennai Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan and other senior officials took part in the meeting.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||It’s back to packing food from home for air travel||Remember a time, years ago, when passengers packed food from home to eat at the airport or in the aircraft? From the looks of it, those times are back again. Many of the people coming to Chennai airport are refraining from ordering food from the outlets in the security hold area, to avoid the risk of contracting COVID-19, airport sources said. Instead, they choose to eat their home-made sandwiches or rotis, packed in aluminium foil. Before the lockdown, during peak hours, it was near impossible to find a seat in in the security hold area of the airport. It was almost always full of people looking to grab a bite or a coffee before boarding the aircraft. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) confirmed that there has been a marked drop in the number of people eating at the food kiosks after domestic flights resumed on May 25. Besides, no meals are served on board aircraft too. “The footfall in these outlets has come down quite a bit. Apart from several regular passengers who are either opting not to eat at the airport or are bringing their own snack, many first-time flyers aren’t aware that there are food options available at the airport,” an official said. Adding to the airport outlets' woes is the marked reduction in the number of people using the domestic terminal - only 3,000-3,500 passengers a day for the 40-45 flights that fly in and out. Once the number of flights goes up, the footfall is expected to rise, officials said.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Alternative test centres identified 2 weeks ahead of Class X exams||With around 100 schools being used as quarantine centres, the Directorate of Government Examinations (DGE) has identified alternative examination centres for Class X students. The number of designated centres for the board examinations, set to begin on June 15, was earlier set at 3,825. It has now been increased to 12,690. Not more than 10 students will be accommodated in each classroom, ensuring that physical distancing norms are followed. Director of School Education S. Kannappan on Wednesday sent a list of precautionary measures and guidelines to be followed by the chief educational officer and district-level officials. “All recognised schools which have Classes X and XI will function as exam centres, except those in containment zones, to meet the requirements of physical distancing,” the guidelines stated. Arrangements are being made to procure and distribute 46.37 lakh reusable face masks to students and teachers. Online registration The DGE has also announced that private candidates could register their details online atwww.dge.tn.gov.infrom 2 p.m. on June 4 to download their hall tickets. Schoolchildren could either contact their respective school heads or register their details online atwww.dge.tn.gov.infrom June 4 to download their hall tickets.  All recognised schools which have Classes X and XI will function as exam centres, except those in containment zones
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses PIL plea seeking reservation of beds for COVID-19 cases||The Madras High Court on Wednesday dismissed a public interest litigation petition filed by the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) Trust for a direction to the State government to requisition at least 50% of the beds in all private hospitals for treating COVID-19 patients. The trust, represented by its chairman M.H. Jawahirullah, had also insisted upon capping the treatment cost for COVID-19 patients in private hospitals, besides setting out a minimum standard for treatment at all hospitals and clinical centres, as required under law. However, the first Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said it was up to the government to take action on such issues, and that the Supreme Court too was seized of a case related to the cost of treatment. Chief Justice said that the petitioner cannot make generalised allegations without including any of the hospitals as respondents, and that it was up to the individual concerned to file a writ petition if there were any issues in getting treatment at private hospitals.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TRANSTAN lists norms for hospitals to resume organ transplants||The Transplant Authority of Tamil Nadu (TRANSTAN) on Wednesday issued guidelines for hospitals that wish to re-start organ transplants in their facilities, post the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Hospitals must give a written undertaking that they will follow the guidelines in letter and spirit and that they will ensure that the patients and their attendants will follow the rules the hospitals have framed. TRANSTAN has ruled that hospitals providing treatment for COVID-19 infection and organ transplant shall have separate passageways for doctors and other hospital staff. Hospitals should have separate wards, theatres and intensive care units for transplant surgeries. Brain-dead patients, who are considered potential donors, should not be admitted to the same ward as patients admitted for suspected COVID-19 infection. Hospitals should have a separate, dedicated team of surgeons, consultants, nurses and other paramedical and medical specialists who should not be allowed to handle other patients. The entire team involved in transplant surgeries should undergo periodic checks as per the guidelines of the Indian Council for Medical Research. Hospitals should ensure that personal protective equipment and disinfectants are made available for patients and their attendants at all times. Operation theatres, ICUs and equipment used for surgeries must be duly cleaned using quality disinfectants. The Kovai Medical Centre in Coimbatore has started offering renal transplant procedure following the guidelines laid down by the government, a release added.   The entire team involved in transplant surgeries should undergo periodic checks as per the guidelines of ICMR
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fisheries University receives 43 applications for V-C post||Forty-three persons have applied for the post of Vice-Chancellor of the Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University. Applicants include academicians from West Bengal, Karnataka and Kerala. Nearly 20 academicians from various departments of the university have also applied for the coveted post. The last date to apply was June 1. The Indian Council for Agricultural Research has ranked the institution among the top 25 State agricultural universities. Quite a few applicants have degrees in subjects such as botany and zoology. Several applicants are also listed by their names and residential addresses, without details of their qualifications. An official said that academicians who have held high posts, former V-Cs and those who have held the post of director at a research institution were eligible to apply for the post. Senior academicians and those in V-C search committees in the State had demanded that qualifications of candidates be published along with their names so that applicants’ potential could be assessed. An applicant said that anyone with the required qualifications could apply for the post. “It is an administrative post requiring the capability to run an institution. A degree or qualification in the subject which the university deals with is not important,” a candidate pointed out. Applicants feel that the number of aspirants would have been higher but for the COVID-19 pandemic. “There are a lot of qualified people who have not applied,” said an applicant. Statute amended A senior academician said that the university had recently amended its statute, prescribing a four-year Bachelor of Fisheries Science, a professional degree, as a prerequisite for the post. A university official said that the amendment had been introduced in the Assembly earlier this year but had not received the consent of the Governor, who is also the chancellor of the State university. “It is possible that not many are aware of the requirement,” he said.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown helps Highways Department fix potholes in city||The Highways Department is fixing potholes, bad patches and sunken stretches. It is carrying out the works day and night since the number of vehicles is fewer on the roads due to the lockdown. “We require barricading only when the work is in progress. It takes about 10-15 minutes for repairing these points after which vehicles are allowed over the repaired spot. “The pothole fixer cleans the spot, lays the emulsion on the road, then mixes the emulsion and the macadem and lays it on the spot,” said an official. Roads get damaged owing to sewer line work and electrical line repairs. These lines lead to shops and commercial establishments along the roads, explained an official. The GST Road between airport and Tambaram and the Velachery-Medavakkam road are witnessing patchwork using the department’s own machine.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police wing helps victims of domestic violence, child abuse during lockdown||From attending domestic violence calls to helping migrant workers and feeding the homeless – the Crime Against Women and Children Wing, under the Greater Chennai City police, has been on the move during COVID-19 lockdown. According to senior police officers, 15 petitions were received from the National Commission for Women pertaining to domestic violence, harassment, cruelty and other sensitive issues. Fifty-two calls were received from women’s helpline (1091) in Greater Chennai Police limits and 22 domestic violence-related complaints were received across the city since March 22. Besides, 737 Child Helpline calls were received from all over Tamil Nadu and 96 calls during the lockdown period in Greater Chennai Police limits. “Cases were attended to on a daily basis and nothing was kept pending,” said H. Jayalakshmi, Deputy Commissioner. A special control room was set up to handle the cases. A team comprising 15 expert counsellors had been set up for telecounselling and it had provided assistance in 32 cases and the victims had come out of distress. Online complaints Twelve inspectors from All Women Police Stations were appointed as nodal officers to tackle or liaise with all competent authorities to resolve issues arising because of the pandemic. These inspectors are handling the online complaints and cyber crimes targeting women and children. Besides, the wing has compiled a list of 5,428 senior citizens who were living alone and in need of help. The list had been forwarded to the Secretary, Social Welfare Department, for further action. The wing had helped migrant workers by directing them to shelters. “Those living with families were provided separate accommodation. The counsellors are providing telecounselling to those in need,” said a senior police officer. Over 75,000 children in slums were provided with stationery, drawing books, and other material to help them overcome stress and depression during the lockdown. Dry ration and food were distributed to 30,000 families across all slums in Greater Chennai Police limits, the officials added.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only 10 active cases: Aavin||Aavin on Wednesday clarified that only one person, a machine operator who worked at its Madhavaram dairy, died of COVID-19. Refuting reports, it said the dairies had only 10 active cases.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two women die at brick kiln||Two migrant workers of a brick kiln were killed on Wednesday when a pile of bricks fell on them. Mandhana,18, and Parimala, 22, who were from Odisha, were loading bricks in a truck when the accident took place. They were rushed to a hospital where they were declared brought dead. The police are investigating.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flights to bring back Tamils stranded in Singapore||The High Commission of India in Singapore has announced a tentative schedule of flights, including a few to destinations in Tamil Nadu, to bring back Tamils stranded there. More details, including pricing and ticketing guidelines, will be posted separately, the Indian High Commission said in a tweet. As per the tentative plan, flights have been scheduled from June 9 to 24 to Madurai, Tiruchirappalli, Coimbatore and Chennai.  Ramasubramanian of Karaikudi, who is among those stranded in Singapore, said Tamil Nadu’s Public Department had forwarded his mail about 400 stranded Tamils to the High Commission on Wednesday for necessary action.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No State can be ‘ungrateful’ to migrant labourers: HC||Observing that no State can be ‘ungrateful’ to migrant labourers after having extracted work from them for its benefit, the Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the Tamil Nadu government to identify each and every migrant labourer in need and provide them with food, shelter, medical facilities and other assistance on a war footing. Justices N. Kirubakaran and R. Hemalatha said the State government was duty-bound to provide aid to migrant labourers during testing times, and sought a status report by Monday. The interim orders were passed on a habeas corpus petition filed by advocate A.P. Suryaprakasam, who claimed that many migrant labourers were still struggling. On the other hand, Special Government Pleader Thangavel told the court that the State government had taken all necessary steps to provide facilities to migrant labourers. Additional Solicitor General G. Rajagopalan said the Supreme Court was also seized of the matter, and the Centre was following its comprehensive directions. The migrant labourers were not even being charged for their travel by trains, as per the orders of the Supreme Court, he said, and sought time to file a comprehensive report. After recording their submissions, the Division Bench adjourned the case to Monday.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shanmugam gets extension||The Centre on Wednesday approved the extension of service of senior IAS officer and Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam for three months. According to a communication from the Union Department of Personnel & Training, Mr. Shanmugam's services have been extended between August 1 and October 31. Mr. Shanmugam was set to retire next month. A senior officer said the proposal for his extension of service as the Chief Secretary was on the cards and the prospects became bright after the Centre in April extended the tenure of Union Health Secretary by three months, in view of COVID-19 situation.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two women set ablaze by spouses die||A 34-year-old woman died of burns and her 62-year-old lover is struggling for life after her husband allegedly set both of them ablaze in the early hours Wednesday. The police said Lakshmi was married to Senthil Velmurugan, 38, and they had a 13-year-old daughter. The couple used fight often as Velmurugan suspected that his wife was having an affair with Govindasamy. On Wednesday, Senthil Velmurugan went in search of his wife to Govindasamy’s house and poured petrol on the two and set them afire. Lakshmi died while Govindasamy sustained 55% burns. In another case, Vishnupriya who was set ablaze by her husband Suresh a week ago in Avadi died on Wednesday. The two were living separately. Last week Suresh took her on the bike under the pretext of dropping her in her house in Tiruvannamalai. However, he stopped the bike on the road at Melpakkam in Avadi and set her on fire.
04 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nod for physical hearings in taluk courts||The Madras High Court on Wednesday permitted conduct of physical hearings in the taluk courts too in nine districts — Dharmapuri, Nilgiris, Krishnagiri, Tiruvarur, Theni, Ramanathapuram, Nagapattinam, Karur and Sivaganga — from Thursday with a rider that only five lawyers, including State counsel, would be permitted at a time in a court hall. An official notification issued by the Registry stated that it had already permitted the courts in the nine district headquarters to hold physical hearings from Monday. Now considering the inputs received from the Principal District Judges from those districts, the High Court administration decided to permit a similar arrangement at Taluk courts. “Lawyers above the age of 65 years may abstain from coming to court and instead avail videoconferencing,” the Registry added.
04 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Madrasa vandalised near Coimbatore||A madrasa attached to a mosque near Madukkarai in Coimbatore was allegedly vandalised by miscreants on Tuesday. As per preliminary investigations conducted by the Madukkarai police, no communal angle was linked to the vandalism. The madrasa attached to Nazrual Islam Sunnath Jamath mosque at Arivoli Nagar near Madukkarai was found vandalised late on Tuesday, said the police. Following the national COVID-19 lockdown, the madrasa was closed on March 24 and it remained shut thereafter. Around 30 students used to attend Arabi and religious classes at the institution. A few residents of the locality found the front door of the madrasa open around 7 p.m. on Tuesday and informed its authorities. They went inside and found benches, ceiling fan and tube light of the study hall damaged. Textbooks used for classes were scattered on floor. They informed the Madukkarai police. A senior police officer said that the investigating team was suspecting the roles of three students of the madrasa, who study in class VIII in school, in the vandalism. The students reportedly confessed to the police that they vandalised the classroom to in protest against alleged verbal and physical abuse by a teacher of the madrasa. The police were conducting further investigation at the time of filing this report.
04 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||180 expats return on repatriation flight from Dubai||As many as 180 Indian nationals, hailing from various parts of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karnataka, arrived in Coimbatore on a repatriation flight from Dubai in the early hours of Wednesday. The Air India Express flight (IX 1611) landed at the airport at 12.20 a.m. According to details shared by airport director R. Mahalingam, the returnees included 160 adults, 17 children and three infants. The swab samples of all the passengers were lifted on arrival at the airport. The Health Department was awaiting the test results. Among the 180 passengers, 20 were pregnant women. Many passengers were wearing coveralls and protective gear. A Health Department official said 13 of the 20 pregnant women refused to stay at hotels arranged for paid institutional quarantine, and left for their homes. The department collected details of their whereabouts. The remaining seven opted to stay at different hotels. Barring the 13 pregnant women, all the others checked into different hotels, choosing tariffs suited to them. Row over costs A few passengers got into an argument with officials, saying they won’t be able to bear the expense of paid quarantine at hotels. Revenue Department officials assured them that a solution would be found. After seven days of institutional quarantine, those who test negative will have to undergo home quarantine for seven days. The repatriation flight, operated as part of the Vande Bharat Mission, later left for Chennai.
04 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Drop boxes set up at combined court complex to receive petitions||Special facility for receiving petitions was introduced at the combined court complex in Coimbatore on Wednesday.  As per the new arrangement, litigants can drop their petitions in boxes kept near the main gate of the court. However, petition seeking bail was not allowed, said court sources. Court staff will stand near the boxes to guide litigants. The petitions collected in polythene bags will be sorted three days after receiving them, they said. As of now, public will not be allowed to enter the court premises. Litigants, who want to drop petitions, will be allowed up to the place where the boxes are kept. The court complex was closed on March 25 as precaution against COVID-19. However, certain essential services were functional. A section of advocates have demanded full resumption of services at the combined court complex.
04 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Travel arrangements being made for Jharkhand workers to home towns’||The district administration officials have conducted an enquiry about reports that eight workers from Jharkhand are forced to work at a garment factory near Sulur in Coimbatore district and were unable to return to their home States. An official said Sulur tahsildar conducted an enquiry on Tuesday. It was found that the company employs 340 workers and 70 of them are from other States. This included five from Jharkhand and 22 from Odisha. These 27 workers wanted to return to their home States. “There is no issue of unpaid salary, forced labour or harassment of workers at the unit,” the official said. Arrangements are being made to send the 27 workers to their home towns in the next available train service.
04 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Award for hospital||A research team of Coimbatore-based Ganga Hospital has won the Outstanding Paper Award of the North American Spine Society (NASS) in basic science category for 2020. The research was a molecular level study probing the cause for lumbar disc degeneration, main cause of lower back pain, and attempts to identify molecular targets for biological repair of damaged discs. The research, “Uncovering molecular targets for regenerative therapy in degenerative disc disease: Do Small Leucine-Rich Proteoglycans hold the Key?” won the award, instituted by NASS and the society’s official research publication The Spine Journal . The study, a pointer to regenerative interventions for lumbar disc degeneration in future, gains significance as lower back pain significantly reduces the quality of life of nearly 70% of the patients worldwide, causing considerable economic and social impact, said the research team head, S. Rajasekaran of the Department of Orthopaedic and Spine Surgery.
04 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held on extortion charge||The Bazaar Street police arrested a 25-year-old man on charges of extorting money from a man at knife-point on Tuesday. A. Riyasudeen (25), a resident of Saramedu near Karumbakadai, was arrested based on a complaint filed by I. Abuthahir (42), who hails from Saramedu. The police said that Riyasudeen threatened Abuthahir at knife-point when the latter was selling clothes on the side of road in front of a jewellery showroom around 11 a.m. The accused took away Rs. 1,000 from Abuthahir. Riyasudeen was arrested and remanded in judicial custody.
04 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance works at the Peelamedu sub-station, there will be no power supply from 9 a.m to 4 p.m on June 4 in the following areas: Bharathi Nagar, Elango Nagar, Burani Colony, Shoba Nagar, Ganapathy Industrial Estate, Police Quarters, Krishnarajapuram, Athipalayampirivu, Ramakrishnapuram, Avarampalayam, Ganesh Nagar, V.G. Rao Nagar, P.S.G. Estate, P.S.G. Hospital, Kamathenu Nagar, Nehru Street, Anna Nagar, Arumugam Layout, Indira Nagar, Nava India, Gopal Nagar, Peelamedu Pudhur, Ellaithottam, V.O.C. Colony, P.K.D. Nagar, Agilandeswari Nagar, Puliyakulam, Amman Kulam, Bharathipuram, Pankaja Mills, Dhamu Nagar, Balasubramanium Nagar, Balagaru Garden, Sowripalayam, Krishna Colony, Rajaji Nagar, Meena Estate, Udayampalayam, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Parson Apartments, Sreepathy Nagar, Kallimadi, Ramanathapuram, Trichy Road (part), Nanjundapuram Road and Thiruvalluvar Nagar.  Madukkarai sub-station: (June 4 from from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.): K.G. Chavady, Palathurai, Bypass road, A.G. Pathy, Arivolinagar, Sugunapuram, B.K. Pudur, Madukkarai, M.G.R Nagar and Kovaipudur (part).  Pappanaickenpalayam sub-station and Race Course sub-station: (June 4 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.): Pappanaickenpalayam sub-station: Burani Colony, Avarampalayam, Ganesh Nagar, Kamadenu Nagar, Nava India Road, Ganapathy Bus Stand, Siddhapudur, Pazhayur, Pappanaickenpalayam, GKNM Hospital, Alamu Nagar, Ramakrishna Hospital and Wedding Hall, Crematorium, Pudiyavar Nagar and Trichy Road Left Side (Sungam to Olymbus).  Race Course sub-station: Thomas Park, Kamarajar Road, Race Course, Avinashi Road (from Anna Statue to Collectorate), Trichy Road (from Kannan Departmental Store to Ramanathapuram Signal), Puliyakulam Road (from Sungam to Vinayagar Temple), Ramanathapuram 80 Feet Road, Sripathy Nagar, Susila Nagar, Rukmani Nagar, Bharathi Nagar 1 to 6, Pappammal Layout, Park Town, Karunanithi Nagar and Angannan Street.  Somayampalayam sub-station: (June 5 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.): Yamuna Nagar, Kalappanaickenpalayam, G.C.T Nagar, K.T.N Palayam, Marutham Nagar, Navavoor Pirivu, Bharathiar University, Somayampalayam, Vasantham Nagar, IOB Colony, Marudhamalai, Agarwal Road, Kanuvai, K.N.G Pudur and Thadagam Road.
04 June 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||620 migrants leave for Jharkhand||As many as 620 migrant workers from eight districts boarded a special train to Jharkhand from here on Wednesday. There were also 50 students from polytechnic colleges. On arrival at the railway station here, they were screened and it was ensured that they kept physical distancing.The train left the station at 3 p.m. and would reach the destination at 9 a.m. on June 5.
04 June 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||briefly||Former DMK president and Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi was remembered by party functionaries on his 97th birth anniversary on Wednesday. The partymen, led by MLA and senior party leader I. Periasami, distributed assistance to the needy people at 25 places.    Fire and Rescue Services personnel rescued a 30-year-old man from a dry well here on Wednesday. Dinesh (30), son of Karuppasami of Kamudhi, had come here on Tuesday night and fell into the well accidentally. On Wednesday morning, people heard some sound from the well and alerted the police.    A nurse, Anitha (40) of Idayapatti, was robbed of her gold jewels weighing five sovereigns by two bike-borne men on Tuesday. Police said Ms. Anitha was working in the primary health centre at Moolachatram. When she was going on her two-wheeler, the duo came close to her on Oddanchatram-Dindigul-Kamatchipuram stretch. Suddenly, they pushed her down, and relieved her of the jewels and sped away.
04 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Call to ban cars from using narrow stretch of Kollampalayam bypass||With cars continuing to use the narrow stretch of Kollampalayam bypass that was recently damaged due to underground sewerage scheme (UGSS) works, two-wheeler riders here wanted a ban on cars from using the stretch. Traffic congestion The bypass passes through residential areas and joins Erode Main Road near the Railway Colony Municipal Higher Secondary School and Karur bypass. Two-wheelers, autorickshaws and cars from 46 Pudur Road, Karur bypass and Muthur Road use the stretch to enter the city, instead of taking the Poondurai Road. With the stretch witnessing frequent traffic congestion, entry of cars from Karur bypass was banned on the stretch from June 2018. However, due to poor monitoring, cars continued to violate the rule. During the lockdown period, the Corporation dug the road to execute the UGSS works. This has damaged the road. “Entry of cars add to the woes of two-wheeler riders as the road is already unmotorable,” said Boopathi, of Kollampalayam. He wanted restriction on entry of four-wheelers on the stretch to reduce congestion. Another motorist said that only-two wheelers could ply on the road. “The stretch is not meant for cars”, said Guhan, a two-wheeler rider from Periyar Nagar.
04 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Six killed in two separate accidents||Six persons were killed in two separate accidents on Wednesday. Kandasamy (45) of Tiruchengodu in Namakkal district, his wife Thangamani (35) and son Praneeth (5) died on the spot when the two-wheeler they were travelling was hit by a lorry from the rear side on the outer ring road at Anakalpalayam. The lorry driver escaped from the spot. The bodies were sent to the District Headquarters and Hospital in Erode. In another incident in Salem district, three of a family members were killed on the spot while seven others were injured after two cars collided at Keeripatti on Thuraiyur – Attur Road on Wednesday. Malliyakarai police said that the accident took place when P. Sivakumar (48) of Keeripatti, his wife S. Varalakshmi (40) and relative J. Shanthi (38) were returning from Thammampatti to their village. While nearing Keeripatti, their car collided with another car coming in the opposite direction. The three were killed on the spot. Seven others in another car who were injured were admitted to Government Hospital at Attur.
04 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Villagers demand action against finance firms||Villagers of Thottampalayam in Bhavani Sagar have accused some micro finance firms of forcing them to repay their loans immediately or pay an additional interest on the principal amount. They have appealed to the district administration to take action against the firms. Many of the over 3,000 people, involved in weaving, had borrowed money from the small finance firms and are paying a monthly or weekly interest on the principal amount. Owing to the COVID-19 lockdown, the Central government had asked banks not to collect the Equated Monthly Instalments (EMIs) or interest from customers for three months. On Tuesday, employees from the finance firms visited Anna Nagar in the village and asked the borrowers to repay the principal amount. They also said an additional interest would be charged if the principal was not repaid immediately. The weavers then sought action against the firms for forcing them to repay the money.
04 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Additional refund counters at seven rly stations from today||Additional refund counters would function at seven railway stations of Salem Railway Division from Thursday. According to a release the counters will function from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day and persons would be allowed for cancellation of their tickets after getting the tokens from Chief Reservation Supervisor of stations concerned. Tokens for the day would be issued from 8 a.m. onwards of the day. The refund counters would function at stations of Udagamandalam, Coonoor, Mettupalayam, Coimbatore North, Podanur Junction, Salem Town and Tiruppatur. The release said that fresh booking of tickets for the newly introduced special train in the State would also be done across the counters. In order to maintain personal distancing, passengers are requested to book tickets through the portal www.irctc.co.in Refund would be given for trains cancelled after March 22 and tickets purchased through online mode in the website. Also, for counter tickets, 100% refund would be made available for all the cancelled trains’ up to 180 days from the date of journey.
04 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Finance firm sealed for violating physical distancing norms||The branch office of a non-banking financial company on Mettur Road here was sealed for flouting physical distancing norms. On Monday, customers gathered at the branch claiming that the company was forcing them to pay equated monthly instalment (EMI) and interests for the borrowed money, even as the Central Government had asked the financial companies not to collect EMI from customers for three months. On information, Corporation officials reached the office and found violation of physical distancing norms among customers. Following this, the branch was sealed.
04 June 2020||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||Man trampled to death by elephant||A 55-year-old man was trampled to death by a lone elephant here near Chinna Pudukottai village in Denkanikottai. The victim Chennappa was grazing his livestock near Athikottai village fringing the reserve forest, when a lone elephant trampled him to death. Earlier, the forest department had warned the public about the sighting of the elephant and advised the locals to stay indoors in the evenings. The victim was a local AIADMK functionary. The death triggered protests led by CPI leader Thally Ramachandran “condemning the forest department” for the frequent deaths caused by elephants.
04 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Abysmal compliance hits UGD scheme in Krishnagiri||Four years after the launch of the underground drainage (UGD) scheme, the Krishnagiri Municipality is woefully short of its targeted coverage, disincentivising even those who have complied in advance. As on date, only a fraction of the households are connected to the central drainage line. The sewage treatment plant has a targeted capacity of 9 mld (million litres a day). This envisions 100 % coverage of all the households -- 16,686 connections. However, only a third of the total targeted households have been linked to the central sewerage of the project. Design revised The UGD design for households has undergone revisions since inception, with part of the household connections suffering a design flaw. Connections that were established in the early stages of Phase I had envisioned draining of sludge into the UGD manholes, while the other household waste water -- from kitchen and bathroom-- continued to be drained into the storm water drain. The design flaw was rectified only from the subsequent connections to ensure that all types of liquid waste went into the UGD. Abysmal compliance has left people who have complied an anguished lot. “In a street where many households have complied by linking to the UGD, a few refusing to link would mean that open drains remained,” says K.Youvaraj, president of Krishnagiri Civil Engineers Association. The blame squarely lay on the municipality, he says. Mr. Youvaraj has been proposing bio-septic tanks – a non-corrosive, fibre reinforced, three-compartment tanks with biodegration of the sludge that can be recycled as manure. Such houses are certified as green buildings. New buildings can consider this option, but until such time, UGD is the way out, he says. Ashok Anand, a lawyer, has been bearing the brunt of poor linkage in his street in Co-operative Colony. Located in the market place, with heavy concentration of commercial buildings, two UGD linkages in his house have made little difference. During the monsoons, sewage overflows into the porch of his house, as garbage clogs the drainage. Only total UGD coverage will ensure that other than rainwater nothing else gets into the storm water drains, he says. Non-compliance is attributed to poor monitoring by the local body. Many households continue to have septic tanks, indicating no septage clearance and management as mandated under the Tamil Nadu Sludge Management Rules, 2014, under the directive of the Madras High Court. The court directions were issued coinciding with the UGD project proposals for the local bodies in the State. The local bodies were mandated to conduct door-to-door inspections to check the status of the septic tanks and enforce migration to the UGD. Adding to the violations, many landlords have passed on to tenants the cost of UGD connections. Speaking to The Hindu, a senior official with the municipality acknowledged the poor compliance. “Landlords are weary of spending and this has hit the efficacy of the project,” the official said. A helpline is being proposed to help with queries related to household connections, the official said.
04 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Thappattam performers seek financial assistance||Thappattam performers from across Madurai district have sought financial assistance from the State government to tide over the COVID-19 lockdown crisis, here on Wednesday. R. Velmurugan, president, Tamil Nadu Naatupura Isaikalai Perumandram (Madurai), who submitted a petition to Collector T. G. Vinay, said that approximately 5,000 thappattam performers in the district had been affected by the lockdown despite the State government offering financial assistance to folk artistes. He said that folk artistes earned their living mostly between the Tamil months of Thai and Vaikasi, which stretches over a period of approximately seven months. During the other five months, they lived off whatever they earned from the small-scale functions for small fees. Without any movement for three months, thappattam performers did not have any money, he said and added that their very survival had become a big challenge for them and their dependants. Although the State government came forward to provide Rs. 1,000 to each member of the Tamil Nadu Folk Artistes' Welfare Board, Mr. Velmurugan said that only a maximum of 30% of folk artistes had registered with the board and could avail the assistance. “It will be quite a relief if the government provides assistance to individuals who are applying to the board afresh,” he said. The government should also permit them to perform in small functions in villages too, and their services could be utilised to disseminate information about COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Velmurugan said that self-help groups must also be created for men now. “If men are allowed to get loans at a low rate of interest, we do not have to depend on money lenders who are fleecing us,” he said and urged the government to examine the modalities.
04 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Approach Supreme Court without delay’||People should not wait until death or a grave violation to seek intervention from the Supreme Court for getting compensation, said former Supreme Court judge and non-resident judge of Fiji Supreme Court Madan Lokur. Speaking at the valedictory function of a certificate course on human rights organised via video-conferencing here on Sunday, Mr. Lokur stressed the need for effective functioning of National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and State Human Rights Commission (SHRC). “The NHRC is understaffed and unable to handle the high volume of complaints. The SHRC is not functioning in most places as there is no chairperson in most States,” he said. The State or the Centre must strengthen these institutions. There had been an indiscriminate call for police or judicial remand when it comes to cases of human rights violations. “Many sedition cases have been filed against individuals. The security of India is not at stake just because some statements made by them are not acceptable to those in the establishment,” he said. Courts often focused intensely on crimes but not on the criminals, he said.
04 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) stages demonstration||Communist Party of India (Marxist) cadre staged protests in 70 locations across the district on Wednesday against alleged irregularities at ration shops. District secretary of the party R. Vijayarajan said people received SMS that they were given 10 kg of rice while they would have received only five or seven kg. Wheat and raw rice were not given to all eligible card holders. The quality of rice and wheat was bad in some places. Moreover ration shops were short-staffed. “To put an end to corruption, a system must be in place where packaged condiments with quality and quantity are displayed. The government must hasten appointments to the ration shops,” he said.
04 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination programme held||The Department of Animal Husbandry conducted a large-scale vaccination programme for jallikattu bulls at Alanganallur and Palamedu on Wednesday. Regional Joint Director D. Suresh Christopher said over 100 cattle heads were vaccinated. Teams of officials were engaged in providing unique identification numbers to all cattle. Dr. Christopher said 80 teams had been collecting details such as the breed, their last date of vaccination and the time of their heat to update their Information Network for Animal Productivity and Health (INAPH) portal created by the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB). How they were bred – naturally or artificially – would also be added, he said. “Usually, we have a mass vaccination programme where all cattle above the age of three months are covered,” he said, adding the department also provided cattle rearers Kisan Credit Cards and made new enrolments on Wednsday.
04 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in road accident||Two youths were killed in a road accident involving two motorbikes on Natham-Melur road near Melavalavu on Wednesday afternoon. The police identified the deceased as M. Anandaraj, 24, of Sanipatti and A. Pathi, 23, of Sirukudi in Natham. When the bikes, both with pillion riders, had a head on collision, both were killed on the spot at Kesampatti. The two riders, Jayakumar and Balasubramanian, were injured. Melavalavu police are investigating.
04 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Hacked to death||A gang hacked to death construction worker P. Madanraj, 27, at Viraganoor on Wednesday. The deceased was chatting with his friends when an armed gang came in two motorbikes, attacked him with swords and fled the scene after leaving him dead in a pool of blood. Silaiman police are investigating.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Union Minister tweets photos of ‘2,000-year-old’ cycle on temple wall||On the occasion of World Bicycle Day, Union Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel on Wednesday tweeted photos of wall carvings purportedly depicting bicycles at a Tamil Nadu temple 2,000 years ago and questioned whether the cycle was indeed invented 200 years ago. The tweet, which was deleted later, said the invention of the cycle was believed to be 200 years ago, while the 2,000-year-old Panchavarnaswamy Temple in Tiruchi has a statue of a man on a cycle on the door. “Avishkar kahan hua hoga [Where would the invention have taken place?],” he asked. Mr. Patel then issued a clarification via two tweets. Apologising for his earlier tweet, he said the Chola era temple was built between the 9th and 12th century and one of the pillars still had the figure of the cycle. He said that some had questioned the antiquity of the figure in light of renovations during British rule, “but there is no document with the Government of Tamil Nadu or Archaeological Survey of India to doubt its antiquity.” One of the images shared by the Minister had gone viral a few years ago, but fact-checkers found the 2,000-year-old claim to be wrong. The Hindu had reported in 2015 that the depiction of a man cycling might have been added to the temple during renovations in the 1920s, according to Dr. R. Kalaikovan of the Dr. M. Rajamanikkanar Centre for Historical Research Centre in Tiruchi.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. moves SC seeking 50% quota for BCs in medical, dental courses||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court for a direction to the Centre to implement 50% reservation for Backward Classes in the State in All India Quota seats for medical and dental courses. The government accused the Centre of violating the “right of the people of Tamil Nadu to have a fair education” by not implementing the 50% quota for Backward Classes and Most Backward Classes for the All India Quota seats in medicine and dental science courses — both undergraduate and postgraduate levels — offered by institutions within Tamil Nadu. “Though regulations stipulate that reservation is to be followed as per the reservation rules of the State where the medical college is situated, the medical counselling committee and the dental counselling committee, through which the admissions are done for the undergraduate and postgraduate medical courses, do not apply the 50% reservation for seats shared by Tamil Nadu in the All India quota as per the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of Appointments or Posts in the Services under the State) Act, 1993,” the State’s petition, represented by Additional Advocate General Jayant Muthuraj and advocate Yogesh Kanna, said. The petition said the action of the Centre and the Medical Council of India to fill up All India quota seats reserved for Backward Classes from the open category was unconstitutional. “The Director General of Health Services is neither following the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of Appointments or Posts in the Services under the State) Act, 1993 to provide 50% reservation for OBC candidates in All India Quota in undergraduate as well as postgraduate medical courses in Tamil Nadu nor providing 27% reservation for OBC candidates in All India Quota in undergraduate as well as postgraduate medical courses to other States,” the petition said. Different rule for reservation It said the provisions of the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation and Admission) Act, 2006, to grant reservation of 27% to OBC candidates only in Central educational institutions is an anomaly as the institutions run by States and private parties would be treated as a “different class having a different rule of reservation”.
04 June 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Pandya era stone idol unearthed in farm||A six-foot-tall stone idol of ‘Kotravai’, the Goddess of War, was unearthed in a farm near Murambu near here recently. According to B. Kandasamy, Assistant Professor of History, Rajapalayam Raju’s College, who is also an archaeological researcher, the idol has been found in southern Tamil Nadu for the first time. An idol of Kotravai, found in northern Tamil Nadu, was at the Government Museum in Chennai, he said. Stating that the idol was found while ploughing a field in Perumalpatti a few days back, he said it belonged to the early Pandya era. The idol had all four hands broken. One broken hand was subsequently found in the field. A 3 ft x 3 ft stone pedestal was also found there. The stone carvings were of high quality, Mr. Kandasamy said, adding a lot of intricate work revealed the finesse of the sculpture. Kotravai was also later associated with Goddesses Kali and Durga. However, he said, the uniqueness of this idol was that instead of a lion as the vagana of those Goddesses, Kotravai had a deer. “Even the idol at the Government Museum has a deer as the vagana,” he added.
04 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M)cadre stage protest||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) cadre staged a protest near the Head Post Office at Suramangalam on Wednesday, to condemn the alleged police attack on a few party cadre who were protesting over the death of a Dalit youth. On May 21, Saravanan from Thiruvakavundanur Bypass Colony was picked up by the Suramangalam police. Though he was let out in the evening, he died next day. On May 23, a few CPI (M) cadre visited Saravanan’s house and were allegedly attacked by the police. To condemn the police action, the party’s urban secretary (West) M. Kanagaraj led a protest on Wednesday. The protesters claimed that Saravanan was attacked by the police at the station during inquiry and it led to his death. They sought action against the police. Since the cadre did not have permission to stage a protest, they were removed by the police and taken to a wedding hall.
04 June 2020||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||Expedite disbursal of wages: MP||Welcoming Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s initiative on disbursal of wages under MGNREGA scheme, Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore has asked him to expedite it. After inspecting an ongoing work under the scheme at Mettamalai, Mr. Tagore said the district administration increased the number of employed under the scheme from 9,860 a day in April to 3.80 lakh. Even after the Centre announced Rs. 40,000-crore additional package for the scheme, it took more than 20 days after the CM’s announcement to generate jobs to all registered workers. “Now, the Chief Minister has announced that disbursal of wages will be made at the doorstep of workers instead of depositing the money in their bank accounts, to avoid the hassle of withdrawal,” he said.
04 June 2020||SIVAKASI,TAMIL NADU||‘Conduct Class X exams after COVID-19 subsides’||The State government should consider conducting Class X public examinations after COVID-19 pandemic completely subsided across the State, said former State Education Minister Thangam Thennarasu. Speaking to reporters after distributing welfare assistance to mark the birth anniversary of former party president and Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi here on Wednesday, Mr. Thennarasu said the DMK’s stand was that the government should not rush with the public examinations. “When the number of people infected with the virus was increasing day by day, the government should consider holding the examinations when things return to normality,” he said. Mr. Thennarasu said 9.5 lakh students across the State had to sit for the examinations. After the public transport was allowed to function the number of cases had only increased. Besides, the pandemic was not under control in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts. “Considering the inconvenience of getting e-pass for people to move from one zone to another, the government should not stick to its proposal of conducting the examinations as per schedule. Let the fear of the pandemic go and then the examinations could be conducted,” Mr. Thennarasu said. The DMK distributed food grains, groceries, vegetables and food to mark the birth anniversary of Karunanidhi. Aruppukottai MLA K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran and Rajapalayam MLA S. Thangapandian took part in similar events at various places in the district.
04 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Seniority in waiting list will not be disturbed, says Tangedco||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) on Wednesday clarified that seniority in the waiting list for free farm power supply will not be disturbed if the wait-listed farmers decided to avail the benefits of solar powered irrigation pumps (SPIP) scheme. Disclosing this in a press release issued through the Thanjavur District Collectorate, Tangedco said the Union and State governments would extend 70% of the total cost of installation of solar-powered 5 HP or 7.5 HP or 10 HP capacity pumps in their agricultural fields for irrigation purposes, as a subsidy to applicants. Declaration The applicants had to chip in with 30% of the project cost and give a declaration that a drip irrigation system would be installed in their agricultural fields. However, the applicants for SPIP scheme would not lose their seniority in the wait-list for free farm power supply scheme. They had to issue a consent letter to Tangedco to link their SPIP with the grid on receiving the free farm power supply allotment letter, the press release added. The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, which sanctioned 468 SPIP connections for Thanjavur district under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha evem Utthan Mahabhiyan (PMKUSUM) scheme, had allocated 405 SPIP connections for the Tiruvarur district under PMKUSUM scheme for 2020-21 financial year, according to the release.
04 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA’s switchover||The Academic Council of Shanmugha Arts and Science, Technology and Research Academy (SASTRA), a deemed to be university, has decided to conduct end-semester examinations online for final year students. It will be followed by an oral assessment for final year engineering, law, education and MBA students belonging to the 2020 graduating batch. The council’s decision follows a briefing presented by Vice-Chancellor S. Vaidhyasubramaniam based on feedback from stakeholders, according to a press release. Also, grades for junior batches will be based on internal examinations conducted so far with an option for students to appear for improvement examinations whenever it is offered. The faculty shall be given the discretion to administer project-based end-semester examinations for eligible students of the junior batches. The council has suggested blending online component in at least 20% of the courseware moving forward and has also advised working with policy makers such as UGC, AICTE, NCTE and BCI to optimise and re-work the teaching day requirement of 90 days under the emerging paradigms of online education. Students with minimum of 50% attendance (regular and deemed 100% online) shall alone be permitted for the assessment, the release added.
04 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown in Thanjavur||Power supply will remain suspended to the following areas under 110 KV sub-station in Thanjavur from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on June 6 in view of maintenance works: Medical College area, Eswari Nagar, Municipal Colony, New Bus Stand area, New Housing Board Quarters, Cauvery Nagar, Elisa Nagar, Spinning Mill, Madhakottai, Vallam, Tamil University, Thanjai Roller Flour Mill, Vasthachavadi, Pillaiyarpatti, Monnaiyampatti, Alakudi, Thirumalaisamudhram, Chakkarasamandham, Kalimedu, Manojipatti and surrounding areas.
04 June 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Work on new campus for Theni law college begins||With a view to meeting the growing demand for law courses, the State government had proposed to open three more law colleges, said Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam here on Wednesday. He was participating in a bhoomi puja ceremony for constructing new buildings for Theni Government Law College, in the presence of Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Collector M. Pallavi Baldev, MP O.P. Raveendranath Kumar, MLAs Thalapathi and S.T.K. Jakkayan. Mr. Shanmugam said the number of students appearing for the CLAT (common law admission test) was rising. In July 2019, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced in the Assembly that law colleges would be opened in Salem, Namakkal and Theni. In last August, the first batch of students was admitted. With the opening of the Theni college, the State had 14 law colleges. The Theni college offers three-year and five-year programmes with an intake of 80 each. The college, which is functioning on a private school campus on the Dindigul-Kumuli highway, will move to the new campus on 14 acres with 26 classrooms, hostels for boys and girls, state-of-the-art auditorium with 400 seats, moot-court hall, conference hall, library, video conferencing and and Wi-Fi facilities on an estimate of Rs. 89.01 crore. In his address, the Deputy CM exuded hope that the good educational infrastructure in the hinterland would attract more students from the rural areas.
04 June 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||‘Higher yield due to kudimaramathu’||Restoring public tanks under kudimaramathu scheme across the State had resulted in better yield of paddy and other foodgrains, said Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam. Speaking to reporters after inspecting desilting of P. Meenakshipuram tank in Bodinaickanur on Monday, he said through kudimaramathu, tanks were rejuvenated so as to store more water. It had also resulted in creating an awareness among people that waterbodies should not be used as receptacles of trash. Through conservation of water and irrigation, fallow lands had become arable. With availability of water, farmers were happy and it augered well for youth not migrating to cities for jobs.
04 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||In Srirangam, a green island amidst a sea of concrete||Until six months ago, residents in Srirangam would have hardly imagined that a barren site in the middle of residential colonies would present a picture of lush greenery. The site has now emerged as a standalone model for urban afforestation. Upon noticing a number of protected vacant sites in different parts of the temple town owned by Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple, S. Vaidhayanathan, Assistant Commissioner, Srirangam Zone, Tiruchi City Corporation, approached P. Jayaraman, Joint Commissioner of the temple, and floated the idea of taking up an afforestation initiative by adopting the Miyawaki method, a popular Japanese method that allows planting of a large number of trees in a small space. They then identified a vacant site of about an acre on South Devi Street for the initiative. Besides sourcing about 5,000 saplings from nurseries of the Corporation, 5,000 more saplings of various native varieties were sourced from Tiruchi, Madurai and Pudukottai for the drive. Under the Miyawaki method, more than 10,000 pits were dug up at a close range of about three feet. Then the pits were filled it with a layer of compost and organic mature. Thereafter, tree saplings were planted followed by a layer of organic manure and topped with a layer of soil. As many as 10,000 tree saplings belonging to 53 varieties of native species were planted in a single day on 20.12.19. About 300 students of Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College, Srirangam, Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College and Holy Cross College were involved in the drive. To facilitate judicious use of water, a drip irrigation system was set up by ensuring the irrigation of all plants. With most of the saplings sourced free of cost, the exercise cost just about Rs. 5 lakh. It was spent mainly for erecting pump set, electricity and drip irrigation. Within a six-month period, the project site looks like a dense forest with trees and plants growing at varying heights from 10 feet to 20 feet. It scintillates and energies the visitors, who feel that as if they are seeing a real forest. S. Subramanian, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation, told The Hindu that it had been decided to throw open the site to residents for walking after laying pavement blocks and installing lights. “The idea is to promote urban afforestation with the aim of passing the ecological benefits to the residents living around the site,” said Mr. Vaidhyanathan. Mr. Jayaraman said that since it had become a huge success, it had been decided to expand the concept in other protected sites of the temple in Srirangam.
04 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Support grows for BDU’s digital platform for students||Affiliated colleges have responded positively to Bharathidasan University’s initiative to upload digital content for students to access study material for examinations during lockdown. The principals, in particular, are appreciative of the provision created for students to access study materials uploaded by teachers of other colleges as well. Though the college heads were initially sceptic about the practicality of the initiative, they are seemingly reconciled to the inevitability of the digital mode of teaching-learning, university sources said. Over the last few weeks, teachers of affiliated colleges have uploaded more than 3,100 digital study material in e-portal. There are 2,181 digital study material pertaining to undergraduate subjects and 742 for post-graduation programmes. Faculty members belonging to science, arts and humanities have uploaded lessons in 42 disciplines. In the case of colleges located in rural parts, the teachers on their own volition have begun going to their institutions to upload the content using facilities in the campus, sources said. On its part, the university has been trying to make downloading of the digital contents easier by splitting them into smaller files. The college heads are now curious to know if the university will move forward in its digital initiative for conduct of the semester examinations. The university is understood to have taken a stand that a final decision on exams will be taken by the Syndicate in consultation with the Higher Education Department. The principals, on their part, have instructed the teachers to prevail upon students to popularise the e-content portal:http://oms.bdu.ac.in/ec/
04 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Woman murders infant, attempts to end life||A 26-year-old woman allegedly murdered her 30-day-old female infant and attempted to end her life at her house in a village near Uppilliyapuram in the district on Tuesday. While the infant died on the spot, the woman is undergoing treatment at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here. She resorted to the extreme step after her husband left for work after reportedly shouting at her, said police. She allegedly administered poison to the infant and also consumed it. She made a call in her mobile phone to her husband and asked her three-year-old daughter to speak to him to convey that she was ending her life. Upon rushing home, her husband found the infant dead. The woman was rushed to MGMGH. Based on a complaint, Uppilliyapuram Police registered a case against the woman under IPC Sections 302 (murder) and 309 (attempt to commit suicide). Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s helpline 044-24640050.
04 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||With falling demand, brick kiln owners in Tiruchi district are feeling the heat this summer||Poor demand for bricks even after resumption of construction works has caused concern among country brick manufacturers in and around Tiruchi. While summer is the peak production season, brick kiln operators say they have been saddled with stocks and forced to scale down output due to lack of buyers. In Tiruchi district, several brick kilns are actively engaged during summer especially in places such as Kondayampettai, Thiruvalars- olai, Panayapuram and Melur. Although construction has been permitted under newly drawn curfew norms, the recessionary trend continues in the sector. Labour shortage is one reason; rise in prices of cement and other construction material another. “There are 56 kilns in Kondayampettai-Thiruvalarsolai areas and almost every kiln has stocks running into hundreds of thousands of bricks. Though we have resumed operations after 40 days, we are facing a severe financial crunch due to poor sales,” says K. Karunanidhi, a brick kiln owner. Fall in demand has led to fall in price. It is now Rs. 4.50 to Rs. 4.80 per brick. “Normally we sell at Rs. 5- Rs. 5.20. When the demand is high, it goes up to Rs. 5.50 apiece,” Mr. Karunanidhi points out. The cost of production has also gone up due to rise in price of firewood, which has increased by Rs. 600-Rs. 700 a tonne. Compounding the problem is the import of bricks, which are slightly bigger in size, by some people from Omalur in Salem district. But there are not many takers for them too, he adds. “I set up a kiln with one lakh bricks about five months ago, but I have not been able to sell them fully yet. Normally I sell them in a month,” says M. Elangovan, another brick kiln owner at Kondayampettai. Money lender woes Mr. Elangovan says he has raised loans at high interest rates from private lenders to manufacture the bricks. “We have to invest about Rs. 3-Rs. 4 lakh for producing about one lakh bricks. I have to shell out Rs. 2,000 as interest a month per lakh,” he adds. Despite the poor demand, brick kiln owners cannot stop production fully. “If we stop, we cannot get labourers later,” Mr. Elangovan contends. Brick kiln owners say they have been paying about Rs. 3,000 a labourer per week over the past two months irrespective of whether they work or not. “We also keep producing hoping for a better demand during the monsoon,” Mr. Elangovan adds. But Mr. Karunanidhi feels that prospects of a rise in demand during the rainy season too is bleak this year, going by current indications.
04 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||YouTube video leads forest officials to ‘sorcerer’||Officials of the Forest Department have arrested a 29-year-old man, who claimed to be producingvasiya mai(a gel), purportedly used in black magic, from monitor lizard body parts and other materials. The accused, V. Periasamy, was arrested at Maniyankurichi near Thuvarankurichi on Sunday. A senior forest official said Periyasamy uploaded his video on YouTube, which came to their knowledge. Following this, he was arrested and booked under the Wildlife Protection Act. Some materials were seized from his alleged possession, the forest official added.
04 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Net conclave||Indian Welding Society and Messe Dusseldorf, leader in technical exhibition, will jointly host an online conclave on ‘Welding Industry’ at 4 p.m. on June 5. The proceedings will be moderated by Vishwanath Kamath, managing director, Fronius India. The conclave will throw light on new ways of working to maintain social distance at work places and to take care of the health of employees in the changed environment due to COVID 19, even while ensuring industrial output for sustaining the economy, a press release issued by IWS said. The organisers have invited all stakeholders of materials and joining sectors to participate in the free webinar by registering in the following link:https://attendee.gotowebinar.com/register/22931825 40050328847.
04 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Watchman arrested for rape||A 71-year-old watchman was arrested on the charges of raping a 70-year-old woman in Pettavaithalai in the district on Tuesday. The crime was committed inside a commercial complex where the woman had been working as a sweeper and supplying tea. Police sources said the woman went upstairs in the morning, when the watchman took her to a room and allegedly committed the crime after shutting the door. On a complaint from the victim, the watchman M. Ponnusamy of Kulithalai area was arrested. The Jeeyapuram All Women Police have registered a case against him under IPC section 376 (rape).
04 June 2020||TIRUCHI/THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||10 more test positive in central region||Ten more persons from central districts tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. Six of the new cases were reported from Thanjavur district, while Tiruvarur reported two cases. Karur and Nagapattinam accounted for one case each. With the six new cases, the tally of active cases in Thanjavur rose to 23. All six patients had been moved to COVID-19 Special Ward at Thanjavur Government Medical College Hospital (TMCH) for treatment. As on Wednesday, the total number of persons who had tested positive for COVID-19 virus in Thanjavur district stood at 103. Of this, 80 persons were treated and discharged from TMCH. The number of active cases in Tiruvarur district increased to 15 on Wednesday with two persons who arrived in the district testing positive for the novel coronavirus. While 51 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tiruvarur district since the outbreak of the virus, 36 of them were discharged after treatment. The lone patient from Karur district, who tested positive for the virus on Wednesday, hailed from Pallapatti. He is said to have contracted the virus in Chennai. In Nagapattinam district, the patient, who tested positive for COVID-19, was from Mayiladuthurai. Upon returning from Chennai a few days ago, he was tested and asked to be in quarantine. The results turned out to be positive.  No fresh case No fresh case was reported in Tiruchi, Perambalur, Ariyalur and Pudukottai districts on Wednesday.
04 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Rains bring cheer to farmers||As the southwest monsoon along Western Ghats has started on an optimistic note on June 1 as predicted and all the reservoirs on the foothills are receiving water, officials hope for a good ‘kar’ season in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts. The farmers are expected to go in for preparations this week and raise nurseries next week. If storage level in dams is comfortable, farmers in some parts of Thoothukudi district would also take up paddy cultivation. After the catchment areas of Papanasam dam experienced 15 mm rain till Wednesday morning, the level in the dam rose from 35 feet to 40 ft. Since the Indian Meterological Department has predicted that moderate rainfall would continue along the western ghats, water level in the 10 dams in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts is expected to increase further. After intermittent drizzle in the Western Ghats close to Kalakkad and other villages, Thalaiyanai has started receiving water since Wednesday. Thalaiyanai, which attracts tourists during summer every year, remains closed duo to lockdown and wears a deserted look. Main Falls, Five Falls and Old Falls in Courtallam have also received the first flow of the season, but none was allowed to take bath due to the lockdown. In Kanniyakumari district, areas close to the western ghats, especially the reservoirs, experienced good rainfall on Tuesday night and intermittent drizzle on Wednesday to raise the influx of water into the dams. Chittar I dam experienced the highest rainfall of 80 mm while Puththen dam (60 mm), Petchipaarai and Sivalogam (50 mm) also experienced good rainfall. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Pechiparai 51, Perunchani 64, Chittar I 80, Chittar II 52, Mambazhathuraiyar 20, Eraniel 18, Anaikidangu 11, Colachel 24, Kurunthancode 10, Adaiyamadai 22, Kozhiporevilai 28, Mullanginavilai 60, Puththen dam 63, Thirparappu 24, Nagercoil 6.20, Boothapandi 3.60, Surulacode 41, Balamore 32, Mayilaadi 11 and Kottaram 7.20.
04 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Fill a form before boarding bus||Following people not keeping physical distancing in buses proceeding to Nagercoil, the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation has imposed some restrictions. When the State government allowed public transport by operating 50% of the buses to various destinations on Monday, the Kanniyakumari district administration did not allow any of these buses to enter the district on the first day. On the second day (Tuesday), though these buses were allowed to enter the district, the passengers were taken to a screening camp at Arignar Anna Arts College at Aralvaimozhi close to the Tirunelveli – Kanniyakumari border. On the third day, the restrictions were imposed in Tirunelveli bus stand itself. When the passengers came to the new bus stand to board the buses going to Nagercoil, they were asked to produce a document to prove their identity while the government employees had to produce their official identity card. They were asked to fill in forms to furnish name, address, reason for travel, recent travel history, home isolation – if any, COVID-19 symptoms – if any, ailments – if any etc., before boarding. “The restrictions will be in place until the pandemic scare subsides,” said a TNSTC official.
04 June 2020||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat chief ‘forced’ to dig a grave||A panchayat president in Tiruvannamalai district, belonging to the Irular community, was allegedly forced to dig a grave by members of the dominant Hindu community. Collector K. S. Kandasamy, however, claimed the panchayat president said he undertook the job “on request". The Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front sought action against those who forced the Ariyakunjur panchayat chief to dig the grave.
04 June 2020||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Girivalam in Tiruvannamalai cancelled due to lockdown||The pournami girivalam in Tiruvannamalai on Friday (June 5) has been cancelled due to the extension of the COVID-19 lockdown till June 30. District Collector K.S. Kandasamy said that the public would not be allowed to take the 14-km procession or perform pooja.
04 June 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers to observe fast on June 5||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s claim that the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill will not pave way for scrapping of free farm power supply scheme is unacceptable, according to P.R. Pandian, president, All Farmers Organissations Committee, Tamil Nadu. In a statement issued here on Tuesday, Mr. Pandian said the Union Government had brought the amendment with an ulterior motive to scrap the free farm power supply scheme. The Minister’s explanation belittled protests from the farming community. Farmers in the State would observe a fast in their houses, fields or at association offices from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on June 5 to condemn the Centre for proposing an amendment, he added.
04 June 2020||TIRUVARUR/TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Delta ryots express disappointment over MSP for paddy||Expressing disappointment over the meagre hike in the minimum support price (MSP) for paddy for the current season, farmers representatives have demanded that the procurement price be revised to Rs. 3,000 per quintal. In a statement, State Deputy Secretary, Tamilnadu Vivasayigal Sangam, P.S. Masilamani said farmers were disappointed with the increase in the MSP. The decision to declare the MSP with just 1.50% increase in the cost of cultivation incurred by the farmers in 2018-19 season was unacceptable. The Union government should take into consideration all the expenses incurred to raise and market the crop. ‘Rise in input costs’ The MSP declared by the Union government would not bring any succour to the farming community, which was grappling with a steep increase of 11 to 17% of input costs in 2020 compared to 2018-1, he said and demanded that the MSP be fixed at Rs. 3,000 per quintal to save the farmers from falling into the debt trap. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu All Farmers Organisations Committee president P.R. Pandian demanded that all expenses incurred for cultivation be considered for calculating the cost of cultivation and the MSP be arrived at by adding 50% profit. If not, the Union government should at least come forward to revise the MSP as Rs. 2,500 per quintal in order to help farmers make some profit, he said. Expressing disappointment over fixing of MSP at Rs. 1,868 a quintal for common variety, an increase of just Rs. 53, Puliyur A. Nagarajan, president, farmers wing of Tamil Maanilla Congress, said farmers were already reeling under a crisis and demanded that the MSP be revised to Rs. 3,000 a quintal.
04 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Soil washed down by rain poses risk to motorists on Ooty-Gudalur Road||Residents of Udhagamandalam have complained that the soil dumped on one side of the recently laid Ooty-Gudalur Road near the Rohini Theatre Junction gets washed down onto the roads during rain, making the road extremely dangerous for motorists. The stretch was laid less than a year ago along with other sections of the Ooty-Gudalur Road. The roadwork was meant to ease traffic flow and ensure safer roads, but the work near the Rohini Theatre Junction, a km before the Fingerpost Junction, has exacerbated existing problems. N. Shiva, a resident of Khandal, said that the Highways Department cleared a lot of earth during the course of the road construction work and heaped it onto one side of the road. Existing structures were also moved and the dumped earth was flattened as part of the work. “However, the engineers failed to take into account that the road is a steep slope and during the rain, loose soil washes down the road and settles on top of the already slippery interlock bricks that have been laid,” said Shiva. Slippery surface Local residents said that motorcyclists were most at risk from meeting with an accident due to losing control of their vehicles on the slippery surface, and called on the Highways Department to look into the prospect of laying concrete on top of the soil . “It’s not just that the soil settles on top of the road, but even makes its way into surrounding homes,” said another resident. When contacted, a senior official from the State Highways Department in the Nilgiris said that they would use machinery to flatten the land surrounding the stretch of road near the Rohini Theatre to prevent loose soil from getting washed down to the road surface.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Residents demand better housing solution||The 1,500-odd families that reside in CMC Colony, Ukkadam, and whose members work as conservancy workers for the Coimbatore Corporation have urged the civic body to provide better housing solution. The Corporation will soon ask the families to vacate the place to facilitate the construction of the northern end of the Ukkadam-Athupalam flyover. The 1,565 families live in the Corporation’s houses, the additional houses that abut the Corporation’s houses and are more of an encroachment and the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenements on the western end of the CMC Colony Road, says K. Mahendran, a resident and organiser of the residents’ collective. And, then there is the Dhobikana that houses over 80 families. Together the area measures 11 acre that the Corporation wants to clear because the flyover curves to the west before touching the ground in Ukkadam and therefore, the Corporation wants to clear the entire area. The Corporation has promised construction of houses for those living in its houses and to shift to other TNSCB tenements in and around the town – to Ukkadam, Vellalore, Keeranatham, Kovaipudur or Malumichampatty. But the residents want the Corporation to construct the new houses right in Ukkadam as the families will lose their livelihood, which is in and around the central business district, Mr. Mahendran points out. In Dhobikana, the washermen are worried if the new place that the Corporation has identified for them near the Ukkadam sewage farm will be as good as the present one. Here, they have three acre where they wash, dry and iron clothes, says S. Gopalakrishnan, secretary of the washermen association. In the three acre the washermen also have their houses – there are around 80 families. Sewage farm The proposed site near the sewage farm does not appear to have enough space or washing or drying clothes, something that they are worried about as it concerns their livelihood, he adds. Sources in the Corporation say that the civic body’s aim is to first move the CMC Colony residents to a land near the farm, where they will have to live in makeshift houses. The Corporation Commissioner visited the land on Tuesday and soon the civic body will take a decision. As for the place for washermen, the Corporation is keen on giving them the necessary facilities to continue their trade at the new location. The TNSCB sources say that once the Corporation clears the 11 acre site and hands over the land, it will begin drawing a proposal for new houses for the CMC Colony residents. It will build the tenements for the residents but with funds from the Corporation. The proposal to provide new houses for those living in its tenements in the area is a separate project, which it will take up separately.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CRS nod for electric locos||The Commissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Circle, Bengaluru has given statutory clearance for introduction of electric loco hauled passenger and freight trains on the newly-energised broad gauge stretch from Tiruvarur to Karaikal falling under the Tiruchi Railway Division’s limits. The authorisation from the Commissioner of Railway Safety came a few days ago after the officer conducted a mandatory inspection of the 42-km newly-electrified stretch from Tiruvarur and Karaikal by travelling on board a special train with a tower car on May 23, besides carrying out a speed trial. The clearance has now paved the way for operation of electric loco hauled passenger trains from and to Karaikal via Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Nagore. Passenger trains were being operated up to Karaikal and from that station hauled by diesel locomotive until the lockdown was imposed. The Tiruvarur-Karaikal electrification was the last leg of the overhead electrification project executed by the Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE) on the Tiruchi-Thanjavur-Tiruvarur-Karaikal broad gauge section. The CORE had already energised the double line stretch from Tiruchi to Thanjavur and on the single line section from Thanjavur to Tiruvarur. The Commissioner of Railway Safety has given a series of measures to be implemented while giving his authorisation for introduction of electric loco hauled passenger and freight trains on the Tiruvarur - Karaikal electrified stretch. Prominent among them is that general caution notices regarding danger of high voltage traction wires should be displayed at entrances of railway stations and at prominent places at each station to alert public. Introduction of regular foot patrolling inspection of overhead electrical equipment is another measure stipulated by the Commissioner of Railway Safety. A senior railway official said preliminary works for electrifying the 10-km Nagapattinam - Velankanni broad gauge section had commenced. The work is also being executed by the Central Organisation for Railway Electrification. The broad gauge stretch that remains to be electrified is from Tiruvarur to Karaikudi via Pattukottai, Peravurani and Aranthangi.  Green signal 42-km stretch electrified  Commissioner of Railway Safety inspected the route on May 23  The senior railway official also conducted a speed trial  Directed posting of caution notices on high voltage traction wires
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||10 new cases in Coimbatore, three test positive in Salem||Coimbatore district saw a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases on Wednesday with 10 cases added to its list, taking the total number of persons tested positive for the disease, so far, to 161. As of Tuesday, the district had 151 cases. As per the COVID-19 bulletin issued by the Health Department on Wednesday, Coimbatore district had 15 active cases. As per the bulletin, four domestic cases and five imported cases of COVID-19 were added to the list, taking total toll to 161. Of these, 145 persons recovered from the disease while one person died. The four domestic cases reported on Wednesday included a 24-year-old woman from Selvapuram who returned to the city from Chennai on a flight on Tuesday. Details of the remaining three cases were not available. Similarly, Health Department officials were not available to comment on the five imported cases reported on Wednesday. Three COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem district on Wednesday taking the total number of cases to 207, including 129 cases who arrived from other States to the district. While one person tested positive and was admitted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital, two others who had arrived from other States tested positive and were later admitted to the hospital. Thus, 78 cases were reported in the district while 129 cases were persons who arrived in the district from other States. Likewise, in Namakkal district, a person who arrived from other State tested positive and was admitted to the District Headquarters Hospital. With this, the total number of positive tested cases in the district stood at 83. In Erode district, a man and a woman, who tested positive and admitted to hospitals in Coimbatore and Vellore respectively, were added to the district tally on Tuesday. However, on Wednesday, they were removed from the district tally. Currently, two persons are undergoing treatment at the isolation ward at Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai taking the district tally to 72. A man from Maharashtra, who is undergoing treatment is included in the list of returnees from other States.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Overcrowding: officials inspect pvt bus||Following complaints of a private bus allowing crowding of passengers despite the State government’s directions to allow only 60% occupancy, officials from the Transport Department inspected the bus on Wednesday. Regional Transport Officer (South) S. Saravanan ordered the inspection of the private bus plying on Route No. 94A from Kalikkanaicken Palayam to SITRA based on complaints received on Tuesday, official sources said. However, only 25 passengers were found to be seated inside the bus during the inspection. Nevertheless, the team of Transport Department officials warned the drivers and conductors to adhere to the State government directions and to not allow additional number of passengers, according to the sources. While the State government has allowed private stage carriers to operate on approved routes, many private buses have abstained from operating the buses as 60% passenger occupancy will not be economically feasible. An office-bearer of the Coimbatore District Bus Owners Association (South) said that the members advised the private bus operator whose bus allegedly allowed overcrowding to not operate buses. “We cannot monitor all the private buses. Only the government can take some action in this regard,” the office-bearer said, requesting anonymity. However, G. Nagaraj, proprietor of the private bus, claimed that a large number of passengers boarded the bus from Kalikkanaicken Palayam and they allegedly refused to deboard the bus as there are no adequate bus services in Route No. 94A. “We will ensure henceforth that no crowding of passengers occurs in our buses,” he said.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman constable arrested for jewellery embezzlement||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the city police arrested a woman constable attached to the Singanallur police station (Crime) on charges of embezzling 61 sovereign of jewellery which the police had recovered in 12 cases over a period of time. Swapna Suja (40), a grade II constable, was arrested by a team of CCB late on Tuesday, said a senior police officer. Sources said that Suja misappropriated 61 sovereigns of jewellery, which the police had recovered in 12 criminal cases, by failing to produce them before court. In January, the inspector (Crime) of Singanallur station inquired the matter with the policewoman as he received petitions from victims of various cases, including chain snatching, requesting the police to hand over property they recovered from accused involved in those cases. The police woman went on a long leave after the inquiry and she was placed under suspension in February. A source said that she approached the Madras High Court seeking revocation of suspension. She was arrested under Sections 204, 409, 420, 468 and 477(A) of the IPC and produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody. Interestingly, in 2018, then third judicial magistrate Velusamy, Coimbatore, had presented a memento to Suja as a token of appreciation for helping the court in clearing 80-odd cases that were pending from 2003 to 2012.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||17 fresh cases in Thoothukudi||Thoothukudi recorded 17 fresh COVID-19 cases, all indigenous, that took the tally to 294 and the number of active cases to 135 on Wednesday. None of the 685 passengers, who were brought to VOC Port from Colombo in Sri Lanka by Indian Naval Ship Jalashwa on Tuesday, tested positive. Tirunelveli district recorded 12 new cases – six indigenous and six imported – to take the total number of infections to 378. The district has 98 active cases. While Tenkasi added four new cases, including an imported case, to take its tally to 94, Kanniyakumari reported one indigenous case. The district has now 32 active cases and Tenkasi has 21 cases. Seven persons, including a frontline worker, tested positive in Madurai, taking the district’s tally to 276. The 26-year-old frontline worker is from Anna Nagar. A 28-year-old man working at a shop in Ellis Nagar also tested positive. Other cases were from different areas, including Sellur, Solaialagupuram, Alathur and Melur. Three persons were discharged on Wednesday, and the number of active cases is 96. With two fresh cases testing positive, the number of total cases in Theni district went up to 116. According to officials, the fresh cases – one from Theni and the other from Cumbum – had returned from Chennai and Bangalore respectively. So far, 99 persons have been discharged from hospital. In Ramanathapuram, for the first time, a doctor having a hospital at RR Sethupathi Nagar tested positive. Officials said the 60-year-old doctor had volunteered to undergo swab test as he had COVID-19 symptoms. Immediately after testing positive, he got admitted to a private hospital in Madurai. Steps were taken to disinfect his hospital. All the patients and visitors, numbering close to 140, were screened. Similarly, the family members of the doctor, hospital staff and those living close by were told to cooperate for screening. The total number of cases in the district rose to 90, and 54 of them have been discharged. In Sivaganga, a lone indigenous case tested positive. The district’s tally now is 35, and 29 among them were discharged from hospital. A total of 28 persons were discharged from different hospitals in Virudhunagar district, where one positive case was recorded on Wednesday. The total number of active cases in the district came down to 38. The district’s tally of positive cases is 128.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four held for smuggling ganja from A.P.||The Tiruppur City Police on Wednesday arrested four persons on charges of smuggling 15 kg of ganja into Tiruppur from Andhra Pradesh. Anupparpalayam police station Inspector P.N. Rajan along with other police personnel were engaged in vehicle checking at Velampalayam Road on Tuesday evening when they stopped a car and found the contraband. Two accused in the car – K. Saravanan, 40, and V. Chellathurai, 34 – were secured following this, police said. Preliminary investigations revealed that the ganja was smuggled from Andhra Pradesh via Avinashi and the accused were intending to transport the drug to Oddanchatram and Ramanathapuram to sell the drug. Based on the interrogation, two more accused – M. Harish, 34 and R. Raghu, 30 – were secured on Tuesday evening. Car seized Apart from ganja weighing 15 kg, Anupparpalayam police also seized the car used to transport the drug and cash of Rs. 1,000 from the accused. A case was registered under sections 20 (Punishment for contravention in relation to cannabis plant and cannabis) and 25 (Punishment for allowing premises, etc., to be used for commission of an offence) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and the four accused were remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday. All the accused had pending cases against them, with Saravanan having cases against him in Dindigul and Theni districts and the other three accused had multiple cases in Tiruppur City Police limits, according to the police.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Income loss forces driver to convert autorickshaw into shop||With the loss of income faced by autorickshaw drivers due to the two-month-long COVID-19 lockdown and the subsequent lack of demand, a driver in Coimbatore converted his vehicle into a shop in an attempt to compensate for the loss. Abdul Samadh, a resident of Ukkadam who has been an autorickshaw driver for over seven years, said that he has converted the rear side of his vehicle into a petty shop complete with cigarettes, beedis, betel nuts and snack items such as murukku and kadala mittai. “It has been nearly 10 days since I converted my autorickshaw this way,” he said. After taking regular trips in the autorickshaws in the mornings, Mr. Samadh would generally park his vehicle on State Bank Road in the evenings and set up his shop in his vehicle. When the lockdown was in place and autorickshaws were not allowed to ply on the roads, Mr. Samadh said that he sold the items in Ukkadam by carrying it in bag and travelling by foot. After autorickshaws were allowed to ply from May 23, Mr. Samadh said that he found that the demand for autorickshaws has reduced in the city. “Before lockdown, I used to earn around Rs. 1,500 per day. But now, I hardly make around Rs. 500 a day,” he said. Hence, he decided to set the shop in a way that will not inconvenience the passengers. “If there are not enough trips in the day, I will open the shop even at 2 p.m., but if I get enough trips, I will continue to drive through the whole day,” Mr. Samadh said. However, this shop is not highly profitable, Mr. Samadh noted, as he only makes around Rs. 300 by selling the various items a day. Although fellow drivers have been appreciative of this attempt, he claimed that no other driver has attempted to emulate this yet. “There is no use in blaming others. We have to learn to adapt to the present situation,” he said.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Record spike takes T.N. tally past 25,000-mark||He died on June 2 due to respiratory failure. Tiruchi reported its first death due to COVID-19 after a 70-year-old woman with diabetes and hypertension died at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on June 2 of COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. Of the new cases, which included 498 women and one transgender, Tiruvallur district reported 58 and Chengalpattu 61 cases. With this, the total number of cases increased to 1,087 in Tiruvallur and 1,370 in Chengalpattu. There were 19 new cases in Kancheepuram, 17 in Thoothukudi and 16 in Tiruvannamalai. Coimbatore reported four indigenous cases. Forty-two persons, who returned from other States and abroad, also tested positive in various parts of the State. Of this, 13 persons from Dubai and two from other parts of UAE tested positive during entry and exit tests. Four persons who flew in from Gujarat tested positive, while 16 persons from Maharashtra, five from Delhi and two form Karnataka - who returned by road and rail - also tested positive. Till date, a total of 1,724 persons who returned to the State from other States and countries have tested positive. A total of 846 persons, who returned by ship to Chennai and Thoothukudi, were screened. So far, a total of 1,437 children aged 0 to 12 and 2,536 persons aged above 60 have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)   A total of 1,437 children aged 0 to 12 and 2,536 persons aged above 60 have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State so far
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bids called for construction of Avinashi Road flyover||The State Highways Department has called for bids to construct a flyover for 10 km on Avinashi Road in Coimbatore. The last date for submitting applications is July 13 and the bids will be opened here on July 18. The Rs. 1,069 crore project is to have an elevated highway from Uppilipalayam to Goldwins and it will be constructed in 48 months from the date of commencement of works. An official of the Highways Department said works will commence in one or two months after the bids are opened. The four-lane elevated highway will have four up ramps and four down ramps - at Anna Statue junction, Hope College junction, Kalapatti junction, and Nava India junction. The exact location of the up and down ramps at each junction will be slightly away from each other. The flyover will start about 150 metre from Uppilipalayam junction, near the CSI School, and end beyond KMCH. Land acquisition will be minimum (18000sq.mt). Vacant area that is available will be used in some locations and in some buildings only the compound wall may be affected. When the project is completed, vehicles will still be able to use four lanes of the existing Avinashi Road, two lanes on either side. “The main aim is to ease traffic congestion and enable vehicles to proceed without stopping at the junctions, if they are going to airport or outside the city using Avinashi road,” the official said. The project is one of the main infrastructure development works of Coimbatore, pointed out K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause. At least now, all the details related to the project should be made available to the public. Even members of the District Road Safety Committee were not given the details, he said.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fish landing centre to be ready soon||Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao on Tuesday said work on the Rs. 70-crore Kundugal fish landing centre in Pamban would be over within two months. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the facility on Tuesday, he said it would have an auction centre and cold storage units. Around 500 mechanised boats could berth at the landing centre. On prevention of sea erosion, Mr. Rao said the government had approved construction of a wall — 315 metre long and 1.60 metre high — at a cost of Rs. 1.87 crore near the landing centre. The work would start soon. A fishermen association said the landing centre, a long-pending demand, would enable them to get a fair price and they could keep the surplus catch in the cold storage units.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Duraimurugan to continue as DMK treasurer: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin announced on Wednesday that former treasurer of the party, Duraimurugan, will continue in the post, till a general council meeting is held. Mr. Stalin said due to COVID-19, the meeting to elect the treasurer and general secretary could not be held. “Taking this situation into account, based on the powers vested in me under Rule 18 of the party’s by-laws, I am temporarily rescinding the decision taken by me on the resignation given by Mr. Duraimurugan from the post of treasurer. He will continue in the post of treasurer till the general council meets,” Mr. Stalin said. On March 16, Mr. Duraimurugan resigned to contest the post of general secretary, which fell vacant following the death of K. Anbazhagan.
04 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Woman who hosted Ambedkar in Aurwad in 1927 passes away||Jagan Bi Patel, a home-maker who played host to B.R. Ambedkar in 1927, died in Karoshi village in Belagavi district on Tuesday. She was a little over 108. She died of natural causes, her family said. Jagan Bi, also called Munni Bai, served food to Ambedkar in her native village of Aurwad in Kolhapur district in Maharashtra. As a 15-year-old girl, she served tea and lunch to the national leader and eminent lawyer when he stayed in her parent’s house for a week, as he was fighting a civil case for her father. Ambedkar represented Mohammad Patel, Jagan Bi’s father, in a property dispute. Jagan Bi settled down in Karoshi after her marriage to a farmer in 1930. She used to relate stories of Baba Saheb’s visit to her paternal house and how he saved her father’s land by winning cases in Chikkodi and Mumbai in the 1920s. She spoke of how her father and Ambedkar would at times walk to the court in Chikkodi. Her favourite episode was an unrelated incident where Ambedkar rode a horse to Nippani. She became some a sort of celebrity in Chikkodi after Bahujan Samaj Party leader Kanshi Ram met her during a visit to Belagavi district in 1995. “She told Kanshi Ram that Ambedkar fondly called her Munni,” Bahujan Samaj Party leader from Chikkodi, Rajeev Kamble, who was present during that meeting, recalled. Her husband died 30 years ago and she lived in Karoshi where her sons tilled land and sold farm produce for a living. She spent her last years reciting and reading the Quran among women’s groups. She spoke Marathi and Urdu and entertained the village children by telling them stories. The final rites were conducted in the village on Wednesday.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Improvement in air quality in the city wears down with lockdown relaxation||The lockdown and frequent rain saw Bengalureans breathe easy for the first time in recent years as the air quality improved significantly. However, post several relaxations, pollutants have started making their presence felt again. In a comparison of the air quality from March to June, the Air Quality Index (AQI) went from 100 before the lockdown (March 1 to 21) to 61 during the lockdown (March 22 to May 3). Post May 3, it has gradually risen to 71, according to Ambee, an eco-intelligence startup based in the city. Akshay Joshi, CEO of Ambee, told The Hindu that the two major factors behind the city experiencing cleaner air during the period were the absence of vehicular pollution and construction activities — real estate and public infrastructure. “We have not seen such low AQI. In fact, in some areas like Malleswaram, Jnanabharathi (Mysuru Road near BU campus), Vijayanagar, the PM2.5 was at its lowest ever. Peenya, Hosur Road and Silk Board, where the average AQI has been close to dangerous levels, went to safe levels amidst the lockdown,” he said. Sulphur oxide (SOx) and Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) were the lowest during the lockdown due to very little traffic. “Frequent rains have reduced the PM (particulate matter) count as well. We saw a spike in PM in some areas due to garbage burning, resuming of construction and road repair works. Post complete lockdown, we see an increase in SOx, NOx, CO and PM as traffic has begun the flow,” Mr. Joshi explained. Most and least polluted areas The 10 most polluted areas from May 3 till May 14 included Jayanagar, Peenya Industrial Area, Herohalli, Banashankari third stage and Kathriguppe. From May 14, they were replaced by Madanayakanahalli, Dasanapura, J.P. Nagar third phase, Jayanagar, Magadi Road, Bannerghatta Road, Shantinagar, Konanakunte and Chickpet. The Karnataka State Pollution Control Board’s AQI for January and February showed Jayanagar fifth block, Central Silk Board and City Railway Station between 101 and 200, categorised as ‘moderate’ – may cause breathing discomfort to people with lung disease such as asthma and discomfort to people with heart disease, children and older adults. T.V. Ramachandra from the Centre for Ecological Sciences , Indian Institute of Science said things were almost back to usual already. “There was a drastic reduction in air pollution as there were one-tenth of vehicles and no building activity. But there are already traffic jams as before, that means we are back to business. Planning is an important component and decentralised growth will help change things," he said. Dr. Sharachchandra Lele, Distinguished Fellow in Environmental Policy & Governance, ATREE added, “How do we regain the clean air that we glimpsed so briefly during lockdown? We can do a few things as individuals: reduce commuting, keep working from home, skip shopping trips to malls (since lockdown showed us that those trips are superfluous), and reduce our purchases from online portals (again: something we were able to do without largely). But really the ball is in the government's court. It needs to restart metro work immediately, establish exclusive bus lanes, and bicycle lanes. The restarting of BMTC buses was a disaster as the government did not pay attention to the needs of passengers in setting the fares. This shows the need for much greater mandatory participation of people in decision-making about public transport.”But with the monsoon having arrived, the rains could help keep a check on micro particles rising out of dust, bringing temporary relief during the season.KSPCB officials were unavailable for comments.  This is the first of a two part series ahead of World Environment Day on June 5.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Milk unions resort to second round of procurement price cut||In less than two months, district milk unions that procure milk from farmers across the State have reduced procurement price for the second time as the market for milk and milk products is yet to pick up. The COVID-19 related lockdown since March 25 has severely affected the finances of the unions. While the district unions slashed the procurement price between Rs. 1.5 and Rs. 2.5 per litre of milk in April, they are resorting to the second round of cut to the level of Rs. 1, as unions have run into losses to a tune of several crores. Unions in Bengaluru, Tumakuru, Mandya, and Kolar, among the highest milk contributors in the State, have resorted to the second round of cut. If all 14 unions resort to cuts, which is likely, over 2 million farmers, who are members of village-level milk societies, will be affected. “We have no choice but to reduce procurement price. Other unions have also done it and some are expected to announce it shortly. The market for milk has shrunk since the lockdown. We have a pile of butter and skimmed milk powder whose costs have come down and cheese has no takers,” Bengaluru Milk Union Ltd. (BAMUL) president Narasimhamurthy told The Hindu . “This is only a temporary measure to tide over the crisis, and the price that prevailed before lockdown will be restored as market improves,” he added. BAMUL, one of the largest milk unions in the State, is currently procuring about 17.35 lakh litres daily while the total procurement by unions in the State is about 80 lakh litres a day. It resorted to a cut of Rs. 1.5 per litre in April and Rs. 1 per litre this week, reducing the procurement price from Rs. 29 per litre to Rs. 26.5 per litre. Different rates The procurement price varies among milk unions, and it is tied to the financial condition of the respective unions. Incidentally, BAMUL is among the strongest unions in the State. Besides, milk farmers in the State also get Rs. 5 per litre from the State government as incentive. Sources in BAMUL acknowledged that the reduction will hit farmers, who are already in deep trouble due to the lockdown. “Milk contributes to the sustenance of rural economy as farm produce has been affected by vagaries of nature. In south Karnataka especially, milk farming has empowered families financially.” The average cost of milk production is between Rs. 30 and Rs. 37 per litre if labour is hired and fodder is purchased. “Because farmers themselves involve and fodder is available at the village level, the procurement price is manageable. Otherwise, it is a loss,” sources said. Mr. Narasimhamurthy pointed out that BAMUL, which was selling about 11 lakh litres of milk daily, has seen its share declining to less than 9 lakh now, and the cost of producing skimmed milk powder remained high. “The free milk supply scheme in which 1.85 lakh litres was distributed during the lockdown ended on May 1, and this milk also remains. Currently, there is no crisis to pay farmers and we will continue to procure as much milk produced by farmers.”
04 June 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||New MSP does not cover even cost of cultivation for eight crops in Karnataka||Though the Centre has claimed that the hike in Minimum Support Price (MSP) of various crops effected on June 1 will fetch returns in the range of 50 to 83% over cost of cultivation, the base calculations on cost of cultivation worked out for different crops by the Karnataka Agriculture Prices Commission (KAPC) tell a different tale. They show that Karnataka farmers actually suffer a loss of 2 to 39% with respect to eight crops and profits vary from only 7 to 15% for four other crops. Agriculture economist and former chairman of KAPC T. N. Prakash Kammaradi, during whose tenure work on cost of cultivation for different crops had been undertaken, told The Hindu that the MSP declared by the Centre was actually lower than cost of cultivation for several crops in Karnataka. This is because the Centre is trying to impose a common MSP on the entire nation though the actual situation in terms of availability of natural resources such as water, fertility of soil and agri infrastructure including irrigation facilities vary in different States and regions. “One nation-one MSP theory does not work in a country like India that has huge diversity in its agriculture and natural resources,” he maintains. Drought situation Pointing out that Karnataka has largest chunk of drought-prone land next only to Rajasthan in the country, Dr. Prakash says yield levels are bound to be lower than other States in such a situation. Another technical reason for the MSP not being substantial is that the Centre has taken into consideration only the ‘paid out’ costs by farmers such as money paid towards fertilisers, seeds, pesticides and labour in addition to accounting for ‘family labour’ i.e. the cost towards family members themselves working as labourers in the farm while arriving at cost of production. But, if farmers have to benefit, the Cenre should have prepared a comprehensive MSP by also accounting for rental value of land, interest on fixed assets created on farm land such as borewell, and interest on own capital, he argues, while pointing out that the KAPC has considered all these aspects while arriving at cost of production. As of now, growers of only paddy, cotton, maize and black gram in Karnataka will get profits over cost of cultivation from the new MSP. Similarly, growers of several crops including ragi, jowar, toor dal, bajra and groundnut will incur losses from the present MSP, according to him. Dr. Prakash also expresses concern over adequate funds not being released by the Centre for procurement of produce by paying MSP. State’s role He has urged the Karnataka government to either immediately take up the issue with the Centre, asking for declaration of a comprehensive MSP or make up for the loss by providing a ‘bonus amount’ from its own resources.  One nation-one MSP theory does not work in a country like India that has huge diversity in its agriculture and natural resources.  T.N. Prakash Kammaradi former chairman, KAPC
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Disposable packaging and cutlery make a comeback||The pandemic has undone months, if not years, of awareness campaigns on the need to use more eco-friendly options such as steel cutlery and crockery. In the past two months, there has been a shift to disposable items such as paper cups – not all of which are recyclable – plastic containers and spoons. Even parcel packaging that was slowly moving towards sustainable material has taken a step back with multi-layered aluminium foil and plastic making a comeback. Several supermarkets have taken to wrapping vegetables in plastic in an attempt to make products ‘contact free’. “People are not ready to drink coffee or tea in reusable tumblers. We also think it is risky to use re-usables in times of COVID-19. So we have shifted to paper cups, plastic containers and spoons,” said Sripad Hegde, who runs a restaurant in north Bengaluru. However, this only seems a step forward and two steps backward for the city in terms of sustainable solutions, feel solid waste management activists, who were at the forefront of the shift away from disposables. “A disposable item is no guarantee for zero contact. It is a wrong assumption that they will insure you from the risk of contracting the infection,” said Odette Katrak, co-founder, Beautiful Bengaluru. D. Randeep, Special Commissioner, Solid Waste Management, BBMP, pointed out that there is no guarantee that disposable items are not recycled to find their way again into the market. “While we agree that hygiene and minimising contact is a big concern during the pandemic, going back to disposable items is not the right solution. They remain banned and there has been no relaxation of the norms,” he clarified. The civic body has been encouraging hotels and other eateries to invest in hygienic solutions such as dishwashers, hot water sterilisers,and ensuring that employees use hand gloves. “There is no replacement for items like steel utensils. The only way out is their proper sterilisation,” he said. Hotels and restaurants are all set to re-open on June 8. “We have been lenient on enforcement during lockdown, but we will take strict action in a few days,” Mr. Randeep warned. Activists are urging consumers to carry their own utensils. “That is the only way you can be assured that there has been no contact,” argues Ms. Katrak.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||More rain expected in coastal districts||Though Cyclone Nisarga has moved ahead of Maharashtra, the coastal districts of the State are likely to receive more rain over the next four to five days. On Wednesday, Uttara Kannada and Udupi districts received heavy rainfall, while Dakshina Kannada district received moderate rainfall, said officials of the meteorological department. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Management Centre (KSNDMC), maximum rainfall of 170 mm was recorded at Majali hobli, Karwar taluk in Uttara Kannada district. KSNDMC director G.S. Srinivas Reddy pointed out that the cyclone did not have much impact on the State, as its intensity had reduced. “Apart from Uttara Kannada and Udupi, some stations recorded heavy to very heavy rainfall. Dakshina Kannada received moderate rainfall. In the rest of Karnataka, there were reports of light to moderate rainfall in isolated places,” he said. The skies over Mangaluru city were overcast, though it did not rain much. However, areas near the foothills of the Western Ghats, including Moodbidri, Belthangady, Kadaba, Puttur, and Sullia taluks in Dakshina Kannada district, received moderate rain. The condition of sea in Someshwar, Uchila, Mogaveerapatna, and Ullal in Mangaluru taluk was rough. The Department of Fisheries has already warned fishermen against venturing into the Arabian Sea till June 4. With more rain forecast, a 25-member team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) is camping in Mangaluru city to help the district administration in evacuation efforts in case of floods and other emergencies. In Kodagu, which is bracing for the onset of South West Monsoon, nodal officers have been appointed in 16 hoblis to coordinate with the NDRF team stationed there. The northern districts of Karnataka also received moderate to intense rainfall. Belagavi district received 36 mm rainfall in the first three days of June, as against an average of 10 mm. The wholesale fruit market in Belagavi was flooded on Tuesday, while water entered homes in some low-lying areas, such as Maratha Colony, Hindalga and Pangul Galli. Fortunately, there have been no reports of loss of life or livestock. C.S. Patil from the meteorological department told The Hindu that eastern districts of the State, including Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Raichur, and Tumakuru, received very less rainfall. Vijayapura, Dharwad, Raichur, and Yadgir witnessed cloudy weather. Raichur district received 4.7 mm of rainfall in the last seven days against the average of 2 mm, Yadgir district received 28 mm rainfall against average of 14 mm. Widespread moderate to heavy rain was likely over coastal Karnataka, scattered to widespread light to moderate rain likely over Malnad and adjoining interior Karnataka districts, while isolated light to moderate rain was likely over remaining parts of the State, according to KSNDMC’s rainfall forecast. The coastal districts will receive more rain over the next four to five days, due to change in wind pattern, said Mr. Patil. However, he stated that the South West Monsoon was yet to set in the State and that districts of interior Karnataka had not yet received any rain. Dr. Reddy pointed out that with a low pressure system developing in the Bay of Bengal, monsoon activities may increase after June 8-9.  (With inputs from Mangaluru, Mysuru, and Hubballi)
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RS polls: BJP meeting on Saturday to discuss candidates||The notification for Rajya Sabha polls seems to have come as a surprise to many and lobbying for the two berths in the Upper House that the BJP can win from the State, is yet to pick up. The core committee meeting of the State unit, scheduled for June 6, will be the first time the party will discuss probable candidates before recommending names to the high command. Of the four members retiring from RS, BJP has only one member — senior politician from Belagavi, Prabhakar Kore. However, given how the numbers are presently decked up, BJP can win two seats unopposed. Sources in the party said that one of the two seats will probably go to a candidate of the high command’s choice, probably an outsider to the State. The only person yet to make a public bid for a berth is Ramesh Katti, former MP and brother of Umesh Katti, a ministerial aspirant and dissenter. “We have reminded the Chief Minister of his promise to send me to RS,” Mr. Katti told The Hindu two days ago. Mr. Kore, who retires now, is also an aspirant for re-election. Meanwhile, the names of several others have emerged — BJP State vice-presidents Tejaswini Ananthkumar from Bengaluru and M. Nagaraj from Hubballi, media and transport baron Vijay Sankeshwar, and hospitality industry bigwig K. Prakash Shetty, sources said. “The CM is keen on one of the two seats going to a Lingayat, while his pick remains shrouded in a mystery. As several Lingayat MLAs seem to have raised a banner of revolt against him, it is key that a seat vacated by a Lingayat is given to a Lingayat,” said a close associate of the CM. However, he has reportedly told the Katti brothers to pick one of the two — a ministry to Mr. Umesh or a RS seat to Mr. Ramesh, a proposition the Katti brothers have not agreed to. Ms. Tejaswini Ananthkumar is learnt to be lobbying hard for the seat. “Party workers and leaders feel the party owes her one and she has turned a candidate for almost all posts that have come up — RS, Legislative Council and even boards and corporations,” a BJP leader said. For the second seat, BJP general secretary in-charge of Karnataka P. Muralidhara Rao is said to be a strong aspirant.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||National Health Mission workers withdraw proposed strike call||The proposed strike by nearly 30,000 contract staff appointed under the National Health Mission (NHM) in the State from Thursday was withdrawn late in the night on Wednesday after the government agreed to consider their demands. The strike was likely to affect COVID-19 activities, including contact tracing, surveillance, and hospital functioning in the State. Demanding equal pay for equal work, regularisation of services and a comprehensive COVID package for the contract employees, the NHM workers had decided to strike work under the banner of Karnataka State Health and Medical Education Department Contractual and Outsource Employees Association (KSHCOEA). ‘GO not issued’ Association president Vishwaradhya H.Y. said although the Health Minister had convened a meeting a few days ago and had promised that a committee would be set up look into their demands, it was yet to issue a Government Order on setting up of the committee. “Although contract workers have been slogging ever since the pandemic broke out, more than half of them have not got their salaries for the last two months,” he said. On salaries  NHM Mission Director R. Ramachandran, who was transferred on Wednesday, said the salaries were delayed as the process of validation from districts took time due to COVID-19. “We have sorted out the issue and salaries have been disbursed to the districts. Employees in 22 districts have got their salaries and for the remaining it is under bank processing,” he said. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said Health Minister B. Sriramulu had requested them to withdraw their strike during this crucial time. “If they do not withdraw, we we will continue to provide services with our available permanent staff.” The contractual employees include doctors and nurses working in COVID-19 wards of taluk hospitals and urban primary health centres acting as fever clinics and in surveillance programmes. They also include lab technicians and group ‘D’ staff. They worked long hours at checkposts before health screening was suspended at checkpoints.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC declines to stay FIRs in Padarayanapura case||The Karnataka High Court has declined to stay multiple First Information Reports (FIRs) registered against accused persons in connections with the attack on health workers and police during a drive to identify persons for COVID-19 quarantine in Padarayanapura ward on April 19. Justice P.B. Bajanthri passed the interim order on petitions filed by Wazeer Khan and other accused persons challenging the legality of registration of multiple FIRs. Plea for a stay It was argued on behalf of the petitioners that multiple First Information Reports on the same incident and allegations are not permissible in law while seeking stay of proceedings based on these FIRs registered in the complaints lodged by police personnel. The State Public Prosecutor justified the multiple First Information Reports as the alleged offences took place in different points/spots, like different roads in Padarayanapura. “In the present case, the factual aspect, like the complainant and other events, do not constitute a single transaction. Such transactions cannot be amalgamated and clubbed into a single FIR. In respect of such transactions, it is imperative for the State to register separate FIRs if the complaint discloses commission of cognisable offence...,” the court observed while dismissing the application for stay filed by the accused.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||150 girls released from garment factory||The district administration, the labour department and the police released 150 women from a garment factory in Doddaballapur on June 2. All the women hail from Odisha and were sent to their hometowns in a Shramik Special train on Tuesday. Officials are now on the lookout for the owner of the garment factory who is on the run. At least 22 of the women were brought to the factory in February this year. They told the police that they were asked to continue working during the lockdown but they were not paid any wages. They also stated that they were forced to work even if they were sick and they were not given sufficient rations during the lockdown, officials said. During this period, they had to make do with inconsistent supply of water and rations. As soon as the lockdown was lifted the girls wanted to return home, but their employer allegedly did not give them permission to leave the factory premises. A release stated that a total of 199 girls were working in the factory and lived in two hostels nearby. While 150 of them decided to leave, the rest have chosen to remain behind and continue working.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Resurvey prime land used to build apartments in HAL aerodrome zone: HC||The Karnataka High Court has ordered for resurvey of a prime land, on which a leading real estate developer has put up a multistoried residential complex within the aerodrome zone of Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HAL). Also, the court directed the developer, Chalet Hotels Pvt. Ltd., which is a part of well-known real estate development firm K. Raheja Corp. Group, not to put up further constructions at its “Raheja Vivarea Koramangala” project situated in Koramangala Industrial Layout. The developer has also been directed not to sell or agree to sell or enter into an agreement with third parties in whatsoever manner in respect of any portion of the building till the outcome of the resurvey. However, the court quashed HAL’s order of cancelling the No objection Certificate (NoC) given to the entire residential complex without ascertaining which portions of the complex were built in violation of the conditions of the NoC. Justice B. Veerappa passed the order while partly allowing the petition filed by developer while declining to issue directions to HAL to revalidate the NoC for a period of five years. The court in 2013 itself had issued interim directions to stop further constructions. The project, comprising construction of two basement floors, ground floor and 17 upper floors each in 10 wings, was commenced in 2011 after HAL on October 28, 2010 granted NoC. Construction of five wings were completed up to 17 upper floors till September 2012 before the HAL raised objection before cancelling NoC. HAL, on August 16, 2013, cancelled the NoC alleging that the Above Mean Sea Level (AMSL) of the site elevation, provided by the firm at the time of seeking NoC, was incorrect. NoC was issued on the basis of the company’s claim that construction, when complete, would not exceed 870 m AMSL (site elevation) plus 62 m (height of the structure), a total height of 932 m AMSL. However, nearly 11 months after the NoC was issued, HAL found that the actual AMSL of the site would be about 890 m and in that event it would violate the ceiling of 932 m AMSL, the maximum height permitted for construction, and had asked developer to get a resurvey of the site elevation through a government agency. On the claims of the agreement holders/purchasers of flats from the developer, the court said that they are at liberty to approach the developer for alternative flat or the competent court for relief.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Katti meets Yediyurappa||Senior MLA and ministerial aspirant Umesh Katti, who recently hosted a dinner meet for several dissident MLAs, met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday, during morning walk. The two discussed several issues for nearly an hour. The meeting comes a day after the Chief Minister appointed Ramesh Jarkiholi, a recent defector from Congress, as the district in-charge Minister of Belagavi, the home district of Mr. Katti. While Mr. Katti and another dissident MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal are known to have refused to meet the CM for talks earlier, the morning walk meeting is seen as a sign of back channel efforts to reinitiate talks. Mr. Katti is learnt to be adamant of his brother Ramesh Katti securing a berth in Rajya Sabha in the upcoming polls, while he has to be made a Minister in the State Cabinet.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New commissioner for BDA||On Wednesday, the State government appointed a new commissioner to the Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA). IAS officer and Bidar Deputy Commissioner H.R. Mahadev has been transferred and posted as BDA Commissioner. G.C. Prakash, who was serving as commissioner, has been posted as regional commissioner of Mysuru division and also designated as special officer for supervision of COVID-19 prevention measures in Mysuru division. Mr. Prakash was appointed commissioner in August, 2019, replacing senior IAS officer N. Manjula who was appointed commissioner in June, 2019. With the new transfer order, the BDA gets three commissioners within one year. The transfer notification issued on Wednesday also states that Ramachandran R. will be the new DC of Bidar and Arundhathi Chandrashekar will be the the new mission director of National Health Mission and Directorate of Health, Bengaluru.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Protesters booked under Disaster Management Act||Protests against police brutality and the death of an African American man, George Floyd, in the US and other parts of the world spurred a group of people to gather at Maurya Circle holding placards against the Citizenship Amendment Act. The police booked them under the Disaster Management Act for allegedly violating lockdown norms. “Though permission was denied for the protest, the group went ahead with it,” said the police. There are allegations that protesters displayed ‘Free Kashmir’ placards, while others demanded the release of Amulya Leona and others who had been arrested last year during the anti-CAA rallies.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Containment zones now 40||The number of containment zones increased to 40 on Wednesday. While the number of containment zones in West zone stands at 11, the number in South zone has increased to 5. On Tuesday, the number of containment zones increased from 34 to 39 with new cases reported from West zone.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CCB arrests close associate of Ravi Pujari||Central Crime Branch sleuths investigating the activities of gangster Ravi Pujari on Wednesday arrested a man from Mangaluru whom they say is his close aide. The accused, Ghulam Mohammed (50), runs a travel agency and a real estate firm. According to the police, he carried out Pujari’s business locally. “His name cropped up during investigation. Based on the information received, we raided his house and arrested him. Ghulam was produced before the magistrate in Mangaluru and taken into 10 days police custody,” said a CCB official. “Investigations have revealed that Ghulam would collect details of businessmen in and around Mangaluru and pass it on to Pujari, who would then extort money. It was part of his extortion racket.” Pujari had around 46 criminal cases against him, including murders and extortion. After his arrest, the CCB had exposed the alleged role of Assistant Commissioner of Police Venkatesh Prasanna, who was working for him and would pass on confidential information on the investigation. Prasanna, who has since been transferred out of the CCB, is facing departmental inquiry.
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SWR ferries over 3 lakh workers||More than three lakh migrant workers across Karnataka have used Shramik trains to reach their hometowns. A majority of the special trains were operated from Bengaluru. SWR’s chief PRO E. Vijaya said: “Till Tuesday, 2.9 lakh people travelled in Shramik trains. With the operations of seven more trains on Wednesday, the number of migrant workers to have left Karnataka would cross three lakh.”
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM directs shifting of offices to Belagavi||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa directed officials to identify State-level government offices in Bengaluru and take necessary action to shift these to Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi in the next month. The CM on Wednesday reviewed projects of the Public Works, Ports and Inland Water Transport Department and said he would visit Suvarna Soudha and inspect projects in the north Karnataka region. Irked over the delay in shifting of offices, he directed officials to expedite the process so as to enable faster implementation of works related to roads, bridges and building construction in the region. Officials said repair works of roads and bridges damaged in last year’s floods were taken up at an estimated cost of Rs. 500 crore, a press release from the CM’s office said. PWD officials were told to complete work on Shivamogga airport in a year. He also directed officials to review the land identified for the construction of airport in Vijayapura. It was decided to upgrade 1,650 km of village roads into district major roads and 10,110 km of district major roads into State highways.
04 June 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Nandini on Wheels’||Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) celebrated World Milk Day on Monday (June 1) by launching Nandini on Wheels to showcase and sell its wide range of milk and milk products to consumers near their neighbourhood and at their convenience. Managing Director B.C. Sathish launched Nandini milk and milk products display-cum-sales van. This van will move in and around the Bengaluru. KMF also launched Nandini Turmeric Milk, which is rich in antioxidants.
04 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Bank launches ‘Vikas Varsha’ campaign to cover all farmers||Chairman of Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank (KVGB) P. Gopi Krishna has said that the bank would cover all those who have not availed themselves of Kisan Credit Card facility under a campaign, “Vikas Varsha”, before September 30. Speaking at the launch of the campaign in Dharwad, Mr. Gopi Krishna said that the bank had launched the campaign with a view to strengthening the farm credit delivery system for facilitating smooth credit flow in the farm sector. He appealed to farmers to contact the nearby branches of KVG Bank for availing of fresh crop loans under Kisan Credit Card facility and also to renew their existing crop loans with higher limit available under the new scale of finance. Mr. Gopi Krishna also said that at present the bank is charging 7 % simple interest up to Rs. 3 lakh for crop loan and had extended the 3 % interest concession available from the Union government and 1 % additional interest concession available from State government (up to Rs. 1,00,000) to prompt payers and the farmers to avail of the facility within the stipulated time. In the last financial year 2019-20, the bank had issued 2,00,653 Kisan Credit Cards and disbursed Rs. 3,299 crore and the target for the current fiscal is Rs. 3,700 crore. The bank would take the assistance of farmers clubs, non-government organisations and the Department of Agriculture to cover more farmers under the campaign. The bank had also set up a helpline (Ph: 9108699803 — 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.) to answer queries.
04 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two found dead||Two people were found dead in a tank at Santheshivara in Channarayapatna taluk on Wednesday. They were identified as Mahalinga (35) and Rudresh (33) of Channoganahalli in the taluk. It is said that they were engaged in extracting sand on the tank bund when a portion of sand caved in on them. Based on a complaint filed by the relatives of the dead, Nuggehalli Police have registered a case against Raghu, who had hired them for the work. The police said that it was not yet clear how the death occurred. Investigation is on.
04 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||42-year_old man dies as tree branch falls on him||A 42-year-old man lost his life after branches of a tree fell on him at Kalaburagi Central Prison Quarters on the outskirts of the city on Wednesday morning. The dead identified was Govind Chavan (42), husband of a Group D employee at the Central Prison. The tree branch fell on him when he was standing in the backyard of the quarters. A case has been registered at the Farhatabad Police Station.
04 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Only home quarantine for returnees but with better use of technology: Minister||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said here on Wednesday that the State government will do away with institutional quarantine for people entering Karnataka from other States and abroad, except those from Maharashtra. Instead, it will rely on home quarantine with better use of technology from village to the city level. Speaking to reporters after a review meeting on the COVID-19 situation here, Dr. Sudhakar also said that the government would revise the containment zone concept. Instead of sealing down a specified area around the residence of a COVID-19 positive person, only that particular residence would be sealed down, he said. The government would shortly come out with a revised standard operating procedure for this, the Minister added. Dr. Sudhakar said that 14-day home quarantine would be the new norm and test would be conducted only for symptomatic persons as per suggestions from medical experts and those who were in favour of home quarantine. He said that only 3,796 persons were found positive for COVID-19 out of the 3.5 lakh people tested so far in the State, while 95 % of them do not even have cold and cough. Hence, only those with symptoms and undergoing home quarantine would be tested henceforth. The seven-day institutional quarantine followed by another seven-day home quarantine for people entering Karnataka from high prevalence COVID-19 States and abroad would be done away with. Task forces The government would form task forces from village to ward levels in cities and also use technology to the optimum to ensure strict compliance with home quarantine norms by people, he said. Cases would be booked against those flouting home quarantine norms, he cautioned. Justifying the decision, Dr. Sudhakar said that it was to release pressure on institutions, including schools and colleges, and hotels that were requisitioned under the Epidemic Diseases Act to facilitate quarantine. The move was also in line with the Supreme Court’s direction to States to accommodate their residents without any restriction, the Minister said. The only exception to the home quarantine rule would be for those entering Karnataka from Maharashtra who have to undergo seven days institutional and seven days home quarantine. Those testing positive for COVID-19 under home quarantine would be shifted to the designated hospital, Dr. Sudhakar added.
04 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Minister warns medical colleges for failure to open laboratories||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Wednesday took four medical colleges in Dakshina Kannada district to task for their failure to set up COVID-19 laboratories as mandated by the Medical Council of India and the Indian Council of Medical Research. Colleges failing to establish such laboratories within 10 days would have to face action, Dr. Sudhakar said, while pointing out the department has already issued orders to them. Of the eight colleges, A.J. Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre, Kanachur Institute of Medical Sciences, Srinivas Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, all in Mangaluru, and KVG Medical College and Hospital, Sullia, are yet to set up laboratories. Dr. Sudhakar said that errant colleges would face a range of disciplinary action, including suspension of licence, withholding of postgraduate admissions. Reminding the colleges that it was their moral and legal obligation to set up laboratories, the Minister said that the laboratories to be set up should be able to conduct 300 to 500 tests per day in three shifts. Experts from NIMHANS would impart necessary training to those designated to operate the laboratories. Dr. Sudhakar also said that the State has set up a tele-ICU, a centralised system for the entire State, with uniform treatment protocol. With a senior IAS officer being the nodal officer, the tele-ICU would have six expert doctors from the government and private sector. Treatment of people in ICU would be monitored centrally at an off-site command centre.
04 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Trin Trin operations back on track in Mysuru||The operations of State-run public bicycle sharing system Trin Trin in Mysuru, which had been suspended in view of lockdown, have resumed. All 450 bicycles, which had been taken away on March 19 amid growing concerns over COVID-19, have made a return to the 50 docking stations spread across the city after undergoing cleaning and sanitisation. Though operations resumed on June 1, the ridership is yet to pick up. “Most of the customers are students and since schools and colleges are still closed, the ridership is limited,” said Asha Kerakatty, manager of Green Wheel Ride, the private agency implementing the project. Referring to concerns expressed by certain users over the absence of measures to sanitise the cycles after every use, Ms. Kerakatty said they are planning to keep sanitisers at the docking stations. “We were planning to keep sanitising wipes, but dropped the idea fearing it may lead to a mess around docking stations. We are thinking about keeping contact-less sanitiser containers,” she said. However, users are also recommended to clean their hands with their own sanitisers before and after using the bicycles. Ms. Keratatty also hoped that the network issues Trin Trin was facing ever since operations resumed on June 1 will be resolved soon. A few users were unable to undock the cycles due to network issues and had complained about the same to the authorities. A day before completing three years on June 4, Trin Trin recorded almost 14,000 registrations.
04 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||New PETA ad draws ire of poultry farmers in State||A new advertisement issued by animal rights’ organisation People for Ethical Treatment of Animal (PETA) in India against consumption of meat has drawn criticism from poultry farmers in Karnataka, who have just begun recovering from the beating they suffered due to rumours linking COVID-19 to consumption of chicken. “The wet market at Wuhan in China sold live and slaughtered species of snakes, bats, beavers, and other wild animals. But, in India, that’s not the case, where it is mostly poultry meat, sheep and fish. The two are not comparable,” said Karnataka’s Poultry Farmers and Breeders Association (KPFBA) responding to PETA India’s advertisement titled “India: It’s time to move away from meat”. The advertisement claims that “India’s live animal meat markets, factory farms, and slaughterhouses are as filthy as China’s wet markets, where the pandemic likely started” before linking consumption of meat to a variety of ailments. Accusing PETA India of spreading false information by attributing the probable spread of COVID-19 to the meat markets in India, KPFBA president Sushanth Rai, in a statement, said they will take up the “misleading ad campaign” with the Advertising Standards Council of India. KPFBA has also sought to counter the advertisement’s efforts to correlate ailments like cancer, heart disease, diabetes, blood pressure etc. to consumption of non-vegetarian food by citing scientific studies recommending non-vegetarian diet. Referring to the dietary guidelines issued by National Institute of Nutrition, Hyderabad, Mr. Rai said the institute recommends animal foods like milk, meat, fish, and eggs, besides plant foods such as pulses and legumes as they are rich sources of protein. Mr. Rai wondered how PETA could arrive at a conclusion that non-vegetarian diet alone causes health problems, ignoring lifestyle issues including consumption of tobacco and alcohol. He said the poultry industry not only provides quality nutrients, but ensures large-scale employment and contributes Rs. 1.2 lakh crore to the country’s GDP.
04 June 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Officials told to help farmers in preventing insect attack||Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has advised officials of the Agriculture Department and others concerned to take immediate and effective steps to prevent desert locusts from attacking crops in Raichur district by conducting an awareness campaign. He said that officials should follow scientific methods to deal with the situation. He also advised officials to guide farmers to take action against insect attacks.
04 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Govt. COVID-19 lab to start working in Udupi in 10 days||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said on Wednesday that a government COVID-19 testing lab would start functioning in 10 days on the District Government Hospital premises here. Chairing a review meeting of elected representatives and officers on COVID-19 here, Dr. Sudhakar said that it had become essential to ramp up the testing facilities as a large number of persons, who were natives of Udupi district, were returning from Maharashtra. The civil works of the government laboratory were in the final phase and testing equipment would be provided soon. Already, a COVID-19 testing laboratory was functioning at the Kasturba Medical College (KMC) in Manipal. The KMC laboratory would soon get more equipment and was expected to test about 1,000 samples a day. The government laboratory would be testing about 350 samples a day. These laboratories should be able to take care of testing swabs in the district, he said. Kundapur MLA Halady Srinivas Shetty suggested that instead of putting the returnees into institutional quarantine and then into home quarantine, the State government should send the returnees straight to home quarantine and their houses should be sealed. Mr. Sudhakar said that Mr. Shetty’s suggestion would be discussed at the government level. He said that to deal with COVID-19 cases at the urban level, ward-level task forces would be set up. If the wards were large, then booth-level task forces would be set up. The gram panchayat-level task forces would deal with COVID-19 cases in the rural level. The government would provide 2,000 Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits sought by the district. It was necessary to remove the stigma attached with COVID-19, he said. District COVID-19 Nodal Officer Prashanth Bhat said that 8,642 persons, including 152 from foreign countries, had returned to the district in May. Of the 8,642 persons, 7,697 had returned from Maharashtra, he said.
04 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Airport guidelines||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said on Wednesday that guidelines for travellers to follow at the Mangaluru International Airport would be based on those being adhered to at the Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru, to check the spread of COVID-19. Speaking to presspersons after chairing a review meeting on the COVID-19 situation in Udupi district, Mr. Sudhakar said that as per the guidelines any traveller flying to Bengaluru had to get a certificate that he had tested negative for COVID-19 48 hours before the journey from a lab certified by the Indian Council of Medical Research. This would be made applicable for travellers using Mangaluru airport also, he said.
04 June 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Start preparations for SSLC exam, says Suresh Kumar||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar has directed the officials concerned to start preparing for the SSLC exam which is scheduled to start on June 25. Chairing a review meeting on SSLC exam with officials of Vijayapura and Bagalkot districts in Bagalkot city on Wednesday, he said that the officials should sanitise the exam halls to prevent the spread of coronavirus. He said that students attending exams must wear masks. Thermal screening must be carried out before allowing students to into the exam halls. The Minster said that while an organisation has given sanitisers worth Rs. 75 lakh, Scouts and Guides will give masks to 8.5 lakh students. He said that children of migrant workers will be allowed to write the exam in their respective places itself in the State. He made it clear that no exam centre will be set up in containment areas. He directed the officials to instil confidence among children to attend the exams without any fear of infection.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||RWAs’ role to increase in containing COVID-19||In the wake of the State government’s decision to do away with mandatory quarantine for people from all States barring Maharashtra and the lifting of restrictions, the civic body has sought the help of Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWA) to be its eyes and ears. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner B. H. Anil Kumar and senior civic officials held a video conference with representatives of various RWAs on Wednesdays to discuss their continued involvement in containing the spread of COVID-19 and ensuring that people follow home quarantine rules. RWA members and civic activists believed that their role would increase in the coming days but asked for clarity on measures that are already in place. “We sought information and clarification on ward-level disaster management cells, their functioning, formation and how they could help the city handle COVID-19 and the upcoming monsoon,” said K. G. Mohan, who participated in the meeting. A fine balance D.S. Rajashekar, former president of Citizens’ Action Forum (CAF), said that it was important to strike a balance between RWAs taking safety measures and imposing their own Dos and Don’ts. “We know that a few RWAs and apartment complexes have over-reacted to the extent of even prohibiting newspapers and banning the entry of maids, cooks and guests. This shows that there needs to be more awareness,” Mr. Rajashekar said. However, a resident said that some of the restrictions were “extreme”.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Accidents on Ballari Road||
04 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Seven cases in Alappuzha||The district reported seven more COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Officials said five of the patients had come from foreign countries and two from other States. An elderly couple from Mararikulam reached the district from Abu Dhabi on May 17. Three women from Alappuzha, Mavelikara Thekkekara, and Cherthala respectively came on a Kuwait-Kochi flight on May 26. They were in institutional quarantine at COVID care centres in the district. Of the imported cases from other States, a young woman, a native of Chengannur, reached the district in a private vehicle from Pune. Another woman, hailing from Alappuzha, came to the district in a private vehicle from Chennai on May 20. Of the patients, six have been admitted to Taluk Hospital, Haripad, and one person to Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha. A youth man admitted to the MCH, Alappuzha, tested negative on the day. Teachers’ charge Meanwhile, some teachers engaged in Plus Two answer script valuation at Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Haripad, alleged that the process was being carried out without maintaining physical-distancing norms. “I had undergone treatment for cancer. There is hardly any measure to ensure physical distancing,” said a teacher. However, officials denied the claims. They said that two batches of four teachers each were conducting the valuation in one classroom. “We have given them masks and sanitisers. It is for them to ensure physical distancing,” said an Education Department official.
04 June 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Nine fresh cases in Idukki||Nine persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Idukki district on Wednesday. A Health Department official said the active cases in Idukki district had now gone up to 18. Of the new cases, six arrived from abroad and were admitted to a corona care centre at Thodupuzha. Two members of a family who tested positive had arrived from Delhi. A youth who came from Chennai also tested positive, the official said. Though restrictions were eased in the containment area of Vandanmedu at Karunapuram grama panchayat on Wednesday, curbs continue in Wards 8, 11 and 12 in Udumbanchola grama panchayat. 45 return Forty-five persons returned to the district from abroad in the past two days. They came through the Kannur, Kochi, and Thiruvananthapuram airports. They were shifted to various corona care centres. As many as 226 migrant workers in the district left for their home States on Wednesday — 46 to Uttar Pradesh and 180 to Odisha. Those who had taken passes were transported to the Aluva and Ernakulam railway stations on Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses. The district administration had arranged food kits for them to be used during the journey. About 400 migrant workers would travel to Jharkhand on Thursday.
04 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Greens demand reduction in Banasura Sagar water level||Green activists in Wayanad district have urged the government to reduce the water level of the Banasura Sagar reservoir ahead of the southwest monsoon to avert a flood-like situation in the district. Speaking to mediapersons here on Wednesday, N.Badusha, president, Wayanad Prakrithi Samrakshana Samiti, said floods caused by the opening of the dam shutters during the monsoons had caused huge loss of crops, death of domestic animals and destruction of property in the low-lying areas of the district. Floods had been affecting over 5,000 families in five grama panchayats every year since the commissioning of the dam, Mr. Badusha said. Compensation sought Though the dam was owned by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), neither the government nor the board had paid any compensation to the people for their losses. While the KSEB was maintaining the dam, it was yet to adopt any steps to ensure the safety of the thousands of families living in the low-lying areas, Thomas Ambalavayal, secretary of the organisation, said. The full reservoir level of the dam was 775.6 m. and it should be reduced by half to protect the life and property of the public, he said. Usually, the northeast monsoon was very heavy in the district and the storage level could be increased during that period. Mr. Badusha demanded the setting up of an integrated management system for all the dams across the Kabani river in Kerala and Karnataka to prevent flood-like situations owing to the unplanned opening of the shutters.
04 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||5 more test positive in district||Five more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district on Wednesday. Among those who tested positive, one was a 30-year-old resident of Ayyampilly who was in home quarantine after reaching here from Mumbai on May 16 by road. Her throat swab was collected after she showed symptoms of the disease. She was moved to the medical college hospital after the disease was confirmed. Another person was a 50-year-old Chullikkal resident who reached here on May 27 by a Kuwait-Kochi flight. He was in institutional quarantine and was asymptomatic. As many in the same flight had tested positive, he was also asked to take the test, which turned positive. A Pallarimangalam resident who reached here on May 28 in a Dubai-Kochi flight is the third case. She was also asymptomatic, but turned positive on test. The fourth positive case is a resident of Alangad. He had reached here after landing at Karipur airport from Riyad on May 19. Under institutional observation, he too was asymptomatic. He was also asked to take the test as many others in the flight had turned positive. A health worker is the fifth positive case in the district. 42 active cases Besides, one person from Thrissur, who had tested positive on June 1, is also being treated at the medical college hospital. With this, the total number of active positive cases in the district has risen to 42. There are now 9,556 persons in home quarantine and 90 persons under hospital observation in the district. New COVID-19 hospital The Adlux Convention Centre at Angamaly will be converted into a hospital in the wake of increasing number of COVID-19 cases in the district, District Collector S. Suhas has said. The facility will be used to treat patients who are asymptomatic. Such an arrangement would help provide better care to symptomatic patients in the medical college hospital, he said. Shelter shut The shelter set up at Maharaja’s College in the wake of the COVID-19 lockdown to house homeless and destitute people and migrant workers had to be shut down on Wednesday. According to the Kochi Corporation’s health officials, they had received a communication from the college that the campus would be required for official purposes. Officials helped 39 people from other districts board buses on Wednesday. They were given their ticket fare along with a packet of food while leaving, said K.V.P. Krishnakumar, corporation councillor. As many as 11 other people, mostly homeless, were shifted to the Palluruthy relief settlement, which is now running well over its capacity of 350 people. While around 250 people had been housed in three corporation shelters during the initial phases of the lockdown, the other shelters were shut earlier this month after schools required their premises to conduct exams, leaving around 50 people at Maharaja’s on Tuesday.
04 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi airport to receive more evacuation flights this month||The Cochin International Airport has handled nearly 10,000 persons returning home after they were stranded in the lockdown across the globe. The airport is now preparing to receive flights from destinations such as Cairo in Egypt and Cebu in The Philippines. Apart from the national carrier Air India, a number of private airlines and chartered airlines have approached the airport authorities in Kochi to obtain approvals for operating evacuation flights, said a communication here. The Vande Bharat Mission took off with the first airline touching down in Kochi on May 7. The airport handled 8,554 inbound passengers, most of them from the Gulf Cooperation Council Countries, the USA and Europe. Air India and Air India Express operated 48 flights. Air India also operated stopover flights from San Francisco, Yerevan and Kiev. The airport also received 12 special flights operated by the national carriers of countries such as Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the Maldives, Oman, Qatar and Bahrain. They flew back to their countries with more than 1,000 citizens/permanent visa holders, who were stranded in Kochi. A chartered flight operated by Air Peace from Lagos, Nigeria, brought 312 persons to Kochi. Both Air India and Air India Express are planning more international flights. An Air India flight from the East African country Djibouti will land here at 7.45 p.m. on June 5. The national carrier will operate a Vietnam-Bombay-Kochi flight on June 7; Cairo-Bombay-Kochi flight on June 16; Kiev-Delhi-Kochi flight on June 19; London-Bombay-Kochi flight on June 22 and Cebu (The Philippines)-Bombay-Chennai-Kochi flight on June 23. Apart from their scheduled operations from the Gulf countries, Air Malta is planning an evacuation operation from Malta on June 9 and a British Airways flight is slated for June 10. The airport has handled a total of 205 international cargo flights since March 2020. The total exports were 4,644 tonnes of cargo from Kochi. The import volume was 223 tonnes. About 75 per cent of the exports comprised fruits and vegetables.
04 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Medicos stranded in Kyrgyzstan seek help||For over 200 Malayali students stranded in the landlocked country of Kyrgyzstan, the dream of making it big in the medical profession has been replaced by the nightmare of surviving the COVID-19 pandemic for some time now. Restricted to quarantine in their hostel rooms in the Issyk-Kul region in the north-east of the country for over three months, they have been desperately trying to return home with little success up until now. “There are over 30 students on our university campus and another 150-odd students in a medical college in our neighbourhood. Since our university allowed us to return home and appear for exams online, we have requested to the Union and State governments for our evacuation,” said R.S. Ajayaraj, a second-year student who hails from Pathanamthitta. They have already approached the Chief Minister’s office, Norka Roots, the Indian Embassy and Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, but to no avail. Their morale was further drained after watching fellow students from other States being flown out from the capital city of Bishkek. “The majority of the students stranded here are girls and they are anxious to get back to their home,” said Anatta Sobi, another medical student from Thiruvananthapuram. Kyrgyzstan, a small country hardly the size of Kerala, is a preferred destination for aspiring medical students owing to the affordable medical education facilities and a rather favourable climate. Fortunately, students haven’t yet run out of food as the hostel mess continues to serve them. But the fact that they are otherwise confined to their hostel rooms and can interact only sporadically during their time at the mess has done little to assuage their anxiety. “For a small country, it has already reported nearly 2,000 cases and that is hardly comforting,” said Anandhu, a resident of Kottarakkara.
04 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Two die as granite boulders crash at open stone quarry||Two persons were killed after they were trapped under falling granite boulders in an open stone quarry at Maneed town, near Piravom on Wednesday. The accident took place about 12 noon. The dead included Deepak Natra, 31, hailing from West Bengal. He was rescued by people who were near the accident site but died on the way to a private hospital in Kochi. Shashi, 52, hailing from Maneed, died on the spot. Meanwhile, a senior member of the panchayat said that the local body was against the operation of the quarry. The panchayat had decided against allowing the quarry to operate after March 31 this year. However, he said that the local body had no say now in the operation of stone quarries according to the new regulations.
04 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Police foil kidnapping attempt, arrest five||The Aluva East police on Wednesday foiled a dramatic kidnapping attempt in broad daylight and arrested five persons. The arrested were identified as Vishnu, 26, Naufal, 23, Shanu, 28, Raufel, 24, and Avinash, 34. All of them were from Thodupuzha in Idukki district. They were produced in court and remanded. Jamal, 40, a resident of Thodupuzha and eighth accused in the case related to the heist of 20 kg of gold from Binanipuram in May last year, was on his way to appear before the police after being granted interim bail following the COVID-19 pandemic when he was kidnapped by the gang in an SUV along ESI Road around 10.40 a.m. However, the police were immediately alerted about the incident and messages were passed over the wireless as teams fanned out across the region on the direction of K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). “A patrolling team intercepted the vehicle just 3 km from the place where he was kidnapped,” said the Aluva police.
04 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Many schoolchildren may go hungry soon||Thousands of schoolchildren may go hungry in Kerala as the free noon-meal scheme has gone awry, thanks to the COVID-19-induced disruption in the distribution of foodgrains. Free noon-meal is one of the key factors that draws thousands of children from poor socio-economic background to the classrooms. As many as 26.26 lakh students from 12,324 schools are the beneficiaries of the scheme. The State has been providing free lunch to students up to Class 8. Though the schools closed for the summer vacation in March, the students are legally eligible for foodgrains and food safety allowance — the expense for cooking food during vacation. This year, the outbreak of pandemic had upset the plans in providing children their rightful share of foodgrains, said officials of the Education Department. The scheme Under the scheme, a student of the lower primary (LP) section is eligible for a daily allocation of 10 gram of rice, 50 gram of vegetable, 20 gram of pulses and 5 gram of coconut oil. It will be 150 gram of rice, 75 gram of vegetables, 30 gram of pulses and 7.5 gram of oil for students of the upper primary (UP) section. The cooking cost has been fixed at Rs. 4.98 a day for the LP section and Rs. 7.45 for the UP section. Till now, the State could complete the distribution of foodgrains till March. It is yet to come up with some schemes for honouring the statutory commitment to students during the vacation months and for the current academic season which got under way the other day. Though foodgrains for vacation months could not be fully distributed to the students, most of them might have benefited from the 15 kg of rice and the kit of essential commodities distributed to the families of the State during the lockdown period, said an official. K.V. Thomas, former Union Minister, who had piloted the Food Safety Act of the UPA government, sought steps for feeding the children. Children should not go hungry. Schemes for providing food to children should be initiated, he said. Responding to the developments, K. Jeevan Babu, Director Public Instructions, said the government nod for a scheme to provide foodgrains for the pending months was awaited. Once approved, the distribution would begin without delay. Since the students were attending the virtual classes, distribution of foodgrains would have to be considered, he said.  Free noon-meal is one of the key factors that draws thousands of children to the classrooms
04 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||15 birds in State among ‘species of concern’||Fifteen bird species, including Banasura and Ashambu laughingthrushes, of Kerala have been flagged as key species of concern in the State of India’s Birds report released by the National Biodiversity Authority (NBA). The entry of Heart-spotted woodpecker, a forest bird, on the list, released recently, has caught many birders by surprise. White-bellied Sholakili, Broad-tailed grassbird, Nilgiri thrush, Nilgiri pipit and White-rumped vulture are some of the entries on the list. The conservation concerns of most of these species on the list are known, but the entry of Heart-spotted woodpecker and Forest wagtail came as a surprise, says P.O. Nameer, South Asia Coordinator of the Conservation Planning Specialist Group, IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature ) . Thirteen species of woodpeckers are found in Kerala. Spots on body The Heart-spotted woodpecker got its name from the heart-shaped spots on its body. Renowned birder Induchoodan named it Chithrangan Maramkothi , Dr. Nameer says. The bird has been reported from the Periyar National Park and the Parambikulam and Peechi-Vazhani wildlife sanctuaries, among other places, according to conservation documents. The conservation challenges faced by the species, including its habitats, feeding and reproductive specialities, need to be assessed and conservation management measures evolved, says Dr. Nameer. The NBA report is being claimed as the “first comprehensive assessment of the distribution range, trends in abundance, and conservation status for most of the bird species that regularly occur in India.” The authority has written to all State Chief Wildlife Wardens to use the report for monitoring and documenting the abundance of the species and to include the information in their People’s Biodiversity Registry, says V.B. Mathur, chairman, NBA. The increased presence of Indian peafowl in Kerala, from where it has not been reported earlier, has also caught the attention of the authority. The general increasing trend in the abundance of the national bird appears to be the result of a “combination of range expansion and a population increase virtually throughout its distribution,” it is noted. The “reasons for this pattern have not been investigated in detail, but expansion into Kerala may be associated with an overall drying trend,” it notes. The presence of the Peafowl has been widely reported from across the State during the past decade. Incidentally, Kerala has a dedicated wildlife sanctuary for the bird, Choolannoor peafowl sanctuary, in Palakkad. A section of farmers of Palakkad, especially paddy cultivators, have been complaining about the crop loss caused by the bird, which has been accorded the highest level of legal protection.
04 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Complaints over BevQ allotting faraway outlets||In the last two days, Vivek, a private company executive residing in Kakkanad, tried to book a slot for buying liquor through BevQ, the virtual queue management app, thrice from three numbers and failed to get a slot in his neighbourhood despite giving his local PIN code. Twice he was allotted slots on Willingdon Island and once, even worse, in Puthencruz. Then his friend in Hyderabad helped him with booking and he was allotted a slot at much closer Banerji Road. Allotting slots in areas way beyond the PIN code limits remains one of the biggest grievances against the app. Faircode charge And going by Faircode Technologies Private Limited, the start-up that developed the app, the blame rests with the liquor outlets as the location data shared by many of them were not accurate. “We are rectifying this. Initially, a distance limit of 25 km was set for the allocation of the slot, which is now being gradually reduced,” the start-up said. However, there is no immediate move to give an option of changing the PIN code, which is supposed to be that of the place of residence, any time soon since the emphasis is on restricting movement and maintaining physical distancing. The Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) has given an explicit instruction to that effect and amendments will be considered only if Bevco instructs so, company sources said. Costly allocation Complaints were also aplenty about users from middle and low-income groups being allotted premium bar hotels, which do not serve brands they could afford. But the choice of outlet or bar is unlikely to be available any time soon with the reasoning being both sell liquor at the same rate. The option to cancel booked slots also remains unavailable. One can only try after four days. The booking remains open between 12 noon and 7 p.m. and the slot allotted will be for the day next to booking.
04 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Decentralised learning system need of the hour’||There is a need to launch a decentralised education movement, on the lines of the literacy and people’s planning movements, in order to bridge the digital divide and democratise learning, a group of academics and writers said in a petition to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The petition, signed by K. Satchidanandan, J. Devika, P. Sanal Mohan, Rekha Raj, M.V. Narayanan, K.T. Rammohan, K. Ajitha, P.K. Pokker, O.P. Raveendran, Dinesan Vadakkiniyil, T.V. Madhu, Sunandan K.N., G. Harikrishnan and Dileep Raj, made a pitched plea for a comprehensive approach towards online classes. Fallout  Expressing concern over the social, psychological and educational fallout of the sudden switch to online classes, the group said that instead of replicating the offline mode of teaching online, the possibilities of the medium should be exploited and students given the freedom to access the classes at their own convenient time. The interventions should be to empower socially backward sections. Elaborate preparations are needed for decentralisation of education. Availability of equipment, adequate bandwidth and a conducive environment at home may be ensured with the help of local bodies and based on the peculiarities of the area, the petition said. What is needed is a movement where the government system works in collaboration with people’s organisations. There was a need to set up helplines to address the concerns of parents and students, the petitioners demanded. Dileep Raj, academic and one of the petitioners, said the need of the hour was to take this up as a sustained campaign and identify region-specific solutions to issues of lack of access and inclusivity. Further, there should be an attempt to exploit all the possibilities, including interactiveness, offered by the online medium.
04 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Women’s panel orders action on domestic violence video||The State Women’s Commission has intervened in a woman’s complaint of domestic violence against her husband who is also an alcoholic. The case was taken up on the basis of a video of a woman from Kuruppampady that was uploaded on the social media. Commission Chairperson M.C. Josephine and member Shiji Sivaji directed the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Perumbavoor, and the Kurupampady Circle Inspector to take legal action against the woman’s husband and other persons at home in this regard.
04 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Second case registered in flood relief scam||The case involving the alleged diversion of funds from the Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund (CMDRF), meant for distribution among the victims of the 2018 flood, turned murkier with the C-Branch probe team detecting an even bigger fraudulent diversion. The probe team suspects that about Rs. 53 lakh out of Rs. 1 crore returned by beneficiaries, for various reasons, was diverted, and registered a second case in this regard. Vishnu Prasad, who served as clerk in the CMDRF section of the district collectorate and is the key accused in the first case, stands implicated in the second case as well. An internal inquiry report in this regard from the collectorate was handed over to the investigating team. Fake receipts It is learned that the funds remitted by the beneficiaries was siphoned off by fabricating fake receipts. Out of Rs. 1 crore remitted by beneficiaries, only Rs. 47 lakh was found to have reached the account concerned. The police suspect that the rest of the amount had been diverted fraudulently. The Additional District Magistrate had filed a petition in their regard in addition to another plaint for fabricating fake receipts. Even the first case progressively got bigger with the estimated misappropriation rising from an initial Rs. 10.54 lakh to Rs. 27.73 lakh and the investigation into the case is still under way. Computer hard disks seized from the house and office of the first accused are being examined. It is suspected that funds were diverted by manipulating the beneficiary list and the Bill Information Management System date of failed transactions in the treasury account. Two granted bail The Vigilance Special Court on Wednesday allowed statutory bail to two accused persons in the relief fund misappropriation case. Madhu, the second accused, and Nidhin, the sixth accused were granted the bail on the day. The court had granted bail to Vishnu, the first accused on Tuesday.
04 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Rural police gear up to tackle floods||The Ernakulam Rural police have made extensive arrangements to deal with a potential flood during the monsoon. A control room for flood mitigation has been launched at the district police headquarters. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik said the control room was in addition to all 34 stations within the rural limits that would serve as control rooms during any such emergency. Generators and power backup had been arranged in control rooms to ensure trouble-free communication. Collection of data regarding flood-prone areas, buildings and communities had begun. Steps were afoot to identify rehabilitation centres in association with Revenue and Local Self-Government Departments.
04 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Green tribunal takes note of issue||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal has taken suo motu cognisance of the issue of sand removal from the Pampa. The suo motu notice was issued by the Bench of Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta citing The Hindu report ‘ Kerala Forest dept. told to permit sand removal from Pampa’ published on May 30. The case (original application no. 75/2020) was taken up through videoconferencing on Tuesday. The official order is awaited.    The Hindu report published from Pathanamthitta had pointed out that the then Chief Secretary Tom Jose had directed the Forest Department to give necessary clearance for sand removal after a review meeting held at the Devaswom Guest House in Nilackal on May 29.
04 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Uthra murder: report submitted||As per a directive of the Kerala Women’s Commission, the Pathanamthitta District Police Chief on Monday submitted a preliminary report on domestic violence and dowry harassment complaints raised by the parents of Uthra, who died in a snakebite incident. “The report confirms Uthra was harassed by her husband’s family and they can be booked under the Dowry Prohibition Act and the Domestic Violence Act. The report will be handed over to the District Police Chief (Kollam Rural) probing the murder. It will be more foolproof if a single agency investigates both the murder and harassment cases,” said Shahida Kamal, commission member. The police had interrogated the parents and sister of Sooraj, Uthra’s husband and the main accused in the case. His father Surendran was arrested on Monday. Abetment According to police officers, Surendran is guilty of abetment to crime and destroying evidence. “There are discrepancies in the statements given by Sooraj’s family and we are trying to find who was handling Uthra’s gold and how it went missing. Evidence collection is also progressing,” said an officer. Reportedly, Sooraj had removed Uthra’s gold from the bank locker after her death and the police team later retrieved a portion of the gold from the locker.
04 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Woman commits suicide||A temporary collection agent of Poothakkulam Service Cooperative Bank at Paravur here committed suicide on Wednesday, allegedly after she was denied confirmation as a permanent employee.The deceased, Sathyadevi, a Poothakulam resident, set herself ablaze on the first floor of the bank building around 1.30 p.m. “She did not enter the bank office but stood just outside the glass door and so no other person was injured. We found her charred body near the door,” said an official. She had been working as a temporary collection agent for several years. She was reportedly depressed over the bank not making her a permanent staff and she was facing some financial issues. The body was taken to Government Medical College Hospital (Suicide prevention helpline 0471- 2552056)
04 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Five test positive in Kollam||Five more persons from the district, including three health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. The sample of the 31-year-old Karunagappally resident, a health worker attached to the Punalur Taluk Hospital, was taken as part of sentinel surveillance. He was in charge of corona care centre from May 13 to 30 and had come in close contact with two persons who later tested positive. The other health workers are two 40-year-old women attached to Kadakkal Taluk Hospital. Merchant navy officer One more person from Kadakkal, a 36-year-old merchant navy officer, also tested positive after he underwent the test as part of rejoining service. Though he was in home quarantine from May 1, he had visited the nearby supermarket after completing the quarantine period. The fifth patient is an elderly person from Pallimukku. The 81-year-old had visited Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, following respiratory problems and he was admitted there after he tested positive for SARS-CoV-2.
04 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Murder: one in custody||In a major breakthrough, the police on Wednesday took into custody the key suspect in the murder of an elderly woman after breaking into her house near Thazhathangadi. Her husband was grievously injured in the incident. The suspect, who is yet to be identified, is reportedly a native of Kumarakom. The police had earlier recovered CCTV visuals of him fleeing with the victim’s car. Besides the key suspect, the police are interrogating seven others. According to officers, the couple had been into money lending and the suspect had been in constant touch with them. “He probably nursed a grudge against the couple in connection with a money lending deal,” said an officer.
04 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Project to turn Iruvazhinji river banks into ‘fruit valley’||The lockdown across the world has been beneficial to the environment in many ways. The lack of intervention from humans had helped the ecosystem flourish. The World Environment Day that falls on Friday could be an opportunity to celebrate this. The prominent environmental organisations here that used to celebrate the day every year with major events have taken the back foot this time. “With the lockdown still in effect and restrictions on public gatherings, we cannot hold any events as usual,” said K.T. Abdul Nassar, secretary of Ente Swantham Iruvazhinji. take the backfoot However, the organisation is launching a four-month project on Thursday as part of its Iruvazhinji Samrakshana Yajnam to convert the banks of the river into a ‘fruit valley’. Mukkam, Kodiyathur, Karasseri and Chathamangalam are the panchayats located on the banks of the Iruvazhinji river. As part of the project, saplings of fruit-bearing trees, especially the native ones, will be planted at the major junctions in these panchayats as well as on the banks of the river. On Thursday and Friday, the families residing on the banks of the river will be engaged in cleaning up the river. Mukkam municipal chairman V. Kunjan will open the programme at Mukkam while district panchayat president Babu Parasseri will launch the Fruit Valley Project at Koolimad on Thursday.  Meanwhile, the district unit of the Kerala Nadi Samrakshana Samiti is planning to revive a sacred grove at Marad as part of the World Environment Day observance, Samiti secretary T.V. Rajan said.
04 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||SHRC orders probe against Army officer||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the District Police Chief to inquire into the allegation of harassment levelled against a colonel at the Army Recruiting Office, Kozhikode. He has been asked to submit a report within a month. The issue will be brought to the attention of the National Human Rights Commission as well. Commission judicial member P. Mohanadas issued the directive based on a complaint by the wife of a civilian staff, a native of Andhra Pradesh. Notices had been issued to the head of the Army Recruiting Office and the colonel too, seeking explanation. The complainant alleged that her husband had not been given salary for the past few moths. She alleged that the official also tried to attack her husband at her home. The commission said in its order that the allegations were of a serious nature and the complainant’s husband had been suffering both physical and mental torture.
04 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Steps to check illegal fishing during trawl ban||The Fisheries Department has opened a control room at Beypore to prevent illegal fishing during the monsoon trawling ban period from June 9. As many as 13 guards will be deployed for coordinating rescue operations during the monsoon. Maritime patrolling will begin on June 10. No fishing boats from other States will be allowed to move along the Kerala coast during the trawling ban period. Fishermen seek aid In view of the trawling ban, various fishermen’s organisations have called upon the State government to speed up the processing of possible relief packages. They claimed that free ration and financial aid through various welfare schemes reached the needy weeks after the enforcement of the trawling ban. A fishermen’s association leader said that certain regulations introduced after the Covid lockdown at fish landing centres and harbours in the district were causing trouble to native fishers. Many of them will be rendered jobless during the trawling ban period. They should be given relief during that time, he said.
04 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||UG exams likely by month-end||Calicut University is planning to hold fourth semester examinations of undergraduate courses by June-end. B.Ed. exams too are expected to be held around the same time. Sources in the office of the Controller of Examinations said that the final semester exams of postgraduate courses, which began on June 2, would conclude on June 15. The exams for M.A., M.Sc., and M.Com are being held at centres in all the districts in the State as well as two centres in Lakshadweep. Fourteen additional centres were allotted this time. Though Lakshadweep had been given three centres, the exams are being held at only two places. The university had asked college principals to follow COVID-19 social distancing protocols. The sources said that almost 98% of those who registered had appeared for the exams. Some students chose to write it at their own colleges.
04 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mock JEE at NITC||A mock Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), titled ‘Zeroth Attempt’, will be held at the National Institute of Technology, Calicut (NITC) on June 12, 13 and 14 as part of Tathva, a techno-management festival being conducted by students. Being coordinated by the NITC faculty, Zeroth Attempt will give students an opportunity to assess their skills and knowledge and overall preparedness for such an exam. The exam will provide them with not only an online test but detailed analysis and solutions of all 270 questions that come with it. A complete self-evaluation alternative for any student willing to test out their mettle on a national level is also provided. A fee of Rs. 50 is charged for the exam, which will directly go to the PMDRF or CMDRF.
04 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Plea to donate TV sets||The Kozhikode Corporation is collecting used or new TV sets as part of a drive to make online classes accessible to all students. A collection centre is set up at the Tagore Hall.
04 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Man electrocuted as lorry hits power line||In a freak accident involving a tipper lorry, a man was electrocuted and another seriously injured at Beeranchira, near Tirur, in the district on Wednesday morning. Mohammed Basheer, 27, from Choorakkode near Ongallur in Palakkad district, was guiding the lorry driver to tip over the load by placing his hand on the vehicle when the accident took place. The rising body of the tipper lorry touched the power lines and Basheer was electrocuted on the spot. His friend Faisal, 32, from Valanchery was admitted to a private hospital at Kottakkal with burn injuries. Hospital authorities said his condition was critical. The driver and cleaner of the tipper lorry escaped unhurt.
04 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||e-learning lost on tribes in Pathanamthitta forests||Tribal hamlets in Pathanamthitta are yet to realise the changes induced by COVID-19 in the outside world. Many of the tribal families residing along the forest fringes of Gavi, Attathode, Thannithode, Laha, and Aruvappulam are even unaware that the pandemic has gripped the world, says Uthaman, a tribal activist at Laha. When the Education Department decided to launch online classes for students in schools across the State on June 1, the children of these forest-dwellers in Ranni and Konni taluks found themselves at a disadvantage as they have no access to electronic devices or the Internet. The First Bell that heralded the beginning of the new academic year laid bare the digital divide at least in remote and hilly areas of the State. “The government is talking about e-learning, laptops, and online classes to these forest dwellers who do not even know about electricity,” says Mr. Uthaman. Lacks facility As per a survey conducted by the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, the strength of schoolchildren in the district (from Classes I to XII) during the previous academic year was 1,02,341. The survey says that 4,819 children, including tribal children, in the district do not have online education facility. Mr. Uthaman says there was an attempt to make the tribal children computer literate three years ago. “The instructor in charge of the programme got a laptop. That was the only achievement of the State-sponsored programme,” he alleges. What is needed is basic infrastructure, along with a proper environment for learning, for the tribal children, says Mr. Uthaman. The district houses 726 tribespeople from 228 families, the majority of them belonging to the Malampandaram clan. Nomadic Ninety-seven of these tribespeople are nomadic, living in makeshift tents made of plastic sheets in the forest areas of Ranni-Perinad, Aruvappulam, Seethathode, and the Thannithode grama panchayat limits. Earlier, the Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department used to arrange vehicles for taking their children to the tribal schools at Kisumom and Attathode.
04 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Two NoRKs positive||Two more Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) who returned from Kuwait tested positive in the district. A 27-year-old woman from Koodal returned on May 24 and a 27-year-old youth from Kumbazha came back on May 27. They have have been admitted to the isolation ward at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital. A total of 29 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district while four others have been admitted to hospitals outside the district. The number of people under observation at various hospitals in the district went up to 68 on Wednesday.  As per the medical bulletin, the nasal and throat swabs of 145 persons tested negative on Wednesday.
04 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pampa will be destroyed, says Kummanam||Sand removal from the Pampa riverbed would ultimately lead to destruction of the river, BJP leader Kummanam Rajashekharan has said. In a statement here on Wednesday, Mr. Rajashekharan said the government decision was to excavate sand from the Pampa riverbed at a depth of four metres. This violated all prevailing guidelines. The huge deposit of sand in the Pampa in the foothills of Sabarimala was due to the caving in of a hill in the gushing waters from the Anathode dam of the Kerala State Electricity Board in 2018. As per the Forest Conservation Act, the Forest Department is the custodian of the sand in the river meandering through the forest reaches. There was every reason to suspect huge corruption behind the undue intervention of the former Chief Secretary, he alleged.
04 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||At 14, capital sees highest single-day spike in cases||The district reported the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases so far - 14 including six women and eight men - on Wednesday. Thirteen of the patients had returned from various foreign countries. One person had arrived by train from Mumbai, the district administration said. The six female patients are from Kadakampally, Malayinkeezhu, Pallithura, Thirupuram, Vizhinjam and Kadinamkulam. The eight male patients hail from Perumathura, Cherunniyoor near Varkala, Murukkumpuzha, Poovar, Mundela near Nedumangad, Perunthanni near Vallakkadavu, Neyyatinkara and Kattayikonam. The 57-year-old man from Poovar had arrived from Mumbai by train. While in home quarantine, he had developed symptoms. Swab samples, which were sent in for tests, had returned positive. The other patients included two students who had returned from Tajikistan, one person from Australia and ten others who had arrived on different days from Kuwait. A 72-year-old man, from Mundela, is the oldest among the 14. A 19-year-old girl, from Thirupuram, is the youngest. Meanwhile, 842 people were placed under disease surveillance in the district on Wednesday, even as 439 persons completed the observation period without exhibiting symptoms. As on Wednesday, 12,207 people were under disease surveillance in the district. Of this, 10,146 are in home quarantine, while 170 people are under observation in hospitals. As many as 1,891 people are in COVID care centres. 15 cases Meanwhile, the City Police registered cases against 15 persons under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, for breach of lockdown norms. Action was initiated against 129 others for failing to wear masks, DPC (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. The police have also tightened vigil at bus and railway stations.
04 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Spectre of community spread looms over State||Even as the government states categorically that community transmission is yet to happen in the State, the time may have indeed come for every doctor in both COVID and non-COVID hospitals to treat every patient as a potential source of COVID-19. The death of a 77-year-old priest here on Tuesday of COVID-19, who might very well have contracted the infection in either the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here or the Peroorkada District Hospital where he was treated, has also raised the spectre of hospitals becoming epicentres of the disease. An expert committee last week had suggested that the government revisit its COVID 19 containment strategy, fully assuming that community transmission is already happening. Now, the onus is on the Health Department to alert medical professionals and hospital staff to strictly follow all infection control protocols as they can hardly distinguish a potential COVID patient from any other. ‘Drill in the message’ Public health experts point out that when all lockdown norms are eased, people could be lulled into a false sense of security. The public should be taken into confidence so that campaigns like ‘Break the Chain’ and universal wearing of masks would result in better compliance . The government has ruled out the possibilities of community spread even though as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan himself said there were at least 30 cases in which a clear epidemiological link could not be established. As an epidemic advances, community transmission appears inevitable. “Once the contacts of imported infections get infected, local transmission is likely to begin. Contacts of infected contacts means indigenous transmission. From then on, indigenous and community transmissions are one and the same from the disease epidemiology point of view. Any other definition like “infection from known source versus unknown source” is more politics than science,” T. Jacob John, former Professor of Virology, Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, told The Hindu in an email. Community transmission is not a dirty word. Kerala tried to prevent community transmission from happening but no epidemiologist will perceive its occurrence as a failure, he added. ‘Inevitable result’ “Community transmission has already begun in kerala. The only debatable point is the extent to which it has happened. However, it was inevitable and the sooner we understand it and act, the better. Asymptomatic transmission being our main threat, the most important step would be to advise health-care workers to manage all patients like potential COVID patients, maintain social distancing and to tighten all infection control measures,” said Anoopkumar, Chief of Critical Care Medicine, BMH Hospital. Special care is needed to ensure that hospitals do not become an amplifying source of cross infections. Fever patients should not be allowed to mix with general patients, he added. Once community transmission becomes rampant, the number of serious cases requiring ICU care as well as COVID-related mortality will increase significantly. The focus should be on increasing ICU care facilities and in setting up critical care teams in all secondary and tertiary public sector COVID hospitals. “The strategy should be mainly mortality prevention while epidemic curve is flattened. Flattened curve does not mean zero infection. Infection will slip through and spread slowly at first and more rapidly later. The epidemic will continue to grow until July-August and then begin to come down in frequency. I expect very low numbers in November-December 2020,” Dr. Jacob John said.
04 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM backs Collector, Pampa sand removal to go on||The controversy over the removal of sand from Triveni at Pampa in the foothills of Sabarimala took a new turn on Wednesday with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan insisting that the Pathanamthitta District Collector had the full authority to order the desilting of the river under the provisions of the Disaster Management (DM) Act. At his daily news conference, Mr. Vijayan said the Forest Department had “misunderstood” that removing silt from the bed of a river that meandered through the middle of protected woodland somehow violated the Forest Conservation Act. Immediate action to remove silt and sand from rivers to restore water flow was imperative given the threat of flooding during the monsoon. In the face of such an impending peril, the DM Act prevailed over the Forest Act, he said. The Kerala Clays and Ceramic Products Ltd. can remove the sediment as ordered by the Collector under the DM Act. The Forest Department had no authority to challenge the powers of the Collector as chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority, Mr. Vijayan said. Audit by Collector However, no entity could sell the sand as it belonged to the government. The priority was not the sale of river sand but flood prevention, he added. Moreover, the Collector would monitor the removal of sand and audit it. The removers have to deposit the silt in a safe area. The Opposition had sought to make a political issue out of the purported split between the Forest Department headed by K. Raju of the Communist Party of India and Mr. Vijayan over the issue of desilting the Pampa. The Forest Department had issued an order countermanding the one issued by the Collector authorising the removal of sand soon after Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala had accused the government of having used flood preparedness as a cover to bypass the Forest Conservation Act to accord financial advantage to a public sector entity headed by a functionary of the CPI(M).
04 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Residents near canals dread heavy rain||Living in houses perched on the edge of a canal, the water level of which can rise any moment, brings its own share of unpredictability. Almost every monsoon, this is the plight of many who live on the banks of the city’s network of canals, including the Amayizhanjan canal, the Ulloor canal and the Pattom canal. Many a night, they are woken up by water seeping in through the doors, forcing them to shift all the household items they can gather to safer places. “Following the incessant rain two nights back, water entered my mother’s house beside the Ulloor canal at 2 a.m. Though it receded by morning, this is a constant worry. In 2018, 13 families from the area were shifted to a rehabilitation camp for a few days. There is a lot of accumulated silt. The funds being provided for each wards for pre-monsoon cleaning is insufficient for this,” says Pattom ward councillor Remya Ramesh. The situation is not much different downstream at Kannammoola, where the Ulloor canal is joined by the Pattom canal too. Encroachments over the years and constant dumping of waste has made it a flood-prone area. “The encroachment and closing of side canals, which connect the main canal to a pond in the Kannammoola area has also affected the water draining in the low-lying areas. Though the Corporation constantly cleans the accumulated waste under the smaller bridges that criss-cross the canal, it again gets stuck during major rains. After the flooding in 2018, they got barges to clean the canal, which ensured that there was not much flooding last year. But this year, due to COVID-19, the focus was less on cleaning up the canals, which can create problems,” said Anilkumar, a resident of Kannammoola. Two projects According to officials of the Major Irrigation Department, two major projects that are about to be executed could solve much of the issues in the region. “The department had recently removed all the obstructions in these canals in flood-prone regions. The outgrowth near the bridges were also removed. But, in the route from Murinjapalam to Kannammoola, there are areas with very low bank height of 1.5 metre, where flooding can happen during heavy rain even if everything is cleared. We have a Rs. 9 crore project for the Ulloor canal for raising the height of the side walls, wherever it is less, as well as for de-silting. The estimate has been sent to the Finance Department for administrative sanction. For the region from Kannammoola to Akkulam, there is a Rs. 25 crore project, which has now been tendered. The Corporation has been cleaning up the Amayizhanjan canal near the Pazhavangadi area,” says Anilkumar, the Executive Engineer (in charge). He says that the increased intensity and duration of rain in recent years has compounded the problem, as the narrow canals have only a limited water holding capacity, even if the entire water flows unobstructed to the Akkulam lake.
04 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vegetable to be grown at Secretariat||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday inaugurated the planting of vegetables in the vegetable garden on the Secretariat campus. The initiative, taken up under the Subhiksha Keralam programme, also marked the launch of the latest edition of the ‘Onathinoru Muram Pachchakkari’ programme. In a bid to ensure food security during the COVID-19 lockdown period, the Agriculture Department had distributed 65 lakh seed packets to households in the State. Wednesday’s programme marks the second phase of this initiative, the Agriculture Department said on Wednesday. Many families had kick-started vegetable cultivation in the first phase of the campaign launched in March. However, the COVID-19 scenario in neighbouring States from where Kerala sources vegetables and fruits continues to be bleak. At the same time, the demand for vegetables and fruits shoots up in Kerala. The ‘Onathinoru Muram Pachchakkari’ campaign is meant to prevent shortages during the Onam season. Agriculture Minister V. S. Sunil Kumar, Cooperation Minister Kadakampally Surendran and Health Minister K. K. Shylaja, Agriculture director K. Vasuki and Agriculture Production Commissioner Ishita Roy were present.
04 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local people oppose priest’s burial||The body of a 77-year-old priest who had tested positive for COVID-19 hours before his death on Tuesday could not be interred on Wednesday after local residents opposed the burial at the cemetery at Malamugal near here. The body is being kept at the mortuary of the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here. A decision in this regard is expected on Thursday. Authorities are now exploring the possibility of holding the burial either at a cemetery at Pattoor or at another cemetery near Nalanchira. A third option, to which the relatives of the priest have expressed their willingness if no other option is unavailable, is to have the mortal remains cremated at Santhi Kavadam. But no decision has been finalised in this regard, Mayor K. Sreekumar said. The priest, though a resident of Nalanchira, could not be interred there as the local cemetery uses a vault, Corporation officials said. The Union Health Ministry has issued specific guidelines, especially the depth of the pit, for the burial of COVID-19 victims. Though steps were taken to hold the burial at Malamugal on Wednesday, the local people had raised objections. Meanwhile, several staff of the MCH, including doctors, who are suspected to have come into contact with the priest have been placed in isolation, MCH officials said. Sample have been collected from them for tests, they said. One ward of the District Hospital, Peroorkada, was shut for disinfection. Tracing the contacts of the priest has proven difficult. He had been admitted to the Thiruvananthapuram MCH on April 20 after he fell off a motorcycle. He was later shifted to the District Hospital at Peroorkada where he was placed under surveillance. He was transferred back to the MCH after he complained of breathing difficulties. His swab tests had returned positive shortly before his death on Tuesday morning. Lawyer in quarantine Meanwhile, a lawyer at Vanchiyoor was shifted to the General Hospital and placed in quarantine after neighbours lodged a complaint, the Vanchiyoor police said. According to the complaint, the lawyer had returned from Chennai two days ago, but had not remained in quarantine.
04 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bus operators toughen stance||Private bus operators who are demanding a hike in bus fare to overcome their operational loss due to the enforcement of physical distancing norms have toughened their stance with 60% of the 12,500 private stage carriers opting not to operate services on Wednesday. The move is despite the government nod to allow commuters to travel in all the seats and to ply between one district and the nearest adjacent district in inter-district corridors. Poor patronage The operators are agitated over the decision of the government to revert the 50% fare hike effected from May 20 for ordinary services, curbs on straphangers and restricted operations. The operators who took the risk and went for intra-district services burnt their fingers due to the poor patronage. Even during peak hours, buses that offered 28 to 48 seats were not full and did not get revenue to cover the operational costs. Services from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m, closure of educational institutions, lockdown restrictions and fear psychosis prevailing among commuters were cited as the reasons for the poor patronage. Meeting today The Joint Action Council of Bus Owners is meeting in Ernakulam on Thursday to take stock of the situation. In view of the prevailing situation, the council is unlikely to take a decision to keep the buses off the road. Instead, sources said the operators would be asked to take a call individually. Meanwhile, the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation which resumed inter-district services on Wednesday also faced poor patronage. “We were for operating 3,227 services on Wednesday. But, the poor response forced us to limit the services to 2,249. The services commenced in all inter-district corridors,” a top KSRTC official said. Rs. 6.27-crore loss Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran said the KSRTC suffered a loss of Rs. 6,27,64,078 for the last 12 days. The loss was Rs. 5,55,39,473 for 11 days when the new fares were applicable for ordinary buses and the loss was Rs. 72,24,605 for June 2 when it was reverted to the old fares.
04 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Project to help Adivasi students||The district panchayat has launched an ‘Own-Online’ project to ensure that no student misses out on the online classes being conducted in State due to the pandemic situation, district panchayat president V.K. Madhu has said. As per a survey conducted by the district panchayat, there are 19,671 students, mainly in the Adivasi colonies and in the coastal regions, without access to television or internet facility. As part of the ‘Own-Online’ project, a meeting of education officers, Samagra Shiksha Kerala coordinators, SC/ST district officers, fisheries and other officials was held on Thursday. In the Scheduled Caste colonies, centralised systems will be implemented for online classes, while in the tribal settlements, it will be arranged at the single teacher schools. The services of tribal facilitators and volunteers will be used for this purpose. Online classes can be set up in village libraries and youth clubs by following social distancing norms.
04 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New entry, exit rules at Central station||To implement COVID-19 safety protocols and facilitate safe movement of passengers travelling by trains, the Railways will roll out a special passenger entry, exit plan from June 5 at the Thiruvananthapuram Central station. Entry to the Central railway station will be permitted only through the main Entrance at Thampanoor for the reserved passengers, as per the plan worked out by the Railways in consultation with the district administration and law enforcing authorities. The second entry on the Power House road will remain closed and no entry/exit will be allowed through the second entry to the station, according to the Railways. Passengers arriving by trains will have to exit through two gates. The designated gates for moving out from the station will be premium parking area opposite the KSRTC bus terminal and the new ticket counter. Entry to platforms will be strictly restricted and only reserved passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the platform. Medical screening as a part of COVID-19 protocols is compulsory for all passengers. The screening for outbound trains will start 90 minutes before the departure. Those who arrive late and fail to attend screening will not be allowed to travel.
04 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 880 cr. for Jal Jeevan Mission||The Cabinet on Wednesday gave its approval for spending Rs. 880 crore in the 2020-21 fiscal on rural water supply under the Centrally assisted Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM). Of this, Rs. 400 crore will be the Central share. The State government and local bodies will chip in with Rs. 400 crore and Rs. 80 crore respectively. The JJM has been envisaged by the Central government for equipping all rural households with water connection by 2025. In Kerala, 52.85 lakh rural households will be provided connections at a total cost of Rs. 22,270 crore under the JJM, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said while briefing the media on the Cabinet decision. Grama panchayats will be mainly responsible for the implementation of water supply schemes under the JJM. If multiple panchayats are covered by a single panchayat, coordination committees will be formed with representatives of district, block and the grama panchayats. This year, panchayats willing to provide 10% as consumer contribution and 15% as the panchayat’s share will be given priority, the Water Resources Department said. Panchayats can finalise the concessions to be provided for BPL, SC/ST, and fishermen in the matter of panchayat and consumer contributions.
04 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Landfill||The State government would create a 25-acre landfill in Kochi to dispose of non-biodegradable waste. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the project would come up on FACT land currently in the possession of KINFRA.
04 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU to launch Harithalayam project||The Kerala University’s Harithalayam project for increasing the green cover on campuses and to take the message of self-sufficiency to students will be launched on June 5, World Environment Day. As part of the project, the acacia trees which have been causing environmental damage will be removed, and replaced with fruit-bearing trees and medicinal trees. Around 45,000 saplings are being prepared for this purpose on the Karyavattom campus, spread over 365 acres. The project is being implemented with the help of the Social Forestry Department. In addition, the university also plans to have paddy cultivation in 20 acres, a coconut farm with 1,000 coconut trees, vegetable farm in five acres, a tree garden in five acres and a garden of rare plants collected from the Andaman islands. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the ‘Harithalayam’ project through video conference.
04 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Achenkovil Honey’ launched||The Departments of Agriculture and Forests have joined hands to promote the sale of honey collected from the forest regions of Achencoil. The forest produce, which has a distinct taste and medicinal value, will be available at the Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) and the Agro-Industries Corporation under the name ‘Achenkovil Honey,’ the Agriculture Department said on Wednesday.
04 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Inter-district boat services from today||Inter-district boat services in Kerala will resume on Thursday. A meeting convened by Transport Minister A.K.Saseendran decided to rescind the increase in fare. Passengers will be allowed in all seats; they will have to use masks and sanitizers. The boats will not be allowed to ply with standing passengers. As many as 11 boats will operate inter-district services while 42 vessels will service routes within districts. The Vaikom- Ernakulam service linking three districts will not be pressed into service, the meeting decided. Mr.Saseendran said passengers would not be allowed to board or alight at COVID-19 hotspots or in containment zones.
04 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Jan Shatabdi to run up to Kannur||The five-day-a-week Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kannur-Thiruvananthapuram Central Jan Shatabdi Special, which has been operating up to Kozhikode since Sunday, will instead run from Kannur with immediate effect, Railways have said. The decision comes in the wake of a request made by the State that the train should operate to and from Kannur. Railways had on Sunday decided to short-terminate trains at Kozhikode as per a request made by the State government in view of COVID-19. The problems faced by the commuters proceeding to Kannur and Kasaragod districts forced the government to withdraw the request. Kannur-Thiruvananthapuram Central Jan Shatabdi special (02081) will leave Kannur at 4.50 a.m. on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, Fridays, and Saturdays and reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 2.25 p.m. Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kannur Jan Shatabdi special (02082) will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 2.45 p.m. on Sundays, Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays and reach Kannur at 12.20 a.m. next day.
04 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cycle tracks to be built at 3 locations||The city Corporation will build dedicated cycle tracks at three locations for safe cycling, Mayor K.Sreekumar has said. To mark World Cycle Day, the Mayor cycled from his home to the city Corporation on Wednesday. He said that the local body is implementing a project to distribute free cycles to girl students in high school classes. Meanwhile, Aparna Prabhakar was selected ‘junior bicycle mayor’ of the city on Wednesday. She is a Plus Two student of Government Higher Secondary School for Girls, Cotton Hill. Jehat G. Mathai, a Plus Two student of St. Shantal School, was selected ‘captain of bicycle ambassadors.’ Twenty-three students were nominated by their schools for the ‘junior bicycle mayor.’ The junior bicycle mayor will get opportunities to represent the city in national-level cycling promotion events, speak about cycling and its benefits at various platforms, take part in activities to make the city safer for children on bicycles.
04 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Make online classes available to all, says panel||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has recommended that the government, in the wake of its decision to shift to online education, ensure that all students get opportunities for the same. All children have the right to education as per the Right to Education Act. While shifting to online education, it is the government’s duty to provide facilities for it to all children, a statement from the commission here on Wednesday said.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seven new COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode, one suspected death||The COVID-19 situation in Malabar showed no respite on Wednesday with seven persons, including a health worker, testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district and six fresh cases being reported from Wayanad. Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla declared the Sulthan Bathery Municipality a containment zone, in addition to several wards in two grama panchayats. The containment zones are 4, 5, and 6 wards of Muttil grama panchayat, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 18 wards of Meenangadi grama panchayat, 8, 9, 10 wards of Thavinhal panchayat and all the 35 divisions of Sulthan Bathery municipality. In Kozhikode A 26-year-old woman from Malappuram who had been under observation for COVID-19, died in Kozhikode on Wednesday. A cancer patient, she had been admitted to a private hospital in the city after her arrival from Dubai. Her body fluid samples had been sent to check if she was infected. A release said that the new patients included a 46-year-old and a 42-year-old from Maniyoor, and 42-year-old persons from Vadakara and Atholi who had returned recently from Kuwait. All the four were under observation at a COVID-19 care centre. They had been shifted to the first-line treatment centre at Lakshadweep Guest House, the release said. The fifth patient was a 39-year-old from Kuttiady who had returned from Bahrain on May 31. He was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital after displaying COVID-19 symptoms. The sixth patient was a 34-year-old from Kavilumpara who returned from Abu Dhabi on May 27 and had been in home quarantine since then. He was shifted to the first-line treatment centre on May 31 after testing positive for the virus. The seventh patient was a 31-year-old health worker who was undergoing treatment at Aster MIMS Hospital, Kozhikode. There are 40 active COVID-19 cases in the district right now. A total of seven persons hailing from Kasaragod, Kannur, Wayanad, and Malappuram districts too are in the Medical College Hospital. Six patients from Kannur are at Aster MIMS Hospital, and one from Thrissur at MVR Cancer Centre and Research Institute. The number of those under observation is 7,644, of whom 2,873 are expatriates. On Wednesday, five persons were declared cured of the disease. In Thrissur A man from Abu Dhabi attended the funeral of his father at Karalam in Thrissur district on Wednesday violating the quarantine guidelines. Kundukulangara Ouseph, 64, had collapsed and died on Tuesday. The health department was informed that nobody from outside Kerala would attend the funeral. However, his son Sibi arrived from Abu Dhabi for the rituals. He had earlier arrived at the Thiruvananthapuram airport and reached Karalam by car. As there is a guideline that NRIs should undergo seven days of institutional quarantine, his visit created tension. As a result, many relatives kept off the funeral. The health department sent Sibi and 12 of his relatives who attended the funeral to quarantine.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Library turns classroom||
04 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Cotton purchase centre at Gooty soon’||Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah met Cotton Corporation of India(CCI) officials in Guntur and prevailed upon them to open a cotton purchase centre at Gooty as the district had been producing BT-II cotton in more than 55,000 hectares in Gooty, Peddavaduguru, Yadiki, Pamidi and Tadipatri mandals. “No purchase centre was opened in the district after 2014. The local marketing department officials, however, had always maintained that the centres were opened at Tadipatri and Gooty, yet farmers did not come here to sell the stock,” Mr. Rangaiah told The Hindu on Wednesday. A recent report in these columns on May 29 had highlighted this issue. He personally visited several houses in Peddavaduguru and saw thousands of quintals of cotton stocked in bedrooms / rented houses there as prices had fallen drastically. ‘MSP is inadequate’ Traders are offering only Rs. 4,000 per quintal against Rs. 5,550 per quintal Minimum Support Price(MSP), hence the CCI has promised to open a purchase centre during the current season and buy stocks available in Anantapur district, Mr. Rangaiah added. “My priority will be to get an entrepreneur open one or two ginning mills in the area so that the produce can be consumed locally instead of sending it to Tirupur or Coimbatore. Now the growers need to travel to Adoni and Yemmiganur in Kurnool district and Bellary in Karnataka to sell their produce,” he observed. Textile park Mr. Rangaiah met Industries and Handlooms Minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy in the Secretariat on Wednesday and prevailed upon him to set up a textile park by utilising the 65 acres of land available on the premises of Guntakal spinning mills, which was no more functional. The MP said such a park can have 200 MSME units employing 5,000 people. The Minister immediately asked District Collector Gandham Chandrudu to prepare a blueprint for the proposed textile park and submit it to the government. Principal secretary of the Industries Karikala Valavan was also present on the occasion.
04 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two COVID deaths in Chittoor, district count touches 329||Two deaths due to COVID-19 deaths were reported in Nagalapuram and Satyavedu mandals of the district on Wednesday. The victims, two elderly women, were said to have contracted the virus through Koyambedu links. The total number of positive cases in the district stood at 329, while deaths have been put at four. The intensity of the virus spread in the district remained alarming during the last two weeks. Exactly two weeks ago, the total number of positive cases was 208, and on Wednesday, the tally went up by 129. ‘Health complications’ The COVID-19 task force officials claimed the two elderly women were facing multiple health complications. Despite the best efforts of doctors attending on them since a week, they could not be saved. The twin casualties from the eastern mandals led to a tense situation in the region. People head to Nagari, Puttur People of Satyavedu and Nagalapuaram mandals, who mostly depend on Chennai for commercial requirements, are now travelling to Nagari and Puttur municipal towns. With relaxation in the business hours of shops and public movement, the two places have been witnessing heavy surge of public since a couple of days. Meanwhile, members of the A.P. Government Doctors’ Association of Chittoor district met District Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta in Chittoor and appealed to him to provide transportation facility to paramedical staff attending to COVID-19 duties at the containment zones and remote villages reporting the positive cases. Prior to the lockdown, the paramedical staff used to travel to the villages by share-autos, the movement of which had been restricted now. Police ‘padayatra’ In Piler town, where a positive case was reported, police personnel took out a padayatra through the arterial junctions and appealed to the public to strictly adhere to the COVID-19 guidelines, by wearing masks, using sanitisers and following social distancing norms. The police of Nagari and Nindra circles have intensified surveillance across the district’s border with Tamil Nadu to prevent the free movement of the public.
04 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ASI found dead in Kuppam||Rajendra (57), an Assistant Sub-Inspector of Kuppam Urban police circle, allegedly committed suicide at his residence in Kuppam on Wednesday night. According to the police, Rajendra came to Kuppam on transfer from Penumuru in September 2019. When he didn’t turn up at the border check-post on Wednesday evening, the staff there went to to his house at Gandla Street. When the policemen went inside, the ASI was found hanging to the ceiling in the kitchen.
04 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sand shortage hits construction work||As the nationwide lockdown norms have been relaxed to a maximum extent, people are keen on resuming the construction of their houses. Builders are desperate to complete their projects before the onset of monsoon. However, shortage of sand hits everyone in the State. Srinivasa Reddy, a businessman, who is constructing his house at the upmarket residential area, Vidya Nagar in the town, wanted to resume the construction which is at the final stage. So, he logged in to thesand.ap.gov.into register for online supply of sand, but found to his disappointment that the booking has been closed for the day. He waited for another day, but could not register the details. Disappointed over it, Mr. Reddy sought help from his friends who have connections with the police, and finally got a load by paying Rs. 10,000 per load, four times the normal price. The case of Mr. Reddy is not an isolated one and the scenario is same all over the district. Elected representatives start feeling the heat. At a recent review meeting held by Minister for Panchayat Raj Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy in Guntur, Vinukonda MLA Bolla Brahmanaidu vented out his frustration at the shortage of sand, while other MLAs said that the people have started complaining. ``Even after a year of forming the government, we are not able to ensure free supply of sand. Our intention of curbing corruption might be real, but there are several faulty lines in our system, which is making sand dearer,’’ said a senior YSRCP leader. Soon after the new government took over, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy set his mind on evolving a new sand policy and freeing the precious resource from the clutches of middlemen. But the making of the new sand policy took time and the early onset of monsoon meant that sand was unavailable for more than three months. More demand In Guntur, according to the Department of Mines, there is a stock of 2.15 lakh metric tonnes of sand, while the demand is 10 lakh MT. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that out of 27 sand reaches, 11 are still working and the permissions are yet to be secured for four other reaches. ``In the 11 stock yards, we have sand stocks of 2.16 lakh MT but we have set our eyes on getting 10 lakh MT before the monsoon,’’ said the Collector. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said that the Chief Minister had brought about the new sand policy with a view to making sand freely available at the doorstep of the people. People have to book sand online but the system has not yet been used fully by the people in the rural areas. ``We are exploring the possibility of using the services of village/ward secretariat staff in registration of sand online, but we will continue to give priority to public works, while private works will get 10 % of sand of bulk booking. We are GPS technology fitted to the sand trucks to make the whole process transparent,’’ said Mr. Ramachandra Reddy.
04 June 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kadapa police hospital gets its own pharmacy||As part of departmental welfare measures, a full-fledged pharmacy was declared open at the Police Hospital here on Wednesday. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan, who inaugurated the outlet on the hospital premises, explained that drugs would be made available to family members of the personnel at lower prices. “We have spoken to the distributors and dealers on the issue, who have agreed to supply us the medicines at a cheaper rate,” he added. SEB raids Deputy Superintendent of Police (Armed Reserve) Ramanaiah called it the first such initiative. Additional Superintendent of Police (Operations) B. Lakshminarayana and Police Welfare Hospital Medical Officer Sameera Banu took part. Meanwhile, the Special Enforcement Bureau led by Additional Superintendent of Police K. Chakravarthy raided three places under Jammalamadugu urban police limits and seized 2650 tonnes of sand dumps, 12 litres of country liquor, 1.6 litres of IMFL and 750 litres of illicit arrack. Seven persons were arrested and five cases slapped on them. Besides, two tractors laden with 26.5 tonnes of sand were also seized. Similarly, the department conducted counselling for those possessing licensed weapons in Kadapa, Pulivendula, Proddatur, Jammalamadugu, Rajampet and Mydukur police sub-divisions. Their renewal proceedings were cross-checked to ensure that none roamed around with weapons having invalid or incomplete licences.
04 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 contract coronavirus in East Godavari||Tension mounted among health officials as eleven more persons tested positive for the viral disease on Wednesday in East Godavari district. District Medical and Health Officer M. Mallik said that six of them were migrants who returned from Mumbai, while two arrived from Hyderabad recently. Hotspot Three more persons who had tested positive for the COVID-19 had connection with the Gollala Mamidada village in Pedapudi mandal in the district, which has become one of the biggest hotspots in the State. “One of the 11 persons has been sent to the State COVID hospital in Visakhapatnam, while rest have been admitted to GSL and KIMS hospitals in the East Godavari district,” said Mr. Mallik.
04 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man killed after hit by an arrow||A 35-year-old man was killed after he was allegedly shot with an arrow during a clash at Veta Mameda under Addateegala police limits in East Godavari district on Tuesday night. According to police, K. Chittibabu was shot with an arrow by Satyanarayana Reddy during a dispute in the latter’s house. Chittibabu had reportedly beaten up a relative of Mr. Reddy following an argument over a dispute pertaining to the arrangement of the sound system in the local festival. Chittibabu died on the way to the hospital, said police. A case is registered and investigation is on.
04 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stray dogs kill child in Allagadda||Stray dogs attacked and killed a five-year-old boy in the early hours of Wednesday, when he came out of his house and allegedly threw stones at them. The boy identified as Narasimha, who is reportedly a special child, was alone in the house as his mother had gone to Ongole in Prakasam district to meet her husband, said Allagadda Deputy Superintendent of Police V. Pothuraju. The boy reportedly came out of the house at 2 a.m., and allegedly began throwing stones at the dogs on the street. With everyone in the neighbourhood asleep, the reaction time of the people around was slow to the alarm raised by the boy. By the time someone drove the dogs away, the damage was done. The boy was taken to the hospital, but succumbed to excessive bleeding. The police officials have informed the municipal authorities to ensure there was a check on the stray dogs.
04 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Get ready to tackle spurt in cases: official||The number of COVID-19 positive cases is likely to shoot up in Andhra Pradesh along with the rest of the country in the third week of June and during that time doctors and paramedics must ensure better care of those above 65 years with comorbid conditions to keep the fatality rate low, Special Chief Secretary (Health) K.S. Jawahar Reddy said. Dr. Jawahar Reddy, who reviewed the situation in Kurnool and Anantapur districts at the State Guest House here on Wednesday evening, wanted the number of COVID19 tests for those above 65 years of age increased and those testing positive among them isolated so that number of deaths could be minimised. Mobile facility Appreciating Kurnool and Anantapur Collectors G. Veerapandian and Gandham Chandrudu for conducting a large number of tests, he wanted them to make use of the volunteer network and keep track of all people sneaking into the State unnoticed in non-traditional ways of transport. He inspected the reception centre established at the Panchalingala toll plaza-cum-check-post on National Highway 44, where a facility for collection of data of all persons entering the State has been set up. A mobile swab collection facility also has been operationalised. Kurnool Joint Collector Ravi Pattan Shetty and Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli accompanied Dr. Jawahar Reddy in the afternoon. Wish list The Kurnool Collector said the State COVID Hospital at the GGH needed 100 non-COVID beds at the earliest as private hospitals were not admitting serious non-COVID cases. The district had tested 48,618 persons and of them, 723 tested positive and 28 persons died, while the discharge percentage was the highest in the State at 68%, he explained. Bulk of the positive cases (234) were from among those returning from Mumbai. Dr. Jawahar Reddy asked the administration to be prepared with more than 4,000 beds.
04 June 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anam unhappy over YSRCP rule||At a time when the YSRCP leaders are going gaga over the welfare schemes introduced by the government, party MLA representing Venkatagiri constituency Anam Ramanarayana Reddy on Wednesday expressed his displeasure over the performance of the ruling party during its one year tenure at office. “Except for cutting cakes to mark the one-year rule, no development is visible at the grassroots level,” Mr. Ramanarayana Reddy told the media. Mr. Ramanarayana Reddy, who held key portfolios in the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy’s Cabinet in the undivided Andhra Pradesh, said that development had been crippled by “negligent attitude of the bureaucrats”. He said that even after Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana cleared some civic works, these projects were yet to see the light of day. The senior leader said he was upset over the non-release of water to his constituency from the Telugu Ganga project at a time when water flowed to Chennai.
04 June 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chennai, Mumbai returnees lead tally in Nellore, Prakasam||The number of active coronavirus cases went up to 70 in Nellore district with the addition of 22 cases in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, 15 persons were discharged on recovery. Of the new cases, 11 were from Tada, which falls on the border of A.P.-Tamil Nadu, and six from Sullurpeta. Chaijerla and Atmakur accounted for two new cases each and Doravarisatram one. While the first set of cases reported in the two districts was linked to New Delhi’s Nizamuddin event, Chennai and Maharashtra returnees have contributed to the second set of cases. Nine new cases In Prakasam district, nine persons, including seven who had returned from Maharashtra tested positive, health officials said. Four of the Mumbai returnees were from Rallapalli village in Veligandla mandal. Immadicheruvu, R.G.Puram and Ganeshunipalli accounted for one fresh case each. Nurse tests positive A nurse in Ongole and her husband also tested positive for the disease on Wednesday, COVID-19 nodal officer John Richards said. Alarmed over the spread of the viral disease to rural areas, the health authorities unveiled cluster containment strategy in the affected mandals. The number of active cases in Prakasam district went up to 35 during the period.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC rejects appeal against HC order on painting of buildings||The Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected an appeal filed by the Andhra Pradesh government against a State High Court decision to scrub off shades akin to ruling YSR Congress party colours from gram panchayat buildings. “We direct the respondents [State authorities] to remove the existing colours on the gram panchayat buildings in compliance of the directions issued by the High Court within a period of four weeks from today,” a Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao ordered. On March 10, the High Court had concluded that painting public buildings in ruling party and flag colours amounted to “influencing the minds of the citizens towards its ideology.” The High Court had called it an “evil practice” using public money. It had directed the State to remove the paint within 10 days. “There is no ambiguity in the direction issued by the High Court that any colour which is similar to the flag of any political party should not be used for painting gram panchayat buildings... ,” the Supreme Court held while dismissing the State’s appeal. It said any attempt to disobey court orders would be subversive of the rule of law. The High Court had also initiated suo motu contempt proceedings against the State government for not complying with its earlier order.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||National Green Tribunal holds LG Polymers liable for the loss of life||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) held that LG Polymers India has absolute liability for the loss of life caused by a gas leak at its factory in Visakhapatnam. It said the Rs. 50 crore in compensation, deposited by the company, would be spent on restoration. It also constituted a committee to prepare a restoration plan. Referring to an inspection report furnished by a NGT-appointed committee, a Bench, headed by Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, said, “The committee has opined that the company did not take proper care of the storage tank resulting in auto polymerization of styrene releasing excess heat which escaped from the goose-neck and dip hatch in the form of vapour.” It also noted the committee’s submissions pertaining to the unit operating without requisite environmental clearances. The Bench said, “Overwhelming material establish liability” of the company. “The company has operated without EC [environmental clearance] and the State PCB, on account of its ignorance of law or otherwise, gave ‘Consent to Establish’ and ‘Consent to Operate’ in violation of law. The amount deposited has thus to be appropriated towards part liability and interim compensation, subject to further others,” it said. The NGT directed a committee of representatives from the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEF&CC), the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and State government officials to prepare a restoration plan within two months. It directed the Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary to take action against persons responsible for permitting the unit to operate in violation of law. “In view of the stand of the State PCB and the company that it will not recommence its operation without requisite statutory clearances, we direct that if any such statutory clearances are granted, this aspect must be brought to the notice of this Tribunal so that compliance of law is ensured,” it said. The Environment Ministry was also directed to revamp monitoring mechanisms to prevent violation of environmental norms. The NGT said it had a wide jurisdiction, including the power to institute proceedings suo motu and not “keep its hands tied in the face of drastic environmental damage”.
04 June 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor smugglers feel the heat as SEB steps up vigil||With smugglers trying to bring liquor both foreign and Indian into the State through different ways, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials are trying to break the chain. SEB, created exclusively to curb liquor, sand and ganja smuggling, stepped up vigil at the inter-State borders in coordination with police and Prohibition and Excise (P&E) personnel. It is noticed that smugglers are bringing stocks from Telangana, Karnataka and other States by various means of transport such as trucks, boats, four-wheelers, autorickshaws and even two-wheelers by cleverly concealing the stocks to evade detection. There have been instances of bottles being buried under loads of foodgrain and fruits. Acting on tip-off, a team led by Kurnool Additional Superintendent of Police (SEB, ASP) Gautami intercepted a vehicle coming from a flower market in Hyderabad and seized 1,001 liquor bottles, SEB Commissioner Vineet Brijlal said. In Guntur Rural police limits, SEB and police teams led by ASP Arif Hafeez intercepted three mini- trucks and seized 2,332 bottles concealed under watermelons. “If we are achieving major breakthroughs in breaking the network, it is because of the unswerving commitment of the ASPs concerned and the cooperation extended by district SPs,” he said. The Macherla SEB officials seized 1,056 liquor bottles being smuggled in a boat through the Krishna River from Telangana. In Vijayawada Police Commissionerate limits, ASP M. Sathi Babu and the police teams have seized 12,259 liquor bottles from 538 smugglers and booked 307 cases in the last 15 days. SEB seized 229 bikes, 44 cars and five autorickshaws for illegally transporting liquor, the SEB Commissioner said. Krishna district SEB ASP Vakul Jindal, along with Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu conducted raids on Chinna Thanda and Tatakunta Thanda and destroyed huge quantity of arrack hidden in the ground.
04 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leopard fear looms large over Tirumala||The denizens of Tirumala continue to reel under fear after a video camera captured a leopard prowling in the vicinity of Karnataka Choultries in the wee hours on Wednesday. The incursion of wild cats which hitherto was confined to Balaji Nagar residential locality has now spread to other areas, with no pilgrim activity and vehicular movement atop the hill town which remains closed since March 20 in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Instances of spotting of animals such as leopards, spotted deer, bears and wild boars have been on the rise during the lockdown. The video showed the leopard vanishing into the darkness after prowling in the area for some time. The residents informed the vigilance authorities who in turn alerted the wildlife officials.
04 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boy ‘kills self’ after tiff over mobile phone||A 13-year-old boy ended life allegedly after quarrel with his sister over taking possession of her mobile phone, on Wednesday. B. Muni Teja of Dornakambala village of Chandragiri mandal allegedly had a fight with his elder sister over using her mobile. The boy wanted to use her mobile phone to which the girl objected. After the tiff escalated, their father reportedly admonished both the children and went out on work. Apparently hurt by the chastisement, the boy locked himself inside a room and allegedly committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling. Upon growing suspicious, the family members banged the door several times and finally broke it open, only to find the boy hanging from the fan. The Chandragiri police rushed to the spot, registered a case and launched an investigation . The body was shifted to the government hospital for post-mortem. People with suicidal tendency can dial 100 for counselling.
04 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temples to hold festivals in private||Even as Sri Govindaraja temple Brahmotsavam was held inside the temple complex, away from people’s eyes, the annual festival at Sri Prasanna Venkateswara temple at Appalayagunta that began on Tuesday was also conducted privately. Tiruchi Vahana Seva would be conducted within the temple corridors everyday. Meanwhile ‘Srivari Arjitha Kalyanotsavam’ will be held on June 5 and ‘Chakra Snanam’ on June 10 within ‘Gangalam’. Similarly, as part of the annual ‘Theppotsavam’ at Sri Padmavathi Ammavari temple, ‘Abhishekam’ was performed to the deity of Sri Sundararaja in private. TTD is organising daily Abhishekam to the presiding deity of Padmavathi Ammavaru from June 3 to 5.
04 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Environment Day event to be held online||The Regional Science Centre (RSC) will observe ‘World Environment Day’ on June 5 on the online platform this year. Assistant Conservator of Forest N.V. Sivaram Prasad, also the Zonal Manager of A.P. Greening Corporation, will deliver a lecture on ‘Biodiversity of Seshachalam’ on Facebook Live @Rsctirupati Tirupati at 3 p.m. A visual online quiz on the theme ‘Flora and fauna of Seshachalam’ for Class VI to X students will be conducted through Google Meet at 4 p.m. Participants need to possess a laptop or mobile Google Meet app.
04 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees largest single-day spike with 180 new cases||The State has witnessed four more COVID-19 deaths and 180 new cases, the highest single-day spike ever since the first case was registered, during the past 24 hours as 8, 066 samples were tested. The State has crossed the four lakh-mark in testing. Of the total, 79 are those of local people, 94 are of migrant returnees or other State persons and seven are of foreign returnees. Chittoor district reported two deaths and Krishna and Kurnool reported one death each. The toll in Kurnool at 26 is the highest among districts. It is followed by Krishna (19), and the two districts account for 66% of the deaths in the State. The toll has gone up to 68.  62 % recovery rate Meanwhile, 50 patients — 35 locals, 14 migrant returnees and one foreign returnee — attained full recovery and were discharged in the past 24 hours. So far 2,456 persons have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 62%. The mortality rate is at 1.71%. Kadapa witnessed 15 new cases while Kurnool and West Godavari recorded 12 each followed by Anantapur, Chittoor and Guntur (eight each). East Godavari saw seven new cases. Krishna has seen five new cases while Visakhapatnam witnessed two new cases. Srikakulam and Prakasam reported one new case each. So far, the State has tested 4, 03, 747 samples and the tests per million ratio has gone up to 7,561 and positivity rate is at 0.98%. The district tallies are as follows: Kurnool (740), Guntur (527), Krishna (486), Chittoor (272), Nellore (261), East Godavari (250), Anantapur (231), West Godavari (135), Kadapa (134), Visakhapatnam (107), Prakasam (81), Srikakulam (29) and Vizianagaram (26). A total of 573 cases are of migrant returnees and people from other States and 119 cases are of foreign returnees.
04 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Keep student-teacher ratio in mind while effecting transfers’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked officials to maintain the student-teacher ratio and effect transfers accordingly. He also wanted them to take steps to spruce up the schools before the reopening on August 3. At a review meeting on Nadu-Nedu on Wednesday, the officials apprised Mr. Jagan of the proposed relocation of teachers to match the teacher-student ratio. Responding to it, the Chief Minister said the transfers should be done online and should be oriented towards the benefit of the students. Due to the method followed in 2017, single teachers were allotted to 7,991 schools and most of the schools have been closed down. The decisions at that time were taken only to demoralise government schools and to encourage private schools.  Education in the government sector had suffered a lot. Uniform and books were not given even in October and November. An app should be developed for digital learning where the doubts can be cleared through a video call. A constant appraisal of the students from Class 6 to Class 10 was necessary. The data on the performance of the students should be placed online which give a detailed overview of the strengths and weaknesses of the student to take corrective measures, he said. Mr. Jagan said works relating to Nadu-Nedu should be completed by July-end. Standard operating procedures (SOPs) should be prepared on maintaining the quality in revamping of schools under Nadu-Nedu. Engineering assistants in village and ward secretariats should be involved in the exercise, he said. The Jagananna Gorumudda scheme should have the same menu and quality in all schools across the State. There should be no delay in payment of bills and constant monitoring should be done at the ground level, the Chief Minister added.  Helpline A toll-free number should be set up so that students and parents can lodge complaints on amenities and bring the grievances relating to the schools to the notice of the government. Hygiene should be maintained in the schools and for Jagananna Vidya Kanuka kits, measurements for shoes should be taken on June 8 and 9, he added. The officials said that Rs. 533 crore was available with the parents’ committees. The maximum amount was being spent in Guntur district and work has been speeded up since the lifting of the lockdown. Works are being expedited with the appointment of JCs, the officials said. Minister for School Education Adimulapu Suresh and School Education Principal Secretary Rajasekhar were among those present.
04 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor asks IRCS to give safety tips to people||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has asked the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) to enlighten the public on dos and dont’s during the fifth phase of the lockdown. Mr. Harichandan hailed the services of the IRCS and asked the Collectors, society district presidents and members to go into the public by following COVID-19 rules and create awareness on checking the spread of the virus. Speaking at a video-conference with district Collectors and IRCS members across the State on Wednesday, he praised the services of IRCS State chairman A. Sridhar Reddy and secretary A.K. Farida and their team during the lockdown. He enquired about availability of blood stocks of various groups in the banks and stressed the need for organising blood donation camps during the pandemic. The Governor asked Mr. Sridhar Reddy about the services of IRCS in the rehabilitation camps set up for migrant labourers. Dr. Sridhar Reddy explained about the IRCS MoU with UNICEF and the steps being taken to organise more programmes to prevent the spread of COVID-19.  Timely gesture Mr. Harichandan extended Rs. 5 lakh from Governor’s fund to the IRCS on the occasion, and appealed to the public to wear masks, maintain social distance, hygiene and sanitise their surroundings to keep the dreaded virus at bay. Governor’s Secretary Mukesh Kumar Meena and other officers were present.
04 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Support efforts to save MANSAS: Naidu||TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu has called upon people to stand by party leader and scion of the royal family of Vizianagaram P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju in his efforts to save the Maharaja Alak Narayana Society of Arts and Science (MANSAS) Trust. Mr. Naidu, on Wednesday, tweeted that the Pusapati family had established the trust and 105 temples. Besides, many educational institutions were under its administration. The successive governments did not meddle with the trust’s affairs taking its objectives into consideration, Mr. Naidu observed. “The YSRCP leaders have set their sights on lands worth Rs. 1.30 lakh crore under the trust and are misusing power. Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju is yearning to take forward the ideals of his father. Everyone should support him,” Mr. Naidu said. ‘I am the legal heir’ Responding to Mr. Naidu’s tweet, MANSAS Trust Chairperson Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju said, “Former CM @ncbn garu should know that the #MANSAS Trust is headed by me, the eldest surviving legal heir of late Ananda Gajapathi Raju. It was usurped by @Ashok_Gajapathi in a mid- night coup even when my father’s ashes were still smouldering, by a GO you issued in his favour.” In a series of tweets, Ms. Sanchaita requested Mr. Naidu to refrain from bringing politics into what was a Pusapati family affair. “Mr. Naidu had mentored a person during whose tenure the 150-year-old Moti Mahal was bulldozed, Phoolbagh Palace razed to the ground and the historic fort left in shambles. MANSAS Law campus was given to ILF&S free of cost and students shifted to a shed. The ILF&S was involved in a scam covered by the media nationally. So, Mr. Naidu has to examine how much he has destroyed the legacy of MANSAS before he sings his colleague’s praises. During the tenure of Ashok Gajapathi Raju, there were questionable decisions which impacted MANSAS finances,” she said. “In February 20, an ex parte decree was issued against MANSAS due to which we suffered a loss of over Rs. 13 crore as Ashok garu didn’t think it fit to appoint a lawyer @ncbn,” she said.
04 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Details sought from private schools to ensure quality education to all’||In response to the release of a notification seeking detailed information from private educational institutions, some of the managements have unleashed a false propaganda against the School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission, according to its Chairman R. Kantha Rao. At a press conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Kantha Rao, a former judge, said the managements of private schools were asked to furnish complete details of the strength of students, teachers, number of classrooms and other facilities in their respective institutions. Reacting to the notification, some of the managements had moved the court and also unleashed a propaganda to malign the image of the commission. Mr. Kantha Rao asserted that the commission had the right to seek any information from the educational institutions in the State as it was aimed at ensuring quality education to all sections.  English medium Pointing to the fact that the High Court had set aside the GO on introduction of English as a medium of instruction in government schools in the State, he said a survey conducted after the court order revealed that 97% of the parents wanted English as a medium of instruction for their children. Mr. Kantha Rao said it was not true that the parents had opted for English medium under pressure, as suggested by reports in a section of the media. Commission’s Vice-Chairperson Vijaya Sarada Reddy, secretary A. Sambasiva Reddy and others were present.
04 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recover costs from YSRCP, demands Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has demanded that the expenditure incurred on painting the government buildings with YSRCP colours should be recovered from the ruling party and the officials who toed its line. In a statement on Wednesday, Mr. Naidu said the courts too said the same. The State government did not get any respite though it approached the Supreme Court, he observed. “To hoodwink the court, a fourth colour was added to the three colours of the YSRCP. The High Court, however, directed the government to remove the party colours. Treating the non-implementation of its orders as contempt of court, the HC had summoned the Chief Secretary, the Secretary and the Commissioner. The government then approached the Supreme Court, which ordered it to remove the colours in one month,” Mr. Naidu said. The government wasted public money on colours and fees for advocates, he said, and questioned, “Who gave it the authority to misuse public funds?” The expenditure incurred on painting and on removing the same now should be recovered from the YSRCP and the officials who blindly implemented the orders, he said.
04 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tickets cancelled due to reduction in stoppages||The South Central Railway (SCR) has cancelled all the tickets booked for the stoppages that have been deleted (reduced) in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. In wake of COVID-19, the railways has reduced the number of stoppages for the special trains. Accordingly, some of the stoppages in AP for the trains originating and passing through the State have been deleted from the list. For e-tickets, IRCTC will refund fare for the cancelled tickets without deduction of cancellation charges. For counter reserved tickets, PNR will be cancelled in the reservation system prior to the preparation of the first reservation chart. Refund of fare will be made without deduction of cancellation charges on surrendering of original tickets at any reservation counters within 30 days of the date of journey. In case of counter tickets booked through digital transactions, refund will be credited to the account from which the transactions have been made.
04 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Innovative changes yielding result: Sawang||The Andhra Pradesh police have made a lot of innovations and changes by leveraging the technology in the last one year, and has been extending good services to the public, according to Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang. The AP police won 20 national awards in recognition of the innovation and excellence and launched many apps to reach out to the common public, the DGP said at a press conference held at the AP Police Headquarters at Mangalagiri on Wednesday. To move closer to the public and address the grievances in a time-bound period, the State government has launched Spandana and the Police Department received 75,610 petitions, out of which 16,403 FIRs (22 %) have been registered. Of the total petitions, 99 % were disposed within seven days, and 52 % complainants were women. Focus was laid to solve the grievances of women and action taken in some critical cases, he said. The AP Disha Bill – 2019 was tabled in the Assembly to curb crime against women. As many as, 42,799 complaints were received by Disha app, of which 336 were actionable and 82 FIRs were registered. Eighteen Disha police stations were set up across the State, out of which seven got ISO certification, the DGP explained. “We are planning to introduce Electronic Evidence Recording Device to improve the quality of investigation and increase conviction rate. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the device soon,” the DGP said.
04 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dharmadhikari panel order binding on power staff, says SC||The Supreme Court has “dismissed as withdrawn” the application of 131 power sector employees, who were relieved and allocated to Telangana, to review the distribution of the employees between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana utilities, according to official sources. The court has observed that if the applicants’ plea to quash certain portions of the report submitted by the Dharmadhikari Committee on the ground that its order is not binding, the exercise will become a never-ending job for the one-man panel as all objections have already been opened as per its (Supreme Court) order dated May 1, 2020. The apex court has rejected the applicants’ appeal to reopen the common seniority list and amend the list of 655 employees allocated to A.P. and 655 (71+584) to Telangana. The court has further said the committee is seized of the matter and may pass the final order soon, and insisted that its order is binding and has to be implemented as the order of the Supreme Court. Besides, the court has observed that every individual employee cannot be satisfied by the one-man committee in the process of allocation. The court has suggested to the applicants’ counsel to either withdraw or face its dismissal (of the application), and that no liberty can be given at this point.
04 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cash-strapped Discoms get a shot in the arm||As part of its efforts to improve the finances of Discoms, the government released Rs. 17,904 crore towards subsidy arrears. Of the subsidy arrears of Rs. 13,391 crore pending as on March 31, 2019, the government released Rs. 8,655 crore in 2019-20 and Rs. 9,249 crore towards subsidy announced in 2019-20 and other charges, a release said. The government also released Rs. 20,384 crore to the Discoms for clearing the power generator bills which are pending as on March 31, 2019. The total bills cleared by the Discoms stand at Rs. 34,384 crore during 2019-20 fiscal. Meanwhile, the government’s focus on cost-effective power helped the utilities in saving around Rs. 700 crore by procuring low-cost power in the open market. It also released Rs. 1,700 crore for improving power infrastructure. Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy asked the power utilities to ensure 9-hour free power supply to all 18.50 lakh farm connections by the beginning of rabi season. Energy Secretary N. Srikant said the Discoms were able to reduce total AT&C losses to 13.36% in 2019-20 and the aggregate Revenue Realised – Average Cost of Service gap has come down to Rs. 1.45 per unit (Rs. 8,120 crore) in 2020 from Rs. 2.26 (Rs. 12,325 crore) in 2019.
04 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cabinet meeting on June 11||The Andhra Pradesh Cabinet meeting is scheduled to be held at the Secretariat on June 11. Chief secretary Nilam Sawhney issued a circular to that effect on Wednesday morning. The meeting will be mainly discussing the prevalence of Covid and implementation of the lockdown and it's impact on the State's financial position. SEC issue Another significant matter likely to be deliberated is the legal battle over the Panchayat Raj (Second Amendment) Ordinance-2020 which resulted in the ouster of N. Ramesh Kumar from the post of State Election Commissioner and the adverse judgement of the High Court. The dispute with Telangana over Pothireddypadu project, and the holding of the Assembly session are among other items on the agenda of the Council of Ministers.
04 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre okays extension of CS tenure||The Centre has approved a three-month extension in service to Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, who is supposed to retire on June 30. The Department of Personnel and Training on Wednesday communicated the Centre’s decision to the State government. Based on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s request to the Union Ministry of Personnel on May 12 , the Centre approved the extension of the 1984-batch IAS officer’s service. Mr. Jagan had sought the extension for six months.
04 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Expedite DPRs for air and sea ports: Minister||Minister for Industries Mekapati Goutham Reddy has instructed the officials to expedite the preparation of Detailed Project Reports (DPRs) for the air and sea ports targeted to be built in the next two years. In a review meeting on the department’s programmes on Wednesday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said the government was keen on giving the infrastructure sector industries a free hand to the extent possible. He called for due priority to the promotion of manufacturing industries, which help in creating large-scale employment besides generating substantial revenue to the government. Later, Mr. Goutham Reddy visited the HCL Technologies’ premises at Gannavaram.
04 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. sets the ball rolling on medical college in Agency area||Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas on Wednesday inspected the land where medical colleges are proposed to be built at Talarisingi in Paderu mandal. The Minister, who visited Golagam, Koduru and Valluru areas in Anakapalle mandal, asked District Collector V. Vinay Chand to identify suitable land in Anakapalle and send concrete proposals to the State Government. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised that every parliamentary constituency in the State will have a medical college, and the government is keen on fulfilling that promise,” Mr. Srinivas said. The Minister also directed officials to send proposals for setting up Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in the tribal areas. As a number of tribal hamlets are situated far from the plains, there is a need for medical facilities at most of these places, he said. Mr. Srinivas was interacting with officials of the Integrated Tribal Development Authority (ITDA) and district administration from Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam district in a review meeting at Paderu in Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday. The Minister reviewed the medical services being offered, available facilities, and the available stock of medicines in tribal areas. He said that the State government is spending Rs. 16,000 crore to develop the hospitals in the State. He said that among the new ambulances that are going to be rolled out on June 8, most of them are being given to tribal areas. He also assured to take up the the issue of lack of road facility in many tribal villages with the Roads & Buildings and Panchayati Raj Departments. The Minister also said that the government would set up treatment plants in the Agency areas to provide safe drinking water. Mr. Srinivas also instructed the officials to take possible steps to control the outbreak of seasonal diseases in the wake of the monsoon. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao stressed the need for awareness campaigns in tribal areas on health issues. R&B Minister Dharmana Krishnadas, Paderu MLA K Bhagya Lakshmi, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, ITDA Project Officer, S Venkateswar and Joint Collectors from the three districts were present.
04 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘7 lakh Indians waiting to return from GCC nations’||As many as 7 lakh emigrants have been registered with various Indian Missions in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries to return India. Coming to Andhra Pradesh, 30,000 people have registered themselves on the ‘APNRI’ website and around 1 lakh are waiting to return to their homes, says Overseas Recruiters Welfare Association secretary S.G. Vijay Kumar Nair. Job loss Referring to the report on “Telugus stranded in Dubai struggling to make both ends meet”, which appeared in these columns on June 1, Mr. Vijay Kumar Nair says International Labour Organisation (ILO) statistics suggest that an estimated 2 million Indians are likely to be rendered jobless in the GCC countries, a majority of those employed in oil and gas, and marine sectors. All major companies in the GCC nations are either closed or running with skeletal staff as most of their projects have been completed and the future projects are on hold due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Highlighting the lights of the Indians in the GCC countries, Mr. Nair says that a majority of the emigrants are single men living in congested labourers’ camps, using common toilets and rooms. ‘Poor living conditions’ “In single flat houses, nearly 10 people are using bunk beds in what is commonly known as ‘bed space’. If anyone contracts the COVID infection, it will spread fast. Loss of jobs, absence of social support, language barriers, and poor living conditions accentuate the inability of the emigrants to access public health facilities,” says Mr. Nair. He appealed to the Central and State governments to evacuate the stranded Indians on a priority basis and increase the number of inward flights to help them return home.
04 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC readying action plan to fight mosquito-borne diseases||With the monsoon on the horizon, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has launched awareness campaigns to prevent an outbreak of mosquito-borne diseases in the city. According to officials from the Health Department of GVMC, urban areas of the city witnessed 89 malaria cases, 330 dengue cases and 18 chikungunya cases in 2019. The civic body has also identified 40 hotspots/high risk areas so far in its limits as per the cases reported in the past. Among the hotspots are colonies in Madhurawada, PM Palem, Peda Jalaripeta, Kurmannapalem, Allipuram, Kotha Jalaripeta, Adarsh Nagar, Venkojipalem, Agnampudi, Pendurthi and Seethammadhara. An action plan is being prepared to involve various stakeholders like the Health Department, ASHA workers, ANMs and ward volunteers to tackle outbreaks. The number of teams to be deputed will be finalised soon. Apart from conducting awareness campaigns, the civic body is also planning to identify and eliminate water stagnation points. Water stagnation “Door-to-door surveillance will be conducted by the teams to create awareness among the people to destroy water stagnation points in their surroundings. Several teams have already started awareness campaigns in a few areas. Anti-larvae operations will be taken up in all areas,” said Chief Medical & Officer of Health (CMoH) K.S.L.G Sastry. “The city generally witnesses mosquito-borne diseases from June after monsoon showers. Tanks and containers that are filled with water need to be closed. Citizens should clean water tanks and containers once a week before refilling them. If they find anything like rubber tubes, things that can store stagnated water, should be cleaned as those are the breeding points of mosquitoes,” he said. “Apart from IEC activities, the GVMC will conduct fogging operations. We have 76 hand fogging machines, 56 power sprayers. Drains will be cleaned daily. One day in a week will be considered as dry day (Mostly Friday) to take up cleaning activities in the surroundings,” he said. Weekly programme The GVMC is proposing to take up a programme called ‘Every Sunday, 10 minutes at 10 am’, aimed at ensuring cleanliness and hygiene in urban areas. The programme also intends to encourage community participation in taking up domestic sanitation by clearing all water stagnation points and containing the mosquito-borne diseases. The programme is modelled along the lines of one adopted by Telangana Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MAUD) Minister K.T. Rama Rao. The programme is getting a good response from the citizens in the neighbouring State.
04 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI re-registers case booked against city anaesthetist||Officials of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) have re-registered the case booked against anaesthetist K. Sudhakar by the city police. Dr. Sudhakar was taken into custody by the police on May 17 on the charge of creating public nuisance. In April, he was suspended from the Narsipatnam Area Hospital after he alleged that the government was not supplying N95 masks to the doctors on COVID-19 duty. After his arrest, the police initially took the doctor to the King George Hospital (KGH) and then shifted him to the Government Hospital for Mental Care. The police had booked cases against him for violating norms and obstructing the police on duty under Sections 188 and 357 of the Indian Penal Code. Later, the High Court, basing on the Public Interest Litigations (PILs) filed, had directed the CBI to inquire and book cases against the city police, who had allegedly used excessive force against the doctor while taking him into custody. The court also directed the CBI to take the cases booked against the doctor by the IV Town Police to their logical conclusion. “The CBI has to re-register the case and investigate because the High Court had directed the Police Department not to interfere in the case,” said a senior CBI official on the condition of anonymity. Mother questioned Meanwhile, it was learnt that the CBI officials on Tuesday questioned the doctor’s mother, Kaveri Bai. On Sunday last, the CBI officials, after registering FIR against the police, had visited the KGH and checked the CCTV camera footage to ascertain how many police personnel had brought Dr. Sudhakar to the hospital, the duration for which they had stayed in the hospital, and how many took him to the Government Hospital for Mental Care. The CBI team also questioned the doctors who treated Dr. Sudhakar and seized certain medical documents regarding his treatment.
04 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCS plans to set up hospital in gas leak-affected village||The Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) is planning to set up a hospital in one of the villages affected by the gas leak from LG Polymers plant at Venkatapuram, its district branch chairman P. Venugopal said. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan interacted with the Collectors of all 13 districts in the State and chairmen of IRCS district branches through video link on Wednesday. Collector V. Vinay Chand and Dr. Venugopal apprised the Governor of the activities taken up by the IRCS during the lockdown and after the gas leak. Dr. Venugopal said the proposed hospital would cater to the needs of the children affected by styrene. About 60 children were undergoing treatment at the King George Hospital (KGH). The children would be screened for hearing assessment, IQ, growth and development for a year in association with Andhra Medical College (AMC). IRCS, Visakhapatnam, had distributed 3,000 food packets and water packets to families which had vacated their villages after the gas leak. It had also provided food packets, bread, biscuits and water packets to home-bound migrant workers. A total of 387 units of blood were given to patients from the IRCS blood bank in Visakhapatnam during the lockdown. Nine units of blood were given to thalassemia patients free of cost. Blood donation IRCS blood bank had given 68 units of blood to the KGH, Victoria Government Hospital and Chintapalli Area Hospital during lockdown.
04 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||E.A.S. Sarma hails NGT ruling||Social activist and former IAS officer E.A.S. Sarma on Wednesday welcomed the NGT ruling that LG Polymers had absolute liability for the loss of life following the May 7 styrene vapour leak incident from its chemical plant in the city. Mr. Sarma, whose petition against the LG Polymers management had been taken up for hearing, said the suo motu order by the NGT after constituting a committee of experts was justified. He said under no circumstances the plant should be allowed to reopen and the management should be punished for loss of life and damage caused to the environment. Reacting to the NGT order in the case, he told The Hindu that the NGT had come to the conclusion that the company attracted absolute liability for the accident. The extent of liability would depend on further studies.
04 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||24x7 road connectivity sought to Vizag Port||The Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation (APCCIF) has sought 24x7 road connectivity to Visakhapatnam Port to ensure faster evacuation of cargo. In a representation to the State Government submitted through the Collector, the federation sought road widening from Sheelanagar to Anakapalle to ensure better connectivity, and developing service roads with a width of 40 to 60 feet on both sides of the highway passing through cities/towns/village limits to enable pedestrians, two-wheelers and three-wheelers to pass through easily. Federation zonal chairman Sudhir Mulagada said that this would make the main roads suitable for heavy vehicles. Truck parking bays should be developed on both sides of the city limits on a minimum of 50 to 100 acres with facilities like petrol pumps, washrooms, food plazas and vehicle repair. He said 24x7 road connectivity to all industrial parks for seamless flow of traffic was also required. The approach road to the Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City (JNPC), Parawada needs to be repaired on a priority basis, he said. With industries set up decades ago in isolated areas and now in the midst of habitation, facilities had to be offered to the industries to relocate in terms of land and facilities so that they can be shifted without any loss to the entrepreneur, he stated.
04 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakha Dairy director ‘attacked’ by miscreants||Visakha Dairy director and YSRCP leader G. Satyanarayana and two others were allegedly attacked by a group of unidentified persons near Komallapudi at Butchayyapeta mandal in Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday. The three persons were shifted to hospital immediately. Sources said that Mr. Satyanarayana and two others were walking in the area when some unidentified persons wielding knives came in an auto-rickshaw and attacked them. Butchayyapeta police said they will register a case.
04 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power shutdown in city tomorrow||APEPDCL will impose power shutdown in various areas in the city on June 5 to undertake maintenance works in feeders in Asilmetta section. There will no power supply from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. in NE Layout, parts of Seethammadhara area, NRI Hospital area, Abhaya Anjaneya temple, Shirdi Sai temple, Krishna Mandir Uproad and Sai Hill View Park areas. Power supply will not be available from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. in Seethampeta main road, Vijaya Hospital, Santhipuram, GVK Plaza, Rama Hospital, Reliance Petrol Bunk areas. Power supply will be cut from 11 a.m. to noon in ASE Nagar, VUDA Children’s Park, R&B Quarters, Shirdi Sai temple road and SFS School areas.
04 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narsipatnam gets new OSD||IPS officer S. Satish Kumar (2016 batch) took charge as Officer on Special Duty (OSD), Narsipatnam, Visakhapatnam district, here on Wednesday. Hailing from Tamil Nadu, Mr. Satish Kumar was earlier posted as Assistant Superintendent of Police in Chintapalle. The police officer met SP Attada Babujee, who extended his warm wishes.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rains fuel malaria threat to Visakha Agency||Having contained the spread of COVID-19, the officials of Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) in Visakhapatnam are now busy with strategies to deal with the malaria as rains have set to aggravate the problems. Over 600 cases have been detected so far amid fears that stagnated water due to multiple spells of rain may convert them into breeding grounds for mosquitoes. Leela Prasad, ADMHO (Paderu), said on Tuesday that they distributed 1.40 lakh mosquito nets in high-risk villages, sent ANMs for a door-to-door survey, apart from carrying out anti-larval operations and offering artemisinin-based combination therapy to tackle malaria. “After creating awareness among the tribal people on social distancing to check the spread of COVID-19 in the Agency area, now we are focusing on fighting malaria,” said ITDA Project Officer Venkateswar Salijamala .  He said they were taking stock of the situation at regular intervals. Malaria and viral fevers spread fast with the onset of monsoon in the tribal areas. Forestland pattas Mr .Venkateswar said ITDA has identified 8,000 tribal people for distribution of 13,000 acres under the Recognition of Forest Rights Act, 2006. He said in addition to the land under ROFR, they also sanctioned allotment of house sites for 13,000 tribal people. The district has a tribal population of 6.5 lakh in the ITDA area spreading over 6,000 sq. km. Listing out his priorities, the new ITDA PO said besides preventing COVID-19, controlling malaria cases and providing jobs under MGNREGA, his focus areas would be augmenting drinking water and communication network. Stating that not a single COVID-19 positive case had been reported in the Agency area, he said with monsoon approaching fast, there was a risk that the situation would aggravate. Hence, the ITDA in association with other departments would continue sanitisation and awareness campaign on preventive measures.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Long wait||
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rebuilding begins||
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beating the heat||
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Learning curve||
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU’s Dial Your University on June 5||The ‘Dial Your University’ programme, scheduled to be held on the first Friday of every month, will now be conducted on June 5 at the Executive Council Hall of AU, Deputy Registrar (Admin) M.V.S.S Prakash said. The programme will be held from 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. and students can contact 0891-2844455 and clarify their doubts with the AU officials.
04 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Rain spurs cotton sowing||The overnight spell of pre-monsoon rainfall and the day being the auspicious Swathi Nakshatram, farmers in some mandals of Adilabad district took up cotton sowing on Wednesday. An estimated 1,000 acres of land came under cotton cultivation in the mandals of Jainad, Bela, Tamsi, Talamadugu and Adilabad rural on this day. According to farmer S. Vilas Reddy of Hasnapur, the overnight rainfall had rendered the soil fit for sowing cotton. “Moreover, it is a coincidence that the day is auspicious for starting vanakalam (kharif) activities,” he observed. The area under cotton is likely to go up sharply this year in former composite Adilabad district thanks to the last season being favourable economically.
04 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Third phase credit in Jan Dhan Yojana accounts||The Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) accounts will be credited with Rs. 500 by the Central government for the third month from June 5 to 10, according to Nirmal Lead District Manager N. Harikrishna. In a press release, he asked customers to maintain social distancing and to wear masks when they come to respective banks.
04 June 2020||B. Chandrasekhar,TELANGANA||Telangana likely to have 3,960 MW hydel project||Telangana will have its first major private sector power project with 3,960 MW installed capacity in the next three to four years if everything goes according to plan. It would be a pumped storage hydro-electric power project at Ippagudem village in Venkatapuram mandal of Mulugu district. The off-stream closed loop project seeks to draw 1.65 tmcft of water from nearby Godavari river, located about 3.5 km away from one (lower) of the two reservoirs planned to store water and use it cyclically for generation of power in pumping mode. The project proposed by Greenko Energies Private Limited (GEPL) is estimated to cost about Rs. 18,203 crore and planned to be completed in a period of 36 months. An expert appraisal committee of the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) on river valley and hydroelectric projects that met over video linkage a couple of weeks back has recommended grant of terms of reference (ToR) for appraisal of the project proposal. The project involves diversion of about 906 hectares of forest land and the proponent plans to seek forest clearance, for diversion of the land, as well as other statutory clearance from the State and Central governments after completion of the detailed project report. According to the details submitted to the MoEF panel, the pumped storage hydroelectric project would have two reservoirs – upper and lower – to be constructed with rock-fill embankment with central clay core. The lower reservoir is proposed with a gross storage capacity of 1.65 tmcft and its rock-fill embankment would run for a length of 2,231 metres with its height up to 38 metres. Evaporation losses, if any would be recouped periodically from the rivers since the project envisages non-consumptive re-utilisation of 1.55 tmcft water for re-circulation between the two proposed reservoirs. The panel was also informed that the two reservoirs do not have any catchment area and inflow from rainfall is negligible. Water conductor system consists of 6 independent pen stocks or pressure shafts taking off from power block of the upper reservoir and each pen stock would get bifurcated into two near the power house to feed water into 12 turbines. A surface power house would be located on the downstream of the power block to be equipped with 12 vertical reversible motor pumps with capacity of 330 MW each.
04 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Three Adivasi women killed in accident||Thee Adivasi women were killed and three others critically injured when the tractor trolley they were travelling in overturned at Chelimala village in Charla mandal on Wednesday. Police said the incident occurred when the tractor carrying a group of villagers from Jeedipalli of neighbouring Chhattisgarh turned turtle at the border village. Three women were crushed to death under the trolley on the spot and three others suffered grievous injuries.
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID cases cross 3,000-mark in TS||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana crossed the 3,000 mark on Wednesday as 129 more samples tested positive for the virus. The total number of cases in the State stand at 3,020. Seven more COVID-19 patients died taking the toll to 99. This is the highest number of deaths reported in a day till date. Of the 129 cases, 108 are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), six each from Rangareddy and Asifabad, two each from Medchal and Sircilla, one each from Yadadri, Kamareddy and Mahbubnagar. The remaining two are among migrants. Till date, out of the total 3,020 cases, 1,365 are active cases, 1,556 were discharged, and 99 died. The total cases includes 206 migrants and 212 deportees. While it took 56 days to record 1,00 cases in Telangana, it took 31 more days to cross the 2,000 mark, and only seven more days to cross 3,000 cases, which indicates the rate at which cases are increasing in Telangana. The first COVID-19 case in Telangana was reported on March 2. From March 2 to April 26, 1,001 cases were recorded. The total cases on May 26 was 1,991. It crossed 2,000, and stood at 2,098 when 107 more samples tested positive for coronavirus on May 27. In the next 7 days (May 28to June 3), 922 cases were detected and the total crossed 3,000 mark.
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Redetermine compensation for land oustees, says High Court||Observing that that State government had coerced 120 farmers to part with their lands for construction of Annapurna reservoir of Kaleswaram Lift Irrigation Scheme, Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed the government to re-determine the compensation for the land oustees. The farmers are also eligible for lumpsum amounts for Rehabilitation and Resettlement, a bench of Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and K. Lakshman said in the judgement. The exercise of re-determination of compensation and lumpsum amounts for R&R and payments should be completed within three months. Each of the petitioner should be paid a cost of Rs. 2,000 by the government. The HC made it clear that amounts already paid to the land oustees should not be recovered. It must be adjusted against the sums of compensation and lumpsum for R&R which are to be re-fixed. Annapurna reservoir (earlier known as Ananthagirisagar reservoir) of 3.5 tmcft capacity was part of the State government’s prestigious KLIS. Water was released into it on March 11. Farmers of bordering Sircilla-Rajanna and Siddipet districts, whose lands were acquired for the reservoir, moved the HC through four writ petitions since 2017 demanding lawful compensation under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act-2013. The government started procuring 890 acres of land for construction of the reservoir by issuing GO MS 123 in 2015. The order said the price at which lands are to be procured should be consensual and to be voluntarily agreed by the farmers and the government. The 120 land oustees maintained that authorities forced them to part with the lands and sign the papers of compensation which was far less than the market price of their lands. Their counsel B. Rachna Reddy claimed that while some farmers were paid Rs. 13 lakh per acre in Lingareddipally village, her clients were forced to accept Rs. 6.5 lakh per acre. During hearing of the writ petitions, Advocate General B.S. Prasad on May 14 filed a memo requesting the bench to post the matters for final hearing after the end of epidemic. Rejecting AG’s request, the bench said it was not clear when the pandemic would end and the AG cannot say the court cannot hear the pleas till the pandemic is brought under control.
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||File counters on Metro fares: HC||The Telangana High Court on Wednesday instructed the State government and Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited to file counter-affidavits within four weeks on a PIL petition over the fares being collected for Metro Rail travel. The Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s Greater Hyderabad Central City Committee filed a PIL plea seeking a direction to the government to suspend present fee chart of Metro Rail till the matter was adjudicated. Committee’s president M. Srinivas Reddy stated in the petition that the fare chart of Hyderabad Metro Rail was contrary to the Concession Agreement for Hyderabad Metro Rail (MRTS) project. Both State government and the Larsen and Toubro Metro Rail (Hyderabad) Private Limited were into this agreement, the petitioner said. According to him, Article 27 of the Concession Agreement deals with user fare and Article 27.1 with collection of fares. Schedule R of the agreement enables annual revision of basic fare at 5% for 15 years from 2014. Hyderabad Metro Rail announced the fare chart with commencement of services from November 26, 2017. But these fares were in excess of what had been agreed upon in paragraph 4 of Schedule R, the petitioner said. Moreover, the L&T Metro Rail (Hyderabad) received Viability Gap Fund (VGF) of Rs. 1,458 from the State government in phased manner. As per the Concession Agreement, the company was not entitled to fix the fares on receipt of VGF. The State government also allotted various lands for commercial activity to L&T Metro Rail and the latter was fully exploiting all those places. But it had fixed fares on the high side. Hence, it was illegal and arbitrary, the petitioner contended. There was a procedure to be followed for fixation of enhanced fares like the company sending notice to the government. But no such notice had been served by the company, the petitioner stated.
04 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Road laid during lockdown erases city’s historic link||A new road project nearing completing in less than 60 days has led to destruction of one of Hyderabad’s important historic relics. The underground water channel that transported drinking water from the Durgam Cheruvu to the Golconda fort has disappeared under a wide road that will connect Road No 46 Jubilee Hills to the Old Bombay Highway. “We started work after the lockdown began and it is nearly ready. The high-tension electric line will form part of the divider,” said an employee of the private company executing the project. “We followed the lockdown and didn’t step out. But when we saw the area on Tuesday, we were surprised. An enormous amount of work has been completed for laying the road,” said Frauke Quader of Society to Save Rocks, who lives in Jubilee Hills. According to historians, the much-storied water channel was the key to water security of the Golconda fort and helped its rulers withstand a nine-month siege by Mughal army under Aurangzeb. Using the natural gradient of the lake at a higher level, the water channel cut into stone and covered with it transported water for nearly four kilometres giving it the moniker Secret Lake. The water channel can be been clearly marked out in the Survey of India Maps -1973-74 including the high-tension power line. Starting at the lake on its southern side, the water channel curved towards the Laxman Bagh temple and towards Dargah, finally entering the Qutb Shahi tombs complex on its northern side. “This road appears wide as it will have a walking track and plantations on either side. Earlier, this part of the land was used as workshop for manufacturing girders for flyovers,” said the official supervising the road project. The road project effectively turns the Durgam Cheruvu into a rock girdled pond that’s surrounded by a spider’s web of roads. One road connects the Road No 46 to the HiTec City area with a suspension bridge. On the western side of the lake, a number of roads have cut through the rock to turn the area into a home-office-entertainment hub. The hillocks around the Durgam Cheruvu enjoyed a modicum of protection under regulation 13 of Hyderabad Urban Development Authority. “Beautiful lake between the new Hitec development and the rocks of Jubilee Hills. Best viewing from Durgam Cheruvu Lake Resort near Ambedkar Open University. Walking and climbing the rocky parts around the lake from the footpath that leads around the lake,” says the 1997 listing of the rocks as a protected site by the HUDA.
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Seven cases detected at NIMS||As COVID-19 cases among junior doctors staying in Osmania Medical College (OMC) here continue to rise, another cluster of healthcare professionals has been detected with COVID-19. Four resident doctors and three staff members from cardiology wing of Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Medical superintendent at NIMS, N. Satyanarayana confirmed that seven cases were detected. The four resident doctors are pursuing super speciality course in cardiology course at the institute and attend patients. The three staff members used to work in cath lab. “We have asked all doctors and staff members to report to us if they have symptoms. A committee will assess and decide if tests have to be conducted,” Dr Satyanarayana said. Like private hospitals, precautions were taken before allowing patients and attendants into the hospital building. Anyone wishing to consult doctors are made to submit their address and contact details. Their body temperature is checked before allowing them into the building. Patients are asked if they have fever, cough, or other symptoms, and if they are close contacts of any COVID-19 patient.  Quarantine provision President of NIMS Resident Doctors’ Association, G. Srinivas demanded that the provision of quarantine for one-third of workforce has to be introduced. During lockdown, one-third of work force was sent to quarantine on rotation basis and the remaining two-thirds attended patients. He also said that tests have to be conducted on all the resident doctors who want to get tested.
04 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Expedite recruitment of medical professionals’||AICC secretary Ch. Vamshichand Reddy has urged the government to fill up the 4,560 posts of staff nurses, ANMs, pharmacists, lab technicians and radiologists in the medical department that are kept pending on minor issues. In a letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, he said that these posts include 3,311 staff nurses, 398 ANMs, 369 pharmacists grade-II, 325 lab technicians grade-II, 105 radiographers and 52 physiotherapists. Their need is more than ever, given the COVID-19 pandemic and shortage of professionals. About a lakh aspirants have been waiting for the results of these posts for two years now and many of them have recently approached the Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) as well, he said. Mr. Reddy claimed that the government has recruited only six paramedical professionals in the last five years while there are 7,647 posts lying vacant in just one particular branch. With 25% to 40% posts lying vacant in every branch, a great deal of patients are suffering due to lack of personnel to attend to them, he said in the letter. He said the issue of these recruitments was in courts on some minor clarifications and the government should immediately ensure the cases are cleared so that Telangana hospitals will get the benefit of these employees and technicians.  The government has recruited only six paramedical professionals in the last five years; there are 7,647 vacancies in just one branch. Ch. Vamshichand Reddy, AICC secretary
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gym owners worried as Unlock 1 bypasses them||It is over two months since gyms were shut on account of the lockdown. While relaxations have seen establishments reopen for business, gyms continue to remain closed. What is more is that ‘Unlock 1’ states that after assessing the situation, dates to ‘re-start’ these fitness centres would be decided. This has gym owners and fitness trainers worried. “There is no clarity when the government will give the go-ahead to us for reopening. What adds to the uncertainty is that we don’t know how the response to resumption will be – it could be brisk and it could be worse than ever, meaning hardly any will do workout due to the coronavirus fear,” said fitness trainer Avinash Jithender, Muscle Garage Transformation. Mr Jithender says that the lockdown has affected three types of people differently in the fitness business – gym owners, those employed in these gyms and freelance fitness trainers. “If there are no clients, gym owners cannot pay fitness instructors, who are the worst affected. And freelance fitness trainers have no one-to-one clients, leading to a 100% drop,” he says. Those in the fitness business point out that depending on the size of the gym, the investment can vary from Rs. 20 lakh to Rs. 2 crore. The cost is contingent upon the location, quality and quantity of equipment. For instance, a multi-station can cost anything between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 1 lakh. One such gym owner who is worried is Shaik Javed who set up Pure Fitness gym in Bapuji Nagar five years ago. “I have not been able to pay rent for two months and now I am facing heat from the landlord. What is more problematic is that the house owner too is pressuring me to to pay rent. When there is no income from the gym, how can there be money to pay rent? Fitness business is the only thing people like me know,” he rues. Rasheed Khan from Raw Fitness too narrates the same experience. The three fitness experts say that they are willing to adhere to social distancing and sanitisation of equipment norms as laid down by competent authorities. “Exercise can help in boosting immunity. Just let us open the gym. We will be more than happy to abide by the government’s rules,” Mr Khan says. Payments from clients is another issue. “If a client has paid a year’s fee, he would naturally want his package extended by at least two months since the gym was closed. It then becomes an ethics issue,” an instructor explains. Fitness experts also opined that in a post-COVID world, the operations of gyms could change dramatically, and suggested a slot system. A limited number of clients would be given an hour after which they would have to leave, giving space to another set of clients who would follow the same rule.
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS plans to establish cotton research centre||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy has asked the department officials to prepare proposals for establishing a cotton research centre as the government wants the farming community to raise the fibre crop in about 60% of the total extent covered during the coming Vaanakalam crop season. At a meeting held here on Wednesday on the implementation of regulated farming, which was attended by Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy, the Minister said there was a need to educate farmers on cultivating Telangana Sona variety of paddy which has low-glycemic index compared to any other variety available across the globe since it had good market demand too. Reiterating that the basic objective and idea behind the regulated farming plan to be implemented from the coming crop at the instance of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was to make the economic activity not only remunerative but profitable, the minister said the first step in that direction would be to record every crop cultivated by farmers along with exact extent so that further planning could be done. On the directions of the Chief Minister, the minister also told the Secretary to appoint Additional Director of Agriculture as the Chief Statistical Officer in the department to enumerate all the crops cultivated. He also wanted the officials to prepare plans so that there was no shortage of vegetable crops with the details of vegetables cultivated in the State so far along with their production and also the ones whose supplies were coming from other areas in the country. Director of Horticulture L. Venkatrami Reddy, Managing Director of State Seed Development Corporation K. Keshavulu and Additional Director of Agriculture K. Vijay Kumar attended the meeting.
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Focus on cultivating crops with market demand: KCR||The agriculture department should be proactive and formulate the required plans to inculcate a habit of cultivating crops which enjoy a demand in the market, said Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao here on Wednesday. The regulated crop cultivation will be coming into effect from this Vaanakalam and this should continue in every season and every year. By cultivating only those crops with demand in market, agriculture will become profitable and farmers will not face the plight of their produce not getting remunerative prices, he said. Chief Minister who held extensive discussions for three days with agriculture department officials, experts along with Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy to finalise the strategy for cultivation of crops in the State said that the ultimate aim of this exercise would be to benefit farmers and make agriculture profitable. He also felt that though the State achieved food security, it was lagging behind in nutritional security. Food habits Mr. Rao instructed the officials to prepare correct estimates on food habits of people in the State and the country and also assess the requirement for various food crops in the State and the country. Similarly, data should also be gathered to find the demand for different crops across the world. Accordingly, the cultivation of crops should be planned. For this, government would appoint Agriculture Products Marketing Committee with experts. Equally important is to improve the productivity in the agricultural sector by adopting modern cultivation methods and techniques including using high quality seeds and scientific use of fertilisers and pesticides, he said. Mr. Rao said the government would appoint an agriculture research committee to study and advice the farming community as also set up Cotton Research and Development Centre to help cotton farmers on getting higher yields and productivity through appropriate methods of cultivation of cotton varieties which have good demand. At present potatoes, garlic and ginger were being imported to meet the demand and their cultivation within the State should be increased, he said.  By cultivating crops which have demand in market, agriculture will become profitable as farmers will get remunerative prices. K. Chandrasekhar Rao,Chief Minister
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chikungunya vaccine project to get up to $16 million funding from CEPI||The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) will fund a consortium comprising Bharat Biotech and the International Vaccine Institute (IVI) up to $14.1 million for vaccine manufacturing and clinical development of a two-dose live-inactivated vaccine (BBV87) against Chikungunya. Further, the consortium will be supported with a grant of up to $2 million from the Indian government’s Ind-CEPI initiative, which will fund the set-up of GMP manufacturing facilities for the vaccine in India and the subsequent manufacture of clinical trial materials. A release from Bharat Biotech on Thursday, on the CEPI and Ind-CEPI funding for the consortium, said in addition to manufacturing, the partnering agreement will finance a multi-centre Phase 2/3 adaptive clinical trial to be conducted by IVI in Colombia, Panama and Thailand. The trial will provide crucial data about the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. The partnership will build on Bharat Biotech’s experience of developing and supplying affordable vaccines as well as WHO prequalification procedures to ensure affordable access to the vaccine in countries where Chikungunya is endemic, in line with CEPI’s core commitment to equitable access. CEO of CEPI Richard Hatchett said through this partnership with Bharat Biotech and IVI “we will accelerate the clinical development of the Chikungunya vaccine candidate.” Third call for proposals The investment is part of CEPI’s third call for proposals that was launched in January 2019. Since the launch of this call, over $80 million of CEPI core funding has been committed to three Chikungunya vaccine candidates and two Rift Valley Fever vaccine candidates. On BBV87 vaccine candidate, the release said it is an inactivated whole virion vaccine based on a strain derived from an East, Central, South African (ECSA) genotype. The vaccine has completed standard pre-clinical studies and an optimum immune response was elicited by the adjuvanted vaccine in phase 1 clinical trials in India. Secretary to the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) Renu Swarup said under the Ind-CEPI mission, DBT, Government of India will support Bharat Biotech for this collaborative project, the first initiative of this mission, to expedite the development of Chikungunya vaccine. Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech Krishna Ella said, “We are hopeful that with accelerated clinical development in endemic countries, the candidate CHIK vaccine will be successful.”
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||First patient to undergo plasma therapy trials discharged||In what gives hope to patients suffering from moderate to severe forms of COVID-19, the first patient who participated in Convalescent Plasma Therapy clinical trials at Gandhi Hospital has recovered and been discharged. Four more patients who participated in the trials at the hospital have also reported clinical improvement. Plasma collected from patients who recovered from the infectious disease would contain antibodies which neutralises coronavirus. It is expected that the mortality rate will come down and COVID patients will recover when plasma filled with the neutralising antibodies are infused into them. Clinical trials were taken up to test the effectiveness of the therapy, but it is not a treatment option yet. This therapy garnered a lot of attention as currently there is no vaccine to treat COVID-19. The therapy was resorted to more than a century ago for the treatment of H1N1 influenza in 1918. To participate in the clinical trials, a committee was constituted with doctors and post graduate students at Gandhi Hospital. They applied for permission and pursued to get the nod. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on May 8 approved the clinical trials at Gandhi Hospital. From May 11, doctors at the hospital started to collect blood from patients who recovered from COVID-19, to extract plasma. It was extracted from five donors who volunteered for the trials. Superintendent of the hospital and principal investigator of the clinical trials, M. Raja Rao in the second week of May said that some of the parameters to select a recipient is that he/she should be suffering from moderate to severe form of infection. Those with mild or very severe infection cannot be part of it. The first recipient was patient (P) number 1331. The four others are patients numbered 1459, 1647, 2415 and 2639. Plasma was transfused into them at the hospital and their condition was constantly monitored. “The therapy was introduced to the patients when their oxygen saturation levels dropped below 84% to 90%. Two transfusions were given to each of the five patients. Patient 1311 has already been discharged while P1647 is under intermittent dependency and three are no longer dependent on oxygen,” said Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao. The other members of the committee are Vinay Shekar (professor), Trilok Chand (associate professor), Nagamani (professor) and Hemanth K. (post graduate student) among others.
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Books dwell on irrigation aspects||Chief Engineer (Inter State & Water Resources) in the Irrigation Department S. Narasimha Rao presented two books titled An overview on Indian rivers water sharing agreements and Significance of agricultural aspects in water disputes to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday. Co-authored by Mr. Narasimha Rao, who leads the technical team that assists advocates arguing for Telangana before the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-II or Brijesh Kumar Tribunal, along with a few other engineers, they are published by the IS&WR wing of the Irrigation Department. Accompanied by Officer on Special Duty (Irrigation) in the Chief Minister’s Office Sridhar Rao Deshpande, Mr. Narasimha Rao presented the books to the Chief Minister at Prgathi Bhavan on Tuesday evening. Mr. Narasimha Rao stated that the first book – An Overview on Indian Rivers Water Sharing Agreements – is an attempt made to put together comprehensive noting on various agreements that were made while resolving inter-State river water sharing process, mainly in India. It also has glimpses on some overseas agreements. Detailed analysis of various agreements in the book offer a comprehensive as well as inter-disciplinary focus to combine scientific and hydrological understanding with social and legal dimensions of water management, said the Chief Engineer, who co-authored the book with K. Venkata Narayana, Y.M. Gopala Krishna and N. Ravi Shanker. The second book – Significance of Agricultural Aspects in Water Disputes – gives a scientific analysis of agricultural aspects by Narmada and Cauvery Water Dispute Tribunals in deciding the allocations. Mr. Narasimha Rao said an attempt was made through the book to present a comprehensive study of the scientific assessment of crop water requirement. Co-authored along with V. Raghunath Sharma and M.K. Krishnan, the book also underscores the significance of study of soil texture and suitability to crops at 1:10,000 scale and for assessment of special needs. It also covers the approach made on these aspects by various tribunals.
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Limited train halts in AP from today||South Central Railway (SCR) has announced that some of the existing station halts in Andhra Pradesh for special train services have been removed as per the request of the State government from June 4. Hence, passengers who have already booked reservation tickets to or from the stations for which halts have been removed are entitled for a full refund, an official spokesman informed. However, intra-state train travel for the above special train services within AP where both the boarding station and de-boarding stations fall within is now permitted with immediate effect. It means 02704/02703 Secunderabad to Howrah Falaknuma Express will halt only at Guntur, Vijayawada, Eluru, Rajahmundry, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam Road, in the reverse direction also. 07202 Secunderabad to Guntur Golconda Express will halt only at Vijayawada whereas in the reverse direction 07201 will halt at Mangalagiri and Vijayawada. 02793/02794 Tirupati-Nizamabad Rayalaseema Express will halt only at Kadapa, Adoni, Manthralayam Road and Guntakal, same is the case in the reverse direction. 02728/02727 Hyderabad-Visakhapatnam Godavari Express will have halts only at Vijayawada, Eluru, Rajahmundry and Anakapalle, same is the case in the reverse direction. 01019/01020 Mumbai to Bhubaneshwar Konark Express will halt at Vijayawada, Eluru, Rajahmundry, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagram and Srikakulam Road. 02805/02806 Visakhapatnam to New Delhi AP Express will halt at Rajahmundry, Eluru & Vijayawada, said an official spokesman in a press release. Meanwhile, noting the congregation of passengers at the Secunderabad station many hours before the trains depart, the railway authorities have appealed to people not to come much before the scheduled time as it is leading to congestion. Special trains are starting from the Nampally station also and so passengers can board from get both stations. Additional entry/exits as well as thermal screening counters are being installed as per demand. In Secunderabad station, trains start or stop at platforms 1 or the main entrance and ‘10’ on the Bhoiguda side only for now. Other platforms are likely to be used soon. Passengers can make use of the foot over bridge inside Platform no.1 to reach others.
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor directs OU officials to focus on job-oriented courses||Governor and Osmania University Chancellor Dr.Tamilisai Soundararajan has advised the university functionaries to encourage new innovative and job oriented courses in collaboration with industries. The syllabi and study material of arts courses should be improvised and other required steps be taken for enhancing the employability of students, she said. The Governor interacted with Prof Ch.Gopal Reddy, Registrar, Prof. Sriram Venkatesh, Controller of Examinations and 10 other professors of Osmania University through video conference here on Wednesday. Appreciating the work being carried out by the university functionaries, she said that stalwarts like late Prime Minister P.V.Narasimha Rao, late Union Minister Jaipal Reddy and others studied in the prestigious Osmania University. She appealed to all the university officials and faculty to strive hard in making the State leader in the field of higher education The university officials explained to the Governor about the activities of the varsity and various initiatives undertaken to improve quality of access, revising the syllabi, utilisation of Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) funds among other things. Governor enquired at length about academic, administrative aspects, infrastructure facilities, hostel facilities. An action plan be prepared to deal with post COVID-19 situation for maintaining social distancing and hygiene in hostels. Seeking information related to land disputes, faculty position, connecting with the alumni, etc., the Governor asked the Registrar to furnish complete details of land disputes relating to the university to Raj Bhavan and to take care of the issue by taking expert legal advice.
04 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Waive taxes for one year, KCR urged||Sangareddy MLA. T. Jagga Reddy urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to waive off house tax in the State for one year and electricity bills for at least six months as people were severely affected due to lockdown and had no money. At a press conference here, he said the middle and lower-income groups had lost employment in the last two months due to the closure of industries and other businesses and were not in a position to pay the bills. He said the government should come out with a scheme to assist people to pay their EMIs for six months from the time of lockdown. He wrote a letter to the CM in this regard. Former PCC president V. Hanumantha Rao questioned the enthusiasm of the police in arresting Congress leaders visiting the pending projects and said it was unfortunate that even former Home Minister K. Jana Reddy was ill-treated and made to sit in a police station. Holding the Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao responsible for the ‘over enthusiasm’ of the police, he asked him to realise how Telangana had turned into a police State. “Had we behaved similarly during the Congress rule you wouldn’t have become Chief Minister,” he said. At a press conference here, he said police were only trying to suppress the voice of the Opposition while turning a blind eye to the activities of ruling party leaders.
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Doctors’ concerns placed before Health Minister||The concerns of junior doctors and resident doctors working at government hospitals were brought to the notice of the Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Wednesday. Representatives of Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) and Resident Doctors Association spoke to the Minister about the need for regular testing of healthcare professionals, quarantine for one-third of workforce on a rotation basis, accommodation for COVID-19 doctors at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences. Infection mystery So far, two clusters of COVID-19 cases have been detected among junior doctors staying in Osmania Medical College hostels and among resident doctors at NIMS. Both the healthcare facilities attend non-COVID patients, which raised concerns about possible exposure to coronavirus without knowing infection status of patients. This made junior doctors seek tests to know if they are carrying the virus. Knowing the status in early stages helps avoid spread of the infectious disease to patients and family members. TJUDA president K.U.N. Vishnu said that they received favourable response to their demands. NIMS RDA president G. Srinivas also represented the issues.
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three more at OMC hostel test positive||At least three more junior doctors residing in Osmania Medical College hostel tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total cases from the hostel to 15. Though residents of the hostel said that the tally has reached 23, officials said numbers will be confirmed on Thursday. Swab samples were collected from 280 house surgeons (MBBS interns) and Post Graduate (PG) students who stay in the hostel and sent for testing. Till Tuesday, 151 had tested negative. The final status of all the results is expected on Thursday. Besides, samples were collected from junior doctors who work at hospitals but stay at home. With at least six gynaecology PG students who worked at Modern Government Maternity Hospital, Petlaburj, tested positive, senior doctors, too, are undergoing tests. Officials said swab samples were collected from faculty members.
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heavy duty machinery to clean up Musi||The State government has decided to deploy heavy duty machinery and drone technology apparently to clean up the Musi war-footing within the next one month. During a meeting called for by the chairperson of Musi River Front Development Corporation D. Sudheer Reddy with Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration & Urban Development Arvind Kumar and GHMC zonal commissioners on Tuesday, it was decided to clean the river before monsoon arrival. Necessary instructions have been issued for cleaning up the river for its 22-km stretch between Bapu Ghat and Nagole in the city, a statement informed. Decision has been taken to deploy excavator machines one for every kilometre, to dredge out debris, garbage and other waste from the river, and clean the ditches within. Work should be carried out day and night in shifts, officials have been instructed. Besides, to control mosquito breeding, anti-larval spray will be done using fogging machines and drones, the statement said.
04 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two women, man end lives in separate cases||Unable to bear the harassment from her husband, a newly married pregnant woman committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling in Malkajgiri here on Tuesday night, police said. The victim, Sameena Bhanu (20), fell in love and got married to Sai Charan, a private employee in November last. He is a resident of Neredmet and three months after their marriage, the couple moved to Vasanthapuri Colony in Malkajgiri. “He is unemployed and he started harassing Sameena, both physically and mentally, and for money. And for the past one week, the harassment had increased,” Malkajgiri police said, quoting the victim’s sister Meharaj Bhanu. Sameena was three months pregnant. Vexed with Sai Charan’s behaviour, his wife committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at their residence on Tuesday evening around 7 p.m., police said. “Their neighbours noticed the victim and informed her sister Meharaj, who rushed to the spot and shifted the former to a nearby hospital where doctors declared her brought dead,” police said, adding that a case was registered against Sai Charan under the Indian Penal Code. In a separate case, a mentally challenged man ended his life by jumping from a building in Punjagutta here on Wednesday morning. Mohammed Rafeeq (37), a private employee, had been undergoing treatment for depression for the last nine years. He was being treated at the Institute of Mental Health, Erragadda. “He resorted to the extreme step by jumping from the fifth floor of Koutinya Apartments near SonoVision and died on the spot,” Punjagutta police said. At KPHB Colony, a 33-year-old woman, who had been living with her parents for the past several years, hanged herself from a ceiling fan on Tuesday night. The victim, Venkata Lakshmi, got married to Katika Reddy Venkatesh of West Godavari district in 2009 and they have a daughter. Unable to tolerate the harassment by husband and inlaws, she moved to Hyderabad in 2012 and started to live with her parents, KPHB Colony police said on Wednesday. She was working for a private firm. “Reportedly due to loneliness, she took the step,” the investigators said.    (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni)
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Insufficient platforms for Sultan Bazar hawkers’||CHATRI (Campaign for Housing and Tenuriel Rights) and Human Rights Forum (HRF), through a statement on Tuesday, questioned the decision by the Hyderabad Metro Rail to provide platforms only for a limited number of hawkers in Sultan Bazar stretch. Though there are about 500 hawkers who are set to lose livelihoods, HMRL is providing only 160 platforms, the activist groups alleged, citing details collected from a field visit. Protests against Metro Rail construction through Sultan Bazar were supported by the TRS before it came to power, but after formation of Telangana as separate State, the government headed by TRS permitted the construction saying there was no other possible way for the Metro Rail to reach Imlibun. It had then promised to protect livelihoods of hawkers in the area. Many hawkers had been kept out of the purview of agreement between HMRL, GHMC and hawkers’ unions. Most of the displaced hawkers make their living by selling decorative items, curtains, napkins, bags, pillows, and bindis, and they are now being forced by the traffic police to vacate the place. Though a list of hawkers prepared by the MEPMA (Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas) is available for reference, it has not been taken into consideration. Instead, members of only one trade union have been accommodated, the statement alleged, and urged the police to allow the hawkers to sell in the area till the issue is settled. It requested the HMRL, MEPMA and Town Vending Committee to resolve the issue.
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lions Club distributes one lakh masks||Health Minister Eatala Rajender launched a mass campaign for free distribution of one lakh masks in Secunderabad here on Wednesday. Undertaken by Lions Clubs International, District (LCI)-320 C as part of the ‘One Multiple - One Activity’ endeavour, the campaign was initiated by P. Ravindranath Gupta, District Governor, LCI-District 320 C, along with the Minister. The one lakh masks being distributed to needy sections in various districts are basically targeted to reach the elderly, sick, women and children. The masks being distributed free, are made of quality soft cloth to enable comfortable flow of air.
04 June 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||School gets a makeover to lure students||With its exteriors embellished with exquisite wall paintings, the Naya Bazar Government high school here is beckoning students in the upcoming new academic year to explore the visual delight and develop a sense of belonging at school. The faded walls of the school have been transformed into a virtual open art gallery thanks to the deft artistry of the Hyderabad-based artists Vijay and Swati. Impressed by their earlier art works, the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) has roped in the artist duo to implement the wall painting project in the State-run school in February this year. The young artist couple painted an array of eye-popping murals highlighting the significance of school as a second home for children - a primary institution of learning, socialisation and personality development. They infused originality into their art works by depicting the images resembling the schoolchildren in a perfect school setting. Their doodles revolved around an array of message oriented themes aimed at promoting hand hygiene, sanitation, book reading and learning pursuits. The wall painting project titled “Our School – Our Pride” is intended to foster the bond of belongingness among students at school thereby improving school attendance and better academic performance besides reducing the school dropout rate, sources said. Plans are on the anvil to implement the wall painting project in various other State-run schools and public places in the KMC limits soon to spread social and health awareness particularly on preventive measures against COVID-19, said Khammam Municipal Commissioner Anuraag Jayanti.
04 June 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Techie dies in lightning strike in Khammam||An employee of a Hyderabad-based software firm was killed when lightning struck him at his native village Duddepudi in Vemsoor mandal on Wednesday evening. G Lakshman Rao (25) had been staying at his native village ever since the COVID-19 lockdown was clamped in March, sources said. He was killed on the spot after being struck by lightning amid drizzle while taking shelter under a tree adjoining a pond at Duddepudi.
04 June 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Farmer electrocuted||Srikanth (17), a farmer was electrocuted at his farm late on Tuesday night at Shivayapalli village in Ramayampet mandal. Protesting over the incident and demanding compensation to the family, the villagers held a dharna. According to sources, Srikanth was electrocuted due to low lying power lines at his farm while unloading fertilizer.
04 June 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||Tension in Godavarikhani over compensation to blast victims’ kin||Tension prevailed at the Singareni Area hospital in Godavarikhani coal belt on Wednesday following the family members and relatives of the contract workers who were killed in an explosion at OCP-1 refusing to take the bodies even after completion of post-mortem. Several relatives of the deceased workers along with trade union leaders and coal miners of the Ramagundam region assembled at the Area hospital and staged a dharna demanding the government to provide compensation of Rs. 1 crore to each bereaved family and employment to one member of a family. All the OB (over burden) earth works were stalled at all OCPs in the region and the regular staff of OCP-1 abstained from work to extend solidarity with the bereaved family. After day-long discussions between the trade unions and the management led by Singareni Director Chandrashekhar and other general managers, the management finally agreed to provide compensation of Rs. 40 lakh each to the bereaved family and employment to one of the family members. The injured persons would be also provided compensation as per the Compensation Act. Earlier in the day, the Sinagareni management convened a meeting with all trade unions on the compensation issue. Though the trade unions were firm on their demand Rs. 1 crore and employment, the Singareni management assured to provide outsourcing employment. The unions however demanded regular employment as the mishap occurred due to the negligence of the management. Ramagundam legislator Korukanti Chander, ZP chairman Putta Madhukar also held consultations with the SCCL management on the compensation issue. The police had a tough time in controlling the agitated coal miners at the the hospital. TPCC working president Batti Vikramarka, Manthani legislator D Sridhar Babu and CPI national secretary K Narayana also visited the hospital to console the bereaved family. INTUC leader Janak Prasad, BMS leader Kengerla Mallaiah, AITUC leader Gattaiah, HMS leader Riyaz Ahmed, IFTU leader Srinivas, INTUC leader Janak Prasad and others were also present. Following the acceptance of the compensation of Rs. 40 lakh, the relatives took the bodies from the hospital and performed the last rites in the evening.
04 June 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||Trade unions want KCR to toe Jagan line on aid||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who had won kudos for announcing Rs. 1 crore each as compensation to the gas leak victims of Visakhapatnam recently, had come to the fore during the agitations launched by trade unions, coal miners and politicians demanding similar compensation to the contract workers, who were killed in the blast at SCCL. The trade union leaders and family members of the four contract workers, who were killed in the explosion staged a dharna at the Singareni Area hospital where the post-mortem was performed on Wednesday demanding the government to announce Rs. 1 crore compensation and employment to one of the family members. Recollecting the gesture by AP Chief Minister towards the kin of the gas leask victims, the relatives of the deceased have demanded the Telangana government to follow the Andhra Pradesh model in providing compensation. CPI national secretary K Narayana said Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao should follow the policy of his friend and AP CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy and announce Rs. 1 crore as compensation for the blast victims of the Singareni also. TPCC working and CLP leader Batti Vikramarka along with Manthani legislator D Sridhar Babu also demanded Rs. 1 crore compensation to the victims.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Safety code||
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Remaining Intermediate exams held||The remaining papers of the Intermedite examination, Geography and Modern Language Paper- II, were conducted on Wednesday, maintaining all the procedures of the lockdown. Out of the 861 candidates who registered, 834 attended the exam and no cases of malpractice were reported. These exams complete the process of Intermediate annual examination this year and results are expected in a couple of weeks.
04 June 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Returnees walking to Odisha from southern States dwindle||There has been a significant fall in the number of migrant workers walking or cycling back from the southern States to their home States on National Highway-16 via Odisha. This has coincided with an increase in train services and buses on the highway. As a result, ‘Operation Sugam’, started in Odisha’s Ganjam on May 13, was discontinued from May 31. ‘Operation Sugam’ was started by the Ganjam District Rural Development Agency in association with local social service organisations — YSD, ARUNA, ISARA and PREM — to ensure no migrant worker was required to walk in Odisha. Migrant workers were provided bus transport for 100 km —from the Andhra Pradesh border to the Ganjam-Khurda border in Odisha. They were also provided cooked and dry food, drinking water, and other basic necessities, before they boarded the buses to Khurda. “We had expected the flow of walking migrant workers on NH-16 would increase after May 23 or 24 but that did not occur. So, ‘Operation Sugam’ was discontinued,” said YSD’s Bibhu Prasad Sahu.  Some still seen Some migrant worker groups can still be seen walking into Ganjam district through the Girisola inter-State check-gate. Most of them say they reached the border in trucks, got down at the check-gate, and walked into Odisha. On Wednesday, most of the migrant workers sighted near the inter-State border were travelling from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to their homes in West Bengal, Bihar or Jharkhand.
04 June 2020||Bhopal,||Locust situation in M.P. now in control, says govt.||The Madhya Pradesh Agriculture Department on Wednesday said the locust invasion within the State had been reined by pesticide spraying, in addition to strong winds in patches which had splintered swarms into smaller groups and scattered them. “The situation is much more in control now,” said Avnish Chaturvedi, Deputy Director in the department. “Larger swarms have become smaller now. We will be in a better situation in the coming days if no new swarms enter the State.” So far, pesticide operations had been conducted in 34 of the 52 districts, he said. “District officials and Central teams have conducted night spraying operations on at least 90 swarms. These include the same ones which travelled from one district to the other.” Mr. Chaturvedi pointed out that swarms around the Sidhi and Satna areas had broken, become smaller due to storms.
04 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Migrants in Amritsar hold dharna demanding early return home||Several migrant workers on Wednesday staged a “sit-in” protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Amritsar, as they demanded travel arrangements to return to their native places. The protesters, many of them with family, told reporters that in absence of any travel arrangements they have been forced to wait outside the Amritsar railway station for the last two days. Maintaining that they would continue the protest until the administration gives them an assurance, the protesters said they were desperate to return home as most of them lost their jobs during the lockdown and have run out of money. . Most of the migrant workers at the protest site hailed from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Chhattisgarh and had been working at Amristsar brick kilns or those in neighbouring districts. The workers said that they resorted to protest after not getting any assurance about their return from the authorities.  Charge denied The local administration, however, dismissed the charge and said necessary arrangement for their travel will be made. “Around a hundred migrants were protesting here, most of them had been working in brick kilns. We are making necessary arrangements for their stay at shelters and travel,” Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon, Deputy Commissioner Amritsar told The Hindu . Mr. Dhillon said that multiple trains had been running for ferrying migrants. “Since last week, however, the number of travellers had gone down. We had contacted migrant labourers in our district and many of them didn’t want to go. But later few had a change of mind and expressed their desire to go. So, we are now making all arrangements for them. Besides, there have been many migrants who have come from neighbouring districts. After determining the total number of migrants and their destinations we will arrange trains for them,” he added.  We are making necessary arrangements for their stay at shelters and travel Shiv Dular Singh DhillonDeputy Commissioner Amritsar
04 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram records 132 new cases||Continuing with the trend of growing number of COVID-19 cases in Gurugram over the past one week, 132 new cases were recorded in the district on Wednesday taking the tally to 1,195. According to the State health bulletin, a total of 302 cases were recorded in Haryana with the maximum from Gurugram.
04 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Manipur court sets date in case against 7 Congress MLAs||The Manipur High Court has scheduled on June 5 a case of disqualification against seven Congress MLAs who had “defected” to the Bharatiya Janata Party and helped it form a coalition government in 2017. Justice Kh. Nobin Singh issued the order on Wednesday listing the case for “disposal”. Speaker Yumnam Khemchand had on May 8 reserved his decision on the disqualification of the seven MLAs. The seven MLAs and former Forest Minister Thounaojam Shyamkumar, elected on a Congress ticket, had helped the BJP — short of a majority in the 60-member House — notch up 40 MLAs to form the government headed by Nongthombam Biren Singh. The Congress had approached the Supreme Court for disqualification of the MLAs who did not quit the party and technically remained Congress lawmakers. The apex court stripped Mr. Shyamkumar of his office and banned his entry into the Assembly while asking the Speaker to take a call on the seven others. The Speaker disqualified Mr. Shyamkumar as an MLA, but he was later appointed as an advisor to the Chief Minister.
04 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam Cong. questions Health Minister after doctor tests positive||The Opposition Congress has asked Assam’s Health Department if Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma would be quarantined after a doctor seen in close proximity to him tested COVID-19 positive. Mr. Sarma had on Monday visited Singimari Model Hospital, a COVID-19 facility in Kamrup district. A doctor there, seen with him, tested positive. The district authorities subsequently placed some doctors of the hospital in quarantine. Mr. Sarma told newspersons one need not worry as long as one wears a mask and follows other safety measures. “I have been visiting hospitals daily, interacting with doctors and COVID-19 positive patients for quite some time,” he said.
04 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan tops in virus management index||Rajasthan has occupied first rank in the COVID-19 management index analysed for 10 States by the Central government, which included parameters such as active cases, recovered cases and mortality rate. Though the tally of COVID-19 positive cases in the State is heading towards the 10,000-mark, the graph of active cases has been constantly declining. Medical & Health Minister Raghu Sharma said here on Wednesday that the State had conducted 4.40 lakh diagnostic tests among the 35 lakh tests carried out in the country. “While the doubling time of COVID-19 infection in the country is 12 days, it stands at 18 days in Rajasthan,” he said. A Central team, led by Joint Secretary Rajeev Singh Thakur, met Mr. Sharma here to deliberate on the strategies to contain the pandemic in the State. Mr. Sharma apprised the Central team of the measures for contact tracing, institutional quarantine and testing facilities for people showing symptoms of COVID-19 infection as well as mobile vans and telemedicine facilities for other patients. The Minister pointed out that the mortality rate in the State was 2.16%, which was quite less than the national average, and the recovery rate was 67.59%. The State was at present conducting 18,250 tests daily, which would soon be ramped up to 25,000 per day, he said. Despite the return of 11 lakh migrants from the cities such as Ahmedabad, Surat and Mumbai, the infection had not spread widely in the rural areas because of micro-planning at the village and subdivision levels, Mr. Sharma said. There were only 2,699 active cases in the State as of now, he added. “The Medical & Health Department is focusing on other healthcare initiatives, such as immunisation, family welfare, maternal and child health and national health programmes, to ensure that the people’s needs are met, health infrastructure remains intact and the State’s health index is not adversely impacted,” Mr. Sharma said. Diagnostic tests The State government will also shortly start diagnostic tests at 21 centres in 15 districts, including the 10 districts where the highest number of migrants have come back from other States. Besides, two ‘Swasthya Mitras’ trained before the enforcement of COVID-19 lockdown would be appointed in each revenue village for taking forward the health awareness drive, said the Minister.
04 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||High Court stays appointment of 69,000 teachers in U.P.||The Allahabad High Court on Wednesday issued a stay on the appointment process of 69,000 assistant basic education teachers in Uttar Pradesh observing that there had been a “material error” in the evaluation. A Lucknow Bench provided interim relief to a number of candidates who had challenged the results of the examination citing discrepancies in some objective-style questions and their answers. Justice Alok Mathur observed that the facts “clearly indicate that any reasonable person of ordinary prudence would have difficulty in either understanding the questions or understanding the answers and in either situation would be unable to point out the correct answer as per the examining authorities”. The court stayed the May 8 notification under which the final answer key to the examination was issued till the next listing on July 12, by when the examining authority would have to file a reply.  ‘Final answer key’ The court was hearing a bunch of petitions that had challenged the result of the Assistant Teacher Recruitment Examination 2019, dated May 13 declared by the Examination Regulatory Authority of U.P. The petitioners had objected to the “final answer key” issued for the examination. They had contended that while certain questions were erroneous, some answers were incorrect, some questions extremely ambiguous and a few of them debatable and argumentative with no single correct answer. Many of the petitioners were candidates who fell short by one or a few marks. They submitted that had it not been for the discrepancies, they would have also been entitled to participate in the next round of the selection process. The court said the candidates had produced “overbearing evidence” to contend that some questions were incorrect, wrong answers were marked as correct or some answers were ambiguous. There is an imperative need for a suitable direction from the court for revaluation after seeking proper advice from a panel of experts, Justice Mathur said. The Secretary, UGC, would have to appoint a panel in one week.
04 June 2020||New Delhi,||City sees 1,513 new virus cases, 50 more deaths||A total of 1,513 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 23,645, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. This is the biggest single-day jump in the number of cases in the city so far, and also the first time when over 1,500 cases were reported in 24 hours. Six of the last seven days, including Wednesday, have recorded more than 1,000 cases, while one day recorded 990 cases. Also, 50 more deaths have been reported, taking the total to 606. But only nine of these deaths were declared in the past 24 hours.  The number of patients on ventilator was 42 on Monday, as per the bulletin. On Tuesday, the Delhi government stopped giving this particular data. But according to new data provided in the bulletin, 255 ventilators in dedicated COVID-19 hospitals were “occupied”. The Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to multiple calls and messages seeking clarity on the steep jump.  Five-member panel The Delhi government has formed a five-member committee to guide the government on overall COVID-19 preparedness of hospitals, and augmentation of health infrastructure, according to an official order. The committee has been asked to submit a report by June 6. Meanwhile, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev ordered that it is the duty of the District Magistrates and DCPs to ensure compliance of “directions for better management of bodies of COVID positive/ suspect persons”. Timely disposal of the bodies is the responsibility of the heads of hospitals, as per a government order on the matter. The Delhi government also declared three private hospitals — Mool Chand Khairati Lal Hospital, Saroj Super Speciality Hospital, and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital — as “COVID hospitals”.
04 June 2020||New Delhi,||Setback for govt.’s ‘Delhi Corona’ app||A day after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal launched a mobile app “Delhi Corona” on which people can check hospital-wise beds and ventilators available for COVID-19 patients, there was multiple mismatches in the data on the app and the ground reality. The app showed that 33 “COVID-19 beds” were vacant in the Central government-run Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, however, the hospital spokesperson said that no beds were available on Wednesday. Beds unavailable Similarly, the app showed that all 80 beds were vacant in Max Super Speciality Hospital in Patparganj, but no beds were available, according to the hospital spokesperson. Also, the app showed that there were total 232 beds in another Max Hospital and 46 of them were vacant. “We have only 200 beds in Max Saket for COVID-19 and only five of them are free,” a hospital official said. When contacted, data of GTB Hospital, Max Hospital Shalimar Bagh, AIIMS Jhajjar, and AIIMS Delhi matched the data on the app with minor changes. “My brother has severe COVID symptoms. We contacted Max, Apollo and Gangaram — all three said no beds. But your website shows they have beds. Please look into this -@ArvindKejriwal@AnkitLal@msisodiawhat’s going on?” Vikas Pandey posted on Twitter from his verified account.  Delhi BJP president Adesh Kumar Gupta alleged the Delhi government had been “continuously lying” about its shortcomings and mismanagement in the health sector and from time to time and had now come up with a new lie. Even during the COVID-19 epidemic, he alleged, the Kejriwal government had “increased the pain” of the people of Delhi by first “lying” about death statistics, then testing and now the availability of beds in hospitals. The Delhi Congress has alleged that the AAP government is not being transparent about figures related to COVID-19 cases in the Capital and pointed out that there were discrepancies in the information released in the health bulletin. “According to the government’s app, 80 beds were free at the Max Hospital Patparganj but when I went there with a patient last night, all the beds were full. Mr. Kerjiwal is telling lies and hiding the true picture,” alleged Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar. Senior Congress leaded Ajay Maken also pointed out how there was no clear information being shared by the Delhi government. When contacted the Delhi government spokesperson said, “The information about the bed status comes from the hospital itself. If any of the hospital claims otherwise to any patient, we will take action immediately. It is a new initiative and there are bound to be teething issues which we will resolve soon. This will be an extremely useful tool for all citizens. Over the next few days we are aiming to provide real time information to everyone.”
04 June 2020||New Delhi,||AAP claims error in COVID-19 test results at RML Hospital||AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha on Wednesday said that there was a 45% error in positive results of COVID-19 tests done at the Central government-run at Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital. Twelve of 30 such positive results, the Delhi government retested had shown error, he said. “Delhi government retested 30 samples from RML Hospital, which were declared COVID-19 positive by the hospital and 12 of them were found to be negative and result for two were inconclusive,” Mr. Chadha said in a video address. Stringent action Mr. Chadha requested people not to go to RML Hospital for treatment and urged the Delhi government to take stringent action against the hospital. “Save yourselves from going to RML Hospital for treatment or testing. The facts coming out is worrying and people going there are being misled… I want to request to Delhi government to take strict action against RML Hospital,” he said. “We are doing quality checks with AIIMS and NCDC [National Centre for Disease Control] and results are concordant. Our positivity is more as all hotspots cases, family clusters and high-risk contacts of lab-confirmed cases are more in our screening centre,” said RML Hospital spokesperson.  Save yourselves from going to RML Hospital for treatment or testing. The facts coming out is worrying and people going there are being misled Raghav Chadha AAP national spokesperson
04 June 2020||New Delhi,||AIIMS nurses’ union warns of strike over working hours||Nurses working at AIIMS protested for the third consecutive day on Wednesday, demanding that working hours of nurses on COVID-19 duty wearing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) be brought down to four hours from the current six hours. The AIIMS Nurses’ union president, Harish Kajla, said that due to the six-hour shift, nurses were sweating extensively, resulting in weight loss, vomiting, and added that many of them have even fainted. The union has warned of a strike on June 10 if the administration does not accept their demand and an indefinite strike from June 15, Mr. Kajla said. The union has also demanded that there should be rotation of nurses who are on COVID-19 and normal duty, so that the former is less stressed. “More than 500 nurses in AIIMS Jhajjar, AIIMS trauma centre and C6 and D6 of AIIMS are on COVID-19 duty. It is very difficult to work while wearing PPE kit as you sweat extensively as the PPE is airtight and you can’t eat, drink or even go to the bathroom,” Mr. Kajla said. Mr. Kajla said that there was no response from the administration till Wednesday evening.
04 June 2020||New Delhi,||AAP leader uses his MP quota flight tickets to send migrants back home||AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh used 34 domestic flight tickets entitled to him in a year as a Member of Parliament to take 33 migrant workers from Delhi to Patna in Bihar on Wednesday. Mr. Singh also travelled with the 33 migrant workers to Patna in an evening flight. The AAP leader said that apart from this, 180 workers will be taken from Delhi to Patna via a flight on Thursday with the help of NGOs and individuals. “The initial plan was to take 21 workers to Patna today and 12 workers tomorrow. But later we got tickets for all 33 of them today itself,” a party source said. The migrant workers and Mr. Singh left for the airport in a bus from the latter’s residence in North Avenue in the afternoon. “Two days ago, Sanjay Singh had sent 271 migrant labourers in nine buses from Delhi to 10 different districts of Bihar. Till now he has sent a total of 1,200 workers in 41 buses to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh,” an official statement said. Congratulating Mr. Singh, AAP chief and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi, “Everyone will get inspiration from this unique initiative of Sanjay ji.”
04 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi HC rejects plea against govt. order on COVID-19 hospital beds||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the city government to treat as representation a plea against its direction to private hospitals and nursing homes to reserve 20% of their total beds for COVID-19 patients. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan did not entertain the petition, by a doctor, as he had not made any representation to the government before approaching the court. Centre’s advisory Anshuman Kumar approached the High Court contending that the Delhi government’s May 24 order was contrary to the Central government’s advisory of March 28 to create exclusive dedicated hospitals or separate blocks within a hospital with separate entry and exit point for management of COVID-19 patients. The plea said if the May 24 direction to private hospitals and nursing homes to reserve 20% beds for COVID-19 cases was implemented, it would lead to intermingling of COVID-19 patients with non-COVID patients and further spread the infection.
04 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘24x7 call centres to assist elderly’||The Delhi government will monitor and provide senior citizens, who are in the COVID-19 high-risk category, with pre-emptive assistance through 24x7 call centres across the city. Chief Secretary Vijay Dev on Wednesday ordered the creation of a database of senior citizens from details already available with various government departments as well as the collection of more details related to such individuals as well as their respective medical conditions. As on May 20, the department recorded death rate of 26.71% for those aged between 50 and 59 and 52.27% for those aged between 60 and above.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||7-day home quarantine for arriving passengers||All asymptomatic passengers who enter/deboard in the Capital will have to home quarantine themselves for seven days, the Delhi government said on Wednesday. The government modified the earlier rule that was in-place following the Cenral government guidelines according to which asymptomatic passengers were permitted to leave the point of arrival with the advice that they shall self-monitor their health for 14 days and inform district surveillance officer in case they develop any symptoms. The order directed airport authorities, railway authorities and transport authorities concerned to provide passenger manifest to the office of Principal Secretary (Revenue)-cum-Divisional Commissioner, GNCT on a daily basis who would forward the manifest to the District Magistrate under whose jurisdiction the passenger resides. “District Magistrates shall ensure that the passengers are residing in their jurisdiction remain in home quarantine for seven days,” Vijay Dev, Chief Secretary Delhi said in an order. The government has in its guidelines said that States can develop their own protocol with regards to quarantine and isolation as per their assessment.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Law Ministry officials advised home quarantine||Staff members and officials of the Law Ministry who came in contact with a senior official of the ministry have been advised home quarantine for 14 days as per an order issued by the Law Ministry on Wednesday. The order was issued after after a joint secretary in the Legislative Department had tested positive for the virus. “As he had last attended office on May 29, the officers/persons who came in contact with him on the said date, are advised to remain in self quarantine, up to June 12,”said the order dated June 3. The order also stated that for the next two days, all the offices in A and D wing on the fourth floor, including Gate No 1 and 2, elevators and the staircase from the ground floor to the fourth floor would be disinfected and sanitised. This is the second time that the Law Ministry has had to be disinfected in the past two months.
04 June 2020||AHMEDABAD,||8 dead, many hurt in boiler blast fire||As many as eight persons were charred to death when a massive fire broke out after a blast in a boiler at Yashashvi Rasayan Pvt. Ltd. at Dahej in Gujarat’s Bharuch district on Wednesday. More than 40 workers were injured in the blast that first occurred in the boiler and the fire engulfing the factory unit. Several fire tenders were rushed to control the blaze from Bharuch. “Around 45-50 workers sustained burn injuries after the boiler of an agro-chemical company exploded in the afternoon. All the injured persons have been shifted to hospitals in Bharuch, and efforts are on to control the fire,” said Bharuch Collector M.D. Modia.
04 June 2020||Aurangabad,||Guards feed starving monkeys at Daulatabad||With the Daulatabad Fort closed to tourists during lockdown, security guards at the fort have taken the initiative of feeding nearly 150 starving monkeys. The fort, a popular tourist attraction spread over 300 acres in Aurangabad, is home to nearly 150 primates. Usually, the monkeys survive on food left by visitors. But since March, the monkeys have been deprived of food. Seeing their plight, a group of men guarding the fort decided to feed the starving animals. “A couple of days into the lockdown, while we were having lunch, a number of monkeys came near us and tried to snatch our food. I then decided to do something for them,” security guard Mahendra Joshi said. Mr. Joshi, a resident of nearby Khultabad, discussed the issue with his neighbours.“A grocer from my town, Murlidhar Pawar, arranged cartons of biscuits and groundnut packets, which we offered to the monkeys,” he said. Later, a tehsildar (revenue officer) also sent some biscuit boxes. Besides, Bharti Saoji, a resident of Khutlabad, supplied 200 chapatis for 20 days, while other locals arranged hundreds of bananas, he said. Mr. Joshi every day happily carries food for the monkeys as he goes to work. Archaeological Survey of India monument in-charge Sanjay Rohankar appreciated the gesture by Mr. Joshi and other security guards. “The monkeys were starving, but our guards came to their rescue,” he said.
04 June 2020||Mumbai,||45,000 dial mental health helpline in 2 months||BMC-Mpower 1on1, a 24x7 helpline to address mental health concerns of citizens in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic, has received around 45,000 calls in just two months, with 52% of the callers anxious about the post-lockdown scenario. The helpline, which began in April, is a partnership between Mpower, a mental health service provider, the government of Maharashtra and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Across age groups and backgrounds, callers reported symptoms of depression and anxiety, typically about the future. “While the overall range of callers has been 18 to 85 years, the highest number of calls, at 55%, are in the 26-to-40-year range,” an Mpower spokesperson said. Trying times While 52% of the calls centred around anxiety , 22% were about isolation and adjustment, 11% about depression, 5% on sleep-related difficulties and 4% related to exacerbation of previous mental health concerns. A 72-year-old man from Guhagar in Ratnagiri called to say he wanted his grandson, who lives in Mumbai as a paying guest, to return to the village. An 18-year-old woman from Punjab called to discuss issues she was having with her family and felt that she was being ignored by them. She also indulged in self-blame. Another 18-year-old woman from Lucknow called because she was having strange dreams over the past two months about snakes and insects, besides dreaming about her father’s death. A tailor called to say he was worried about the future and was having suicidal thoughts. Another caller was feeling depressed because he was away from his family and had tried every avenue to get permission to travel home, without success. At least 65% of the calls are in Marathi, 27% are in Hindi and 8% are in English. Even though the helpline was unveiled for Maharashtra, it has received calls across India. While 37% of calls are from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, 60% are from the rest of Maharashtra and Goa. Outside Maharashtra, the number of calls is the highest from Delhi at 2%, while Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat follow at 1% each. The helpline is also getting calls from people in Rajasthan, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir. The helpline has a higher number of male callers (69%) as compared to female callers (31%). The helpline runs in three shifts, from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m, when it receives 45% of calls, from 3 p.m. to 11 p.m, when it gets 50% of calls, and 11 p.m. to 7 a.m, when it gets just 5% of calls. A caller who reaches out at night is likely to connect easily to one of the mental health counsellors on the helpline and even receive a bigger window of advice. Almost 20% called the helpline but disconnected the call before they could speak to one of the counsellors, highlighting the stigma around mental health. With many cities in India gradually relaxing lockdown norms, BMC-Mpower 1on1 has witnessed anxiety levels about the ‘new normal’. A majority of the concerns were related to safety, anxiety about stepping out of home, returning to work, commute, work-life balance, and family and friends. To reassure citizens that the helpline is available 24x7 to discuss any of these mental health concerns, Mpower has unveiled a campaign, #MpowerYourTomorrow. It aims to spread the message that it is all right to be anxious, but not to shy away from reaching out and seeking help to addressing one’s concerns. Neerja Birla, founder and chairperson, Mpower, said, “BMC-Mpower has been able to address many mental health concerns during the [lockdown]. However, now that the lockdown is likely to be lifted in many parts of India, it is natural to feel anxious about what lies ahead. In the past two weeks, we have witnessed callers expressing concerns related to anxiety and uncertainty about what could be the new normal.” Food, travel queries The helpline has also been receiving calls from people across the country asking for help with food, migration and enquiries for COVID-19 testing. The team has been directing them to BMC or State-authorised helplines. Since March, Mpower has seen a rise in new cases of anxiety, stress, depression and paranoia during the COVID-19 pandemic. To address these concerns, it has been providing counselling and therapies virtually through telephonic conversations, online chat and video calling to help callers through this phase. Additionally, Mpower has been sharing health advisories and tips to parents, young professionals and families to better handle everyday situations.
04 June 2020||Mumbai,||Virar teenager goes on hunger strike for child beggars’ rights||A 16-year-old Virar teenager recently went on her 21st day-long hunger strike to demand the betterment of child beggars. On May 26, Saloni Todkari (16), president, Chiranjeevi Sanghatana, a group that works for the wellness and rights of students and young children, went on the day-long hunger strike, which she has been doing since December 2019. In December 2019, Saloni undertook a three-day hunger strike, after which she began to go on day-long hunger strikes at various places every Monday. “The government continues to bring in laws, but as citizens, it is our duty to ensure that we do not promote beggars by giving them money. We all know how these are rackets that are silently supported by influential people. This leads to non-fulfilment of the basic rights of the children involved,” the 16-year-old said. Saloni, who is originally from Virar, is staying at the Maitrakul Jeevan Vikas Kendra in Kalyan for her education. “Ever since the lockdown began, we have been conducting hunger strikes at Kalyan while following all the rules of physical distancing. We have also conducted them in Bhiwandi and Khadawali,” she said. The 12-hour hunger strike begins at 7 a.m., and the mornings are spent in unveiling various activities and functions. As the day progresses, Saloni and her associates read books and stories. The group has also written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and the district collector’s office with their demands. Among their demands are that the minimum age for employment should be increased to 18, and a person employing child labourers be punished with a fine of Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh and imprisonment of five to 10 years. Further, child labour should be a non-bailable offence, schools should be built for child beggars, and the government should crack down on rackets forcing children to beg on the street. Saloni says Independent MLA Omprakash Kadu has promised her that he would develop a ‘Balvikas Gruh’ in Pune for underprivileged children. She also said that since visiting places is difficult during the lockdown, they spread awareness through social media. Her associates are just as committed as she is. Sakshi Bhoir (19) of the Chiranjeevi Sanghatana said, “This is a group for and by young children as only they can understand their problems. The maximum age to be a member of the group is 20 years. The group carries out workshops, and various activities for children.”
04 June 2020||Mumbai,||Mahindra Logistics launches queer inclusion policy||To foster the inclusion of LGBTQAI+ employees, Mahindra Logistics Ltd. (MLL) has unveiled a five-year plan which aims at hiring queer people and extending benefits to same-sex partners. Commemorating the start of the American Pride month, the policy includes adoption leave for queer workers. Same-sex partners shall be eligible for 12-week adoption leave, starting from the date of the adoption. Benefits under the existing medical insurance shall be extended to same-sex partners on declaration of their partner’s details. The company’s definition of compassionate leave — which can be availed for four days by an employee in case of death of an immediate family member — will be extended to same-sex partners. To make the workplace inclusive for queer employees, MLL will offer LGBTQAI+ staff counselling services on request, for them and three immediate family members, which includes their partner. Equal opportunity The company has also pledged equal opportunity and non-discrimination in various processes, including recruitment, transfer, relocation, training and development, and promotion. Any incident of sexual harassment reported by a queer employee shall be investigated by the internal complaints committee. “The organisation takes a tough stance on any incidents of harassment or bullying. The employees are expected to be sensitive about the language that they use in the interactions,” read the policy. The company also seeks to bridge the gender diversity gap by hiring more women, and aims to hire more persons with disabilities. “It is imperative to make MLL attractive for millennials, provide equal opportunity to women and persons with disabilities, recruit employees from diverse backgrounds like armed forces, and shatter the stereotypes around LGBTQIA workforce,” said Rampraveen Swaminathan, anaging director and CEO.  The organisation takes a tough stance on any incidents of harassment or bullying. Employees are expected to be sensitive about the language they use in the interactions Policy unveiled by Mahindra Logistics Ltd.
04 June 2020||Mumbai,||HC increases working hours||The Bombay High Court will increase its working hours from Friday, and will hear matters via videoconferencing in two shifts from 10.45 a.m. to 5 p.m. In the first shift from 10:45 a.m. to 1:45 p.m., cases will be heard by five Benches, including three Division Benches and two single-judge Benches. Five other benches will hear urgent matters in the second shift from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Subordinate courts, meanwhile, will start with 15% staff from June 8, operating from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., and 2.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m.
04 June 2020||Panaji,||40 test positive in Goa containment zone||As many as 40 people from a COVID-19 containment zone in Goa tested positive for the virus on Wednesday, Chief Minister Dr. Pramod Sawant said. Local transmission of the virus has happened due to the fault of one family residing in the locality, he said. With this, the number of active COVID-19 cases in the State has reached 65, the CM said. The family members consulted a private medical practitioner after developing COVID-19 symptoms. “They should have gone to a coronavirus testing centre,” Dr. Sawant said. The State government on Monday declared Mangor Hill in Vasco in the South Goa district as a containment zone after six members of a family tested positive for COVID-19. Contact tracing on On Tuesday, 200 samples were collected from the area, of which 40 tested positive on Wednesday. Those who came in contact with the infected people are also being tested, he said. Around 2,000 people live in the locality and they will be tested in a phased manner. The entire area has been cordoned off and no one is allowed to move out, Dr. Sawant said. Till Tuesday, 57 COVID-19 patients had been discharged after recovery, as per official figures. The State has not reported any death due to the virus so far.
04 June 2020||Panaji,||‘Will urge Archbishop not to open churches’||With fresh COVID-19 cases detected in Goa, Port Minister Michael Lobo on Wednesday said he will request Archbishop of Goa Felipe Neri Ferrao to delay the reopening of churches. As per Central guidelines, places of worship can reopen on June 8. Goa is home to 100-odd churches, which have been closed to the public during the lockdown.
04 June 2020||Washington,||Protesters defy curfews, march across U.S.||Protesters defied curfews across the United States as leaders scrambled to stem anger over police racism while President Donald Trump rejected criticism over his use of force to break up a peaceful rally. Standoffs between police and demonstrators stretched into the night in cities from New York to Los Angeles over the death of George Floyd, an unarmed African-American man whose killing has brought once-in-a-generation protests to the nation for the past week. But there were fewer reports of the looting and violence that had soured street demonstrations in previous nights. Tens of thousands gathered earlier Tuesday in Houston to pay a hometown tribute to Floyd, who grew up in the Texas city and is to be buried there next week. “Today is... about George Floyd’s family — we want them to know that George did not die in vain,” Mayor Sylvester Turner told an estimated 60,000 people. A tearful Roxie Washington, the mother of Floyd’s six-year-old daughter, told a news conference she wanted “justice for him because he was good. “No matter what anybody thinks, he was good.” In New York, which on Tuesday prolonged its first curfew since Second World War for the full week, AFP reporters saw hundreds refusing to go home after the 8:00 p.m. cutoff, instead chanting slogans and peacefully walking the streets in Manhattan and Brooklyn. Hours after the curfew, Mayor Bill de Blasio said it was a “very calm situation,” a day after many Manhattan luxury stores were looted. “So far, the curfew is certainly helping, based on everything I’ve seen in Brooklyn and Manhattan over the last three hours,” he tweeted. Minnesota took one of the first concrete actions to address the grievances behind the uprising, which began after Floyd’s death on May 25 in the State’s largest city Minneapolis. Civil rights investigation The State launched a civil rights investigation of the Minneapolis Police Department, looking at possible “systemic discriminatory practices” going back 10 years, Governor Tim Walz tweeted. Former President George W. Bush called on the U.S. to examine its “tragic failures” and to “listen to the voices of so many who are hurting and grieving.” And in Los Angeles, one of dozens of cities hit by unrest, police officers and Mayor Eric Garcetti dropped to their knees in a symbolic act of solidarity as they met marchers led by African-American Christian groups. “A black face should not be a sentenced to die, nor to be homeless, nor to be sick, nor to be underemployed, nor to be under-educated,” Mr. Garcetti told them, inviting the leaders into City Hall for a discussion about the issues. In Washington DC, thousands returned to the streets on Tuesday for a peaceful “Black Lives Matter” march. Hours after the 7:00 p.m. curfew protesters could be heard chanting, as National Guard troops stood on the streets near the White House and helicopters hovered above. Broadcast footage showed police firing tear gas shortly after midnight, but the situation appeared to be calm overall. “I’m just tired, essentially, of being scared of police, of not getting justice,” said Jada Wallace, an 18-year-old protester. In the same place on Monday, federal police had abruptly opened tear gas and fired rubber bullets to break up a non-violent protest, clearing a path for Mr.Trump to stroll outside for a photo-op at a historic church damaged the previous night. The move was loudly condemned by religious leaders, the President’s political rivals, and onlookers around the country. ‘People liked my walk’ But Mr. Trump, who has rejected the traditional presidential role of healer, voiced glee on Twitter over the response in Washington and accused the leadership of New York — led by the rival Democratic Party — of succumbing to “Lowlife & Scum.” “Overwhelming force. Domination,” he wrote, adding: “Washington, D.C., was the safest place on earth last night!” He pushed back against the criticism later on Twitter, writing: “You got it wrong! If the protesters were so peaceful, why did they light the Church on fire the night before? People liked my walk.” Joe Biden, Mr. Trump’s presumptive Democratic rival in November elections, denounced the crackdown as an abuse of power and promised, if elected, to tackle the “systemic racism” in the country. “Donald Trump has turned this country into a battlefield driven by old resentments and fresh fears,” Mr. Biden said in a speech in Philadelphia. In his first comments on the unrest, Pope Francis said “we cannot tolerate or turn a blind eye to racism” but also condemned the violence. The U.S. also faced unusual, if polite, criticism from some international allies, including Germany, Britain and Australia. German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas called the anti-racism protests “understandable and more than legitimate.”
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hong Kong belongs to China: Nepal||Nepal on Wednesday came out strongly in favour of the ‘one China policy’, and said it considers Hong Kong to be an “integral” part of China. “Nepal reiterates its ‘one China policy’ and considers Hong Kong as an integral part of the People’s Republic of China. Maintenance of peace, law and order is a primary responsibility of a nation. Nepal believes in non-interference in the internal affairs of any country and supports China’s efforts to maintain law and order in Hong Kong,” said the official spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Kathmandu. The official made the comment when asked about Kathmandu’s position on the controversial Chinese national security law, which critics say will end Hong Kong’s autonomy. Beijing had urged countries, including India, to support the new law. Pakistan has extended wholehearted support to Beijing’s ‘one China’ policy in the similar context. The government of Nepal entered into an agreement to target “criminals” and anti-China activists during President Xi Jinping’s Kathmandu visit in October 2019. The move was seen as a step towards signing of extradition treaty with Beijing that would allow Beijing to arrest Tibetan activists and critics of China visiting Nepal. Wednesday’s support is also timely as it strengthens China’s position in an ongoing diplomatic row with the U.K. over Hong Kong’s future.  Border gates opened Meanwhile, Nepal opened 20 border check points with India as it began the process of repatriation of citizens who are in economic distress in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The decision to repatriate citizens from all parts of the world will follow the Indian model, said a Nepalese official who informed that the process will cover only those who are facing economic hardships and wish to return home in the backdrop of the global pandemic. “Twenty border checkpoints are at present open for citizens facing economic distress in India because of job loss after the COVID-19 pandemic. The formal order urges citizens not to travel unnecessarily but is relevant for all Nepalese who want to go home because of hardships,” said a diplomatic source. The border checkpoints were open for passing of cargo vehicles in the last two months but were shut for human movements. Normal traffic began on Tuesday and Wednesday with film star Manisha Koirala being one of the first few to reach Nepal through land border with India. The official said Kathmandu expects at least 200,000 Nepalese nationals employed in India will return home in the coming few days.
04 June 2020||London,||British PM offers visas for millions in Hong Kong||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Tuesday he would offer millions of Hong Kong residents visas and a possible route to U.K. citizenship if China persists with its national security law. “Many people in Hong Kong fear their way of life — which China pledged to uphold — is under threat,” he wrote in an article for The Times newspaper and the South China Morning Post. “If China proceeds to justify their fears, then Britain could not in good conscience shrug our shoulders and walk away; instead we will honour our obligations and provide an alternative.” ‘Route to citizenship’ About 3,50,000 people in Hong Kong currently hold British National (Overseas) passports, which allow visa-free access to Britain for up to six months, Mr. Johnson wrote. Another 2.5 million people would be eligible to apply for one. “If China imposes its national security law, the British government will change our immigration rules and allow any holder of these passports from Hong Kong to come to the U.K. for a renewable period of 12 months and be given further immigration rights, including the right to work, which could place them on a route to citizenship,” he wrote. The new law was brought in after a wave of pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong, and approved by China’s Parliament as necessary to tackling “terrorism” and “separatism”. Opponents fear it will lead to political oppression in the financial hub, eroding freedoms and autonomy supposedly guaranteed in the 1997 handover from Britain to China. Mr. Johnson said the Hong Kong law would “curtail its freedoms and dramatically erode its autonomy”. If implemented, “Britain would then have no choice but to uphold our profound ties of history and friendship with the people of Hong Kong”, he wrote. British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab has further angered Beijing by suggesting that it had time to “reconsider” the plan. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said Beijing had lodged “serious representations” with London. “We advise the U.K. to step back from the brink, abandon their Cold War mentality and colonial mindset, and recognise and respect the fact that Hong Kong has returned” to China, Mr. Zhao said. Mr. Zhao said London must “stop interfering in Hong Kong’s affairs and China’s internal affairs, or this will definitely backfire.”
04 June 2020||COLOMBO,||Military-led unit to curb drug menace||Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has appointed a military-led task force to build “a secure country, disciplined, virtuous and lawful society”. The Presidential Task Force will be headed by Secretary to the Ministry of Defense Retired Major General Kamal Guneratne, and include heads of the armed forces and chiefs of national and state intelligence agencies. Curbing drug trafficking A Gazette notification issued by the President on Tuesday, and signed by his secretary P.B. Jayasundara, said the panel was appointed “considering that it is essential to liberate the entire society” from the drug menace spreading “all over the society”. The task force has been entrusted with taking immediate steps to “curb the illegal activities of social groups which are violating the law”, prevent entry of drugs from abroad through ports and airports, to “fully eradicate” drug trafficking in the country. The task force will primarily focus on curbing the narcotics menace, according to Mr. Jayasundara. “The drug menace is rampant, and the networks run internationally. The President felt it was time we took some targeted measures to urgently address this issue,” he told The Hindu . Sri Lankan authorities believe that the island nation, located amidst a busy sea route, could be used as a hub for narcotics distribution in the region, even as it causes social problems locally. Different routes Early March, the Sri Lankan Navy apprehended two foreign trawlers carrying over $33 million worth of heroin and crystal methamphetamine, in one of the biggest hauls of drugs at sea. They found about 400 kgs of heroin and 100 kg of the drug “ice” on board the two vessels, AFP reported. More recently, the Navy seized $65 million-worth of crystal methamphetamine and ketamine. The drugs, according to officials, are transported from different countries, including India. Last week, Ramanathapuram police intercepted a huge consignment of drugs procured from several Indian States, and were moved close to the shoreline in Ramanathapuram district, for smuggling to Sri Lanka by boat. The seized drugs were samples for "quality testing in Sri Lanka,” Ramanathapuram Superintendent of Police Varun Kumar had told The Hindu then. The haul, estimated at Rs. 10 crore [roughly $1.3 million] in the international market, included different quantities of methamphetamine, opium paste, heroin, MDMA (Ecstasy), amphetamine and methaqualone.
04 June 2020||San Francisco,||Zuckerberg backs FB’s Trump policy||Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg has defended his decision not to interfere with posts by U.S. President Donald Trump, U.S. media reported, after the social media giant’s hands-off policy sparked outrage and prompted some employees to quit. Social media platforms have faced calls to moderate the President’s comments, most recently because of the unrest gripping America in the wake of an unarmed black man’s death during arrest as a white policeman knelt on his neck. The row began last week when Mr. Zuckerberg said Facebook would not remove or flag Mr. Trump’s posts that appeared to encourage violence against those protesting police racism, even as the social media titan Twitter put warning labels on some of the President’s tweets over accuracy issues or the glorification of violence. Mr. Zuckerberg told employees in a video conference on Tuesday he talked to Trump on the phone after the decision, and that he “used that opportunity to make him know I felt this post was inflammatory and harmful, and let him know where we stood on it”, The New York Times reported, citing a recording of the call. The CEO was referring to a post by the President that said “when the looting starts, the shooting starts” — the same comment on Twitter was still visible but behind a warning label. Facebook’s move prompted intense scrutiny and dissent from employees, and it was a “tough decision” over content that had upset him personally, Mr. Zuckerberg told around 25,000 staff who had tuned in, according to the tech website Recode. “I knew that the stakes were very high on this, and knew a lot of people would be upset if we made the decision to leave it up,” Mr. Zuckerberg said on the call, not backing down from the policy, Recode reported. But Mr. Zuckerberg said that Facebook was exploring whether it should amend the policy on such content or find other options to mark it instead of outright removal, according to one person on the call cited by Bloomberg.
04 June 2020||Manila,||Philippines’ U-turn on U.S. pact||Security issues in the disputed South China Sea helped convince the Philippines to delay quitting a key U.S. military pact, the nation’s envoy to Washington said on Wednesday. The government of Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte announced on Tuesday it had suspended plans to cancel the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA), a deal that is important to Washington’s moves to counter Beijing’s rising regional power. Mr. Duterte has cosied up to China in search of trade and investment, sparking U.S. concern that its long-time ally and former colony would change sides in a strategic boost to Beijing. “Because of security issues... in that part of the world (South China Sea), both our governments have seen it would be prudent for us to simply suspend any implementation of the termination,” Philippine Ambassador to the U.S. Jose Manuel Romualdez told ANC news channel. Since taking power in 2016, Mr. Duterte has moved closer to Beijing, but has faced push back from the Philippine public and concern in the military wary of its territorial ambitions in the disputed South China Sea.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Biden closes in on race with wins in 7 more States||Joe Biden is on the cusp of formally securing the Democratic presidential nomination after winning hundreds more delegates in primary contests on Tuesday that tested the nation’s ability to run elections while balancing a pandemic and sweeping social unrest. Mr. Biden could lock down the nomination within the next week as West Virginia and Georgia hold primaries. Mr. Biden and President Donald Trump easily swept their respective primary contests that ranged from Maryland to Montana. Mr. Biden won Tuesday’s primaries in Indiana, Maryland, Montana, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and South Dakota. Two other States holding primary elections on Tuesday, Idaho and Iowa, chose their nominee early in the year. Pennsylvania, which offered Tuesday’s largest trove of delegates, also represented a significant test case for Republicans and Democrats working to strengthen their respective positions.
04 June 2020||Tehran,||True face of U.S. revealed, says Khamenei||The police killing of George Floyd shows the “true face” of the U.S, Iran’s supreme leader said on Wednesday. “The fact that a policeman has cold-bloodedly pressed his knee on the throat of a black man until he died and that other policemen watched on without doing anything is nothing knew,” Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said. “It is the true face of America, it’s what it has always done all over the world,” he said.
04 June 2020||TEHRAN,||Acquitted Iranian scientist, deported from U.S., returns home||An Iranian scientist acquitted by the U.S. returned to his homeland on Wednesday, Iranian media reported . A U.S. court had in November cleared Sirous Asgari of charges of stealing trade secrets while he was on an academic visit to Ohio from a Tehran university.AFP
04 June 2020||Caracas,||Caracas, June 3, 2020 (AFP) -||Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro and opposition leader Juan Guaido have reached an agreement to cooperate to raise funds for the fight against COVID-19. The two sides will coordinate efforts with the help of Pan American Health Organization.AFP
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||In Himalayan staredown, the dilemmas for Delhi||The growing number of reports about Chinese troops crossing the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India in the Ladakh region — neither acknowledged nor denied by the Indian government as yet — indicate a new age of Chinese territorial aggression against India. While there are around 400 transgressions/faceoffs each year on an average along the LAC, the recent spate of territorial transgressions by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is unprecedented in its scope and manner. Even as independent accounts point out that Chinese troops are yet to withdraw from the transgressed territories, traditionally considered by both sides to be on the Indian side of the LAC, and restore status quo ante, Chinese officials have gone ahead and stated that the “Situation in China-India border is overall stable & controllable”. Is all well between the two nuclear-armed adversaries? If the mounting evidence of China’s territorial aggression against India is even partly accurate, and there is no reason to believe they are not, the Narendra Modi government is left with two basic choices: accept territorial loss as a fait accompli or force or negotiate a reversal to status quo ante, unless of course the PLA unilaterally withdraws. Either way, China’s growing territorial aggression on the LAC signals the end of Beijing’s peaceful rise and its traditional desire to maintain regional status quo with India. China under its President, Xi Jinping, unequivocally seeks to demonstrate that it is the preponderant power in the region.  Explaining the aggression What baffles most observers is the rationale behind the Chinese escalation on the LAC while the entire world is preoccupied with battling COVID-19, the biggest crisis humanity has faced since the Second World War. While the timing could be explained by the global political distraction caused by COVID-19 and the international pressure on China (including by India) to come clean on the origins of the novel coronavirus, the proximate causes could be several. For one, New Delhi’s terse statements about Aksai Chin following the Jammu and Kashmir reorganisation in August last year had not gone down well with Beijing. While not many in India believe that New Delhi was serious about getting back Aksai Chin from Chinese control, Beijing may have viewed it as India upping the ante. More pertinently, in a clear departure from the past, New Delhi has been carrying out the construction of infrastructural projects along the LAC — a long overdue activity — which is something that seems to have made China uneasy. The Chinese angle to the J&K conundrum deserves more attention here. Home Minister Amit Shah’s statement about Aksai Chin in August 2019 might have triggered some anxiety in Beijing about its plans for the larger erstwhile princely State of J&K a part of which China is in possession of. China’s China–Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) connectivity to Pakistan through the Karakoram and New Delhi’s criticism of it, the reported presence of PLA troops in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK), India’s new-found activism on Aksai Chin, and the PLA’s incursions into areas in eastern Ladakh must be viewed in the broader context of a long-term geopolitical world view China has for the region. It is equally important to appreciate the larger Chinese strategic calculations behind its recent spate of aggressions. Having given up its traditional slogan of ‘peaceful rise’, China, under Mr. Xi, is beginning to assert itself as the next superpower. Over the years, Beijing has perhaps realised that India is not keen on toeing the Chinese line in the region. So this is Beijing sending a message to New Delhi to fall in line, a message that will not go unnoticed in the smaller capitals around China — from Colombo to Kathmandu to Hanoi. There is more subtle political messaging in Beijing’s LAC aggression. Given that China is currently engaged in what many analysts are describing as a new cold war with the United States, in the middle of a crackdown in Hong Kong along with fighting COVID-19 at home, one would not have expected the Chinese leadership to open another front. And yet, by opening a limited military front with India on the LAC, China is signalling the U.S. that it can handle pressure, and telling India that it has the political and military wherewithal to put pressure on New Delhi notwithstanding its other preoccupations. Doklam redux? The 2017 standoff between India and China at the Doklam trijunction was the first major military standoff between the two sides in a long time in which New Delhi demonstrated it was not a military pushover despite China’s conventional superiority over India. Since Doklam, however, there have been several reports that China has continued with its construction activities in and around Doklam. The 2020 transgressions in Sikkim and Ladakh are perhaps Beijing’s way of responding to India consistently and militarily. China’s limited scope military expeditions on the long-contested border is cost effective for the PLA given the ever-growing conventional military superiority that it enjoys with India. Moreover, because limited fights or smaller land grabs may not provoke an all-out confrontation or nuclear use, the side with conventional superiority and more border infrastructure would likely carry the day. Let me unpack this argument. Picking a direct fight with India which might lead to an undesirable military escalation with India does not suit Beijing’s interests, but carrying out minor military expeditions with the objective of inflicting small-scale military defeats on India is precisely what would suit the Chinese political and military leadership; they are cost effective, less escalatory, and the message gets conveyed. More so, India’s military response would depend a great deal on how far the regime in New Delhi is willing to acknowledge such territorial losses due to domestic political constraints: if New Delhi acknowledges loss of territory, it would have to regain it, but doing so vis-à-vis a conventionally superior power would not be easy. Put differently, growing conventional imbalance and domestic political calculations could prompt New Delhi to overlook minor territorial losses on the LAC, the manner in which Pakistan refused to acknowledge the 2016 surgical strikes carried out by India. But let us be clear: the more New Delhi overlooks them, the more Beijing would be tempted to repeat them. These considerations lie at the heart of India’s China dilemma. Limits of adventurism And yet, there are limits to China’s LAC adventurism. There are several places along the several thousand kilometre long LAC where the PLA is militarily weak, the Indian Army has the upper hand, and, therefore, a tit-for-tat military campaign could be undertaken by New Delhi. Second, while China enjoys continental superiority over India, maritime domain is China’s weak spot, in particular Beijing’s commercial and energy interest to which the maritime space is crucial. Finally, and most importantly, would Beijing want to seriously damage the close to $100 billion trade with India with its military adventurism on the LAC? In any case, for India, the age of pussyfooting around Chinese intimidation strategies is over. The time has come to checkmate Beijing’s military aggression even as we maintain a robust economic relationship with our eastern neighbour. It is also a reminder for us to get more serious about finalising a border agreement with China: the bigger the power differential between India and China, the more concessions Beijing would demand from New Delhi to settle the dispute. There is little doubt that China is our neighbour and that we have to live next to the larger and more powerful China. However, India should not accept Beijing’s attempts at land grabs, or military intimidation. That China is a rising superpower located next door to us is a reality, but how we deal with that reality is a choice we must make as a nation. Happymon Jacob teaches national security at the School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Bihar needs a State-specific stimulus||The massive stimulus given to the economy in the wake of COVID-19 is largely a supply side management measure, expecting the outcome that growth will resurface. Even if it is real, and not a hollow promise, it may not create adequate demand, strengthening the economy. Here we ought to ask what is the difference between Nehru’s clarion call for ‘self-sufficiency’ and Modi’s ‘atmanirbharta’ agenda. Nehru’s agenda was the culmination of economic empowerment from below, as envisioned during the freedom struggle. In contrast, Modi’s agenda is more individualistic, covering select industrialists and ‘start-ups’. Thus, the advantage of the present stimulus, if any, will accrue only to the southern and western Indian States which are industrially advanced. This obviously raises the question: Why are other regions of India, particularly the Hindi heartland States, likely to miss the advantage of the stimulus. Rent-seeking tendency A couple of years ago, during my chance meeting with the then Finance Secretary of Jharkhand, he had confided that Ministers in the State are generally eager to quickly transfer the entire allotment of their respective departments into their personal account. This is essentially a ‘rent-seeking’ behaviour and it is not limited to Bihar and Jharkhand alone; it is widespread in other Hindi heartland States too. Such ‘rent-seeking’ behaviour is mainly limited to States where the East India Company had introduced the agrarian system of ‘permanent settlement’ (intermediaries between the state and the tenant), mainly in eastern India. These States have generally failed to register adequate development after Independence. In contrast, the States with ‘ryotwari’ agrarian system, where there were no intermediaries between the tenant and the state, mainly in southern and western India, have leapfrogged in the realm of economic development. The feudal grip was relatively weaker in those States, allowing for substantial social movement (for example, the anti-Brahmin movement) which acted as a lubricant to develop a law-enforcing civil society and sub-national identity. Thus, accumulation in those States, either through agriculture or trade, led to productive investment. For example, in Andhra Pradesh, the Kammas used their agricultural surplus to invest first in tobacco, then in films, and still later in the knowledge industry. This was initially limited to the Kammas, but later began including other castes like the Reddys and the Kappus, many of them displaying enormous entrepreneurial skills. Similarly, the Chettiars, the Nadars and others in Tamil Nadu accumulated wealth through productive investment in trade, commerce and industry. The same story was repeated in Karnataka, Maharashtra and Gujarat. Iconic in this realm were the Maharaja of Mysore in Karnataka, Laxmanrao Kirloskar in Maharashtra, and Ambalal Sarabhai in Gujarat. Development in ryotwari States The ryotwari States contributed in their own manner, promoting development and creating their own organisational vision. For example, Five Year Plan of 1925, crafted by M. Visvesvaraya, was patronised by the Wodeyar Dynasty of Mysore. Apart from creating a vision, the States also identified experts to guide their social agenda. To give examples, the Wodeyar promoted M. Visvesvaraya, and Sayajirao Gaekwad III groomed B.R. Ambedkar to become his Finance Minister, by sending him to Columbia University for higher studies. Further, they also promoted financial institutions to ensure success for their projects, like Andhra Bank promoted by B.P. Sitaramayya, Bank of Baroda by Maharaja of Baroda, Syndicate Bank by T.M.A. Pai and others. Their organisational promoters were the regional chambers of commerce which powerfully articulated their class interests. Their lobby was so powerful that they had many Finance Ministers in the Union Cabinet in post-Independence India. Poor governance in Bihar In contrast, the eastern region of the country recorded poor governance. In spite of giving birth to the ‘Swadeshi’ movement, the civil society there was devoid of a vision or a development strategy. De-industrialisation by the East India Company had ruined the indigenous entrepreneurs in the region. Even when some people attempted entrepreneurship, they usually failed, because nearly all avenues of investment in the region had already been captured by the Britishers. In the post-Independence period, the policy of freight equalisation killed whatever possibility was there for industrial growth of this mineral resource-rich region. Bihar was lying in the backwaters of the Bengal Presidency during the colonial period. The canvas of social movement was limited here. As such, there were only two identities in the State — caste and national, a sub-national identity being altogether absent. Unlike the social movement in the southern and western parts of India, the peasant movement in Bihar was directed to unsettle the permanent settlement. Bihar also never experienced any meaningful land reforms. Most of the economically successful States had undertaken land reforms immediately after Independence. They followed the British path of ‘enclosure’ or French path of ‘peasant’ entrepreneurship, or German model of ‘Junker’ capitalism, or a combination of all the three. In the absence of a multi-caste social movement and sub-nationalism, rent-seeking was the only agenda of the traditional elite in Bihar. Most of the development work in Bihar was engulfed in input-related corruption, implying that the expected development did not materialise at all. In other States also, there was corruption, but it was turnover-based, where the development work was duly completed and then the state functionaries extracted direct or indirect payments from the direct beneficiaries of the development. The elite formation was also skewed in Bihar, and a development-oriented civil society could not emerge here. When zamindari was abolished, the rent-seeking tendency of the Bihari elite could be continued only by way of becoming a civil servant. In Bihar, only those civil servants are referred with reverence, who have either accumulated massively or those who have been able to successfully co-opt as many members of their caste group or of their area into the bureaucracy. During the last one-and-a-half decade, efforts have been made to streamline the governance system in Bihar. This in itself is a gigantic task, and Bihar needs a massive State-specific financial and social stimulus to complete the task. Shaibal Gupta is Member Secretary, Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI), Patna
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s Parliament is missing in action||Parliaments in democracies around the world are meeting and questioning their governments on their responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Canadian Parliament had its first lockdown meeting towards the end of April, with roughly 280 of the 338 Members of Parliament attending through video conference and questioning the government for three hours. The British Parliament has adopted a hybrid model of in-person and video attendance. Several other countries have held sessions either with physical distancing (fewer MPs attend with agreement across parties) or video conferencing or a combination of the two. These include France, Italy, Argentina, Brazil, Australia and New Zealand. Many others are convening their committees through video-conferencing. The Inter Parliamentary Union has documented the processes used by various national parliaments to meet during the pandemic. India’s Parliament, which prides itself as the apex representative body of the world’s largest democracy, is a notable absentee from this list. Parliament has a central role in our system of governance. First and foremost, it is the institution that checks and challenges the government of the day. While introducing the draft Constitution, B.R. Ambedkar explained why the drafting committee had preferred a parliamentary form over the presidential system of governance. The reasoning was that while the presidential system provides a higher level of stability, the parliamentary system is better at holding the government to account on a daily basis through questions, motions and debates. Over the decades, our Parliament has evolved procedures of accountability including hearings of committees. The fact that Parliament and its committees have not met for over two months indicates the absence of scrutiny of government actions. National laws are made by Parliament. The current steps by the central government are being taken under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which was not designed to handle epidemics. The reasoning is that the central government had no choice as there was no other law that provide it with powers to impose a lockdown across the country, which was needed to arrest the spread of the disease. This misses the point that Parliament, which was meeting till a day before the national lockdown was announced, could have passed an appropriate Act. This is what many other countries have done — an Act with suitable checks and an expiry date, which could be renewed by Parliament, if required. The Constitution requires all expenditure by the government to be approved by Parliament. The government has announced a series of measures to address the economic crisis sparked by the health crisis and the lockdown. These have not been subject to parliamentary scrutiny or approval. The pressing issues MPs have a duty to shape policy and guide the government in national interest. They represent the concerns of people by raising issues in Parliament. The country is facing serious challenges on many fronts as a consequence of the pandemic. These include addressing questions on how to stall the epidemic from spreading, how to treat people who are infected, and how to minimise the loss of life to the virus. There is also the question of how the economy is impacted, both from the supply side due to the lockdown, and from the demand side as incomes and spending contract. Then there is the large humanitarian question of mitigating the impact on the most vulnerable sections of the population, both the urban poor and in rural areas. There have been several news reports of migrants being mistreated, not provided transport, being harassed by the police — and being stripped of their dignity, even in cases where they have been provided with food and shelter. There needs to be concerted action to alleviate the distress. Parliament is the forum where such issues should be discussed and a plan of action agreed upon. Our Constitution does not prohibit meetings that may require maintenance of physical distancing or remote meetings. It states that the President may summon Parliament “to meet at such time and place as he thinks fit”. The Rules of Procedure of both Houses require the Secretary-General to issue summons to each member specifying the “date and place for a session” of the House. These enabling clauses can be used to hold hybrid meetings or remote meetings. The Rules require parliamentary committees to sit within the “precincts” of the House but the Speaker may permit meetings to be held outside; indeed, subcommittees often go on study tours outside Delhi. Thus, there is no prior parliamentary action required to permit meetings through video-conferencing. Secure connectivity The question of security and secrecy may come up. The meetings of the Houses are usually telecast live, and there is no issue of confidentiality. Committee meetings, on the other hand, may require secure remote working tools. Given that large global corporations as well as parliamentary committees of several other countries seem to have solved this problem, there is no reason that the Indian Parliament cannot adapt these solutions. All district headquarters are linked with fibre optic lines, so even if there is a problem of connecting the constituency office of MPs, they could use such government facilities. The question boils down to how our parliamentarians view themselves. If they think that they are sentinels of the people, they should find a way to perform their constitutional duties. Over the last three months, central and State governments have issued over 5,000 notifications to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. The appropriateness of these circulars need to be examined by Parliament and its committees. In ordinary times, Parliament would have its next session in the second half of July. In today’s extraordinary circumstances, Parliament should meet sooner, perhaps within a couple of weeks. India prides itself on being the world’s largest democracy as well as the information technology provider to the world. It is imperative that Parliament harnesses the country’s IT strengths to buttress our credentials as a performing democracy. M.R. Madhavan is President of the PRS Legislative Research, New Delhi
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Time to discontinue free power for farmers||Exactly 15 years after Manmohan Singh, as Congress Prime Minister, openly spoke against the free power supply scheme for farmers, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre is attempting to do away with the much-abused scheme, which has been viewed by political parties as a major vote-catching policy measure. This time, the Centre has prescribed that the free power supply scheme should be replaced with the direct benefits transfer (DBT) as a condition to allow States to increase their borrowing limit. It is not the first time that the Union government has recommended DBT with regard to electricity. But what is new is setting the time frame for implementing it. By December this year, the DBT should be introduced at least in one district of a State and from the next financial year, a full roll-out should be made. Predictably, Tamil Nadu, which was the first State to introduce free power in September 1984, is strongly resisting the Centre’s stipulation. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has taken a categorical stand against the proposal. Though Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Punjab, where free power scheme is in vogue, are yet to express their views, it is not difficult to predict their response. After all, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who had abolished the scheme during his first innings, is now a strong votary of the scheme. Power subsidy bills In the last 15 years, Maharashtra has been the only State that scrapped the scheme within a year of introducing it. Karnataka, which has been implementing it since 2008, may become the first southern State to have DBT in power supply, if the hint dropped by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in early March is any indication. The power subsidy bills in the four southern States and Punjab are at least Rs. 33,000 crore, an amount the State governments will struggle to meet due to resource crunch in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic. The financial stress apart, the universal application of the scheme has had deleterious consequences. Primarily, the scheme has led to widespread wastage of water and electricity. It is inherently against incentivising even a conscientious farmer to conserve the two precious resources. It may be pertinent to point out that India is the largest user of groundwater at 251 billion cubic meters, exceeding the combined withdrawal by China and the U.S., as pointed out by Bharat Ramaswami of the Indian Statistical Institute last year. Second, be it parts of the Cauvery delta in Tamil Nadu or Sangrur district of Punjab, the story about the groundwater table is the same — a worrying rate of depletion. There is one more attendant problem. To sustain their activity, farmers need to go for submersible or high-capacity pumpsets. Third, the extension of the scheme to different States over the years has only encouraged installation of more pumpsets. Karnataka is a classic example, The number of irrigation pumpsets, which was around 17 lakh 12 years ago, is now around 30 lakh. Fourth, there is misuse of the scheme for which not just a section of farmers but also field officials have to be blamed. And, fifth, in the absence of meters for these connections or segregation of feeders or metering of distribution transformers, accurate measurement of consumption becomes tricky. Those in charge of power distribution companies find it convenient to reduce their aggregate technical and commercial losses by clubbing a portion of the losses with energy consumption by the farm sector. Argument for free power Proponents of the free power scheme have a couple of valid points in their support. Apart from ensuring food security, free power provides livelihood opportunities to landless workers. When farmers dependent on supplies through canals get water almost free of cost, it is but fair that those not covered by canal irrigation should be given free electricity. Though there is substance in the argument, it is not difficult to arrive at a fair pricing mechanism. Small and marginal farmers and those who are outside the canal supply deserve free power, albeit with restrictions, but there is no justification for continuing with the scheme perpetually to other farmers. However, those enjoying free power need to be told about the need for judicious use of groundwater and how to conserve it. Making use of the situation created by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Centre is trying to make lasting changes in areas where such measures are long overdue. At least in the area of power sector, its attempt can yield meaningful results only if there is a change in the mindset of agriculturists and political parties towards the concept of free power. ramakrishnan.t@thehindu.co.in
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Axing the economy’s trunk||It is hard to come to grips with the calamity that unfolded before our eyes on our television screens over the past few weeks, of hundreds of thousands of migrants pouring out of arterial roads of our metros across the country, walking for days with tired limbs and calloused feet, with just one desperate cry : “Take us home.” How could you reconcile yourself to this cruel and conspicuous irony — a strong and muscular nation aiming to be a $5-trillion economy watching mutely a refugee crisis of monumental proportions? We have our blemishes and our injustices, but we have always taken pride in being a great vibrant democracy because we are constantly striving to redeem ourselves “to wipe every tear from every eye”. Yet, we seem inept and appear to be bumbling, as we watch from the cozy confines of our homes the never-ending, long, arduous march of hungry millions. So, what went wrong. Did our government fail our poor ? Tagore's lines of penetrating insight come to mind: “The world suffers most from the disinterested tyranny of the well wisher... the clumsiness of power spoils the key, and uses the pickaxe.” Did our politicians and bureaucrats use a pick axe when we could have used a key ? Is it possible that unwittingly, our policies and decisions to impose the lockdown were seen only through the eyes of the middle class ? 140 million strong workforce The migrants are ubiquitous. Their numbers are staggering — 100 million migrant labourers spread across our large metros and another 40 million resident daily wage earners engaged in various vocations. They are the construction workers, courier boys, taxi drivers, painters, carpenters, security guards, cooks, maids, vegetable vendors and service providers of every kind imaginable, who keep us well-provided, happy and warm. Our agriculture today in peak seasons of harvest and sowing depends largely on migrants. They put food on our table. They are the warp and woof of our society. This free flow and migration in such large numbers from one State to another is the true validation of our vibrant economy and affirmation of our multi-ethnic and diverse society. They are the very spirit and heartbeat of India. The Medium and Small Scale Industries and the self-employed proprietary businesses at the bottom of the period, as also the construction industry in our metros, would collapse without this voiceless, nameless army of migrants. The MSMEs and migrant workers contribute 40% to our GDP. So why are we axing the trunk of our economy? Governments at the State and the Centre are guilty but we the people, who have partaken of every benefit from the sweat and labour of these millions of migrants, cannot exculpate ourselves either. And, the altruism of many of us to feed the hungry, while laudable, will not give them back their dignity. They have lost their dwellings and livelihoods and, along with it, their dignity. A functioning anarchy Further, our problems, with our teeming migrant populations living cheek by jowl in their tenements and overcrowded alleys, who need work every day to feed themselves, are different, unique and complex. We are not Europe or the U.S. or even China where the back-end ecosystem is robust, well-structured and organised. We are in the main a largely chaotic people, undisciplined and disorganised. But we are very enterprising and innovative. Beneath all this chaos and confusion and mad disorder there is a vibrant shadow economy which miraculously keeps buzzing and ticking. Economist and former U.S. Ambassador to India, John Kenneth Galbraith said 60 years ago that “India is a functioning anarchy.” We still are. So, let’s remember what works for poor people in the West will not work for us here. We must find our own solutions that address both lives and livelihoods. The government must find every which way to send all the migrants home swiftly free of cost. And it should plan well and find ways to open the economy. And regain the trust of the migrant workforce, without whose participation the economy is unlikely to bounce back. Captain G.R. Gopinath is a writer a founder of Air Deccan
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Curves and recoveries||The silver lining equivalent of science in this COVID-19 pandemic for India is the relatively low case fatality rate, and the high recovery rate. Case fatality rate — the number of deaths among the cases detected — has been dropping over the months, and is at 2.79% (as of 5 p.m. on June 3). Experts have advanced several hypotheses, but without a precise understanding, health-care managers are just hoping the good run would continue. Recovery rate, which is the rate of transition from a state of infection to recovery from the disease, here measured as a percentage of the total cases, has been on an upward trajectory. This figure, inclusive of people who tested positive being discharged from hospitals, is now over 48%, according to Health Ministry officials. As the total numbers keep climbing daily, well over 2,00,000 cases so far, the ideal of flattening the case curve with what is currently known about the disease, and with available resources, is perhaps difficult. However, reducing the number of deaths by protecting the old and the infirm from exposure, and improving the recovery rate — flattening the first curve, and ensuring the latter rises — seem well within reach. It is important to ensure that the same urgency and eagerness that goes into counting those who have recovered is reflected when counting the dead. As per WHO definitions, the death of every COVID-19 patient is to be counted as a COVID death “unless there is a clear alternative cause of death that cannot be related” (e.g. trauma). Guidelines in India require States to record these COVID-19 deaths with notes on complications resulting from pre-existing co-morbidities, and every State needs to follow this model. With States also monitoring Severe Acute Respiratory Infections and influenza-like illnesses in hospitals, the entire gamut of severe respiratory diseases is being monitored, and deaths will not pass unnoticed. Assuring people with known exposure (not necessarily only with symptoms) to SARS-CoV-2 that they will have access to COVID-19 tests, ensuring that they reach care facilities before becoming extremely breathless, protecting vulnerable populations are sure-fire ways of delivering a double whammy against the disease — reducing case fatality rate further, and bumping up the recovery rate. Even if efforts to control transmission are being frustrated, the sober way of dealing with COVID-19 is to focus on the really sick patients, while ensuring that others who test positive but remain asymptomatic also have access to care when they develop symptoms. The Centre and States must specifically attempt to destigmatise COVID-19 infection and ramp up awareness activities informing people about symptoms in order to encourage people to come forward early. This will amount to seizing the silver lining and battering it into a whole cloud, besides keeping the country’s focus on the right curves.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Seven to eleven||Dismissing the current configuration of the “Group of Seven” or G-7 of the world’s most developed nations as “outdated”, U.S. President Donald Trump announced over the weekend that he would like to expand it to a G-11, by adding India, Russia, South Korea and Australia. He followed that up with invitations to their leaders, including Prime Minister Modi, to attend the G-7 summit in the U.S. later this year. The news was welcomed by Mr. Modi, who commended Mr. Trump for his “creative and far-sighted” decision to expand the format of the grouping to keep up with the new realities of the “post-COVID world”. Australia and South Korea have also welcomed the invitation, while Russia, that lost its membership of the grouping in 2014 over its annexation of Crimea, said President Putin would attend “if treated as an equal”. Notable by its absence in the proposed grouping is China, which had earlier, along with India, Brazil, Mexico and South Africa, been invited regularly to G-8 summits as an outreach by the developed world to the five emerging economies (called the G-8+5). U.S.-China tensions, particularly over coronavirus issues, clearly played a part in Mr. Trump’s decision to leave Chinese President Xi Jinping off his summit guest list. A White House spokesperson even explained that the G-11 would be a way for the U.S. to bring together its “traditional allies to talk about how to deal with the future of China”. Predictably, Beijing has lashed out at the G-11 idea, as one that would be “doomed to fail”. The proposed G-11 grouping would recognise India’s place amongst the world’s richest nations, and acknowledge its global voice. However, the government must weigh the benefits proposed along with some of the factors that are still unclear. As host, Mr. Trump can invite any country as a G-7 special invitee, but changing its composition will require the approval of the other members. Already, there are some concerns over Russia, which could derail the entire G-11 plan, making any concrete decision by New Delhi on the issue premature. It is unclear when the summit will actually be held, given the November polls in the U.S., although Mr. Trump has indicated that he could hold it close to the UN General Assembly session in September. Despite its border tensions with Beijing, India must also consider its objectives in attending a grouping that appears aimed at fuelling a new Cold War between the U.S. and China. Finally, an evaluation of the G-7’s effectiveness as a multilateral forum thus far is needed, given deep member differences on issues including climate change, security contributions, Iran, etc. In France, last year, the grouping was unable to issue a joint communiqué due to these differences — a first in its 45-year-old history.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||New Crisis in West Asia||If Russia does not respond favourably to the American proposal for a joint freeze on further arms supplies to the West Asian combatants, the U.S. may be left with no choice but to give Israel the Phantom and Skyhawk warplanes it has been asking for since last March. Israel has been making the point that the injection of Russian pilots — about 100 of whom are already engaged in operational duties — and SAM-3, ground-to-air missiles into Egypt has dangerously tilted the military balance against it and it has to have additional aircraft. Israel has also been warning that Washington’s failure now to counter the Soviet moves in West Asia would only persuade Moscow to intervene in local conflicts elsewhere. While there is no doubt an element of propaganda in these arguments, there can be no gainsaying the fact that the Russian pilots have significantly altered the military situation in the Suez Canal sector. Israeli planes can no longer bomb Egypt at will besides which the Russian pilots have freed Egyptian pilots to fly sorties over Israeli positions in the Sinai peninsula. If, in addition, the Russians set up SAM-3 missile bases in the Canal zone, it could become very hot for the Israelis in Sinai.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Bio-safe zones can help revival’||Former India captain and head of the ICC cricket committee, Anil Kumble, suggested the creation of bio-safe zones to help cricketers get back to training and strike rhythm. “If we can have bio-safe zones where 30 players can train and play some matches, it will be good,” Kumble said, during a panel discussion organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI). “It is not easy for bowlers to bowl 30 or 40 overs in a match, or even for batsmen, after not having played any cricket for so long. “You need to build it up with a few friendly games before Test matches,” Kumble said, against the backdrop of Test series being announced by England against the West Indies, and cricket being revived in Australia and Sri Lanka. Work with surfaces Kumble stated that to make Test cricket lively, the surface could be “played around a bit” by leaving grass on the pitch or roughing it up to help spinners. A substitute for saliva was discussed by the ICC, but it eventually agreed not to take this route, the legend clarified. “The ICC has been clear about what not to use on the ball all these years,” he said, emphasising on the need to retain the sanctity of the good practice over the years. After months of lockdown, Kumble said everyone was keen to “start the game, and not worry about saliva or sweat”, even as different countries and zones faced different challenges. Kumble sounded practical in his suggestion that the government, corporates and the national federations had to get together to revive sports as “the virus is not going away, and we have to live with it”. IOA assurance The president of the Indian Olympic Association (IOA), Narinder Batra, assured that athletes preparing for the Olympics were being taken care of in the best possible way, within the constraints posed by the situation. Batra said that shooting training could be in Delhi, badminton in Hyderabad, hockey in Bengaluru, and athletics in Patiala. He was also confident that the National championships in various disciplines could start from October, if everything went according to plan.  If we can have bio-safe zones where 30 players can train and play some matches, it will be good   You need to build it up with a few friendly games before Test matches   Batra confident Nationals in various disciplines could be played from October, if everything goes as per plan
04 June 2020||KOLKATA,||I can compete any time: Atanu||A monotonous life during the lockdown may have denied sportspersons the chance of competing in events, but World archey championships silver medallist Atanu Das is looking at the brighter side of a restrained lifestyle. Atanu, who last was in action in an event where he secured three bronze medals in the Asian championships in Bangkok in November 2019, has never sat without a competition for such a long period. Mental fortitude Nevertheless, he relies on his mental fortitude. “It’s a mental state. I am ready, I can compete any time. First, everything should become normal,” Atanu told The Hindu . On why Indian archers were often said to be lacking mental toughness in bigger events, he said: “Mental toughness gets built by taking part in competitions. Indians participate in very less competitions in comparison to top foreign archers. We don’t even know about many events are happening around the world. The more you play, the tougher you become. “The good thing about the lockdown is that Sports Authority of India (SAI) and Archery Association of India (AAI) are keeping in touch, caring about our needs and tracking our progress. Hope things will improve in future.” A few lessons The 28-year-old, who along with Tarundeep Rai and Pravin Jadhav, claimed Olympic quota places by bagging a team silver in the Den Bosch Worlds last year — has learnt a few lessons during the lockdown. “Lockdown has taught us discipline, practices like social distancing and being patient for your turn. It has taught us to value whatever we have.It is teaching us how to be happy with whatever we have,” he said. He acknowledged that training with an international archer like Deepika has helped.  Lockdown has taught us discipline, practices like social distancing and being patient for your turn. It has taught us to value whatever we have
04 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Prannoy hits out at BAI after Arjuna Award snub||H.S. Prannoy has expressed displeasure over his name not being recommended for the Arjuna Award by the Badminton Association of India (BAI). The BAI on Tuesday had recommended the doubles pair of Satwiksairaj Rankireddy-Chirag Shetty and singles player Sameer Verma for the award. The former World No. 8 questioned the selection criteria and took to the social media to voice his frustration. “#arjunaawards Same old story. Guy who has medals in CWG and Asian Championship not even recommended by Association and guy who was not there on any of these major events recommended #waah #thiscountryisajoke,” he wrote. The former national champion told The Hindu that his credentials as a player were better than the awardees in the last two years. “The BAI never really cares. Last year at least my name was there before the committee and I was omitted in the last round and they said my performance towards the end of the year was not good,” he said. “But this year my name wasn't even recommended by the federation. I must say I have better credentials than the winners of the award in the last two years.” Sikki Reddy (2018) and Sai Praneeth (2019) won the award in the last two years. BAI response When contacted for a response, a top BAI official said, “We recommended the names of coaches and players after assessing their performances in the last four years. The players and coaches were chosen strictly on merit and their names were forwarded to the sports ministry. There is no room for any controversy.”
04 June 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Cricket should be avoided for now’||While the cricket world focuses on the dangers of using saliva on the ball, medical experts have warned that there are several other ways in which the novel coronavirus can be transmitted. Sharing a dressing room, inconclusive testing and even the mere touch of the ball could spread the virus. The use of saliva — banned by the International Cricket Council (ICC) — does carry maximum risk, but these secondary factors cannot be ignored. Rightly banned Dr. Ram Gopalakrishnan, a senior infectious diseases physician at Apollo Hospitals, Chennai, stated, “Saliva poses the maximum risk of transmission and is rightly banned. “Sweat [allowed by the ICC] is less risky. But contact of any kind is dangerous. Studies show that the virus can stay on a surface — in this case, a cricket ball — for days.” A wicketkeeper standing up to the stumps and close-in fielders pose a transmission threat. “Six-feet distancing must be maintained. Otherwise, an infected person can transmit the virus by coughing, shouting or breathing heavily. In cricket, shouting takes the form of appeals,” Gopalakrishnan said. The dressing room is another cause for concern. If a player touches an infected surface and then inadvertently touches his/her face, it significantly increases the risk of contracting the infection. Dr. Vivek Nangia, an interventional pulmonologist at Fortis, New Delhi, stated, “Even shoes act as a carrier. We have seen this in hospitals recently. This could happen in a cricket dressing room.” The idea of testing all players and match officials before every match poses logistical and medical difficulties. “There are many cases where a person tests negative on one day, but is actually found to be positive five days later.  “Initial tests merely raise suspicion of being infected. A definite positive case is identified only after several tests and scans,” Nangia said. The asymptomatic nature of coronavirus only increases the chances of an infected cricketer being cleared to take the field. Nangia is not entirely convinced about the efficacy of playing cricket in bio-secure venues — to be used for the England-West Indies Test series next month. No innovative plan is fool-proof, the doctors believe. Both stated that resumption of competitive cricket or any team sport should be put off until a cure is found. “Our international cricketers are our national treasure. It is not worth the risk,” Gopalakrishnan said. “Cricket, or any sport, is not a life-sustaining activity, and thus should be avoided for now,” Nangia said.
04 June 2020||Chennai,||Wolves are hungry to make the cut for CL||Matt Doherty joined Wolverhampton Wanderers as an 18-year-old with big dreams in his eyes. One dream was to play in the Premier League and the second was to play Champions League football. Having achieved the first, by enjoying a career spanning a decade and counting with Wolves, Doherty is now closer than ever to realising his second dream too. Wolves are currently sixth in the Premier League table, trailing fourth-placed Chelsea by five points. With the English top division set to resume in a fortnight, the side has nine games to close down the gap and storm to a debut Champions League season. “Growing up I always wanted to play in the Premier League and now I get to resume living my dream, which is playing games and I can’t wait to get back. “We were doing really well before the break and I just can’t wait to resume and see where we finish,” Doherty told Sportstar in an interaction organised by Star Sports which will beam the matches live from June 17. The 28-year-old Irishman says although social distancing norms are in place, it isn’t applicable during competitive football. “Once the whistle goes, everything will be the same except for no fans in the stadium. We will still be tackling and be beside each other. It is impossible to be social distancing while playing football.” Wolves’ last game was a closed-door affair (against Olympiacos in the Europa League) and Doherty felt it would take a while for footballers to get used to playing in quiet stadiums. Wolves’ last win in the Premier League was a 3-2 victory over Tottenham, a game in which Doherty made his 250th appearance for the club and also scored. “To win all nine matches will be difficult but we came off the back of a win over Tottenham and I don’t see why we can’t go and achieve something really special.”
04 June 2020||BENGALURU,||Chaudhari, Ralte sign up for BFC||Bengaluru FC, on Wednesday, announced the signings of defender Pratik Chaudhari and goalkeeper Lalthuammawia Ralte, ahead of the 2020-2021 Indian Super League (ISL) campaign. Chaudhari, who played for Mumbai City FC last season, and Ralte, who was on loan at East Bengal from FC Goa, put pen to paper on two-year deals. The additions marked the first of the BFC’s incoming players for the new campaign, having earlier handed fresh deals to foreign players Juanan Gonzalez, Erik Paartalu and Dimas Delgado and youth prospects Leon Augustine, Parag Shrivas, Edmund Lalrindika and Naorem Roshan Singh among others. Mandar Tamhane, CEO, confirmed that a decision was yet to be taken on defensive mainstay Albert Serran’s contract which ran out on May 31. For 30-year-old Chaudhari, BFC will be the fifth club in the ISL. Ralte, on the other hand, was part of BFC’s multiple title-winning campaigns across a four-year spell (2014-2018). Meanwhile, club skipper Sunil Chhetri, commenced individual training at the JSW Inspire Institute of Sport in Vidyanagar, Ballari. Chhetri, along with a few other players returning from injuries, has been training since the start of the week and the 35-year-old, on Wednesday, put out a short Instagram video of him lifting weights.
04 June 2020||St. John’s (Antigua),||Three say no to England tour as West Indies names squad||Three West Indies players — Darren Bravo, Shimron Hetmyer and Keemo Paul — on Wednesday refused to tour England for next month’s proposed three-Test series starting on July 8, which will be conducted in a bio-secure environment to combat the COVID-19 threat. Cricket West Indies (CWI) announced a 14-man squad for the series, which is expected to mark the resumption of international cricket if it gets the final approval from the UK government. “Bravo, Hetmyer and Paul all declined the invitation to travel to England for the tour and CWI fully respects their decision to choose to do so,” Cricket West Indies said in a statement.   The squad:   Jason Holder (Capt.), Kraigg Brathwaite, Shai Hope, Shane Dowrich, Roston Chase, Shemarh Brooks, Rahkeem Cornwall, Nkrumah Bonner, Alzarri Joseph, Chemar Holder, John Campbell, Raymon Reifer, Kemar Roach, and Jermaine Blackwood.
04 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||HCA chief Azhar puts his foot down||Former India captain and current president of the Hyderabad Cricket Association, Mohd Azharuddin, insists that HCA is not a charity organisation. He was reacting to critical comments in a social networking group by some HCA members. “It is a pity that despite being one of the founding members of the BCCI, we have not saved any funds. Most of them who meet me only talk about money. It is really sad,” he said. On HCA giving Rs. 50,000 each as financial assistance to affiliated clubs, Azhar said it was a humanitarian gesture during the COVID-19 crisis. “There are some financially poor clubs. If anyone doesn’t want it, they can always return and we appreciate that,” Azhar said.  “Henceforth, I will take the final call on all cricketing matters as HCA chief. It hurts me when many of those who never played the game or even held a cricket bat are making expert comments. Let me make it clear that neither am I responsible for the mistakes committed before I took over last year nor will I address those issues,” Azhar told The Hindu on Wednesday. “I will definitely have a big say in key subjects including naming of selection panels, coaches for various age group teams in consultation with Apex Council members after the dismal show last season. The whole objective is to ensure that deserving are not denied to play the game and I will not entertain any interference in this regard,” he said. Video conference The Apex Council is likely to meet on May 6 via video conference and take a call on convening the AGM to take some crucial decisions. “Since it is a risky proposition to have all 200-plus members attend the AGM at one place, we are also contemplating a video conference to conduct it,” Azhar said.
04 June 2020||KOCHI,||Arpinder, Manjit, Dutee and Chitra for Arjuna||The Athletics Federation of India (AFI) has nominated javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra for the Khel Ratna Award. This is the third straight year that the Commonwealth Games and Asian Games champion and the 2016 under-20 Worlds gold medallist has been nominated. Meanwhile, triple-jumper Arpinder Singh and middle-distance runner Manjit Singh — both gold medallists at the 2018 Jakarta Asian Games — along with World University Games 100m champion Dutee Chand and two-time Asian championship 1500m gold medallist P.U. Chitra have been recommended for the Arjuna by the committee headed by Anju Bobby George. Hopeful for Neeraj “We are sure Neeraj will get the nod this time after he missed out when weightlifter Mirabai Chanu edged him out in 2018 and wrestler Bajrang Punia was chosen ahead of him last year,” Adille Sumariwalla, the AFI president said. Deputy chief coach Radhakrishnan Nair has been nominated for the Dronacharya award. For Dhyan Chand award Kuldip Singh Bhullar, the 1982 Asiad discus throw silver medallist, and Olympian Jincy Philip, a member of the gold-winning 4x400m relay team at the 2002 Busan Asian Games, have been recommended for the Dhyan Chand Award.
04 June 2020||LONDON,||‘Racing will continue even if driver tests positive’||Formula One races won’t be cancelled if a driver tests positive for coronavirus or if a team withdraws, CEO Chase Carey said. F1 wants to avoid a repeat of the season-opener in Australia which was cancelled when the McLaren team withdrew after a staff member tested positive for the virus. “A team not being able to race wouldn’t cancel the race. I don’t think I could sit here and lay out the consequences. But we will have a procedure in place that finding infection will not lead to a cancellation,” Carey said on the F1 website Tuesday.  When a car pulls into a pit and has to change four tyres, there won’t be two meters between every individual. We need to make sure we have procedures to manage all those risks as soon as possible.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dubov forces a decider||Facing a must-win situation, Daniil Dubov struck early and drew thrice in succession to beat Hikaru Nakamura 2.5-1.5 in the second mini-match of the $150,000 Lindores Abbey Rapid Challenge final on Tuesday. The top-prize of the $45,000 will be decided when the players clash in the third mini-match.   Final results (second mini-match): Daniil Dubov (Rus) bt Hikaru Nakamura (USA) 2.5-1.5 .
04 June 2020||LONDON,||London, June 3, 2020 (AFP) -||Formula One world champion Lewis Hamilton said he is “completely overcome with rage” about racial injustice in the wake of the death of George Floyd. “I have felt so much anger, sadness and disbelief in what my eyes have seen....I am completely overcome with rage at the sight of such blatant disregard for the lives of our people.” said Hamilton.AFP
04 June 2020||Guwahati,||In death, a rhino may have saved many lives||The grenade is not a rhino hunter’s preferred weapon. But one such explosive seized along with Kalashnikov assault rifles from a group that killed a one-horned rhino in Kaziranga National Park (KNP) on May 5 made wildlife officials realise this — they were up against “more than just poachers”. What hit them harder was that the rhino, the first to be killed in 13 months, may have ended up saving a team of police and forest protection force personnel who tracked the killers for three months. “Assam has had a history of poaching, but there are no records of grenades having been seized from them. The Chinese grenade found with three people arrested yesterday (Tuesday) pointed to a long-term planning by the kind of poachers we have not dealt with earlier,” said Debojit Deuri, Superintendent of Police of Karbi Anglong district. Karbi Anglong adjoins the southern edge of the 898 sq. km. KNP, which has about 2,400 rhinos. The jungles on the hills of Karbi Anglong are a refuge for animals of the park when it is flooded during the monsoon months. Of the three arrested, Biki Thapa and Simon Lakra of central Assam’s Nagaon district had cases of poaching against them. The other one, David Siama from Manipur’s Churachandpur, is believed to be involved with an extremist group. Apart from a hand grenade, an AK-81, two AK-56 rifles, a double-barrel gun and 400 rounds of assorted ammunition were seized from them. Following the leads provided by the intelligence agencies, the police tracked Mangboi Paite, another member of the group. Lines blurred According to Diphu-based Inspector-General of Police Satyaraj Hazarika, who coordinated the operation with KNP Director P. Sivakumar, the kind of ammunition the hunters carried blurred the line between poachers and extremists. Karbi Anglong, adjoining Nagaland, has several extremist groups — some engaged in talks with the government, some dormant. But each group has been producing factions that veer towards illegal trade in wildlife body parts, specifically rhino horns, although it was left to “outsourced” locals to do the hunting. The groups include Karbi Land Protection Force, People’s Democratic Council of Karbi-Longri, Karbi People’s Liberation Tiger, United People’s Liberation Force and United People’s Democratic Solidarity. “The latest catch indicates that extremist groups with more firepower are getting directly involved in rhino poaching. “This group had planned five operations and tried to dominate the areas bordering KNP. We lost a rhino but the rhino saved the lives of many of us,” Mr. Sivakumar said.
04 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Data of over one lakh Indians posted for sale on dark web||A fresh instance of Indians’ data being leaked on the dark net has come to light, with a massive data packet — nearly 100 gigabytes in size — being put up for sale in the dark web market. The data comprises scanned identity documents of over 1 lakh Indians, including passports, PAN cards, Aadhaar cards, voter IDs and driver’s licenses. The data was found by Cyble, a global cyber intelligence agency founded by cyber expert Beenu Arora, which has also found several other such instances in the recent past, including a massive packet of data of Indian job seekers from across the country. Cyble researchers, in a post on their official blog on Tuesday night, said that they came across a relatively non-reputable threat actor offering over 1 lakh identity documents for sale. “With such a low reputation, ideally, we would have skipped this. However, the samples shared by the actor intrigued our interest, as also the volume. “The actor claimed to have access to over 1 lakh IDs from different places in India, with the total size being over 100 GB,” Cyble’s post said. Identity papers Mr. Arora said that the entire data has subsequently been acquired by Cyble for approximately $4,800 in bitcoins. Samples of the data indicate that the documents are scanned copies of a wide variety of government-issued identity documents that prima facie seem to be legitimate. New player “The actor appears to be a new player in the market and appears to be trying to establish itself by offering these significant leaks. “We have verified their claim and it is naturally concerning. We are now investigating the source of this leak,” Mr. Arora said. Cyble researchers have till now not found any indications of this data having leaked from a government system, and believe that it came from a third party. Central and State cyber crime agencies have also taken note of the incident and have initiated their own inquiries.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 07:18 IST,||Sudoku - June 4, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||An empty India||We must never forget.  Those are the words filmmaker Bharatbala finds himself repeatedly using, in a telephonic interview. That is what he hopes to convey through the visuals of Uthenge Hum , with a tinge of positivity. While most of us stayed inside our homes owing to lockdown restrictions, the filmmaker and a devoted team of 117 crew set out to capture the unique visuals of our unseen nationwide lockdown. What resulted was a film that captured a lingering sense of emptiness across 14 states, notching up thousands of kilometres, to document this watershed moment of global history. “When the pandemic and the lockdown happened, I felt that it was my responsibility as a filmmaker to document it. In the West, we see many filmmakers devoting time and energy to work on some amazing documentaries for the world to see in the future,” says Bharatbala. He wanted Uthenge Hum to be something like that. “There is TV news but that is not a creative, emotional engagement. I wanted to have a cinematic documentation of the sights of an empty India. Many years later, once normalcy returns, viewers watching this film might just wonder: Where did all the people go?” Click of a button Putting together a film that covers the entire length and breadth of India might be a nightmare for most directors. But what helped Bharatbala was the well-oiled, pan-Indian filmmaking crew he had assembled in the last few years, having made more than 80 films as part of his ‘Virtual Bharat’ project. “Thankfully, I have built relationships with amazing talent across the country. It was a humongous challenge, but when people realised the importance of our work, we got unprecedented access.” Sitting with a team in Mumbai, Bharatbala oversaw shoots happening across the country. “I would direct through WhatsApp video calls. This is a new school of filmmaking, but the craft has not changed,” he feels. Every crew that he was coordinating with would do a recce before the actual day of shoot. “Thanks to technology, we also got shots done in multiple locations. Sitting in Mumbai, I could get shots done in Guwahati and Lucknow in a single day.” The images he saw were overwhelming: empty villages, shuttered shops and deserted malls. Bharatbala has travelled to most places in India but had never seen something like this. “Can you imagine the ghats of Benaras empty? Or the Mumbai railway station, which sees several thousands travelling every day?” When he went to the Mumbai CST (Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus) to film, all that he saw were a few pigeons. “It was important to document the silence and emptiness.” The future is here With lockdown being eased in a few states, what lies ahead? Hope and positivity, feels Bharatbala. “We recorded the voice of a migrant who knew her life had changed forever, but still looked forward to the next day. That’s the spirit going forward,” says the filmmaker, who has roped in personalities like Seema Biswas, Manju Warrier and Kalieswari Srinivasan among others to provide voice-overs in different languages for the project. The coming few months hold a lot of uncertainty for filmmakers, but Bharatbala is clear that he wants to continue what he has been doing: tell stories through cinema. With his previous iconic projects like Vande Mataram and Jana Gana Mana , the filmmaker has re-imagined India for every generation, and he hopes to do the same with Uthenge Hum . “We have tried to present an honest film, one that shows pain but also looks forward to a positive future.”  Uthenge Hum will be telecast in TV channels and digital platforms starting June 6
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Voices that comfort||The COVID-19 lockdown is a stressful period. If it can exact a toll on adults, it isn’t going to be easy for children. Living in a connected world though has its advantages. Says actor Kalki Koechlin, “We are blessed to be in a generation where we can reach out to kids and keep them entertained during a lockdown. The previous generations, the ones that lived through World Wars, had no way of entertaining their children or giving them an education.” Kalki, actor Shriya Pilgaonkar and actor-filmmaker Suhasini Maniratnam are coming together to present a poem for children at an event organised by Tulika Books and Apalam Chapalam on social media under Tulika’s ‘Many Voices... Many Languages... Many Stories...’ campaign. Choose your platform Recorded sessions of the trio reading Go Away Coronavirus! by Divya Thomas (Shriya and Suhasini will read the translated versions in Hindi and Tamil) will be aired via Instagram, YouTube, Facebook and Tulika’s website. The multi-lingual reading session will also mark the online release of the poem. Priya Krishnan, senior editor, Tulika Books, says that the poem addresses the questions and anxiety of children “gently and sensitively”. Tulika’s campaign launched soon after the first phase of lockdown was enforced. And so far, they have brought on board, authors and storytellers besides well-known personalities in cinema like actors Revathy and ‘Thalaivasal’ Vijay. “Revathy had chosen to read the Tamil version of her favourite Tulika title The Rooster and the Sun for the Ranga Shankara online theatre festival for children in April,” says Priya. So impressed was Revathy about the response that she got in touch to read more books in these virtual sessions. “On Mother’s Day, she read Nandini Nayar’s picture book What Did You See? , and the following weekend she read A Saree for Ammi ,” says Priya, who calls Revathy a “natural” at reading for children. “She will be doing more readings in Tamil and Malayalam soon,” she adds. For Suhasini, it is the first time she has done a reading session for children. It can be easy for an actor to be a storyteller but children are a different ball game. “You have to change the body language and make sure they understand the emotions. It will have to be different from how you speak to adults. But children are not judgemental. They just want to be engaged and all you have to do is get their attention,” says Suhasini. The actor adds that though Tulika approached her for help with hiring professional translators from the film industry, she instead suggested that they seek out Dr S Murugu Sundram, who is interested in Tamil poetry. He ended up translating Divya Thomas’ poem for Tulika. While Suhasini reads it in her own style, Kalki added a bit of role play to her presentation. “I wore a witch’s costume,” she laughs, and adds: “I had a wig on... red hair and a witch hat.”   The reading session can be viewed on Instagram handles: @tulikabooks or @apalamchapalam
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||And now, marriages are made online||Dehradun-based Animesh Debnath recently married Nilu Roy in Bhopal, with his parents participating in the celebrations, singing and dancing from Silchar, Assam. “Due to lockdown restrictions, it looked like our May wedding would have to be postponed. But I got in touch with Shaadi.com. and they made it possible with a priest in Raipur officiating over the marriage. Everything was online, the sangeet, the bharaat… and our relatives witnessing the wedding,” says Nilu. Meanwhile in Kochi, actor Miya George got engaged to Ashwin Philip in a quiet ceremony at the bridegroom’s home last weekend. The food was homemade and the guest list was limited to 20. Despite the challenges of the ongoing pandemic, weddings have been held through the lockdowns all over the country. Realising that celebrations in the post-COVID-19 era require new systems and innovative ideas, planners have been equipping themselves for today’s tech-driven, intimate ceremonies and celebrations. Delhi-based Meher Sarid, an event planner, was supposed to organise a big wedding reception in Delhi later in the year, for an NRI family in Singapore. However, the wedding, to begin with, did not go as planned. “The bride of Japanese and Indian parentage was in Singapore with her in-laws when the lockdown hit, and the bride’s parents couldn’t make it,” she says. The mother of the groom contacted Meher for suggestions on how to make the registered wedding with five people memorable. Via WhatsApp Meher showed the family how to decorate the registrar’s table and the couple’s four-poster bed, all in red, maroon, and gold. “I told her how to thread the flowers. They scattered petals all over and planned traditional wedding rituals. The bride wore her mother-in-law’s wedding salwar suit and the groom wore a sherwani with apagadi. They fashioned a Just Married sign out of an old cardboard box, put it on the car and took it for a short ride down the driveway,” she adds. Wedding planners emphasise that such DIY marriages might become the norm in the time of the pandemic. Matrimonial site Shaadi.com has even come up with ‘Weddings from home’, a package to help guide couples who want to tie the knot despite the lockdown. “It is a social initiative that we do without any charges. We organised three such weddings and one had about 700 people from eight countries witnessing the wedding on Zoom. There was a jazzy sangeet, mehndi function... the works. It was all digital with a beautician advising the bride how to wear her sari and apply make-up,” says Anupam Mittal, founderof Shaadi.com. Adhish Zaveri, marketing director of the website, says although many marriages have been postponed due to the pandemic, they are in talks for organising four to five online weddings in June. With no precedent to learn from however, conducting weddings at this time can be challenging. Vidya Singh and Rekha Rangaraj of Chennai-based Sumyog admit that the entire business has been tied in knots as a result of the pandemic. “Last year, we were working all through the year. We only deal with one client at a time for bespoke weddings. In 2020, we had three events for one client in March, one in April and two clients with multiple events in June. Now, all events have been put on hold indefinitely. Some NRI clients have contacted us but the situation is quite fluid as travel has become so difficult. As a result, many of those to whom we outsource work for décor, flowers, music and so on have no work at all,” says Vidya. According to Vidya, Sumyog has devised extensive plans for weddings that follow the complete protocol for safety, including masks, sanitisers, LED screens at the venue, separate entry and exit point for invitees, transport for guests, accommodation and so on. Small guest lists do not necessarily mean extended family and friends can’t join in the celebration. “We had parents who are planning a marriage with 50 guests. They have decided to have designer boxes filled with sweets to be delivered to all the people they would have invited in the days before COVID-19,” says Diwia Thomas of Kochi-based Papertrail. The boxes contain a mask, sanitiser and snacks like samosa, pastries and Indian sweets. In the same way, Nila Caterers explain that instead of elaborate buffets, guests are given takeaway boxes withbiryanior fried rice and curry. Sofia Mathew, who runs Watermark in Kochi, says that ideally weddings should be postponed to 2021 when there will be more clarity about the situation and travel plans can be confirmed. “However, if they feel the muharat can’t be postponed, we are advising them to go in for several small functions and invite different sets of guests for those,” she says. Delna Davi of Swastika events in Angamaly conducted a marriage and a baptism by having small groups of guests inside the church, at home and at a hall. Ram C Menon of Kochi-based Impresario also believes this could be a trend, with couples opting for outdoor venues such as beaches in Kovalam, the waterfront in Kochi, scenic lakeside spots and open grounds in the district, with functions at home. Jayashree Shuba Kumar, whose son, Ram Shankar, had a quiet June wedding at the bride’s house in Thiruvananthapuram, says: “It was a warm function and had the charm of yesteryear weddings, when such functions were always held at home. Perhaps, it is time to revive simple weddings.” With inputs fromAishwarya Upadhye, Shilpa Nair Anand, Sravasti DattaandSunalini Mathew
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||A stitch in time...||Fourteen fashion designers from across India have teamed up for the ongoing ‘Saving the Artist’ campaign (@savingtheartist on Instagram), which is on till June 6. The COVID-19 lockdown has left daily wage artisans in the lurch. Though restrictions have now been eased and e-commerce has resumed, the designers state that it will be a while before sales pick up. In a bid to attract potential buyers and help the artisans, each of the 14 designers have put up two of their best-selling pieces on sale, with an intention of giving 80% of the proceeds to daily wage artisans and 20% to the Mumbai-based NGO Sneha which supports victims of domestic abuse. The campaign was mooted by Jalandhar-based designer Farah Sanjana and the other designers on board include Neeta Lulla, Archana Rao, Shriya Som, Jayanti Reddy, Gabriella Demetriades, Akanksha Gajria, Nitya Bajaj, Sohni Patel, Eishita Puri, Shirin Mann, Suman B, Ridhi Mehra, and Shehla Khan. The garments and jewellery being sold as part of this campaign are mostly under Rs. 20,000, and a few pieces under Rs. 35,000. The artisans who would benefit from the campaign are embroiderers, pattern makers and tailors who work on an order-to-order basis with these designers. Speaking about the plight of artisans, Farah says, “Not everyone has managed to get the benefits promised by the Government. Most of the artisans who work for me are migrant workers and I have been doing my best to support them monetarily and by supplying groceries, masks and sanitisers. But we needed to do something more, since there were no sales at all during the extended lockdown.”  Farah intends to keep the group going and says the ‘Saving the Artist’ initiative might just be the beginning of their collaboration. “As women entrepreneurs, we have enjoyed having this collaborative support group. In a couple of weeks, we might begin a new campaign,” she says, and the details are being worked out.  (For more details, look up the individual designers’ Instagram accounts or @savingtheartist)
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Meet Mrs Imperfect||When Sameera Reddy turned mother for the first time, she took time to realise what her body and mind were going through. She was in no hurry to pose in a bikini, talking about losing pregnancy weight and easy ways to look fit. “Post-partum depression is real and while I was told about it, I wasn’t sure what to expect,” says Sameera, who is currently making waves on social media with her honest videos on parenting, running a home and spending lockdown time with her mother-in-law aka ‘Sassy Sasu’ in their videos. Having been away from social media for three years post pregnancy, the 39-year-old was worried about slipping away from the image people might have had of her. “Truth be told, I went into hiding. I felt pressured to adhere to how people wanted me to look. That was a struggle. By the time my first-born, Harsh, was three years old, I realised I had missed out a lot. As a result, when I was pregnant with Nyra, I started recording every small thing in my imperfect world. I started accepting everything around me and I didn’t feel burdened the way I felt during Harsh’s time,” shares Sameera over phone, even as we hear little Nyra beginning to cry. Sameera excuses herself for a minute to hand over Nyra to her mother-in-law and joins right back. She continues, “All of us struggle to live up to the image that’s drawn for us. Perfect body, perfect skin, perfect house — we are put in a frame with a picture that ‘others’ decide for us. If we work to live up to just that, when will we do what we like? I decided to carry on with how I wanted to be. The previous Sameera did everything under pressure; it was a glamorous life. This was my second chance to be honest with myself and to be who I really am,” she says. The image trap When Sameera posted her first video after coming out of ‘hiding’, she felt liberated. She did not respond to trolls. “I was happy in my imperfectly perfect world, giving the real me a chance to discover myself. There was no need for anyone to show me the mirror nor make me aware about it. So when people pointed out that I should colour my hair, I laughed. I have been grey since I was 20 years old! I will colour my hair next when I want to. Then the lockdown happened and we found ourselves cooped up in our apartment, along with my mother-in-law,” she says. Free of the trappings associated with the image of a glamorous actor, Sameera was ready to explore new things. Now, her videos are lapped up not just by new moms but also by a generation younger than her. What appeals to them is the non-sermonising approach. “To be honest, my videos are for myself. I didn’t look at social media as a vehicle for my comeback. With no nanny for both my kids, and no help during the lockdown, a comeback is the last thing on my mind. I am happy sharing my life and my sasu ’s amazing meal fixes,” she adds. Banter over ‘rotla’ On her mother-in-law, Sameera admits, “The lockdown has actually passed off well because of my mother-in-law. We have this banter between us all day long and I enjoy her company. She (Manjiri Varde) lets me be and is very vocal about certain things I do, without being judgemental . As the lockdown continued, we cooked and thought of recreating a new recipe with leftovers. That’s how we shot the ‘rotla’ video (chapati with leftover rice),” she laughs. Sameera at present is happy filming easy food videos with her mother-in-law and her kids and still does not consider herself as a content creator. Does she nurse any peeves? “Self-love comes first and in it is the goal to stay fit. I am not able to continue my fitness and diet routine but I am doing whatever I can to keep myself fit and strong. And when I say fit, it doesn’t necessarily mean I am aspiring for a particular look. I would say ‘be crystal clear with your thoughts and decide to be either black or white’ and avoid being in the grey area.”
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Runway in my kitchen||Tired of hustling for front row seats to fashion shows? As runway shows go digital, you can now see the latest collection in your kitchen, between putting tadka in your dal , and still feel like you have got the best seats in the house. In April this year, Italian luxury label Ermenegildo Zegna announced that its Spring Summer 20/21 show would be “phygital” (a portmanteau of the words physical and digital). China Fashion Week went online last month and now London Fashion Week too will be streamed on its website. This concept is gradualy becoming the norm, given the challenges posed by COVID-19 and physical distancing measures. Now Chennai too has its own virtual fashion show. The six-minute 18-second video is the brainchild of jewellery designer Raji Anand, fashion designer Stephin Lalan and stylist Sunil Karthik. “It took us a week to complete this video,” says Raji. It features 12 models, including Paloma Rao, Aishvarrya Suresh, Sameea Bangera and Gayathri Reddy — and has been shot entirely in the models’ homes. “We kept social distancing in mind and coordinated everything. Each of the models shot their sequence at home and sent it to us. We put them together,” explains Raji. Outfits by Stephin and jewellery by Raji were dispatched to the models. Hair, make-up and choreography was explained over the phone and through notes. Raji says it was a challenging task to quickly put together the outfits and jewellery. “I don’t have pieces in bulk. I had to make the jewellery. They are strong pieces and comprise statement handcuffs, neckpieces and large finger rings. They had to match with Stephin’s creations that are solid, neutral, flowy garments with no prints.” She adds “When we thought of this video, we assumed it would be easy. But the day it released (Saturday, May 30) we were so tired!” As it turned out, the virtual show was more “exhausting” for the organisers than a physical live show. “In a live show you are there, you can tell the hair and makeup artist what you want, the clothes are ironed and on the rack, and you can see everything, there is no element of surprise,” says Raji, adding, “But here, we had to deal with 12 individuals separately, answer their queries, check their videos, some had too much breeze, some had low light, follow up with them, and then bring it all together.”  The video is available on Instagram on @stephinlalanofficial, @sunilkarthik_sk and @rajianand and on all the models’ handles.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Sustained by love||What is on the menu today? Meat, vegetables and live fish. To be precise, about 300 kilograms of buffalo meat a month, 1,600 kilograms of chicken, 200 kilograms of vegetables and about 90 kilograms of fish every month. And, of course, 1,000 rats per month for the snakes. This information comes straight from the horse’s mouth: from Allwin Jesudasan, joint director of Madras Crocodile Bank Trust and Centre for Herpetology, to be precise. Needless to say, food in such quantities for a number of species — endangered and otherwise — requires a constant flow of funds. So do other aspects of running India’s iconic crocodile park: “Our monthly budget is Rs. 22 lakh. Our major expenditure is food for reptiles and salaries,” says Allwin, adding, “50% of our income comes from ticket revenues. From mid-March to end of June, we were expecting Rs. 80 lakh. That is the amount we lost from ticket income.” The loss was expected, considering the nationwide lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, but the bank did not have time to brace itself, and it hit hard. However that does not mean things were at a standstill. “Most of our staff live either at the park or in the adjoining village, so they were able to come and help out,” says Allwin. Online operations The park also started online workshops and Facebook lives, to keep the awareness process going (and give audiences a few moments with the in-house Komodo dragon, Smaug). What they miss most are the visitors, especially children with their wide-eyed enthusiasm. This is a sentiment echoed by Akila Balu, a coordinator with the Students’ Sea Turtle Conservation Network (SSTCN), that assists the Forest Department during Olive Ridley nesting and hatching season. School and college groups are among its most frequent visitors during Olive Ridley nesting and hatching season: this time, naturally, no one could visit. The first lockdown took place when nesting season was well underway, and the last of the hatchlings had made their way to the sea by the time lockdowns were eased in early June. “We were given Forest Department ID cards, so patrolling and conservation work was not affected by the lockdown. But the schools that would schedule visits with us could not do so: the awareness aspect of our work has been put on hold,” says Akila. As for the main work, it has been continued under Chennai Wildlife Warden CH Padma. “We patrol between Neelankarai and the Adyar Estuary, and one more team does the whole of Marina. So it is a little less than 14 kilometres that the Forest Department covers with SSTCN’s assistance.” Patrolling takes place in turns, she says, in two batches per night on each stretch. Duties comprise looking for turtle tracks, locating turtle nests and relocating them into secure hatcheries. “This begins in early January. In about six weeks or so, the hatchlings start emerging; the first ones come out in mid- to end-February. Hatchlings will keep emerging till early May: monitoring them round the clock is our biggest responsibility,” she says. Fishermen from various city kuppams also guide them. “The weekend walks are usually the public ones, and usually between Neelankarai and Adyar Estuary. The little ones and the elderly who cannot walk the whole stretch wait for us at the hatcheries. Talking to them, and raising awareness about marine life is one of the biggest parts of what we do,” she says, wistfully. In contrast, The Sanctuary on ECR has barely any public involvement. The safe haven for injured and old horses is almost entirely a family affair, with the sole exception being their recent fundraising call to help tide through the lockdown. Says Pooja Chordia, who helms operations at the moment, “The horses are mainly fed a combination of oats and bran. The feed is changed depending on their age and medical conditions, each horse has different requirements usually. We require about 20 bags of oats and about 15 bags of bran per month, because we have eight horses at the moment.” These include Surya the 13-year-old former jumper, Proflair who drags one of his back legs, and Harry, who is undergoing treatment for a tumour. “Some of them are retired racehorses; others were rescued from abuse and handed to us for care,” she says. The total expenditure, including the bags ofarugampulgrass that have to be specially sourced for the sensitive horses, comes to about Rs. 95,750 per month. What is also difficult is sourcing steady funds from family and well wishers for this private setup, with everyone’s incomes having taken a hit. The Madras Crocodile Bank faces a similar — yet entirely different — dilemma. “We also get funds from international zoos, including US-based ones like Montgomery Zoo in Alabama, Riverbanks Zoo and Garden in South Carolina and St Augustine Alligator Farm Zoological Park in Florida,” says Allwin, “But they have been closed to public due to the pandemic, and are short on funds themselves.” “Even when we do open to the public, we won’t be having foreign tourists or even visitors from North India this year at least,” says Allwin, “Individuals who adopt some of our animals make up about 5% of our funds. We have to depend on them more now.” Adoptions do seem to be on the rise. Two Travancore tortoises, a green anaconda and an Indian rock python were adopted in the past week alone. After all, it provides all the thrills of having a python, without needing a steady supply of rats.
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Double trouble||Neil and Kush Nijhawan loved their visit to Mumbai in February so much, they made the bold move to make the city their base for six months of the year. Then the COVID-19 pandemic broke out and their plans had to be put on hold. But that has not hindered their drive to create music and connect with fans. Over a Zoom call, the 26-year-old fraternal twins are at their home in Louisville, Kentucky, USA. Ask them to look back on their career so far and name one prominent turning point, and Kush responds, “We started out with zero and at zero. But we started recording in 2008 and our music kept getting better. For me, the turning point was when we dropped the ‘Bombay’ audio — our second release — at the start of 2019. We released a video on May 24, 2019, and that video was picked up by Vh1 India and they played it on rotation six times a day on television. Our début video [which has over 4,00,000 views on YouTube] was picked up by international television!” Kush and Neil add that, up till then, they had received a lot of skepticism from their community about their career choices but the success of ‘Bombay’ effected a lot of pride. “Another turning point had to be when we got onto the cover of Spotify’s playlist Bridge To Bombay; and we’re still on the cover. It’s a popular playlist for a lot of people. We have family in India seeing us on TV which is great.” That said, Twinjabi have their fourth release coming out on June 5: ‘Brown Magic’ which Neil pegs as “an anthem for all the brown girls around the world. It’s a very soulful record with empowering vibes; it’s especially important for brown girls in different parts of the world who were probably picked on as kids for being brown, to embrace their culture.” Growing fanbases Have the pandemic and lockdowns hindered their creativity? No,they are creating music. “During this time, our social media has grown the fastest, and not just from India. We’d started out with fans from America, India and Canada, which is normal because those places were our bases, but now we see people from other countries — Russia, the Czech Republic, Tanzania and Brazil — enjoying songs like ‘Rani Recognize’ which is a mix of Hindi and English. Some fans don’t understand it but they love the vibe of it.”  It is natural to believe that working with family is tough, and Neil and Kush agree to an extent. “Like any brothers, we fight but we love each other. The hardest part is that we are hard on ourselves and hard on each other too, and maybe it is not what the other person wants to hear but they have got to realise it comes from a good place. We are pushing and challenging each other, because I know Neil will kill his part so I have to do the same.” One of the challenges, which the two are overcoming, is learning Hindi as they go. Kush holds up a small Hindi dictionary and explains that lyricising in Hindi does require effort but it is effort they are both happy to continuously make. Neil agrees, explaining that Twinjabi prides themselves on quality control. “We want anything we put out to be the best thing and compete with the A-listers. We really need to bring change to the game, not just the Indian communities. The advantage of our diaspora is that we were born and raised in Louisville, Kentucky, and being Indian, we are bringing so many different elements through our journey.”  We’d started out with fans from America, India and Canada... but now we see people from Russia, the Czech Republic, Tanzania and Brazil
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||A question of survival||The flickering light from the candle looms large, revealing the sullen faces of a woman and a boy who seem to be crowded with thoughts, as they quietly await their man’s return. The man’s sharp eyes pierce into them — with an apologetic gaze — when he arrives with a copper utensil, which, the boy opens with great enthusiasm. He is heartbroken when he finds it empty yet again and seeks comfort in his mother’s lap as she tries to pacify his hunger. They have not had a proper meal in days, perhaps, months. The routine continues the following day as the father leaves with his copper utensil, in search of meat — in this case, rodents. This gut-wrenching scene of a famine-hit family in an abandoned village in remote Tamil Nadu is what the short film Uraiyur Eli throws light on. “I was trying to improve and learn the craft of filmmaking. That is how I made this short film, which happens to be my second,” says filmmaker SK Gobinath, who worked under PS Mithran during the filming of Irumbu Thirai . Gobinath has a fascination for cinematography and was looking for an opportunity to wield the camera. Which is why he decided to experiment with light when his friend (Selvamuthu Kumarasamy) shared the script of Uraiyur Eli . “The story is what drew me because I have read about rat eaters, which is a hobby for some, but for others, especially in a state like Bihar, it is a matter of survival,” says Gobinath, 30, who travelled to Meenakshipuram in Tuticorn with a five-member crew to shoot his short. The village, according to him, faced the worst famine sometime around 1995, forcing people to migrate. But Gobinath came across an elderly person who decided to stay back, in memory of his wife. What stands out in Uraiyur Eli , apart from its larger politics, is the cinematography; the images are pensive and penetrative and there are tonnes of camera movements — something you do not normally find in short films. “Landscape is the main character in the film. The village itself has such a tone and we enhanced the visual quality in DI,” he adds. The short film has gone to a couple of festivals in India and abroad. Strongly influenced by M Manikandan’s brand of cinema, Gobinath says he wanted to portray the everyday struggles of a family from a marginalised community. “The film gets a happy ending towards the end but we do not know whether they would get their meal tomorrow.”
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||‘The modern Nancy Drew is relatable,’ says Kennedy McMann||Kennedy McMann, who plays the titular character in the series Nancy Drew(streaming on Voot Select) ,loves how the character has been reimagined in this version of the story. “Nancy Drew has served as a heroine for generations and generations. I think that this is a modern Nancy. She is relatable.” She adds, “The relationships are human. And that’s what I think is so beautiful about not depicting Nancy as this perfect, completely put-together robot girl. She’s an 18-year-old.” The actor says that the genre of the show falls in a special niche. “It’s mystery, it’s drama, but there’s a lot of light comedy in it as well.”
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||And now, marriages are made online||Dehradun-based Animesh Debnath recently married Nilu Roy in Bhopal, with his parents participating in the celebrations, singing and dancing from Silchar, Assam. “Due to the lockdown restrictions, it looked like our May wedding would have to be postponed. But I got in touch with Shaadi.com and they made it possible with a priest in Raipur officiating over the marriage. Everything was online, the sangeet, the bharaat… and our relatives witnessing the wedding,” says Nilu. Meanwhile in Kochi, actor Miya George got engaged to Ashwin Philip in a quiet ceremony at the bridegroom’s home last weekend. The food was homemade and the guest list was limited to 20 people. Despite the challenges of the ongoing pandemic, weddings have been held through the lockdowns all over the country. Realising that celebrations in the post-COVID-19 era require new systems and innovative ideas, planners have been equipping themselves for today’s tech-driven, intimate ceremonies and celebrations. Delhi-based Meher Sarid, an event planner, was supposed to organise a big wedding reception in Delhi later in the year, for an NRI family in Singapore. However, to begin with, the wedding itself did not go as planned. “The bride, of Japanese and Indian parentage, was in Singapore with her in-laws when the lockdown hit, and the bride’s parents couldn’t make it in time,” she says. The mother of the groom contacted Meher for suggestions on how to make the registered wedding with five people memorable. Via WhatsApp, Meher showed the family how to decorate the registrar’s table and the couple’s four-poster bed, all in red, maroon, and gold. “I told her how to thread the flowers. They scattered petals all over and planned traditional wedding rituals. The bride wore her mother-in-law’s wedding salwar suit and the groom wore a sherwani with apagadi. They fashioned a Just Married sign out of an old cardboard box, put it on the car and took it for a short ride down the driveway,” she adds. Wedding planners emphasise that such DIY marriages might become the norm in the time of the pandemic and for a while on. Matrimonial site Shaadi.com has even come up with ‘Weddings from home’, a package to help guide couples who want to tie the knot despite the lockdown. “It is a social initiative that we do without any charges. We organised three such weddings and one had about 700 people from eight countries witnessing the wedding on Zoom. There was a jazzy sangeet, mehndi function... the works. It was all digital with a beautician advising the bride on how to wear her sari and apply make-up,” says Anupam Mittal, founder of Shaadi.com . Adhish Zaveri, marketing director of the website, says although many marriages have been postponed due to the pandemic, they are in talks for organising four to five online weddings in June. With no precedent to learn from however, conducting weddings at this time can be challenging. Vidya Singh and Rekha Rangaraj of Chennai-based Sumyog admit that the entire business has been tied in knots as a result of the pandemic. “Last year, we were working all through the year. We only deal with one client at a time for bespoke weddings. In 2020, we had three events for one client in March, one in April and two clients with multiple events in June. Now, all events have been put on hold indefinitely. Some NRI clients have contacted us but the situation is quite fluid as travel has become so difficult. As a result, many of those to whom we outsource work for décor, flowers, music and so on have no work at all,” says Vidya. According to Vidya, Sumyog has devised extensive plans for weddings that follow the complete protocol for safety, including masks, sanitisers, LED screens at the venue, separate entry and exit point for invitees, transport for guests, accommodation and so on. Small guest lists do not necessarily mean extended family and friends can’t join in the celebration. “We had parents who are planning a marriage with 50 guests. They have decided to have designer boxes filled with sweets to be delivered to all the people they would have invited in the days before COVID-19,” says Diwia Thomas of Kochi-based Papertrail. The boxes contain a mask, sanitiser and snacks like samosa, pastries and Indian sweets. In the same way, Nila Caterers explain that instead of elaborate buffets, guests are given takeaway boxes withbiryanior fried rice and curry. Sofia Mathew, who runs Watermark in Kochi, says that ideally weddings should be postponed to 2021 when there will be more clarity about the situation and travel plans can be easily confirmed. “However, if they feel the muharat can’t be postponed, we are advising them to go in for several small functions and invite different sets of guests for those,” she says. Delna Davi of Swastika events in Angamaly conducted a marriage and a baptism by having small groups of guests inside the church, at home and at a hall. Ram C Menon of Kochi-based Impresario also believes this could be a trend, with couples opting for outdoor venues such as beaches in Kovalam, the waterfront in Kochi, scenic lakeside spots and open grounds in the district, with functions at home. Jayashree Shuba Kumar, whose son, Ram Shankar, had a quiet June wedding at the bride’s house in Thiruvananthapuram, says: “It was a warm function and had the charm of yesteryear weddings, when such functions were always held at home. Perhaps, it is time to revive simple weddings.” With inputs fromAishwarya Upadhye, Shilpa Nair Anand, Sravasti DattaandSunalini Mathew
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||A stitch in time...||Fourteen fashion designers from across India have teamed up for the ongoing ‘Saving the Artist’ campaign (@savingtheartist on Instagram), which is on till June 6. The COVID-19 lockdown has left daily wage artisans in the lurch. Though restrictions have now been eased and e-commerce has resumed, the designers state that it will be a while before sales pick up. In a bid to attract potential buyers and help the artisans, each of the 14 designers have put up two of their best-selling pieces on sale, with an intention of giving 80% of the proceeds to daily wage artisans and 20% to the Mumbai-based NGO Sneha which supports victims of domestic abuse. The campaign was mooted by Jalandhar-based designer Farah Sanjana and the other designers on board include Neeta Lulla, Archana Rao, Shriya Som, Jayanti Reddy, Gabriella Demetriades, Akanksha Gajria, Nitya Bajaj, Sohni Patel, Eishita Puri, Shirin Mann, Suman B, Ridhi Mehra, and Shehla Khan. The garments and jewellery being sold as part of this campaign are mostly under Rs. 20,000, and a few pieces under Rs. 35,000. The artisans who would benefit from the campaign are embroiderers, pattern makers and tailors who work on an order-to-order basis with these designers. Speaking about the plight of artisans, Farah says, “Not everyone has managed to get the benefits promised by the Government. Most of the artisans who work for me are migrant workers and I have been doing my best to support them monetarily and by supplying groceries, masks and sanitisers. But we needed to do something more, since there were no sales at all during the extended lockdown.”  Farah intends to keep the group going and says the ‘Saving the Artist’ initiative might just be the beginning of their collaboration. “As women entrepreneurs, we have enjoyed having this collaborative support group. In a couple of weeks, we might begin a new campaign,” she says, and the details are being worked out.  (For more details, look up the individual designers’ Instagram accounts or @savingtheartist)
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Meet Ms Imperfect||When Sameera Reddy turned mother for the first time, she took time to realise what her body and mind were going through. She was in no hurry to pose in a bikini, talking about losing pregnancy weight and easy ways to look fit. “Post-partum depression is real and while I was told about it, I wasn’t sure what to expect,” says Sameera, who is currently making waves on social media with her honest videos on parenting, running a home and spending lockdown time with her mother-in-law aka ‘Sassy Sasu’ in their videos. Having been away from social media for three years post pregnancy, the 39-year-old was worried about slipping away from the image people might have had of her. “Truth be told, I went into hiding. I felt pressured to adhere to how people wanted me to look. That was a struggle. By the time my first-born, Harsh, was three years old, I realised I had missed out a lot. As a result, when I was pregnant with Nyra, I started recording every small thing in my imperfect world. I started accepting everything around me and I didn’t feel burdened the way I felt during Harsh’s time,” shares Sameera over phone, even as we hear little Nyra beginning to cry. Sameera excuses herself for a minute to hand over Nyra to her mother-in-law and joins right back. She continues, “All of us struggle to live up to the image that’s drawn for us. Perfect body, perfect skin, perfect house — we are put in a frame with a picture that ‘others’ decide for us. If we work to live up to just that, when will we do what we like? I decided to carry on with how I wanted to be. The previous Sameera did everything under pressure; it was a glamorous life. This was my second chance to be honest with myself and to be who I really am.”. The image trap When Sameera posted her first video after coming out of ‘hiding’, she felt liberated. She did not respond to trolls. “I was happy in my imperfectly perfect world, giving the real me a chance to discover myself. There was no need for anyone to show me the mirror nor make me aware about it. So when people pointed out that I should colour my hair, I laughed. I have been grey since I was 20 years old! I will colour my hair next when I want to. Then the lockdown happened and we found ourselves cooped up in our apartment,” she says. Free of the trappings associated with the image of a glamorous actor, Sameera was ready to explore new things. Now, her videos are lapped up not just by new moms but also by a generation younger than her. What appeals to them is the non-sermonising approach. “My videos are for myself. I didn’t look at social media as a vehicle to piggyback on for my comeback.” With no nanny for the kids, and no help during the lockdown, she says that wsa the last thing on her mind. Banter over ‘rotla’ On her mother-in-law, Sameera admits, “The lockdown has actually passed off well because of my mother-in-law. We have this banter between us all day long and I enjoy her company. She (Manjiri Varde) lets me be and is very vocal about certain things I do, without being judgemental . As the lockdown continued, we cooked and thought of recreating a new recipe with leftovers. That’s how we shot the ‘rotla’ video (chapati with leftover rice),” she laughs. Sameera at present is happy filming easy food videos with her mother-in-law and her kids and still does not consider herself a content creator. Does she nurse any peeves? “Self-love comes first and in it is the goal to stay fit. I am not able to continue my fitness and diet routine but I am doing whatever I can to keep myself fit and strong. And when I say fit, it doesn’t necessarily mean I am aspiring for a particular look. I would say ‘be crystal clear with your thoughts and decide to be either black or white’ and avoid being in the grey area.”
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Double trouble||Neil and Kush Nijhawan loved their visit to Mumbai in February so much, they made the bold move to make the city their base for six months of the year. Then the COVID-19 pandemic broke out and their plans had to be put on hold. But that has not hindered their drive to create music and connect with fans. Over a Zoom call, the 26-year-old twins are at their home in Louisville, Kentucky, USA. Ask them to look back on their career so far and name one prominent turning point, and Kush responds, “We started out with zero and at zero. But we started recording in 2018 and our music kept getting better. For me, the turning point was when we dropped the ‘Bombay’ audio — our second recorded track but first release — at the start of 2019. We released a video on May 24, 2019, and that video was picked up by Vh1 India and they played it on rotation six times a day on television. Our début video [which has over 4,00,000 views on YouTube] was picked up by international television!” Kush and Neil add that, up till then, they had received a lot of skepticism from their community about their career choices but the success of ‘Bombay’ effected a lot of pride. “Another turning point had to be when we got onto the cover of Spotify’s playlist Bridge To Bombay; and we’re still on the cover. It’s a popular playlist for a lot of people. We have family in India seeing us on TV which is great.” That said, Twinjabi have their fourth release coming out on June 5: ‘Brown Magic’ which Neil pegs as “an anthem for all the brown girls around the world. It’s a very soulful record with empowering vibes; it’s especially important for brown girls in different parts of the world who were picked on as kids for being brown, to embrace their culture.” Growing fanbases Have the pandemic and lockdowns hindered their creativity? No,they are creating music. “During this time, our social media has grown the fastest, and not just from India. We’d started out with fans from America, India and Canada, which is normal because those places were our bases, but now we see people from other countries — Russia, the Czech Republic, Tanzania and Brazil — enjoying songs like ‘Rani Recognize’ which is a mix of Hindi and English. Some fans don’t understand it but they love the vibe of it.” It is natural to believe that working with family is tough, and Neil and Kush agree to an extent. “Like any brothers, we fight but we love each other. The hardest part is that we are hard on ourselves and hard on each other too, and maybe it is not what the other person wants to hear but they have got to realise it comes from a good place. We are pushing and challenging each other, because I know Neil will kill his part so I have to do the same.” One of the challenges, which the two are overcoming, is learning Hindi as they go. Kush holds up a small Hindi dictionary and explains that lyricising in Hindi does require effort but it is effort they are both happy to continuously make. Neil agrees, explaining that Twinjabi prides on quality control. “We want anything we put out to be the best thing and compete with the A-listers. We really need to bring change to the game, not just the Indian communities. The advantage of our diaspora is that we were born and raised in Louisville, Kentucky, and being Indian, we are bringing so many different elements through our journey.”  We’d started out with fans from America, India and Canada... but now we see people from Russia, the Czech Republic, Tanzania and Brazil
04 June 2020||June 04 2020 00:00 IST,||The ghost of the past||Life in the city is sometimes harsh for people like me, who are troubled with the noise and the lack of breathing space amidst tall buildings. One can only imagine the impact city growth has on birds, and other creatures of Nature. My family never spoke about Nature, since they were busy making a life in a new city post partition. In my maternal grandparents though, stories revolved around ‘when the city was mostly a jungle’. This one time, I showed my grandmother a picture of a bird with a beautiful brown-rufous plumage, perched on one of the ruins in Lodhi Garden. The sides of its head and lower body were redder than the upper body, and its tail was dark brown. The eyes were dark brown, with its beak and legs, black. She had not only seen the bird but had also described its characteristic behaviour of bobbing its body and cocking its tail. How could a person, who didn’t even know what bird it was, explain a habit so peculiar to its individual identity? She later went on to tell me it was quite common near their house in Nirman Vihar, where they had lived. That was a time of single-storied houses with ventilation, crevices and holes for birds to nest. Considering the Brown Rock Chat (or Indian Chat, Oenanthe fusca ) lives most of its life in and around older settlements, we hardly see it in Delhi anymore. It is known as an Indian endemic (found in the Indian Subcontinent, though absent in the extreme south). Both sexes are alike, so impossible to tell apart on the field. They do not show flocking behaviour and are thus found mostly singly or at most in pairs. The bird is mostly found in the plains, frequenting ruins, abandoned buildings, old brickyards, and low rocky hills. In the days of city bungalows, it was bold enough to enter homes and build nests in a vacant shelf, but today it is mainly found on the outskirts, where such houses are still constructed. This species is a prime insectivore, its slender, slightly curved bill helping it to catch and feed on insects like beetles and ants that they capture on ground, mostly by flying down from elevated perches that act as vantage points. While doing so, they often fan their wings and tail. On a drive to the outskirts of the city, we often observe it perched confidently on the edge of roofs of houses, and more commonly on electrical wires. While perched, its characteristic bobbing of the head, raising its tail and fanning it is quite evident. It lets out a short sweet whistling ‘ Chee’ while raising and fanning its tail and often a harsh ‘ check-check ’ when alarmed. Known to be quite pugnacious in nature, it has been observed to readily go after squirrels, rats, lizards and even other birds who try and come near its nest during breeding between February and August. It builds shallow, loosely constructed cup nests (with grass, hair). In almost eight years of my birdwatching career, I have seen the bird just once in the area I live, five years ago, perched on a tall building, with its thoughts echoing in my head: ‘What happened to my home?’ it seemed to ask. Over time, we are losing several species to urbanisation and concretisation. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.   To commemorate World Environment Day and Nature Journaling Week, Ninox will be publishing readers’ words or drawings on social media. Write to ninox.edu@gmail.com for details
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police identify incidents that ‘led’ to north-east Delhi riots||In the chargesheet submitted in the IB staffer Ankit Sharma murder case, the police have also mentioned the chronology of events that led to the riots in north-east Delhi in February this year. A total of 52 persons died in the communal violence and 434 people were injured out of which around 100 sustained gunshot injuries. A total of 783 cases had been registered in connection with the riots. The chargesheet opens with details of violence near Jamia Millia Islamia on December 13 last year. Without obtaining any permission, 2,000 people, including students and local residents, gathered near the JMI metro station with the intention to march towards Parliament, it reads. When the police cordoned off the protesters at gate number 1 of JMI by putting up barricades, the protesters became violent and started pelting stones at the police, which resulted in injuries to over 15 personnel. The document then mentions incidents of violence around New Friends Colony on December 15 when some current and former JMI students, and people having allegiance to political parties as well as their supports, assembled at JMI to protest the newly enacted Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens. They planned to march to Parliament and President House. The mob kept switching roads when prevented from moving and indulged in stone pelting, states the chargesheet. JMI campus violence The police then mentions that later in the night, on December 16, the mob retreated strategically inside JMI campus and used the premises as a cover and started pelting stones. The mob positioned itself to ambush the riot control unit. The police were able to control the situation by temporarily apprehending 52 people under Section 65 of the Delhi Police Act. A total of 97 public persons, 35 police officials were injured; three police booths were also damaged, stated the document. The chargesheet mentions that the students, alumni, teachers and Jamia locals formed the Jamia Coordination Committee to keep the anti-CAA protest alive. From December 16, the protesters blocked one carriageway in front of Gate No. 7 of JMI. “The committee called JNU student Sharjeel Imam, who visited the site and provoked protesters on December 14 to block all cities in north India until CAA/NRC are rolled back... after that riots broke out in New Friends Colony and Jamia Nagar. Harsh Mander visited the site on December 16 and told protesters to not have faith in the Supreme Court and to fight their battle on the roads to get justice. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad visited the site on December 22 and instigated protesters to remain on the road till CAA/NRC/NPR were rolled back... some of the speakers gave hate speeches,” the police stated in the chargesheet. The report also mentioned the Shaheen Bagh protest, and stated that protesters had been blocking the area since December 15. Protesters were not allowing any commuter or vehicle to ply the road, thus causing inconvenience to more than a lakh commuters daily, the police submitted. “After these incidents, people from other areas of Delhi — in a calculated and orchestrated way — replicated the same method of protest i.e. by blocking main roads. On December 17, a mob pelted stones at police personnel in Jafrabad, damaging property and injuring policemen. Since January 15, protesters illegally encroached seven places in North-East District under the guise of staging protests. The illegal occupation of the areas for protest and continued presence on streets drew large gatherings, especially during the evening, and caused incalculable inconvenience to commuters and residents, and created extremely tense and polarised atmosphere in the area,” the police stated in the chargesheet.
04 June 2020||New Delhi,||Man arrested for supplying illegal firearms||The Delhi Police Special Cell has arrested a man for allegedly manufacturing and supplying illegal firearms to criminals in Delhi and adjoining States, officers said on Wednesday. The accused, identified as Yogesh, a resident of Baba Colony in Aligarh, was carrying a reward of Rs. 1 lakh. He was arrested early on Wednesday after a brief exchange of fire, they said. In January this year, the Special Cell arrested three suppliers of illegal weapon, identified as Sajid, Santoshi and Pritam. During interrogation, they revealed that they used to procure the weapons from Yogesh, after which efforts were being made to nab him, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) P.S. Kushwah said that the arrest was made on Wednesday when the accused came to deliver a consignment to criminals in Delhi, near Signature Bridge “Around 5 a.m., when the accused [Yogesh] came with the consignment for delivery, he was challenged and asked to surrender. On seeing the police, he whipped out his pistol and opened fire at the police team. The police also retaliated. They fired one round after issuing a warning,” Mr. Kushwah said. Yogesh fired two rounds at the police officers but they managed to escape unhurt. The accused, however, got shot on his right leg. He fell on the road and his pistol slipped from his hand, the DCP added. He was immediately rushed to Jag Pravesh Chandra Hospital. The accused is currently stable, the police said. 16 pistols Illegal firearms and ammunition — 16 pistols, 56 live cartridges, two fired empty cartridges — were seized and one stolen motorcycle was recovered, the DCP also said. During interrogation, it was revealed that Yogesh had been manufacturing pistols of various bores and sizes since the past 20 years. He used to supply the illegal firearms mainly to criminals in NCR, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. His business was badly hit and he incurred huge losses during the lockdown. He said that he also had to face shortage of raw material. Following the recent relaxation of the restrictions that were imposed during the lockdown, criminals in the Delhi-NCR started contacting him for weapons. However, afraid of checkings during this phase his carriers refused to visit Delhi to deliver the arms. Therefore, he decided to come to the city to deliver those to the criminals in order to revive his business, he added. He used to sell semi-automatic pistols for Rs. 15,000-20,000 and single-shot pistols for Rs. 3,000-Rs. 4,000 to his suppliers respectively, the police said.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pilot robbed at gunpoint near IIT-Delhi, sustains injuries||A 30-year-old pilot sustained injuries when he was allegedly robbed at gunpoint near Indian Institute of Technology here in the early hours of Wednesday. The police said that a case has been registered and an investigation is under way. DCP (South West) Devender Arya confirmed the incident. A senior police officer said that a PCR call was received around 1.30 a.m. regarding the robbery. When the police reached the spot, they were informed that the victim, a resident of Faridabad, was on his way to the airport from home in a cab provided by the company when the incident took place. “The pilot said that two persons came on a scooty, broke the windows and robbed him of his wallet which contained Rs. 10,000,” the officer said, adding that the accused then fled. The pilot added that eight-ten persons on four-five two-wheelers blocked the road and broke the windows of the car. “One guy pointed a countrymade pistol at me from the left side and another poked me with a knife on my thigh. I was overpowered, so I gave up,” he said, adding that they demanded money and he gave them his wallet. The pilot sustained a deep cut on his thigh and got stitches. The victim then called police after reaching IIT-Delhi gate. He claimed that more persons had become victims of the same group within 10 minutes. The police said that a patrolling van chased the accused, but they managed to escape. “Joblessness is a reason... and masks are helping such people hide their identity. If this could happen on a well-lit flyover in a posh area in front of IIT-Delhi, it can happen anywhere,” he said.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anti-CAA protests go online||Members of over 190 student organisations as well as activists and individuals from across the country held protests on Wednesday to highlight the “repression of anti-CAA activists and democratic voices of dissent”, and uploaded photos of their stir on social media. Protesters were asked to gather in small groups in their locality while maintaining social distance to register their protest, and then post images on social media with the hashtag #SabYaadRakhaJaega and #FreeAntiCAAProtesters, to present a unified voice at a time when physical protests are banned. Police and paramilitary forces were deployed at the Delhi University Arts Faculty to ensure that nobody gathered to protest. Delhi Police alerted all district DCPs to be vigilant and stop any protest in their area. The intelligence unit of Delhi Police has also been instructed to gather information about any protests to be organised. “Police deployment was increased at DU campus and South East district after a call of protest was made. It was a peaceful day,” said a police officer. The protesters condemned the arrest of Jamia students Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider, Asif Iqbal Tanha; JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita along with activists Ishrat Jahan, Khalid Saifi, Gulfisha Fatima, Sharjeel Imam, Shifa Ur-Rahman and other Muslim youth. More arrests “Many activists have been booked under the amended Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act as a means of punishing widespread protests against CAA-NRC. It is clear that the spate of arrests are far from over and new names of democratic activists are likely to be added to this already long list,” the organisers of the protest said. They added that many politicians who were openly advocating violence against peaceful protesters have gotten away scot-free.  They protesters demanded the release of all activists of the anti-CAA movement and arrest of the “real culprits of the Delhi pogrom”. Demands were also made to scrap the CAA-NRC-NPR along with the UAPA.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||School owner charged with attempt to murder, rioting||Delhi Police on Wednesday filed a chargesheet accusing the involvement of the owner of Rajdhani Public School in the riots that broke out in north-east Delhi’s Mustafabad in February. The police said that riots took place on February 24 outside Rajdhani Public School in Shiv Vihar, New Mustafabad. The case was registered on the complaint of the owner and manager of DRP Convent Public School, which is adjacent to Rajdhani Public School. In the chargesheet, police said that rioters had camped inside the school and fired bullets from its terrace. They also threw petrol bombs, acid, bricks, stones and other missiles using an improvised iron catapult, specially installed for the purpose. The rioters used ropes to climb down from the terrace into the compound of DRP Convent School, and then set the school on fire. The mob stole computers and other items from DRP Convent School, the police said. The mob also burned down a building belonging to Anil Sweets, located opposite Rajdhani Public School. Dilbar Negi, an employee of Anil Sweets, was trapped inside and his charred dead body was found later by the police, read the chargesheet. “Eighteen people, including Faisal Farooque, owner of Rajdhani Public School, have been arrested,” said a senior police officer. The document added that probe revealed that Mr. Farooque had hatched a conspiracy to precipitate and aggravate riots, in and around his school. On his instructions, DRP Convent School, two parking lots, and the building of Anil Sweets was destroyed by the mob. Statements were taken from the guard at DRP Convent School and the guard at Rajdhani Public School. The latter’s call detail analysis showed links with Popular Front of India, Pinjra Tod, Jamia Coordination Committee, Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz and other Muslim clerics.  In the chargesheet, police say the rioters camped inside the school and fired bullets, and threw petrol bombs from its terrace
04 June 2020||New Delhi,||Not discriminating between ration and non-ration cardholders, govt. tells HC||The Delhi government has informed the Delhi High Court that there is no discrimination being done between the ration and non-ration cardholders in providing relief kits and foodgrains during the lockdown. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, appearing for the government, said a special food relief initiative, “Mukhya Mantri Corona Sahayata Yojana” was launched to provide dry ration to all persons in need of food, even those who do not possess ration card. Under Mukhya Mantri Corona Sahayata Yojana, in order to reduce the economic hardship, provision has been made to distribute one “essential items kit” per household containing 1 kg refined oil, 1kg sugar, 1 kg salt, 1 kg chhole chana , 200 gm chilli powder, 200 gm dhaniya powder, 200 gm haldi powder and two soap bars, during May 2020, to both Public Distribution System (PDS) and non-PDS households. Mr. Jain submitted that the government is also running more than 1,800 hunger relief centres, where approximately 8 to 10 lakh people are served meals daily. The court noted that several steps have been taken by Delhi government to provide foodgrains and cooked food to the public at large, irrespective of whether they have ration cards or not. “In view of these facts, we see no reason to give any further directions to the respondents at this stage,” the court said while disposing of a plea by NGO Nayee Soch Society, seeking direction to the authorities to provide COVID-19 relief kit, foodgrain to the needy people.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police plans video calls for public redressal||As policing is evolving by the day, East district police has distributed 20 Android-supported mobile phones in stations and offices and is planning to use videoconferencing application Zoom to avoid personal meetings for public redressal. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Jasmeet Singh said that phones have been distributed in 11 police stations of the district, DCP office and Assistant Commissioners’ offices. “The plan is to set up the phone on a stand in a separate room in every station and offices. Whenever someone demands to meet officials like Station House Officer or ACP or any other officer in person, duty officials can Zoom call with the official concerned and add others if required,” the officer said. Early hurdles However, the plan is facing hurdles because of wobbly Internet connectivity in a few stations, though police assured they are working to redress the issue. The aim behind the move, Mr. Singh said, is to minimise or avoid personal contact. “Though we are trying to digitise everything, there are people who wish to meet in person for whom we are planning this,” he said. The district is also planning to book video call slots with investigating officers of cases. A senior police officer said that going forward, those who wish to meet the investigating officer in their case will have to book a time slot or vice versa. “For instance, if a victim’s family member or lawyer needs to meet the IO of a case, the officer can give them a time slot for video call instead of meeting in person,” the officer said. For better display In the coming months, the officer said the room that has the smartphone will be attached with a smart TV for better resolution and display. In East district, two Station House Officers – Ghazipur and Madhu Vihar – have recently tested positive and are under quarantine.  Whenever someone demands to meet officials like Station House Officer or ACP or any other officer in person, duty officials can Zoom call with the official concerned and add others if required Jasmeet Singh Deputy Commissioner of Police (East)
04 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘During riots, Hussain was in touch with AAP leaders’||The Delhi BJP on Wednesday questioned how no one in the Aam Aadmi Party was aware of the alleged role that suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain played in the Delhi riots. ‘Protected by AAP?’ “Wasn’t anyone aware about such a big conspiracy in the AAP government?” said newly elected Delhi BJP chief Adesh Kumar Gupta. “Has the Delhi government given its leaders a freehand to burn Delhi? During the riots, Mr. Hussain was constantly in touch with senior leaders of AAP. Even after the riots, AAP leaders kept trying to save Mr. Hussain. Did Mr. Hussain have the protection of AAP for the riots?” he further said.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man shot dead in Mandawali||A 40-year-old man was chased and shot dead in east Delhi’s Mandawali on Wednesday, the police said. They have filed a case and begun probe. The victim has been identified as Rahul Nagar alias Bhuru, a resident of Mandawali. The victim was a bad character of the area and involved in several land grabbing cases. The police were told that the man was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. The police said he was walking in a park when three-four men came and shot him. He was then chased and shot thrice. The motive of the murder appeared to be personal enmity, they said.
04 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two drown in Yamuna||Two boys, identified as Kunal (18) and Rohit (15), both residents of villages in Noida, drowned in the Yamuna on Tuesday. Their bodies were recovered on Wednesday, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) R.P. Meena said that the police control room received a call around 1.30 p.m. and were informed that two boys had drowned in Kalindi Kunj Ghat. Enquiry revealed that a group of boys had come for swimming and two of them drowned. The police said that a rescue operation was launched and the bodies were recovered.
