04 September 2020||New Delhi,||Gen. Rawat pushes for Quad||India wants the Quad to become a system to “ensure freedom of navigation (FoN) and freedom of navigation operations (FONOPS)” in the Indian Ocean and around, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said on Thursday, while highlighting the threat of a combined challenge from Pakistan and China on two fronts, and cautioning Pakistan against taking any advantage of the tensions with China. “As far as Quad is concerned, we feel this is a good arrangement which will ensure that the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) and all other oceans around... there is complete FoN without fear of any other nation singularly trying to dominate the oceans,” Gen. Rawat said at a webinar organised by the U.S. India Strategic Partnership Forum, when asked about the Quad grouping consisting of India, Australia, Japan and the U.S. “We are very keen to ensure that there is complete FoN on the seas and in the airspace above,” he said. On the border situation, Gen. Rawat said the threat from Pakistan would be mainly in the form of proxy war but should any threat develop on the northern borders, the neighbour could take advantage and create trouble there. “Therefore, we have taken adequate precautions to ensure that any such misadventure by Pakistan is thwarted and they are not able to succeed in their mission. But, in fact, they may suffer heavy losses should they attempt any misadventure,” he said. On China, Gen. Rawat said there were border management protocols signed from 1993 onwards that had been modified continuously. “But of late, we have been seeing some aggressive actions by the Chinese but we are capable of handling these in the best suitable way,” he said, without making any specific comment on the ongoing standoff in Ladakh.
04 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Accused in Mangaluru airport explosive substance case takes polygraph test||Aditya Rao, who was arrested for placing an explosive substance at the airport here, underwent a polygraph test at the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) in Bengaluru on Thursday. A team of police personnel from Mangaluru took Rao to Bengaluru on Wednesday. After clearance, following medical tests, the polygraph test started at the FSL on Thursday morning. Rao surrendered himself at the Bengaluru police headquarters on January 22, two days after he placed the explosive substance at the airport on January 20. The Mangaluru police arrested him and a 700-page charge-sheet was filed. He was accused of offences under Section 4 of Explosive Substances Act and Section 16 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Investigation officer K. Belliyappa filed an application before the jurisdictional magistrate court seeking permission to conduct a polygraph test as he suspected that that the accused was hiding some information about the case. Following consent from Rao, the Magistrate permitted the test. The polygraph or lie detector test is one among the three scientific investigation techniques used by the investigation agencies. This test is based on the theory that a person who is lying to a question will produce physiological response that is different from those that arises in a normal course. Instruments such as cardiographs, pneumographs and sensitive electrodes are used to measure the changes in respiration, blood pressure and pulse. Based on the records of psychological response, the truthfulness or falsity is accessed. The Supreme Court in its judgement in May 2010 said that the polygraph, brain electrical activation profile and narco-analysis tests can be carried out only with the consent of the accused. The statement made during these tests has the status of that made before the police and it cannot be admitted as evidence. Any information or material that is subsequently discovered following the test can be admitted as per Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, the Supreme Court said while laying down the procedure required to be followed for these tests.
04 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State continues to register fall in fresh COVID-19 cases||For the fourth consecutive day, Kerala has registered a dip in new COVID-19 cases by at least 1,000 cases, indicating that the Onam lull was really affecting the State's current epidemic picture. On Thursday, testing went up slightly and 30,342 samples were tested, yielding 1,553 new cases. The number of recoveries registered on the same day exceeded the new cases at 1,950. The cumulative case burden stands at 79,625, now that a recovery of 57,728 has been registered so far. The number of patients currently undergoing treatment in hospitals across the State is 21,516. Ten more deaths which occurred in the State between August 26 and 29 and confirmed by the Health Department on Thursday as COVID deaths have taken the toll to 315. Seven of these deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram and the rest from Ernakulam, Palakkad and Kannur. Community spread Even when the case numbers registered a dip, there is no let-up in community transmission as 92% of the new cases reported on Thursday – 1,435 out of 1,553 cases – turned out to be locally acquired infections. Health-care workers affected amongst these cases number 40 and 15 of them are in Thiruvananthapuram. In 156 cases, there is no known source of infection. Thiruvananthapuram district continued to hold the top place in reporting the maximum number of cases and had 317 new cases in its account on Thursday. All except three are locally acquired infections. Ernakulam reported 164 cases, Kottayam 160, Kasaragod 133, Kozhikode 131, Pathanamthitta 118, Thrissur 93, Malappuram 91, Alappuzha 87, Kannur 74, Kollam 65, Palakkad 58, Idukki 44 and Wayanad 18. There are 569 hotspots in the State at present.
04 September 2020||KOCHI,||26 lakh applications for enrolment as voters||A whopping 26 lakh applications have been filed for enrolment as voters on the electoral list as the deadline for enlistment ended last week. The elections to local bodies of the State, due next month, would be held on the basis of the final list to be released on September 26. The unusual number of applications has caught those at the State Election Commission (SEC) off guard as the agency was anticipating only an increase of around 4 lakh voters. On the list Kerala had 2.62 crore voters on the electoral list released by the Election Commission of India in February this year. The number went up to 2,62,24,000 when the list was updated by the SEC on June 17 this year. The massive increase in the number of applications could be construed as an indication of the interest of voters in the democratic process, said Election Commission sources. Though there has been a steep increase in the number of applications, the real number of voters would emerge only after the scrutiny of the applications, SEC V. Bhaskaran told The Hindu . A large number of expatriates and those working in neighbouring States who had returned to Kerala following the outbreak of the pandemic might have submitted their applications hoping to exercise their franchise. This could be one factor which led to the steep increase in the number of applications, explained Mr. Bhaskaran. Duplication There is also the possibility of a large number of voters submitting multiple applications after failing to affix their photographs or providing the required details. This duplication could also have contributed to the increase in the numbers, he reasoned. The scrutiny of applications will be over by September 23 and duplications deleted. If required, the voters would be asked to produce documents for verification. Voters need not personally appear for providing the details and the documents can be submitted online. Those who have missed the enrolment will be provided the final opportunity just before the elections, he said.
04 September 2020||Kolkata,||WB police turn fact-checkers as communal posts rise on social media||From a fatwa issued in a village for banning television and music to reports of idols being vandalised, the police in West Bengal are busy busting fake news even as the State battles the pandemic. On Wednesday, the police tweeted a screen grab of a tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Arjun Singh calling it misleading. “Misleading. Legal action is being taken. Please do not get carried away by provocative and mischievous posts,” the police said. The tweet by the the Barrackpore MP referred to vandalism of a temple in Murshidabad district. The district police said a fire had damaged the temple. Sensitive posts This was not the only incident when the police had to turn to fact-checkers on communally sensitive posts. On August 28, they took note of a video tweeted by Pakistani-born Canadian writer Tarek Fatah and called it fake. “A video clip from Bangladesh is being circulated intentionally to defame the West Bengal Administration. Legal action is being taken,” they tweeted from their official twitter account. On August 19, the West Bengal police posted screen grabs of reports published on several online portals calling them fake. “No TV, no music, no phones. A village in Mamata’s Bengal becomes India’s first Sharia compliant village,” read the report described as fake by the police. There have been various other incidents where the State and the Kolkata police had to go public from their social media handles calling the reports, photographs and videos ‘fake’ and warning that action will be taken for misleading posts. Political observers feel that with the rise of “competitive communal politics” between the BJP and the Trinamool Congress, such posts will only increase till the State goes to polls in 2021. ‘IT cells competing’ “There is also a competition going on where the IT cells of both the BJP and the TMC are trying to propagate fake reports and photos that serve their political interests. This phenomenon shows no signs of abating before the 2021 Assembly polls. Moreover, since the outbreak of the pandemic has put restrictions on political events, the contest on social media is getting more pronounced,” Biswanath Chakraborty, head of the department of political science at the Rabindra Bharati University, said. Prof. Chakrbaroborty, also a well-known psephologist, said people should be cautious not to fall prey to them.
04 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Open university set to become reality||Bringing an end to a decade-long delay, the State is set to have its own open university. The proposed university, named after social reformer Sree Narayana Guru, will be formally launched on October 2 to coincide with the Gandhi Jayanti observance. Making the announcement as a mark of respect to the spiritual leader a day after Sree Narayana Guru Jayanti, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the university would come up in Kollam. Modelled on the lines of the Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), the university, tentatively named Kerala Open University earlier, will subsume the distance education courses of four universities, viz., Kerala University, Mahatma Gandhi University, Calicut University and Kannur University. While enabling people cutting across age groups to enrol for courses, students discontinuing courses midway will be provided diploma certificates. Academicians and subject experts of national and global repute will be roped in for conducting online classes. Infrastructure facilities The infrastructure facilities of government and aided colleges across the State will be utilised for its courses. In addition to conventional courses, the university will offer courses aimed at skill development. Faced with the prospect of the existing universities falling short of the University Grants Commission criteria to offer distance learning programmes, the State had announced its intention to launch the proposed university back in 2009 following a report by a three-member committee headed by academician Ram G. Takwale, former Vice Chancellor of IGNOU. The proposal got a new lease of life after academician J. Prabhash, designated as special officer for the endeavour, submitted a comprehensive report to the government in June last. The university, which will have territorial jurisdiction spread across the State, will bring under one roof all distance education and private registration programmes. The report also recommended transferring all teaching and non-teaching posts in the schools of distance education of universities to the proposed university. Three-tier structure The open university will have a three-tier structure comprising an academic and research council, directors’ council and schools of studies. It is expected to adopt a decentralised system of governance having a headquarters, regional centres and study centres spread across the State.
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Relief for borrowers in moratorium case||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed banks that loan accounts in the clear till the expiry of the moratorium on August 31 should not be declared as non-performing assets (NPAs) till further orders. A Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, spelt relief for borrowers struggling to gain their feet amid a pandemic with its one-liner that “accounts which were not declared NPA till August 31, 2020, shall not be declared NPA till further orders”. The direction was triggered by an assurance from senior advocate Harish Salve, on behalf of the bankers, that “no account shall become NPA at least for a period of two months”. The order was passed amid apprehensions raised by individual borrowers and representatives of various commercial sectors on whether their loans would be declared NPAs on September 1, the day after the expiry of the moratorium. The court is examining the question whether compound interest (interest on interest) should be charged on loans deferred during the moratorium period. The Bench is also examining the powers of the Centre and the National Disaster Management Authority to provide relief to borrowers, reeling under the financial effects of the pandemic. Borrowers are seeking a full waiver of interest chargeable during the moratorium. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre and RBI, submitted that the impact of the pandemic was varied for each sector.
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC orders removal of slums along railway tracks in Delhi||The Supreme Court has ordered the removal of about 48,000 slum clusters located in safety zones along railway tracks in Delhi within three months. In one of the last orders delivered by a Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra, who retired on Wednesday, the court declared “no interference, political or otherwise, should be there” against their removal. It said any order of interim stay passed by any court against the removal of these encroachments shall be deemed ineffective. The court also directed stakeholders to prepare a comprehensive plan for removal of jhuggis (slum clusters). The plan is to be executed in a phased manner. A railway affidavit in the court said there is a “predominant presence” of slum dwellings along 140 km of rail tracks in Delhi. “Of this, about 70 km route length of track is affected by large jhuggi-jhopri clusters existing in close vicinity of the tracks. These clusters sum up to about 48,000 jhuggis ,” the August 31 court order said. Waste removal The court further directed the Railways and the local authorities in Delhi to remove plastic waste and garbage piled up alongside the tracks within three months. It ordered that a meeting of the Railways, Delhi government, municipal corporations and the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board be called next week. Work to remove the garbage should start immediately thereafter. The Railways shall bear 70% of the expenses and the rest will be spent by the Delhi government, the court ordered. It said the Railways had set up a Special Task Force to remove the encroachments two years ago in an effort “to maintain a clean environment along the tracks”. However, “political interventions” came in the way. The court has sought an action-taken report to be filed within a month. The hearing was based on a report filed by the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA), which said the Railways is not following solid waste management rules. The court said the EPCA report and the reply filed by the Railways indicate “nothing has been done so far and waste is being piled up”.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Metro trains to run from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.||Chennai Metro Rail will begin services between Washermenpet and Chennai Airport stations on September 7, and then from Chennai Central to St. Thomas Mount on September 9, with the first train departing at 8 a.m. and the last one at 8 p.m. In what may pose difficulty for air passengers, there will be no direct trains connecting Chennai Central to Chennai Airport via Koyambedu, and passengers have to switch trains at Alandur. Chennai Metro will run with a frequency of five minutes during peak hours (8.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. and 5 p.m. to 8 p.m.) and 10 minutes in non-peak hours. Earlier, trains would stop for 20 seconds at each station, but now the time has been increased to 50 seconds to give passengers time to board and ensure physical distancing is maintained, and also for more fresh air to enter the train. Only smart cards and the QR code-based ticket will be accepted. There will be thermal scanning at the entrance, and passengers have to wear masks during travel.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,||NLSIU to conduct its own entrance test||The National Law School of India University (NLSIU) will conduct its own entrance test for admissions into its BA, LLB programme as well as the LLM programme for the 2020-2021 academic year. Unlike the previous years, the admissions will not be based on their rankings in the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). The entrance test of NLSIU for this academic year will be called the National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) 2020, an online home test that will be conducted on September 12. A notification published on NLSIU’s website states that the decision was taken by the university as there had been “unforeseen difficulties and delays” in the conduct of CLAT 2020. “The postponements of the examination has resulted in uncertainty for students, parents and the participating universities. NLSIU is uniquely disadvantaged as it follows a trimester system where every academic year is made up of three terms of 90 days duration,” the notification stated. Candidates will be tested on subjects that correspond to the subjects proposed to be tested in CLAT. The notification however stated that candidates will have to ensure that they can appear for the examination on the appropriate date and time using a computer device as per the detailed specifications that will be provided, including video and audio inputs. The university has stated that they will not be responsible for any connectivity issues or failure of Internet connection during the examination. It also reserves the right to cancel any candidate’s examination based on misconduct or examination malpractice. The matter was discussed at the faculty meeting as well as the university’s executive council meetings. It was unanimously decided that the university should go ahead with the separate admission process if CLAT 2020 was not conducted on September 7. CLAT 2020 was postponed several times and is now slated to be held on September 28. However, CLAT will be conducted as the entrance test for other national law schools, confirmed Sudhir Krishnaswamy, Vice-Chancellor of NLSIU and secretary-treasurer, Consortium of National Law Universities. Those who wish to appear for NLAT can fill their online application. The process started on September 3 and will close at midnight on September 10. The application fee will be Rs. 150 and Rs. 125 for students belonging to SCs and STs communities.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||No let-up in surge of COVID cases in Telangana||The number of people in Telangana who recovered from COVID-19 crossed one lakh on Wednesday. The total number of cases in the State reached 1,33,406 as 2,817 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus. Of the total, the number of people who have recovered till September 3 was 1,00,013. The recovery rate is 74.9%. A detail which draws interest in this context is the number of people detected with COVID-19 but were asymptomatic. Of the total cases, 92,050 patients did not have any symptoms of the infectious disease, constituting 69% of 1,33,406 cases. The rest 31% had symptoms. There is a wide gap between upper and lower limit on number of people who recovered from COVID-19 in a day. As per statistics in the media bulletins, between 1,000 to 2,700 people recovered in a day. However, between 1,800-3,000 people are testing positive for coronavirus every day indicating prevalence of the infectious disease is still continuing. The new cases on Wednesday include 452 from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 216 from Rangareddy, 164 from Karimnagar, 157 each from Khammam and Nalgonda, 129 from Medchal Malkajgiri,120 from Siddipet,116 from Suryapet, and 114 from Warangal Urban. Ten more COVID-19 patients died. On Wednesday, 59,711 tests were performed and results of 2,537 samples were pending. The total 1,33,406 cases includes 32,537 active cases, 1,00,013 who have recovered and 856 deaths.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Government concocted Ganapathy’s surrender story: CPI-Maoist||The reports on possible surrender of CPI-Maoist Central Committee’s former secretary Muppala Lakshman Rao alias Ganapathy, which appeared in a section of the media, were part of ‘central government’s propaganda conspiracy’, a statement from its Central Committee said on Thursday. Ganapathy’s surrender was a ‘high tension concocted story’, the CPI-Maoist CC spokesperson Abhay stated. The central and State governments along with their Intelligence wings cooked up the surrender story and publicised it through ‘sold out’ media, he said. Condemning ‘such cheap plot’, the CC said the surrender story was a ‘brutal lie’ by governments. The Maoist spokesperson said Ganapathy had voluntarily quit the CC secretary responsibilities due to age and ‘small’ health issues. The duties were assigned to another person. “In world history, such changes are natural in organisations fighting for people. Our leadership is sound and strong ideologically and politically and making ruling classes sweat”, the spokesperson said. In this backdrop, the governments were spreading cooked up stories to defame CPI-Maoist internationally, he stated. Observing that credibility of governments was lost long back, the CC said the present story being spread through media further deteriorated their trustworthiness. It appealed to all sections of society not to believe such false campaigns and launch a united fight against ‘fascist governments’. Alleging that the country’s economy got shattered and unemployment peaked due to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rule, the outlawed CPI-Maoist party said the surrender story was created to instil confidence in corporate sector. It said while World Health Organisation sent out alerts about COVID-19 in this January, the ‘Modi government’ was immersed in praising American President Donald Trump. Then sudden imposition of lockdown due to the pandemic pushed the country’s economy to new lows. During this lockdown period, the Centre undertook steps to hand over country’s resources and wealth to multinational companies. Social activists raising voice against such actions were put behind bars by implicating them in false cases, the statement said. The Centre failed in checking China’s recent aggression. The central government instead played dramas of patriotism and resorted to warmongering through media, the CPI-Maoist charged.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,||New IT policy aims at tech growth beyond Bengaluru||Karnataka, the first State that came out with an exclusive policy for the Information Technology industry back in 1997, has come up with a new five-year policy with a focus on driving tech growth and creating jobs beyond Bengaluru. Deputy Chief Minister and IT/BT Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan told The Hindu that the IT Policy 2020-2025, cleared by the Cabinet on Thursday, will harness the State’s potential and create over 60 lakh IT and IT-related jobs by 2025. “Companies that are willing to relocate or set up businesses in tier II and III locations will receive attractive incentives, including free office space, power, and other facilities. Compared to earlier policies, this is a long-term one and specially focused on rapid growth and employment creation,” he said. IT contribution Through this policy, the State hopes to enable its IT industry to contribute over 30% to India’s goal of reaching a trillion-dollar digital economy. “Our earlier IT policies never had this specific and outcome-based focus and that also makes this policy different,” the Minister said. The new framework will also support a special incentives scheme for the ESDM industry. An investment of over Rs. 5,000 crore is expected to come to the State through this scheme. Plans are also afoot to set up a State Cyber Security Policy to employ the necessary data protection safeguards and sustain a safe and resilient ecosystem. On the impact of COVID-19 on the industry, Mr. Aswath Narayan said, “We don’t expect its impact to continue much longer. Our focus is to develop quality infrastructure outside Bengaluru and encourage entrepreneurs to go out and set up businesses so that a large population of Kannadigas can work from their home as per the new culture brought on by the pandemic.”
04 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Tapping solar power to supply drinking water||A gram panchayat in Dakshina Kannada has begun harnessing solar power to operate a pumpset to supply drinking water to a locality under its jurisdiction in Belthangady taluk. It is said to be the first-of-its-kind initiative in the government sector in the coastal region, thanks to an initiative by Panchayat Development Officer (PDO) of Madantyar Gram Panchayat Nagesh M. The panchayat began tapping solar energy to supply water to about 35 families in Harabe colony in Parenky village a week ago, Mr. Nagesh told The Hindu . He said that water is pumped from a borewell to an overhead tank with 50,000 litres capacity, from where it is supplied to these families. The water tank is just about 75 m away from the borewell. Mr. Nagesh said that the solar project with five hp capacity pumpset has cost the panchayat Rs. 4.53 lakh. The PDO said that earlier the panchayat paid up to Rs. 2.50 lakh as electricity bill per annum for pumping water. By switching over to solar pumpset, it would recover the cost of the solar project in two years, as, otherwise, electricity bill for two years would come to about Rs. 5 lakh, he added. Earlier, it had 6 hp capacity pumpset being operated through electricity. He said that the amount saved will be utilised for other financial needs of the panchayat. Assistant General Manager, SELCO Solar Light Pvt. Ltd., Guruprakash Shetty, whose company has installed the pumpset, said that as per information with the company, Madantyar Gram Panchayat is the first panchayat in the coastal region to tap solar energy to supply drinking water. It can be emulated by other panchayats to save on electricity bills. Though solar energy is available round-the-clock, there is no fear of over-exploitation of groundwater as water from borewells will be pumped only to the required quantity to fill overhead tanks. But, in case of farming, the threat always persisted, Mr. Shetty said. The company will maintain the pumpset for the panchayat for five years at its own cost.  The panchayat began tapping solar energy to supply water to about 35 families in Harabe colony in Parenky village a week ago
04 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra hits fresh peak: 18,105 cases||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded an unprecedented 18,105 fresh COVID-19 cases, its highest single-day surge yet, taking its total case tally to 8,43,844. A spike of 391 deaths pushed its total death toll to 25,586. Of the 391 deaths, 268 were reported in the last 48 hours, while 64 deaths occurred last week. The remaining 59 deaths took place at a prior period, said State Health Department authorities. Thursday’s surge — the first time that the State reported more than 18,000 cases in a day — exceeded Wednesday’s high of nearly 17,500 cases. The number of active cases has risen to 2,05,428. As many as 13,988 patients were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recoveries till date to 6,12,484. At the same time, the State also tested a record 88,000 samples. “The State’s recovery rate stands at 72.58%, while its case fatality rate has marginally reduced to 3.03%,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported a record-high surge of nearly 4,000 cases to take its total case tally to 1,86,122. The district reported 78 deaths to take its total death toll to 4,238. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases in the district stood at nearly 35,500 with the district’s recovery rate standing at 77.64%. Mumbai reported 1,526 cases to take its total case load to 1,50,095, of which 21,439 are active. With 37 fatalities, the city’s toll has risen to 7,764. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported more than 600 new cases as its total case load crossed the 48,00 -mark, while 16 new deaths saw its death toll rise to 1,519. Navi Mumbai reported 10 more deaths and 359 fresh cases to take its total death toll to 664 and its total case tally to 29,802. Nagpur district in Vidarbha recorded its highest surge till date of 1,620 new cases along with 31 deaths. The district’s total case tally has now reached 32,653, of which 14,101 are active, while the total death toll has climbed to 821. Kolhapur reported 468 new cases, taking its total cases to 23,827, of which 6,054 are active, while a sharp spike of 30 new deaths saw the district’s death toll rise to 712. Neighbouring Sangli reported a record surge of 845 cases, which the district’s total case tally to 16,040, of which 6,946 are active. With 24 fatalities, the district’s death toll has climbed to 484. Satara district reported a big spike of 670 cases to take its total cases to 16,096, of which 6,308 are active. A sharp fatality rise of 25 deaths took its cumulative death toll to 388. Nashik district, a major virus hotbed in north Maharashtra, reported a huge spike of 898 fresh cases as its tally reached 42,355, of which 11,410 are active. With 15 new deaths, the district’s total death toll has risen to 920. Jalgaon reported 516 fresh cases and 16 new deaths. The district’s total case tally has risen to 29,488, of which 7,791 are active ones, while the death toll has now climbed to 900. Ahmednagar saw a massive case surge of nearly 740 cases to take its case load to 22,415, of which are 4,535 are active. With seven fatalities, the total death toll has risen to 310. “Of a total of 43,72,697 laboratory samples tested thus far, 8,43,844 (19.29%) have returned positive, with nearly 88,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” Dr. Awate said. A total of 14,27,316 persons across the State were in home quarantine and 36,745 were in institutional quarantine facilities.
04 September 2020||Chennai,||Alagappa varsity to excavate site at Sivaganga village||The findings of ancient coins, pottery pieces, semi-precious stones and glass beads in Ellanthakarai at Kalayarkoil taluk in Sivaganga district has spurred excitement among historians and archaeologists. As the area is believed to be a potential site for archaeological study, Alagappa University in Karaikudi has submitted a proposal to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to excavate it in the next season. Local enthusiast It is locally known as Vellar Thidal. The site was first noticed by local enthusiast K. Ramesh, a photographer in the village. “He has collected pottery and antiques belonging to various cultural periods from the Iron Age to the late medieval period. The mound yielded pieces of evidence from the Iron Age and late medieval historic periods such as black-and-red ware, all black ware, red slipped ware and coarse red ware,” S. Rajavelu, adjunct professor, History department at the university, told The Hindu . Mr. Rajavelu said the university would conduct the excavation and the Vice-Chancellor N. Rajendran approved the proposal. The university is now awaiting permission from the ASI. The other members of the excavation team include AR.Saravanakumar, S.Paranthaman, M.Murugan and A.Ambedkar. He said the team also collected a few white painted potsherds with graffiti marks and noticed a large number of pottery sherds of the above periods in the site. “We again visited the site along with the experts of the Archaeological Survey of India TSP Chennai Region to understand the cultural sequence and importance of this site and concluded that the site was occupied since the Iron Age to late medieval period,” Mr. Rajavelu explained. The habitation mound covers an area of about 10 acres with a 2 to 3 metres thick deposit. The entire mound explored by the staff of the History department yields clues that the site has potential for excavations.  Antiquities The exploration team collected lots of antiquities, including beads, copper drill bit, bangles, coins, and iron objects. Mr. Rajavelu said the local man collected two interesting coins. One was a punch-marked silver coin, another one a gold coin of late period. The punch-marked silver coin is rectangular in shape. The gold coin was circular. “It has been identified as the Syrian gold coin with Arabic legend. The gold coin belongs to Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan in 697 CE. Apart from these, two copper coins were also found at the site. They are circular in shape. They belong to the medieval Chola period,” he said.
04 September 2020||ERODE,||Driver booked after bus knocks dead four||The 45-year-old driver of a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation bus was booked for negligence after the bus fatally knocked down four members of a family, including two women, at Lakkapuram Puduvalasu on Muthur Road in Erode, on Thursday morning. The victims, identified as Balasubramani (55) of Kulur village in Modakurichi, his mother Pavathal (80), his sister Maragadham (58) and her husband Mohanampuri (60), were returning to their native on two two-wheelers from Solar Amman Nagar after attending a condolence. At 8.15 a.m. while nearing Puduvalasu, the bus (route no. 42), driven by Merick Prabhu, was on its way from Sivagiri to Erode, and hit the two-wheelers coming in the opposite direction and dragged them for a few metres and then hit a compound wall and stopped. In the impact, all the four were crushed under the wheels of the bus and died on the spot. Two passengers and the driver also sustained injuries. Two cranes were deployed to remove the bus and extricate the bodies. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai, who inspected the spot, told The Hindu that initially a mechanical defect in the bus was suspected to be the reason for the accident. But, inquiries revealed that the driver’s negligence had caused the accident, he said. The visibility on the road was good, and the road was little elevated at the spot and the bus was running at a normal speed. “The victims were moving at the extreme left of the road and the bus hit them and dragged them and stopped after hitting the wall”, he said and added that the Modakurichi police registered a case under Sections 304 (A) (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code against the driver, who is undergoing treatment at the hospital. After bus services resumed on September 1, the driver was on his first day of duty and his first trip from Sivagiri to Erode.
04 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,||CBI officials question police constables, health official||The CBI team investigating the custodial death of Sattankulam trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks on Thursday grilled two constables of Kovilpatti East police station as the father and son died in the Kovilpatti Government Hospital which falls under the jurisdiction of this police station. The CBI investigators, who reached Kovilpatti on Thursday around 2.45 p.m., questioned constables Sivakumar and Karuppasamy separately and recorded their statements. They also interrogated former Deputy Director of Health Services, Thoothukudi, Pon Esakki and Kovilpatti government hospital staff Vanaja and Arunachala Perumal at Kovilpatti East police station and recorded their statements, sources said. After the father and son were allegedly subjected to custodial torture by Inspector Sridhar, sub-inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh and other police personnel on June 19 at Sattankulam police station throughout the night, the badly injured duo was lodged in the Kovilpatti sub-jail. As Jayaraj and Benicks developed serious health issues, they were admitted to the Kovilpatti government hospital. While Benicks succumbed to his injuries on June 22 around 9 p.m., his father breathed his last on June 23 around 5.30 a.m. As the custodial deaths triggered nationwide upheaval, the State government handed over the case to the CB-CID for investigation. Even as the CB-CID was conducting the probe, after registering a murder case against Sridhar, Balakrishnan, Raghu Ganesh and seven others and arresting them, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court handed over the case to the CBI.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||HC posts SEC plea on ‘police interference’ to September 7||A single-Judge Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court comprising Justice D. Ramesh posted to September 7 the hearing on a petition filed by State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar against the alleged interference of State Home Department, Director-General of Police, Additional DGP (CID) and CID SHO (cybercrime)-Mangalagiri in the functioning of the constitutional body. A separate petition filed by the Commission’s Assistant Secretary K. Samba Murthy seeking a stay on his arrest by the CID for allegedly destroying the evidence related to a letter written by Mr. Kumar to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs about the threat to his life will be heard along with the matter raised by the SEC. In his petition, Mr. Kumar, who won a protracted legal battle with the State government over the A.P. Panchayat Raj (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, which resulted in his ouster from the post of SEC, informed the court that the above respondents were obstructing the functioning of the commission by filing frivolous criminal cases thereby stifling its independence. He sought the declaration of their actions as illegal and in contravention of the spirit of Article 243-K of the Constitution. Mr. Kumar also prayed for declaration of the FIR filed by CID on Mr. Samba Murthy as violative of Articles 14, 21 and 243-K and contrary to provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973. Further, the SEC appealed to the court to direct the Secretary of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to order a probe, preferably by CBI, into the inquiry being conducted in his (SEC) office. Mr. Kumar said the respondents registered criminal complaints in the wake of the High Court judgment against the impugned ordinance to make the commission to subjugate itself to the ruling executives.
04 September 2020||GUNTUR,||Free power scheme for farmers here to stay: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has made it clear that not even a single free power connection will be disconnected, and asked the Cabinet Ministers to put at rest any misgivings about the free power scheme. Addressing the Cabinet meeting at the Secretariat on Thursday, Mr. Jagan said that power supplied to farmers was always free, and added that all connections in the free power scheme would be regularised. “Moreover, we are launching reforms in the power sector such as Direct Benefit Scheme, in which farmers would be credited money in their accounts, and they in turn pay the bill to the Discoms. Reforms in the power sector are among four conditions to get FRBM relaxations. We are spending Rs. 8,000 crore every year on free power scheme. Even the expenses incurred towards setting up of meters will be borne by the government. We are adding 10,000 MW of solar power, and a free power scheme would be continued for the next 30 years. I am also making it clear that uninterrupted nine-hour power supply will be given in all feeders from Rabi season. Let me also remind that free power scheme is the brainchild of YSR and no one can take away the credit, including N. Chandrababu Naidu,” said Mr. Jagan. Stating that he had set his eyes on providing quality and uninterrupted power supply for nine hours, the Chief Minister said that his government had allocated Rs. 1,700 crore for upgradation of feeders after it had emerged that in 40% of feeders, there was no basic infrastructure. Mr. Jagan said that during Mr. Naidu's regime, the government had not paid arrears of Rs. 8,000 crore to Discoms, and added that his government had cleared all the arrears. The free power scheme with reforms would be launched in Srikakulam district from April 1, 2021 on a pilot basis, the Chief Minister added.
04 September 2020||GUNTUR,||State bans online gaming, betting platforms||Following the Centre’s ban on online games such as PUBG, the Andhra Pradesh Cabinet has decided to ban online gaming and betting platforms and gave its consent to changes in the AP Gaming Act - 1974, imposing stringent punishment to those charged with gambling. Under the new laws, those convicted of playing banned online gaming platforms would be awarded six months of imprisonment, and two years of jail for repeat conviction. Among the major decisions taken by the State Cabinet, meeting which was presided over by Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy, include a decision to credit money directly into accounts of farmers availing themselves of free power scheme under direct benefit transfer scheme, creating new posts of divisional development officers in the cadre of Deputy Directors in Panchayat Raj Department between the cadre of MPDOs and Joint Collectors, establishment of AP State Development Corporation — a public limited company to fund planning and social and economic development. The other decisions include constructing two new barrages downstream of Prakasam Barrage at an estimated cost of Rs. 2,565 crore. The new barrages would come up between Chodavaram village in Penamaluru mandal and Ramachandrapuram village in Mangalagiri mandal; and between Mopidevi mandal in Krishna district and Turupupalem in Repalle mandal. The Cabinet also approved the Detailed Project Report of Varikepudisila Irrigation project at a cost of Rs. 1,273 crore. It also gave its approval to Babu Jagjivan Ram Sujala Sravanthi scheme benefiting north coastal districts at a cost of Rs. 15,389.80 crore. The project envisages stabilisation of 8 lakh acres in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts . Administrative approvals were given to 14 reservoirs in the Rayalaseema region. The Cabinet approved the land acquisition of 51.07 acres at Bapatla and 41.97 acres in Markapuram mandal in Prakasam district for setting up of medical colleges. Ban extended The Cabinet extended the ban on Communist Party of India (Maoist) and other parties affiliated to it such like Radical Youth League, Rythu Coolie Sangam, Radical Students Union, Singareni Labour Union and Viplava Karmika Samakhya. It approved the AP Fisheries Ordinance 2020 under which a Fisheries University would be set up in West Godavari district.
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to examine if State can ‘impose’ English medium||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to examine whether Andhra Pradesh can insist on making English the medium of instruction in schools. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud will delve into whether imposing English on a multitude of schoolchildren, whose language of instruction is their mother tongue, will amount to depriving them of an effective education guaranteed to them under Article 21A (fundamental right to education) of the Constitution. The Andhra Pradesh government has approached the Supreme Court challenging its State High Court decision to strike down a government order of November 2019 which made English medium education compulsory from classes I to VI in primary, upper primary and high schools under all managements from 2020-21. It was to be gradually extended to each further class from the next consequent academic years. The court issued notice but refused the State’s plea to stay the High Court order. The Bench ordered the case to be listed after three weeks. Senior advocate K.V. Vishwanathan, for the State, hailed the government order as a ‘progressive measure’.“It is progressive and practical. People are today moving out of government schools. Important to note that if not for English, I would not have been able to address the court. English is important,” Mr. Vishwanathan submitted. Justice Chandrachud referred to how Section 29(2)(f) of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act of 2009 says the “medium of education shall, as far as practicable, be in the child’s mother tongue”. Justice Chandrachud suggested the High Court might have had this provision in kind when it struck down the government order in April. Mr. Vishwanathan said the Supreme Court should interpret the phrase “as far as practicable” in the Section. Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, for the petitioners who had approached the High Court, said the government order stripped the right of choice from the parents and the students. “This is about choice which is being taken away from the parents and children,” he submitted.
04 September 2020||Mumbai,||Governor allows students to give exams online||Maharashtra Governor B.S. Koshyari has given permission for students to appear for the final year examinations online from the comfort of their homes, State Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant said on Thursday. Mr. Samant said the State government will request the University Grants Commission (UGC) to extend the existing deadline for conducting the examinations from September-end to October-end, and added that the difficulty level of the exams will also be lowered. “Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has given permission to the final year students to appear for exams online. They can give exams from their home. We are also planning to bring the results out by October 31 to save the students’ academic year,” Mr. Samant said. The Supreme Court had last week upheld the UGC guidelines and said no State and university can promote students in the final year/terminal semester without conducting examinations. The court also ruled that the UGC’s directives to universities and colleges to hold final year exams by September 30 was well within its domain. Meeting with VCs The minister along with Prajakt Tanpure, junior minister in the department, had met Mr. Koshyari at the Raj Bhavan on Wednesday to discuss the issue of conducting exams in light of the Supreme Court verdict. The minister said he held a meeting with 13 Vice-Chancellors of public universities on how to conduct the final year examinations as directed by the apex court. “We are planning to conduct the practical examinations in September itself. All the papers and their evaluation will be completed before October 31 and the result will be out by that time,” he said. The practical exams could be held from September 15 onwards, Mr. Samant said. “We are also trying to hold these exams online instead of making the students visit colleges. We are also going to request the UGC to extend the existing deadline of conducting examinations from September-end to October-end. We will bring down the toughness of the exams as well,” he said. In its order, the Supreme Court had said if any State or Union Territory, in exercise of its jurisdiction under the Disaster Management Act, has decided that it is not possible to conduct the examination by September 30, then they can make an application to the UGC for extending the deadline.
04 September 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal COVID-19 tally reaches 1.71 lakh mark with 2,984 new cases||West Bengal on Thursday recorded 2,984 new COVID-19 cases, taking its total case tally to 1,71,681. The State also recorded 55 fatalities, pushing its cumulative death toll to 3,394. The recovery rate in the State improved to 84.02%, with 3,335 more patients recovering from the disease. Of the total case load, the number of active cases stands at 24,039. Of the latest victims in the State, 15 were from Kolkata and 12 from North 24 Parganas district. With the fresh deaths, the total death toll in Kolkata has increased to 1,333, while in North 24 Parganas district, the cumulative toll has surged to 769. Kolkata recorded 472 new cases, taking its total case tally to 41,573 . In North 24 Parganas, 731 fresh cases were recorded in the past 24 hours, pushing the cumulative case load in the district to 35,990. A total of 45,291 samples have been tested in the State since Wednesday.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Commuters can use app to top up Namma Metro smart cards on Sept. 7||With services set to resume on September 7, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) will be introducing an app to allow commuters to top up their smart cards with ease. Commuters currently have the option of topping up their cards on the BMRCL website Those who wish to purchase new cards can do so at stations using cashless modes of payment. In a press release, BMRCL said, “All passengers shall use online payments for topping up cards online or via the app. The app will be available to download on September 7.” BMRCL has advised passengers to ensure that their smart cards have sufficient balance as they will not be allowed to top up at stations. Passengers have also been advised to top up their cards an hour before entering the stations. “Some commuters who had initiated a recharge from the BMRCL website have not been able to present their card for topping up within 60 days. BMRCL has transferred back all such amount to the respective card holders,” said the release. Such commuters can apply for a fresh top up.
04 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam Rifles asked to shift base from Aizawl||Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga has asked the Assam Rifles to shift its base from the heart of State capital Aizawl to Zokhawsang about 15 km away at the earliest besides stepping up vigil along the border with Myanmar to check drug trafficking. One of the battalions of the Assam Rifles, India’s oldest paramilitary force established in 1835 as the Cachar Levy, had moved to the State capital in 2019. The Mizo National Front government had in 1988 asked the Assam Rifles to shift from Aizawl after the killing of 12 civilians in an “encounter”. The party returned to power in 2018. A Mizoram government spokesperson said on Thursday that the issue of shifting was taken up a day earlier at a meeting between Mr. Zoramthanga and Lt. Gen. Sukhdeep Sangwan, the Director General of Assam Rifles (DGAR), besides easingthe stand-off over the force’s alleged violation of COVID-19 protocols and boycott of the Independence Day celebration. The DGAR also met Mizoram’s Chief Secretary Lalnunmawia Chuaungo over the ongoing cold war. The stand-off between the Mizoram government and the Assam Rifles began on August 18, when 15 personnel of the force’s 46th Battalion allegedly forced their way into the State ignoring COVID-19 safety protocols.  Complaint to MHA On August 24, Mr. Chuaungo wrote to the Home Ministry complaining about the alleged violation and the I-Day “boycott” by the paramilitary force. Shifting of Assam Rifles bases from urban centres in the Northeast has been a sentimental issue, as the paramilitary force is seen as a reminder of many a conflict. A long-pending demand in Manipur was fulfilled in November 2004 when the Assam Rifles moved out of Imphal’s Kangla Fort, from where Manipuri kings ruled for 2,000 years. The paramilitary force had occupied the fort for 113 years.
04 September 2020||KHAMMAM,||Patient commits suicide in Khammam||In a shocking incident, a 60-year-old woman patient of the COVID-19 ward in the District Headquarters Hospital here allegedly committed suicide on the hospital premises on Thursday night. The police identified the deceased as Mariyamma of Buddharam village in Nelakondapalli mandal of the district. Sources said that she ended her life by hanging with her sari inside a toilet on the premises of the hospital around 8 pm on Thursday. The incident sent shock waves among patients and staff of the COVID-19 ward in the hospital. When contacted, two-town circle inspector of police T Gopi told The Hindu that depression might have prompted the poor woman to resort to the extreme step. Further investigation is under way, he said. (Roshini - Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000)
04 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Onam effect after two weeks, says CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has warned the public not to be fooled by the comparatively low COVID-19 cases reported in the State in the past two days as the Onam effect on disease transmission will become evident only after two weeks. The next two weeks are going to be quite crucial in the State as far as disease pattern is concerned. Briefing media here on Thursday, Mr. Vijayan said the testing numbers had dropped in the past three or four days as the festive mood prompted many people to stay away from testing. While the test numbers were low, the test positivity rate had been quite high and had gone up to 8%. New clusters Hence, new clusters and a higher disease transmission rate might become evident in the next few days. He appealed to the public to maintain high vigil, to protect themselves at the individual level and to take precautions such as wearing masks and physical distancing as a ‘social vaccine’ till the real vaccine came along. He said that even though many shops had exercised restraint during Onam, absolutely no controls were maintained in some quarters. Though shops had been asked to maintain the names and addresses of all visitors, this had not properly been observed. In this context, a model adopted by Kozhikode, that of a QR code scanning system, had been found to be quite successful. All visitors to shops have been asked to scan a QR code displayed there. If at all there is a risk of a COVID-19 outbreak, all these visitors would be given an alert. This can be tried elsewhere too, Mr. Vijayan said.
04 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Two killed in blast at plywood unit||Two persons were killed in a blast at a private plywood manufacturing company at Surampalli Industrial Estate, in Gannavaram mandal on the outskirts of the city on Thursday. The deceased have been identified as A. Koteswara Rao and his son A. Chinna Rao, who were running a scrap unit. Fire, Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and police personnel rushed to the spot and collected samples. “The impact of the blast was severe, but the reason for the incident is not known immediately. The deceased came to the spot to collect empty rexine tins,” said Krishna District Fire Officer (DFO) M. Srinivas Reddy. Police are trying to find out whether there were any explosive or inflammable material in the scrap. The bodies were shifted to the Government Hospital Mortuary.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Maoists condemn reports on Ganapathi’s surrender||The Central Committee of the banned CPI (Maoist) on Thursday condemned the news reports in the media that reported that the former general secretary of the party Muppala Lakshmana Rao alias Ganapathi was negotiating a surrender with the Telangana government. A statement released by the party’s official spokesperson Abhay not only condemned the report but also termed it as a false propaganda engineered by the Union government and intelligence units of Chhattisgarh and Telangana. In a letter, the Maoists claimed that Ganapathi had voluntarily stepped down in November 2018, paving the way for Nambala Keshava Rao alias Basavaraj, due to age factor and minor illness. The letter pointed out that such changes were common in any revolutionary party across the globe and there was no need to read between the lines. It was a ploy to dent the image of the party, the statement said. COVID pandemic It also blamed the BJP-led Union government for not handling the COVID pandemic issue well, which had led to economic collapse and huge unemployment. In the statement, the Maoists also criticised the Union government for failing to deal with China diplomatically, which had led to a war-like situation in the Ladakh region. The Maoists alleged that the Union government was trying to push its Hindutva agenda by raking up a veiled nationalistic design.They accused the Central Government for arresting people like Varavara Rao, Sai Baba and Rona Wilson, who tried to raise their voice against the failure of the government and injustice being done to common people.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||For a good haul||
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||FB ‘unfriends’ Raja Singh for violating policy||Amid a controversy over its alleged bias in implementing its own hate speech rules in India, Facebook has banned Bharatiya Janata Party leader T. Raja Singh from its platforms for “violating its policy on content promoting violence and hate”. “We have banned Raja Singh from Facebook for violating our policy prohibiting those that promote or engage in violence and hate from having a presence on our platform. The process for evaluating potential violators is extensive and it is what led us to our decision to remove his account,” a Facebook spokesperson said.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||New Revenue Act to come up in Assembly||The new Revenue Act to be enacted by the legislature, “injustice” to States in payment of GST compensation and the `illegal' construction of Rayalaseema lift-irrigation scheme by Andhra Pradesh were among several issues proposed to be raised by the State government in the Assembly session from September 7. The issues were flagged by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at a meeting on Friday. Mr. Rao told the meeting that the government will also propose for discussion of issues like spread of coronavirus in the State and put them before the business advisory committee of the Assembly prior to the commencement of the session.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Ready for the haul||
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Ready to roll||
04 September 2020||Kolkata,||BJP worker dies in police custody||A 24-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party worker (BJP) has died in police custody Uttar Dinajpur district. The State BJP leadership on Thursday alleged that custodial torture led to the death of Anup Kumar Roy. “We cannot imagine this kind of police atrocities. Where is the law and order of West Bengal sliding to,” State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said. Mr. Ghosh called party workers to launch a protest and said the manner in which Roy was summoned to the station and the way the police hurriedly carried out a post-mortem was “illegal.” Superintendent of Police, Uttar Dinajpur, Sumit Kumar, said the deceased was summoned for questioning in a robbery case on Wednesday. He said, “Suddenly he became unconscious and when he was taken to hospital doctors declared him dead. A post-mortem was done which revealed that the death was due to brain haemorrhage.”
04 September 2020||Pune,||Former Pune Mayor dies of COVID-19||Socialist leader and former Pune Mayor Dattatraya Ekbote (84), who had recently tested positive for COVID-19, passed away early on Thursday at Sassoon General Hospital. Ekbote, who had fought for rights of bidi workers and other deprived classes and was affectionately known as ‘Datta’, had held positions in the Samajwadi and the Janata parties before joining the NCP. According to sources, Ekbote had futilely contacted a number of private hospitals to secure a critical care bed after he had tested positive. Eventually, he admitted himself to Sassoon Hospital where he reportedly was not receiving proper treatment. “It was only after an ex-corporator got in touch with local Congress leaders, senior NCP leaders, and the BJP MP from Pune, Girish Bapat, that critical care facilities were made available for Ekbote,” a Pune Municipal Corporation corporator said.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Ready to roll||
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||India is best place to invest, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday made a pitch for India as an investment destination and reliable player in global supply chains. Delivering the keynote address at the U.S. India Strategic Partnership Forum via video link, Mr. Modi said nobody could have imagined when 2020 began that the year would turn out this way, with a global pandemic impacting everyone. Looking forward, he called for “ramping up our capacities, securing the poor, and future proofing our citizens”.
04 September 2020||Kolkata,||3 more varsities to hold exams in virtual mode||Three more State universities on Thursday said they would be conducting the final semester examinations in virtual mode in October and publish the results by end of the month. The varsities are North Bengal University, Vidyasagar University and Raiganj University. Vice-Chancellor of North Bengal University Subiresh Bhattacharya said, “We will be conducting the exams from October 1 to 8 in virtual mode.” He said the university will be emailing questions to the colleges who will send them to students. The students can write the exams digitally or download the paper and submit the answers to the collection centre set up by the university within 24 hours.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Duraimurugan, T.R. Baalu set to be elected||The election of DMK treasurer Duraimurugan as the party’s general secretary and Parliamentary Party leader T.R. Baalu as treasurer has become a foregone conclusion as no rival candidates are in the fray. Thursday was the last day for filing of nominations for the two top posts, and no other nominations were received than those of Mr. Duraimurugan and Mr. Baalu. The scrutiny of nominations will take place on Friday. “Since this is a ‘by-election’, their election will formally be announced by party president M.K. Stalin at the general council meeting on September 9,” a senior leader said. The post of general secretary fell vacant after the death of veteran leader K. Anbazhagan.
04 September 2020||BENGALURU,||BBMP polls: Govt. may seek postponement||There is a likelihood of the government approaching the High Court seeking extension of time for holding elections to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, as it is considering increasing the number of wards.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,||State’s COVID-19 toll crosses 6,000||COVID-19 fatalities in Karnataka, which have been on the rise since July, touched 6,054 on Thursday with 104 deaths in 24 hours. What is worrisome is that the State has added 1,000 deaths to its toll in a week after it recorded 5,000 deaths.
04 September 2020||BENGALURU,||State to take up Rs. 600-cr. watershed project||Karnataka is set to implement a Rs. 600-crore project for brining 10 lakh hectares of parched land in 10 districts under watershed development with World Bank assistance. The State Cabinet cleared this proposal on Thursday, said Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||Bars to be allowed on trial basis in Delhi||Bars in hotels, restaurants, and clubs will be allowed to function on a trial basis in Delhi from September 9 to 30, stated a DDMA order.
04 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Kafeel Khan demands reinstatement in service||Gorakhpur paediatrician Kafeel Khan on Thursday demanded his reinstatement in the U.P. medical service. He said he was facing “state-sponsored victimisation” for trying to expose corruption.
04 September 2020||Coimbatore,||Streams change course in Thadagam valley||Uncontrolled operations by brick kilns in Thadagam valley has affected the flow of rain-fed streams that are part of the Sanganoor Pallam, which in past used to recharge Singanallur tank in the heart of Coimbatore, activists have alleged.
04 September 2020||Kolkata,||State Assembly session on September 9 and 10||A two-day session of the State Assembly will be held on September 9 and 10 in strict compliance with COVID-19 guidelines. Every individual entering the House during the period will have to undergo an antigen test.
04 September 2020||Kolkata,||Metro and State officials discuss resumption plans||Senior officials of Kolkata Metro and West Bengal government held a meeting at the State Secretariat on Thursday to discuss the modalities of putting in place physical distancing norms and crowd management for resumption of services. The officials will meet again on Friday. So far no decisions on the dates when the services will resume have been announced.
04 September 2020||HUBBALLI,||Nine COVID-19 deaths in Dharwad district||Dharwad district recorded nine COVID-19-related deaths while Haveri district recorded four deaths and Gadag recorded three on Thursday. Meanwhile, Belagavi district recorded 454 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 245 discharged patients. Dharwad recorded 342 new cases and 203 discharged patients, Davangere 222 new cases and 139 discharged patients, Gadag 183 new cases and 150 discharged patients, Haveri 139 new cases and 100 discharged patients, Bagalkot 123 new case, one death and 79 discharged patients, Uttara Kannada 182 new cases, one death and 43 discharged patients and Vijayapura reported 131 new cases, two deaths and 173 discharged patients.
04 September 2020||Pune,||First nearby||Stating that the daily rise in fresh COVID-19 cases in western Maharashtra is “alarming”, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday urged the district administrations to involve local self-help groups in the fight against the virus and ramp up contact tracing and door-to-door screening.
04 September 2020||Mumbai,||Second nearby||MNS chief Raj Thackeray on Thursday wrote to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding the reopening of temples in the State. He asked why the government is refusing to open the doors of temples when it has allowed even malls to resume operations.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai’s daily tally drops below 1,000||Tamil Nadu registered 5,892 new cases of COVID-19 and 92 fatalities. Chennai’s daily count dropped below the four digit mark to 968.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Admission counselling evokes poor response||The single window counse- lling for admissions to government arts and science colleges evoked lukewarm response. The first phase of counselling began on August 26 and will end on Friday.
04 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Kafeel Khan asks Adityanath to reinstate him in his U.P. job||Gorakhpur paediatrician Kafeel Khan, released from the Mathura jail after the Allahabad High Court set aside his detention under the National Security Act, on Thursday demanded his reinstatement in the Uttar Pradesh medical service. He said he was facing “state-sponsored victimisation” for trying to expose corruption in the system. Dr. Khan was suspended from Gorakhpur’s Baba Raghav Das Medical College on charges of medical negligence and dereliction of duty in 2017, when 63 children died apparently because of lack of oxygen cylinders. He has not been reinstated despite two government inquiries clearing him of the charges. Addressing a press conference here, Dr. Khan said the High Court’s judgment holding his detention under the NSA illegal was historic, as it had proved that his seven-month incarceration was based on fictitious charges. The case was registered against him for delivering a speech against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act at a demonstration in Aligarh Muslim University in December last year. “As the High Court has quashed the charges against me, I would ask Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to give me back my job. I wish to work as a researcher to find out medicines for treatment of COVID-19 infection and offer my volunteership in the vaccine research programme,” Dr. Khan said. Refuge in Rajasthan The paediatrician said he and his family members had come to Rajasthan as they felt safe here. “After my release[from jail], I could be framed in another concocted case in Uttar Pradesh. My family felt that Rajasthan is safe... It is a Congress-ruled State. I want to spend some quality time with my family here.” Dr. Khan also thanked the Congress and Samajwadi Party leaders for extending support to his family. “Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi spoke to my mother when I was in jail. I am also thankful to [SP leader] Akhilesh Yadav,” he said, adding that he had sought an appointment to meet Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot. Dr. Khan alleged that he was tortured by the Special Task Force of Uttar Pradesh police after his arrest in Mumbai on January 29 and was ill-treated in the jail. “The STF sleuths asked me weird questions like if I had invented a powder to kill people and had visited Japan to topple the government. I was not given food for several days in the jail.” On a sarcastic note, Dr. Khan said he wanted to thank the STF for not killing him in an encounter while taking him from Mumbai to Aligarh. The case against him had affected his family, he said, while pointing out that his aged mother and wife had to run around for approaching the courts during the pandemic and the businesses of his two brothers were destroyed.  ‘U.P. govt. victimised me’ “My one-and-a-half-year-old son does not recognise me, as I have been mostly away to jails in a series of cases. The Yogi Adityanath government has victimised me because I tried to expose the system which involved regular commissions on purchase of equipment to those sitting in Lucknow,” he said. Dr. Khan said he would go to the flood-affected areas in Assam and other States after spending some time in Rajasthan and arrange multiple free medical camps for treatment of people suffering from water-borne diseases. Another project initiated by his family for establishment of a 500-bedded encephalitis centre on the Uttar Pradesh-Bihar border had been stalled because of the cases registered against him, he said.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Most new cases added by Karnataka||Telangana’s COVID-19 case tally on Wednesday stood at 1,33,406, as 2,817 more samples tested positive. Ten more patients died. Among those who tested positive, 92,050 did not have any symptoms, constituting 69% of cases. Wednesday’s cases included 452 from Greater Hyderabad, 216 from Rangareddy, 164 from Karimnagar, 157 each from Khammam and Nalgonda, 129 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 120 from Siddipet, 116 from Suryapet, and 114 from Warangal Urban. Andhra Pradesh reported 75 more deaths and 10,199 new infections on Thursday. For the ninth day, the State witnessed over 10,000 new infections: over 94,000 in nine days. Samples tested increased to 39.05 lakh as 62,225 were tested in the past day. The overall positivity rate of tests was 11.92%. East Godavari reported more than a thousand new infections and 10 new deaths, the highest tally and toll respectively among the districts. Chittoor and Guntur followed with nine deaths each while Anantapur, Krishna and West Godavari reported seven deaths each. Nellore reported six deaths, Kadapa five, Kurnool and Srikakulam four each and Prakasam three deaths. Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram reported two deaths each. Prakasam district had over 46% active infected cases and Vizianagaram 38%. For the fourth day, Kerala registered a dip of about 1,000 COVID-19 cases over recent trends, indicating a lull caused by Onam. On Thursday, testing rose and 30,342 samples were tested, yielding 1,553 new cases. The cumulative case burden was 79,625. The number of patients under treatment in hospitals was 21,516. Ten more deaths which occurred between August 26-29 and confirmed on Thursday as COVID-19 deaths raised the toll to 315. Seven deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, others in Ernakulam, Palakkad and Kannur. Community transmission contributed 92% new infections. Thiruvananthapuram district added 317 cases. On a day when Tamil Nadu added another 5,892 cases of COVID-19, Chennai’s daily count dropped to 968 after reporting 1,000-plus cases for 20 days. However, the cases continued to rise in Coimbatore and Cuddalore with 593 and 590 persons testing positive for COVID-19 respectively. The State’s overall tally of cases climbed to 4,45,851 of which 52,070 persons were presently under treatment. Another 6,110 persons were discharged, taking the total number of persons discharged to 3.86 lakh. The toll continued to rise in the State as another 92 persons succumbed.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, and Chennai bureaus)
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||Negotiations the way forward, says MEA||The situation along the disputed boundary over the past four months is a direct result of the actions taken by the Chinese side that sought to effect “unilateral change of status quo” and negotiations are the way ahead, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday, as Army chief Gen Manoj Naravane visited Leh and forward areas in Ladakh to review the operational situation amid heightened tensions on the South Bank of Pangong Tso. At Chushul, Brigadier-level talks between India and China continued for the fourth day in an attempt to de-escalate tensions but ended inconclusively. The IAF said Chief of the the Air Staff (CAS) Air Chief Marshal (ACM) R.K.S. Bhadauria visited frontline air bases in the Eastern Air Command (EAC) on Wednesday. The Army Chief is on a two-day visit to Leh to review operational preparedness in the Ladakh region following recent developments, an Army source said. He also visited some forward areas near Chushul. The Brigadier-level talks resumed at around 11 a.m. and ended around 3 p.m. but remained inconclusive like the earlier three rounds. There is no positive outcome so far and ground level talks are a continuous process, a second source said. Responding to queries on the situation in Ladakh, MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava referred to the “provocative actions” by People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops on August 29 and 30 and said, “These actions resulted in violation of the bilateral agreements and protocol, which ensured peace and tranquillity in the border areas for close to three decades. Now the way ahead is negotiations, both through the diplomatic and military channels.” Reiterating India’s firm commitment to resolve all outstanding issues through peaceful dialogue, the Spokesperson urged China to sincerely engage the Indian side with the objective of expeditiously restoring peace and tranquillity in the border areas through complete disengagement and de-escalation in accordance with the bilateral agreements and protocols. On ACM Bhadauria’s visit, the IAF said in a statement, “On arrival at the bases in EAC the CAS was received by respective Air Officers Commanding who apprised him of the readiness state and operational preparedness of the combat units under their command.” In a pre-emptive move on August 29 and 30, the Army occupied some unoccupied heights in the Chushul sector from Thakung to Rechin La within the Indian perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), foiling the PLA’s attempts to dominate the heights. In the military talks, China has demanded that India withdraw troops from these heights, which has been rejected by India.
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||70% COVID-19 deaths occurred in 5 States||Emphasising that while life is important, livelihood is equally vital, the Union Health Ministry on Thursday said India is undertaking the unlocking process, despite rise in COVID-19 cases, with adequate precautions, preparedness and awareness. Speaking at a press conference, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that five States — Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra — currently account for 70% of total COVID deaths in the country. But only two States — Karnataka and Delhi — show an increase in daily deaths. There is an increase in the case fatality trajectory in two States — Karnataka and Delhi. Delhi has seen 50% and Karnataka has seen 9.6% increase in average daily case fatality, he said. “Looking at the rise in the number of active cases and deaths in Delhi, we are engaging with the Delhi government and have given some specific instructions to the government. If those are followed, we are sure that the number of cases can be brought under control, as has been done before,” said Mr. Bhushan. There had been a 13.7% weekly decrease in the number of active COVID-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh, 16.1% decrease in Karnataka, 6.8% decrease in Maharashtra and 23.9% decrease in Tamil Nadu, 17.1% decrease in Uttar Pradesh. “Five States — Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra account for 62% of total active cases in the country,” said Mr. Bhushan. He added that while the daily COVID-19 positive numbers were increasing, this had to be seen in the context of total population. “The government has adopted a graded approach of opening the economy, ensuring adequate testing capacity, clear guidelines of clinical treatment protocol and enhanced hospital infrastructure,” he said. Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research, participating in the conference, said the results of the use of plasma therapy for COVID-19 treatment undertaken in 39 hospitals across India would be released soon. “Also, the second sero-survey has started in the whole country (70 districts). We should get the results soon,” Prof. Bhargava added, while stating that researchers were looking into the time period for which a person gets immunity against the virus after being infected. The Ministry also released data on the positivity rate among healthcare workers. In Telangana, 18 per cent of the healthcare workers were infected, while it was 16 per cent in Maharashtra, 14 per cent in Delhi, 13 per cent in Karnataka, 12 per cent in Puducherry and 11 per cent in Punjab. 68,584 discharged Mr. Bhushan also said that India registered the highest recoveries in a single day on Thursday — 68,584 COVID-19 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. “This has led to a surge in the total number of recovered patients, which is nearly 30 lakh (2,970,492). With this, India’s recovery rate amongst the COVID-19 patients has crossed 77% (77.09%). The number of recovered patients has outpaced the active cases (8,15,538) by more than 21.5 lakh,” said Mr. Bhushan. India has also conducted over 11.7 lakh (11,72,179) sample tests for COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. With this achievement, the cumulative tests were more than 4.5 crore (4,55,09,380), said the Ministry.
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC set to hear plea by six States against conducting JEE, NEET||A three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court led by Justice Ashok Bhushan is scheduled to hear on Friday a petition filed jointly by Ministers from six States against the conduct of the JEE Mains and the NEET-UG amid the pandemic. They have sought a review of the court order on August 17 refusing to entertain a petition by students to postpone the two tests. They said lakhs of students should not fall prey to the Centre’s “knee-jerk” and “haphazard” plans, which would prove “worse than the disease itself”. The other judges on the Bench are Justices B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari. The National Testing Agency (NTA) had notified the JEE between September 1 and 9. The NEET for medical seats are scheduled for September 13. The JEE Mains is slated to be conducted over 660 exam centres, with 9.53 lakh students taking it. The NEET will see 15.97 lakh students in 3,843 centres across the country. Ministers Moloy Ghatak of West Bengal, Rameshwar Oraon from Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh’s Amarjeet Bhagat, Maharashtra’s Uday Ravindra Samant and Raghu Sharma and Balbir Singh Sidhu of Rajasthan and Punjab, respectively, had moved the Supreme Court through lawyer Sunil Fernandes. The petition was filed shortly after a meeting was held among Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and six Chief Ministers of States not ruled by the BJP. The Ministers said the situation was grave enough to recall or postpone the exams.
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||FB ‘unfriends’ BJP leader for violating policy||Amid a controversy over its alleged bias in implementing its own hate speech rules in India, Facebook has banned BJP leader T. Raja Singh from its platforms for “violating its policy on content promoting violence and hate”. “We have banned Raja Singh from Facebook for violating our policy prohibiting those that promote or engage in violence and hate from having a presence on our platform. The process for evaluating potential violators is extensive and it is what led us to our decision to remove his account,” a Facebook spokesperson said. The action comes after The Wall Street Journal alleged that Facebook violated its own hate speech rules in favour of some individuals, including those associated with the BJP. This was done after opposition from Ankhi Das, head of public policy at Facebook India. Ms. Das had reasoned that punishing violations by politicians from the BJP “would damage the company’s business prospects in the country”. The report had also highlighted posts by Mr. Singh that labelled “Muslims as traitors” and asked that “Rohingya refugees in India should be shot”. Ankhi Das’s posts A separate report by the paper said Ms. Das, over the past years, had shown support for the BJP via posts in a Facebook group for employees, while disparaging the Opposition. For instance, the day before the BJP won the 2014 national election, Ms. Das said, “We lit a fire to his social media campaign and the rest is of course history.” In a separate post on the defeat of the Congress, she wrote: “It’s taken 30 years of grassroots work to rid India of state socialism finally”. Responding to the allegations, Facebook India vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan had said that the platform was “non-partisan” and denounced hate and bigotry in any form. “There is no place for hate speech on our platform. We have an impartial approach to dealing with content and are strongly governed by our community standards. We enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position, party affiliation or religious and cultural belief,” he had said. On Wednesday, Facebook India officials were grilled by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology on safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms, including special emphasis on women’s security. Facebook India officials, including Mr. Mohan, were caught in the middle of a shouting match between the Opposition and the BJP members as each side blamed the social media giant for alleged bias towards the other. Recently, Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad wrote to Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg, raising “serious concerns” over concerted efforts by the platform to reduce the reach of people supportive of the “right-of-center ideology”. The Minister highlighted that the India staff of the company was dominated by people belonging to a particular political belief, who on record abuse the Prime Minister and Cabinet Ministers.
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||5 CSIR labs got no money from technology transfer||Some labs of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) — India’s premier laboratory research network — have earned no money from technology transfer since at least 2015, according to data by the Council accessed by The Hindu via the Right to Information Act. Of the 38 labs of the CSIR, 11 responded with information to The Hindu ’s queries, posed in February, on the number of technologies developed, numbers licensed and the money earned from technology transfer since 2015. Some said they were unable to respond because of COVID-19 restrictions. Five of the labs that responded said they had received “no royalty from technologies commercialised 2015-2020”. These were the CSIR-IMTECH (Institute of Microbial Technology), Chandigarh; CSIR-AMPRI (Advanced Materials and Processes Research Institute), Bhopal; CSIR-IIP (Indian Institute of Petroleum), Dehradun; CSIR-Fourth Paradigm, Bengaluru; CSIR-CBRI (Central Building Research Institute), Roorkee. Other labs reported significant revenue. The CSIR-IICT (Indian Institute of Chemical Technology), Hyderabad, reported earnings of Rs. 2 crore last year and three out of four years before that, at least Rs. 1 crore from licensing technologies. The CSIR-CEERI, Pilani (Central Electronics and Engineering Research Institute) reported earning Rs. 25 lakh last year and Rs. 15 lakh the year before, and the CSIR-CFTRI (Central Food Technological Research Institute) Rs. 60 lakh and Rs. 75 lakh in preceding years. The CSIR’s revenue isn’t from technology transfer alone but also from providing consultancy services and the RTI response didn’t include such revenues. Not all research labs of the CSIR are for technology development and several have a mandate of developing technologies for poorer sections of society, according to a CSIR official.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Study links rice intake to diabetes||Higher consumption of white rice regularly is associated with an increased risk of diabetes, observes a paper published after studying 1,32,373 individuals from 21 countries over 9.5 years. A total of 6,129 individuals newly developed diabetes in this period. The paper published in the recent edition of the peer-reviewed journal Diabetes Care , indicates that the higher the consumption of white rice, the greater the risk of developing diabetes. The highest risk, according to the paper, was seen in South Asia, which had the highest consumption of white rice at 630 grams a day. In Southeast Asia, it was 239 g a day, and in China, which the paper says has no significant association, 200 g a day. The observations form part of the Prospective Urban Rural Epidemiology (PURE) study anchored by the Population Health Research Institute (PHRI), Hamilton Health Sciences and McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada. Commenting on the results, Bhavadharini Balaji, from the PHRI, first author of the paper, said, “This is the largest study on white rice intake and incident diabetes ever done. It is also one of the first to be done across different countries and confirms that white rice intake is one of the contributors to the diabetes epidemic in South Asia.” The study acknowledges the role of reduced physical activity as a contributing factor, as also increase in obesity rates, while it does adjust for various other diabetogenic factors, including family history. Other factors too “We cannot say that eating white rice is the only cause for diabetes. There are indeed other factors. However, it is clear that the combination of decreased physical activity and high consumption of carbohydrates doubles the risk of getting diabetes,” said V. Mohan, chairman, Madras Diabetes Research Foundation and second author of the paper. Trying to establish the link, the paper advances a couple of theories. “It is known that excess rice consumption leads to postprandial glucose spikes that, in turn, lead to compensatory hyperinsulinemia [excess secretion of insulin] to maintain euglycemia [normal blood sugar levels]. Over time, the b-cells become exhausted, leading to b-cell failure and diabetes,” the paper argues. Further, it reasons that it is possible that the type of rice is different in China (sticky rice), that the vegetables, pulses or meat consumed with the rice blunts the GL (Glycemic Load) of the rice, or that the consumption of rice itself has decreased in China in recent times. “Our recommendation is not to stop eating white rice completely. We are saying, instead of making it 70%-80% of your meal, cut it down by 20%-30% and replace it with proteins, salads and vegetables, and healthy fats from nuts and seeds,” Dr. Mohan added.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Talks key to resolving India-China tensions’||The solution to the India-China situation at the Line of Actual control has to be found in diplomacy, said External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, repeating his recent statements on the importance of talks to resolve tensions. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) confirmed that Mr. Jaishankar will travel to Moscow for the SCO Foreign Ministers’ meeting on September 10, where China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi will be present. “We have to work our way through this,” he said, referring to the stand-off at the LAC in Ladakh over the past four months, at the launch of his book The India Way on Thursday. “I am being realistic and am in touch with the ground situation. But I am convinced that the way out is through diplomacy, and that will happen if both sides understand that it is in each of their best interests if the events of this summer are not repeated,” he said. ‘Long acquaintance’ Confirming that he will meet Mr. Wang when he travels to Russia next week, Mr. Jaishankar said that he has known Mr. Wang for a “long time”, and left it for all “to guess” what their conversation would be. The MEA has said that the Chinese Army has violated the consensus reached between Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Wang, with its actions at the LAC. Mr. Jaishankar, who was in conversation with Observer Research Foundation president Samir Saran, said that it is important to take a long view of the relationship between India and China, which has been “difficult” in more recent times, but has been “good in many parts” as well. “This is not the easiest of times in the relationship, but I have taken the long view [in the book],” he said, “It is imperative and vital for both [India and China] to reach an accommodation.” When asked about the seeming contradiction in his planned meetings with Russian and Chinese leaders in the next week at the virtual BRICS and the SCO FMs meets, while also preparing for the meeting with U.S. Secretary of State and Foreign Ministers of Quad Allies Australia and Japan next month, Mr. Jaishankar said that it may seem “curious” but it is the current reality of the world to belong to different groupings for different issues. On multilateralism He also said that the most “impactful and startling shift” in the world has been wrought by the “changed approach of the United States” towards multilateralism and towards its alliance partners. During the launch, Mr. Jaishankar was congratulated by a range of world leaders through video messages, including the Foreign Ministers of Australia, the UAE and Singapore, as well as Maldivian Speaker and former President Mohamed Nasheed, who praised the book.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India is abusing national security, colluding with U.S.’||China on Thursday hit out at India’s move to ban 118 Chinese apps, accusing New Delhi of “abusing the concept of national security” and suggesting India was coordinating with the United States in its actions against Chinese companies. China also criticised U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun’s comments earlier this week on the border row, accusing the U.S. of “meddling”. “Regarding the China-India boundary issue, China always advocates finding a fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solution through peaceful and friendly consultations,” the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi said in a statement. “For a period of time, the two sides have been in touch and in talks at various levels to seek peaceful settlement of the boundary issue. China and India have the ability to resolve their border disputes bilaterally. We don’t accept countries outside the region pointing fingers, let alone meddling or making instigation, which will only endanger the regional peace and stability.” In Beijing, both the Commerce Ministry and the Foreign Ministry issued statements hitting out at India’s app ban. “The Indian side abused the concept of ‘national security’ and adopted discriminatory restrictive measures against Chinese companies, violating relevant WTO [World Trade Organization] rules. China urges India to correct its wrong practices,” Ministry of Commerce spokesperson Gao Feng was quoted as saying by state media. ‘Mutually beneficial’ “India’s ban against Chinese apps not only damages the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese investors and service providers but also harms the interests of Indian consumers and the investment environment of India as an open economy,” he said. “China-India economic and trade cooperation is mutually beneficial and win-win. It is hoped that the two countries will jointly maintain the hard-won cooperation and development situation, and create an open and fair business environment for international investors and service providers, including Chinese companies.” In a separate statement, the Foreign Ministry in Beijing suggested there was coordination between India and the U.S., which on Wednesday welcomed the move to bar 118 apps, which followed the previous June order to ban 59 Chinese apps. “I have noted that the U.S. State Department on the same day said India banned more than 100 Chinese apps and called on other countries to roll out the Clean Network initiative. So I don’t know if there is any correlation or interaction between India and the U.S.,” said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying. Ms. Hua accused the U.S. of carrying out “digital gunboat diplomacy” and “coercing and robbing Chinese businesses”, and said China “hopes India could stay committed to its precious independence in decision-making”. “India is an ancient civilisation with wise people, they should know what the U.S. has done in cybersecurity, for example Dirtbox, Prism, Irritant Horn, Muscular and undersea cable tapping,” she said referring to reported wiretapping and malware programmes. “We hope the people of China and the people of India can conduct normal exchange or cooperation in all sectors, and they should not, because of temporary short-sightedness, hurt the long-term interests of both countries and the peoples,” Ms. Hua said.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka HC rider to State govt. over Vrishabhavathi river diversion project||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday imposed a rider on the State government and Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd. (CNNL) over the project of diverting the current course of Vrishabhavathi river to construct a diversion weir and channel to prevent flow of contaminated river water to Byramangala tank located in Ramanagaram taluk. The court made it clear that further works of the project would be subject to court’s orders, while restraining the State and its authorities from felling more trees for the project, work of which has already been started. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Hemant Chandangoudar passed the order on a PIL petition filed by Bangalore Environment Trust, Bengaluru and others. The petitioners said that the project was taken up at an initial cost of Rs. 110 crore by CNNL. Around 500 million litres of toxic, frothing waste water is proposed to be diverted unscientifically from Byramangala tank directly to downstream rivers, thereby not only destroying the tank completely but also worsening the quality of water of Arkavati and Vrishabhavati rivers. “The project is undertaken arbitrarily without any scientific basis with bathymetric studies or study of the viability of the project within the river basin or the environmental impacts caused by diverting the natural flow of the river on the whole river basin or the economic impact upon the farmers and other villagers whose livelihood is entirely dependent upon the waste water of the Byramangala lake,” the petitioners alleged. Pointing out that it is not a drain or sewage outfall to be diverted casually as it is a minor river flowing 69 km before joining the major river Arkavati, which ultimately joins river Cauvery, the petitioners claimed that the project does more damage than good. Ironically, the petitioners have contended that the project irreversibly damages the ecology of the very tank it intends to protect, and construction of concrete diversion canal across the lake bed significantly reduces the lake area.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||SC to hear plea on English medium in A.P. schools||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to examine whether Andhra Pradesh can insist on making English the medium of instruction in schools. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud will delve into whether imposing English on a multitude of schoolchildren, whose language of instruction is their mother tongue, will amount to depriving them of an effective education guaranteed to them under Article 21A (fundamental right to education) of the Constitution. The Andhra Pradesh government approached the Supreme Court challenging the State High Court’s decision to strike down a government order of November 2019, which made English medium education compulsory from Classes I to VI in primary, upper primary and high schools under all managements from 2020-21. It was to be gradually extended to each further class from the consequent academic year. The court issued notice but refused the State’s plea to stay the High Court’s order. The Bench ordered that the case be listed after three weeks. ‘Progressive measure’ Senior advocate K.V. Vishwanathan, for the State, hailed the government order as a “progressive measure.” “It is progressive and practical. People are today moving out of government schools. Important to note that if not for English, I would not have been able to address the court. English is important,” Mr. Vishwanathan submitted. Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, for the petitioners who had approached the High Court and are now respondents in the top court, said the government order stripped the right of choice from the parents and the students.
04 September 2020||Kozhikode,||AKG Centre has links with gold smuggling case: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran has alleged that not just the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), but AKG Centre, the headquarters of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)], too is involved in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling scandal. After inaugurating a one-day hunger strike by Kozhikode district president of the BJP V.K. Sajeevan here on Thursday demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Mr. Surendran said the remand report submitted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in court had mentioned that the gold smuggling case had also links to religious extremists. He said it was shocking that suspects in the gold smuggling case had links with the Bengaluru-based celebrity drug racket. Anoop Mohammed, who was taken into custody in connection with the drug racket, was a benami partner of Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, he alleged.
04 September 2020||Hyderabad,||UoH to conduct exams for final semester||After deciding to promote the final semester students in June this year based on the continuous assessment and Cumulative Grade Point Average, the University of Hyderabad plans to cancel the results and conduct examinations online to facilitate their graduation as per the Supreme Court directions given to the UGC. Flexible options However, the varsity has decided to give flexible options to students since most of them are away, and this will be done in coordination with the Deans and Heads of the Department concerned. In an open letter to the students, the Vice-Chancellor Podile Appa Rao said that end-semester examinations will be conducted online for the final semester post-graduate students from September 16. The decision, he said, was taken at a meeting of a high-level committee headed by the two Pro Vice-Chancellors and followed by a discussion with Heads of Department and Deans of Schools. The Vice-Chancellor said the university was compelled to comply with the orders of the Supreme Court on August 28 upholding the guidelines of the UGC to declare the results only after conducting end-semester examinations for the final semester students. Or else, there is a danger of degrees going unrecognised causing immense trouble to the students. He said those students who are unable to attend the exams from September 16, will have another opportunity to appear in the second spell of exams scheduled for October 5. Prof. Appa Rao further explained that while the earlier decision was taken with the best interests of students in mind, after the SC judgement, the University has scheduled the end-semester examinations so as to not jeopardise the future of students if their degrees were to be invalidated by regulatory authorities. “The Heads and Deans will work out a range of flexible options to administer the examinations online and minimise the inconvenience to students,” he said in the letter. He assured the students that the University administration, along with the academic leadership of various units, will come up with a range of flexible options for the online examination and minimise the trouble to the students.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Metro services will resume in graded manner, says official||The Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) has announced resumption of operations from September 7 in a graded manner with frequency of trains at five minutes each and no stoppage plus closure of five stations which are located in the ‘containment’ zones. On the first day, only Corridor 1 or the Red Line from Miyapur to L.B. Nagar will be made operational from 7 a.m. to 12 noon and again from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. From Sept.8, Corridor III or the Blue Line from Nagole to Raidurg will also be operated during the same timings. On Sept. 9, the Corridor II or Green Line from JBS to MGBS too will become operational. “Frequency of trains will be enhanced or decreased depending on the passenger traffic and to avoid crowding. Metro stations of Gandhi Hospital, Bharat Nagar, Moosapet, Musheerabad and Yusufguda will be shut as they are in containment zones,” said HMR MD N.V.S. Reddy on Thursday. He had earlier held a meeting with L&T Metro Rail MD & CEO K.V.B. Reddy and other senior officials to discuss the safety measures to be taken for resumption of the services. Following were the decisions taken at the meeting: in order to ensure social distancing, suitable markings at stations and inside trains are being done for passengers to stand and alternate seats will be marked ‘x’ inside the train and kept vacant. Social distancing would be monitored through CCTV by the main control room, station controller and also the train operators. Wearing of face mask is mandatory for all passengers and staff. Masks would be supplied on payment basis to those arriving without mask and penalty as per regulation would be imposed for any violation. Only asymptomatic persons would be allowed to travel after thermal screening at entry into the stations. Symptomatic persons would be advised to go to nearby COVID Care Centre/hospital for testing/medical attention. Use of ‘Aarogya-Setu App’ would be “encouraged”. Pedal-type sanitizers would be kept at entry into the stations for use by passengers with PPE kits and sanitisers to be provided to employees/security personnel, likely to be in proximate contact with commuters and for longer duration. Considering the potential of coronavirus to spread quickly, security personnel/private guards have been instructed to ensure adequate safety while frisking commuters without diluting security drill. Smart Card and Mobile QR ticket with cashless/online transactions would be encouraged. Passengers would be advised to travel with minimum luggage and avoid carrying metallic items for easy and quick scanning. They would be encouraged to carry a small bottle of sanitiser with them. Parking spaces would be opened for travellers as per guidelines. Mock drills, keeping in view various scenarios post COVID-19, are being conducted before commencement of the metro operation. Metro authorities would keep close liaison with the police, medical authorities and local administration for regulating crowd outside the stations and dealing with contingencies. L&TMRH chief operating officer Anil Kumar Saini, senior officers D. V. S. Raju, S. K. Das, Ananda Mohan, Vishnu Vardhan Reddy, and B. N. Rajeswar attended the meeting.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Associate’ of actor held in drug case||The Central Crime Branch on Thursday made its first arrest in the drug racket that allegedly has links to the Kannada film industry. The accused Ravi Shankar, a second division assistant, is a close associate of actor Ragini Dwivedi, said a senior police officer. The anti-narcotics wing of the CCB had issued a notice to the actor on September 2 to appear before them for questioning. “However, she did not report to the station citing ill health, and a second notice has been issued to her to appear for questioning on Friday,” said a police officer. Her name cropped up during the course of investigation on the involvement of actors and singers in the Kannada film industry. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police, said: “Ravi has been arrested for links with dealers and involvement in drug peddling.” According to Mr. Patil, since Wednesday, the anti-narcotics wing has detained 20 peddlers who had previous cases. Suspects include a hotelier and an event manager who owns a casino in Sri Lanka with close ties to film stars. Five-day custody Ravi has been remanded in five days of police custody. Meanwhile, actor Indrajit Lankesh reportedly submitted evidence on the racket. He, too, had been issued summons by the CCB when he announced that he was aware of the nexus between people in the film industry and those in the drug trade. At the time, he claimed drugs worth Rs. 4 crore were sold during lockdown. City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant on Thursday evening visited the CCB head office to get updates on the progress of the investigation.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Many parents take children out of schools||Online classes may be the new normal for schools now, but not everyone is happy about this model of education. Many parents have decided to pull out their children from private schools for the current academic year. While some say that they want to give their children a ‘gap year’ during the pandemic, others who are unhappy with the online mode of teaching have decided to homeschool their children. Financial constraints or a worry that too much screen time will have a negative impact are the other factors at play here. A marketing professional from Benglauru, who has decided to pull out his three-and-a-half-year-old son from school, said. “There was insane pressure on parents to ensure that the homework was completed and submitted on the portal daily. There were a minimum of four periods every day, with only a 30-minute break for lunch. We felt it was a horrible thing to make a child, who is not even four, to sit in front of a computer to attend classes every day,” he said. He also acknowledged that it is not feasible for working parents to supervise their children during online classes. “I find that in online classes, teachers do not acknowledge that children learn at their own pace. We don’t want our child to join the rat race so early in life,” he added. He and his wife have decided to homeschool their son for a limited time every day. Rising trend Sandhya Viswan, who started Homeschoolers’ Nook a social media page to build a community of parents who homeschool their children, has observed increasing interest in this form of education. She has been fielding queries from parents over the last few months, once people realised that the number of COVID-19 cases was not going to drop any time soon. “The number of parents who have approached me to discuss homeschooling has almost doubled in the last few months. From an average of a hundred enquiries every month, it has risen to 200,” she said. Financial constraints Many families also say that they have no choice but to remove their children from school as their salaries have taken a hit or they’ve lost their jobs. Appanna P.P. said that his daughter, who is in class 6 in a school for children with special needs, has been unable to attend online classes since last month as he has not been able to pay the fees. “Government schools do not provide a conducive environment for students with special needs and I can no longer afford the fees of a private school. So my child will ultimately lose an academic year,” he said. Rishikesh B.S., associate professor at Azim Premji University, said that while a ‘gap year’ can help a child if it is planned well, parents must be able to provide all the resources that will help them engage in activities that will lead to their cognitive development. “If not planned well, it will lead to a gap in the student’s life where they will be left behind compared to their peer group,” he said. While affluent families may be able to weather the storm, people from lower income groups don’t have that luxury. “In a society like ours, where more than a quarter of the population is in extreme poverty, other evils such as child labour, bonded labour, and child abuse can ensnare the child,” said Mr. Rishikesh.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||Azad presides over meeting of key parliamentary group||Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, presided over a virtual meeting of the parliamentary strategy group of the Congress on Thursday, ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament, in which it was decided that the Opposition would demand restoration of Question Hour. The Monsoon session, delayed because of COVID-19, will get under way on September 14 and will end on October 1. The timing of the meeting is significant as it comes just 10 days after an explosive meeting of the Congress Working Committee in which Mr. Azad, one of the 23 signatories, or G23 (Group of 23), who had signed a letter addressed to party chief Sonia Gandhi questioning the party’s functioning, had received a lot of flak from colleagues. It was a closed door meeting. Sources said Mr. Azad and Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, will write to Chairman of the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha Speaker to restore Question Hour.  Thursday’s meeting, that included another member of G23, Anand Sharma, was the first after Ms. Gandhi rejigged the parliamentary group last week, a move that was largely seen as a snub to dissenters.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||SC rejects women Army officers’ plea||The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to hear a plea by a batch of Short Service Commission women officers seeking benefits of permanent commission in the Army. These officers completed 14 years of service only in March. The court had held that only women officers who had completed 14 years of service before or by February 17 would be considered for permanent commission. “If we relax that date of cut-off, then there will be no-stop. Where do we draw the line?” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, heading a three-judge Bench, asked. The court pointed to advocate Meenakshi Lekhi, appearing for the 19 applicants, that their plea amounted to a review of the court’s verdict itself. Ms. Lekhi said that though the cut-off date fixed by the court was that of the judgement, February 17, the government order accepting the cut-off date and grant of permanent commission came only in July. But the court said any relief granted to this batch would open the floodgates for more such petitions. Senior advocate R. Balasubramanian, appearing for the Centre, opposed the application and said that it could not be left open-ended. He said the present applicants had not completed 14 years of service as on February 17.
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Experts flag concerns on EIA notification||A group of Special Rapporteurs to the United Nations has written to the Centre expressing concern over the proposed Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification 2020 and sought the government’s response on how the provisions of the notification were consonant with India’s “obligations under international law”. Special Rapporteurs are independent experts working on behalf of the United Nations. They work on a country or a thematic mandate specified by the United Nations Human Rights Council. In their letter, the five experts say the proposed notification appeared to have clauses that obstructed people’s rights to a safe, clean and healthy environment. These were the clauses that exempted several large industries and projects from public consultation — as part of the environment impact assessment process — and the rapporteurs argued that the exemptions were unwarranted, particularly when there was a serious gas leak from (LG Polymers) chemical plant in Visakhapatnam on May 12.  Environment Ministry Secretary, R.P. Gupta, told The Hindu that nothing in the proposed EIA, 2020 violated the UN Declaration of Human Rights and that the rapporteurs’ concerns were “misplaced”. The proposed EIA was still a draft and issued for public consultation and that there were several imperfections in the existing EIA that were to be amended in the new notification. With regard to post facto clearances, the violation of not taking prior approval would be “punished as per law” and projects that were already running would be considered only on merit.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||PM’s Twitter account hacked||The Twitter account of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s website narendramodi.in was hacked early on Thursday morning, with hackers attempting to solicit cryptocurrency from his followers. The U.S.-headquartered social media giant said it was aware of this activity and had taken steps to secure the compromised account. “We are actively investigating the situation. At this time, we are not aware of additional accounts being impacted,” a Twitter spokesperson said in an emailed reply. Twitter suffered a major hack in July last wherein some hackers were able to get access to its internal systems to take control of the accounts of major public figures and corporations, including U.S. presidential candidate Joe Biden, former U.S. President Barack Obama, billionaire Elon Musk, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos and Apple. However, the hack of Mr. Modi’s account, as per investigation by Twitter, was not due to a compromise of its systems or service. There was no indication or evidence of any correlation between this account compromise and the incident that took place in July, it added. The Twitter account of his website has 2.5 million followers, and follows 968 accounts.
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Clause in secular marriage law violates right to privacy, says plea||A secular marriage law that makes accessible to all and sundry the personal details, including mobile phone numbers, of adults who want to enter wedlock has come under challenge in the Supreme Court. The Special Marriage Act is intended to help consenting adults, especially those who belong to different religions or castes, to marry. But certain provisions of the Act, like Section 6, require the personal details of the couple to be published for 30 days at the Marriage Registrar’s office. The details include their names, date of birth, age, occupation, parents’ names and details, address, pin code, identity information, and phone number. The provisions in the Act allow anyone to submit objections to the marriage if they come to know of it through this public notice. The Marriage Officer is empowered to enquire into these objections. Law student Nandini Praveen, represented by advocates Kaleeswaram Raj and Nishe Rajen Shonker, said the publication of private details was a violation of the privacy of couples. “In other words, couples are asked to waive the right to privacy to exercise the right to marry. This infringes the rights of autonomy, dignity and the right to marry, of various couples,” Ms. Praveen argued in her petition.
04 September 2020||Srinagar,||PDP leaders stopped from attending meet||Senior leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) were on Thursday not allowed to leave their homes to attend the party’s first meeting at its headquarters in Srinagar since August 5 last year. The meeting was scheduled for 11 a.m. “I was stopped by policemen manning my house from coming out of my residence. The government tells the Supreme Court and the world community that political leaders are free but the reality is completely opposite. This is denial of the basic democratic right to peaceful assembly within the confines of our office. House detention has become our routine,” party leader and former Minister Nayeem Akhtar told The Hindu . PDP general secretary Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura had called the party meeting “to discuss the present situation in J&K and chalk out the future strategy”. He had sought permission from the Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar, and Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, for the meeting. “If there is a detention order against us, please show it. Why are we not being allowed?” Mr. Lone, who was stopped at the gate of his residence, said.
04 September 2020||Belagavi,||Rayanna statue row ends with naming of circle after Shivaji||Members of some Marathi and Kannada organisations participated in the installation of a board naming the Y-junction in Peeranwadi village as ‘Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Chowk’ on Thursday. The village had gained the State’s attention after members of some Kannada organisations had erected the statue of Sangolli Rayanna in the Y-junction on the Belagavi-Panaji National Highway, without due permission. This had been opposed by Marathi groups, who had tried to install a Shivaji statue in the same place. The dispute ended after the police convinced villagers to retain the statue, while naming the circle after Shivaji. The Shivaji statue was also installed some distance away. On Thursday morning, the crowd that gathered at the Y-junction garlanded the statues of Shivaji and Sangolli Rayanna. They raised slogans in favour of both the national heroes. They put up a pink board that had letters etched in steel, in Marathi and Kannada, declaring the name of the junction. Former Mayor Vijay More, who addressed the gathering, asked the locals to live in harmony and not let “outsiders” divide them in the name of caste or religion.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Fresh case against nine persons in IMS scam||Anti-Corruption Bureau officials on Thursday registered a fresh criminal case in the sensational Insurance Medical Services (IMS) scam against three top former officials of Insurance Medical Services and six private persons. Already, four cases were registered against some of them. They were arrested and came out on bail. In the fresh case, they were accused of conspiring to cause nearly Rs. 6.5 crore loss to State exchequer. Former director of IMS Ch. Devika Rani, former joint director Kalakuntla Padma and former deputy director Kurapati Vasantha Indira were charged with corruption and conspiring with private persons for pecuniary advantage. Influenced govt. officials The remaining six persons allegedly influenced the government officials by illegal means and falsified records. Different sections of Prevention of Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code were invoked against the nine accused. Twelve special ACB teams started searches at the offices and residences of the accused to gather evidences when reports last came in. The six private persons facing the charges are Kancharla Srihari Babu of M/s Omni Medi, Kancharla Sujatha of M/s Omni Healthcare, Kukkala Krupasagar Reddy of M/s Legend Enterprises, Tankasala Venkatesh, regional manager of M/s Hemocue, Bandi Venkateshwarlu of Omni Medi and Cherukuri Nagaraju, employee of Omni Medi. ACB Deputy Director M. Ramana Kumar, who is supervising investigation of the case, said Mr. Srihari Babu, accused of floating shell companies, played key role in all the transactions which resulted in wrongful loss to the government. Fake letter He submitted a fake letter in the name of M/S Hemocue AB Sweden authorising him as distributor for Hemocue HB Cuvettes. Presenting this letter, he secured purchase orders from then IMS director Devika Rani through shell firms floated by him, his wife Sujatha and Krupasagar, Mr. Ramana Kumar said. He had taken control of IMS officials by either bribing or threatening them, according to the officer. Hemocue HB Cuvettes used for measuring blood pressure were actually supplied by the company to distributors for a price of Rs. 3,300 each. The accused jacked up the price of each kit by Rs. 11,700 by bringing in the shell firms they had created into the role of intermediaries which were present only on paper. During 2017-18, IMS director purchased 5,547 kits ending up paying an excess amount of Rs. 6.48 crore to the accused. Probe is on.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||General Bipin Rawat pushes for Quad||Infrastructure development in the Tibet Autonomous Region, completion of the highway renovation project and development of strategic railway lines, in addition to the recently introduced military reforms by China are being monitored and their implications factored while devising future military strategy, Gen. Rawat said, stating that the formation of theatre commands improved the Chinese ability to “conduct synergised operations”. “Opportunities exist for us to develop strategic asymmetry in select military domains, especially operations at high altitudes,” he noted. He added that Chinese economic cooperation with Pakistan in Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir, along with continued military, economic and diplomatic support, mandates high levels of preparation and also poses the “threat of coordinated action on the Northern and Western fronts”. To offset this, Gen. Rawat said strategies have been devised to deal with the primary front and the secondary front. “We have earmarked forces for that and we have conceptualised our strategies to deal with such threat scenarios emerging on both our borders,” he said. India-U.S. cooperation Asked about India-U.S. partnership, Gen. Rawat said several agreements have been concluded of late that had improved strategic cooperation. Stating that the Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA) signed in 2018 enables Indian military to get a better picture of the maritime activities in the IOR, Gen. Rawat said, “What we are looking for from the U.S. is information sharing and continued supply of high technology battle field systems that we can use to our advantage.” Highlighting aerospace systems, space technology, cyber and artificial intelligence as high technology areas for India-U.S. cooperation, he said, “With 74% Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in defence, India should become a preferred destination for investment in defence manufacturing.”
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||India is best place to invest, says Modi||Without naming China, Mr. Modi said the pandemic had showed that trust was important for global supply chain decisions. “This pandemic has also shown the world that the decision on developing global supply chains should be based not only on costs. They should also be based on trust,” the Prime Minister said. “Along with affordability of geography, companies are now also looking for reliability and policy stability. India is the location which has all of these qualities.” Policy-stability The U.S. industry has often described less than sufficient policy-stability in India as one of the challenges to investment in the country. Mr. Modi emphasised that his Aatmanirbhar Bharat or Self-Reliant India project was not India turning its back on the world. “Despite our large local needs, we did not shy away from our global responsibility. The responsibility of being the world’s leading producer of generic medicines; we ensured constant supply to the world. We are also at the forefront of research on the vaccine for COVID-19,” he said. “A self-reliant and peaceful India ensures a better world,” Mr. Modi said, adding that that the idea was to transform India from a passive market to an “active manufacturing hub at the heart of global value chains.” He highlighted what he called a transparent, predictable tax regime; the Goods and Services Tax as a unified IT-enabled tax system, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code reducing risk for the financial regime; labour reforms that were reducing compliance costs for employers and providing social security for workers. “Friends, the road further ahead is full of opportunities,” Mr. Modi said. “These opportunities are in the public and private sector. They cover core economic sectors as well as the social sectors.” In addition to highlighting the government’s activities from housing to fintech, Mr. Modi described the government’s opening up of the coal, mining, railway, defence, space and atomic energy sectors. Mr Modi also mentioned agricultural manufacturing reforms, and a $14 billion agricultural financing facility (which was launched in August), and said that for the government, the ease of living was as important as the ease of doing business.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Relief for borrowers in moratorium case||Borrowers are seeking a full waiver of interest chargeable during the moratorium. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre and RBI, submitted that the impact of the pandemic was varied for each sector. Some like pharma have fared well during the lockdown. “The idea of moratorium was to defer repayment to ease the burden caused by COVID-19 and lockdown so that businesses can manage working capital. The idea was not to waive interest,” Mr. Mehta said. Moratorium was to help those in distress and not meant as an opportunity for those already defaulting in their loan payments. Instead of loan waiver, steps were being taken to revive the various sectors, he submitted. Loan accounts became NPAs only if payments were not made for 90 days. The moratorium period was excluded from 90 days. “Accounts do not become NPAs on September 1,” he assured the court. Mr. Mehta explained that the banks were empowered under the RBI circulars of August 6 to customise relief for individual borrowers. On the commercial side, he said an expert committee would come up with sector-specific guidelines on September 6. The court adjourned the hearing to September 10.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||We take allegations of bias seriously: Facebook||Amid the raging debate about Facebook’s alleged interference in the elections in India, the social media giant, replying to a letter from the Congress, has said it takes “allegations of bias seriously” and denounces “hate and bigotry” in all forms. General secretary in-charge of Congress K.C. Venugopal had written to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg following reports by the Wall Street Journal and the Time magazine about the conduct of Facebook and WhatsApp India’s leadership team, alleging bias and proximity with the ruling BJP. Neil Potts, Public Policy Director of Facebook, has said, “First and foremost, we want to take this opportunity to state that we are non-partisan and strive to ensure that our platforms remain a space where people can express themselves freely. We take allegations of bias seriously and want to make clear that we denounce hate and bigotry in all forms”. He sought to assure the Congress that Facebook’s “Community Standards” prohibit attacks against people based on their protected characteristics including religion, caste, ethnicity and national origin. Facebook’s India head Ajit Mohan had told the same thing to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology at a meeting on Thursday. The members, however, asked for a written reply on how these community standards measure up to the Indian laws and if there are any areas of conflict between the two.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Power of contempt misused to stifle speech’||Activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan, convicted and fined by the Supreme Court for contempt of court, said this power is sometimes misused or abused to stifle free speech or discussion about the judiciary. He called the contempt of court jurisdiction “very dangerous” and said it should be abolished. “Every citizen in a democracy, those who are familiar with the working of the judicial system and the Supreme Court, should be able to speak freely but unfortunately that has also been treated as contempt of court by scandalising,” he said. “In this the judge acts as accuser, prosecutor and as a judge,” Mr. Bhushan said at a webinar, ‘Freedom of Speech and The Indian Judiciary’, organised by the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of South Asia. “It is a very dangerous jurisdiction in which judges act in their own cause... It is only continued in a few countries like India,” he said. The top court had imposed a token fine of Rs. 1 on Mr. Bhushan for his tweets against the judiciary. He said the power of contempt of court is sometimes abused or misused by the judiciary to stifle free speech or free discussion about the judiciary. “I am not saying there are no vile or scandalous, scurrilous allegations being made against judges. They are. But they are dismissed for what they are. People understand that these are scurrilous and unsubstantiated allegations. The respect for the judiciary does not stand on the ability of the court to stifle this kind of criticism even it is sometimes scurrilous and unfair,” he said.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||NCB detains another suspect in Sushant case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has detained another suspect for questioning as part of the probe into the drug angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. They had earlier arrested Bandra resident Basit Parihar, after he purportedly disclosed that he knew one of the persons under the scanner in the Sushant case. At his instance, the NCB zeroed in on the suspect, identified as Kaizan Ibrahim, said the agency. It got fresh leads while probing another case in which raids were conducted in Mumbai in August last week and two persons, Abbas Lakhani and Karn Arora, were arrested for allegedly possessing bud (curated marijuana). The follow-up investigation uncovered the linkages of Lakhani with one Zaid Vilatra, an alleged drug peddler, the NCB said. It picked up Zaid and during subsequent searches, about Rs. 9.55 lakh in cash and foreign currency ($2,081, £180 and 15 Dirham) were seized. “Zaid disclosed that he ran an eatery in Bandra, which was not doing well since the lockdown. He then got into peddling drugs, through which he earned a substantial amount of money,” an NCB official had said. The ED, during the money laundering probe in the Sushant case, had identified a possible drug angle.
04 September 2020||Bhopal,||Chouhan asks EOW to probe substandard rice supply||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday handed over to the Economic Offences Wing the investigation into distribution of substandard rice through the public distribution system in Mandla and Balaghat districts of the State. ‘Won’t tolerate graft’ “Good rice is being sold outside, while substandard rice stocks land at fair price shops,” said Mr. Chouhan at a meeting here attended by Chief Secretary Iqbal Singh Bains and Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection Department Principal Secretary Faiz Ahmed Kidwai. “We will not tolerate corruption at any cost. Such a situation should not repeat,” said Mr. Chouhan. Rice stocks across the State are being withheld from distribution from depots until the sample collection process for inspection has concluded, the Department’s Director Tarun Kumar Pithode told The Hindu.
04 September 2020||Mumbai,||CBI questions Sushant’s psychiatrist for first time||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned Sushant Singh Rajput’s psychiatrist for the first time on Thursday in connection with the actor’s death, an official said. The probe agency also questioned actor Rhea Chakraborty’s father, Indrajeet, for the third consecutive day, he said. “Rajput’s psychiatrist reached the DRDO guest house in Kalina, where the probe team is stationed, around 1 p.m., and left the place around 8 p.m. She was questioned for the first time,” the official said. According to the official, Mr. Chakraborty arrived at the guest house around 10.30 a.m. in a car escorted by a police vehicle. “It was his third day of questioning, which lasted for around five hours. He left the place around 3.30 p.m.,” he added. In the last two days, Mr. Chakraborty was questioned for over 18 hours by the CBI. The actress, who was earlier questioned for around 35 hours over four days, and her brother, Showik, who was also grilled by the CBI, were not questioned on Thursday. However, the probe team quizzed Rajput’s flatmate Siddharth Pithani and domestic help Deepesh Sawant during the day, the official said.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Direct to home||
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||KPCC chief demands inquiry||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran has demanded a detailed inquiry into the allegation that the son of a top CPI(M) leader was involved in a Karnataka-based drug peddling racket. He accused CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan of stoking political violence by making immature statements.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘60% of Question Hour lost’||In an attempt to nullify the Opposition parties’ objection to the suspension of Question hour, the Rajya Sabha’s research wing has pulled out statistics from the past five years which reveal that nearly 60% of the time allotted for the hour has been lost due to disruptions. Between 2015 and 2019, the Rajya Sabha held 332 sittings. Of the 332 hours available for Question Hour (one hour per sitting), only 133 hours and 17 minutes were spent raising questions and obtaining oral replies from the concerned Ministers. Lowest in 2018 The lowest time on Question Hour was spent in 2018 when only 22% of the allotted time was utilised for asking and answering questions. The best performance in the five years was in 2017 when 57.73% of the available time was used. In widespread outrage, Opposition parties had accused the government of using the COVID-19 pandemic as an excuse to do away with all instruments of accountability.
04 September 2020||LUCKNOW,||Quizzed only about terror cases: activist||After spending more than seven weeks behind bars in Aligarh, student-activist Sharjeel Usmani walked out of the district jail on bail on September 1. Mr. Usmani was arrested in July for allegedly inciting students of the Aligarh Muslim University during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) that led to a clash with the police on December 15, 2019. He said the police barely touched the topic during interrogation. “My grievance is that I was arrested by the ATS (Anti-Terrorism Squad). Their line of questioning was only about terror cases,” Mr. Usmani told The Hindu on phone. “Ten years ago, some alleged terrorist was nabbed in Nepal by RAW. What do you know about him? He was from your region. These were the type of questions asked. They didn’t ask me anything on the CAA or the AMU violence,” he said.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Mid-sea disaster||
04 September 2020||Mumbai,||Bombay HC asks media to show restraint||The Bombay High Court on Thursday told the media to exercise restraint in reporting the investigation into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. “We urge and expect the media to exercise restraint in reporting of the investigation with respect to the death, [such that it] would not hamper investigation in any manner,” the court said, posting the matter for September 10. A Division Bench of Justices A.A. Sayed and S.P. Tavade was hearing two public interest litigation (PIL) petitions by former Director Generals of Police (DGP) and former Commissioner of Police against the “unfair, malicious and false media campaign” against Mumbai Police in the case of the death of the actor. The Bench said it would like to first see what the Centre and the CBI have to say in response to the pleas. Former DGP and CP M.N. Singh and former DGPs Parvinder Pasricha, D. Shivanandan, Sanjeev Dayal, Satish Mathur and K. Subramanyam and additional DGP Krishipal Raghuvanshi, along with former CP Dhananjay Jadhav were represented by senior advocate Milind Sathe. The other PIL was filed by filmmaker Nilesh Navlakha, Mahibub D. Shaikh, editor of a regional newspaper, and Subhash Chander, a retired civil servant.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||Attendance was 54% on Day 1 of JEE||Just over half the students who had registered for the B.Arch. and B.Planning papers on the first day of JEE-Main turned up to write the examination on Tuesday. The second and third day of the examination, which were for BE and B.Tech. admissions, saw 80% attendance. To put it in context, over 94% of registered students wrote the B.E/B.Tech. papers in the same examination last year, while the B.Arch. and B.Planning papers saw more than 80% attendance. Overall, attendance has been lower this year due to fear of infection and difficulties in transportation.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai’s daily count sees marginal drop with 968 cases||On a day when Tamil Nadu reported 5,892 cases of COVID-19, Chennai’s daily count, which had remained over 1,000 for the past 20 days, dropped to 968. However, cases continued to rise in Coimbatore and Cuddalore, with 593 and 590 persons testing positive for COVID-19, respectively. The State’s tally climbed to 4,45,851, of which 52,070 persons are currently undergoing treatment. Another 6,110 persons were discharged, taking the total figure to 3.86 lakh. Rising toll The toll continued to rise in the State, as another 92 persons (58 in government hospitals and 34 in private ones) succumbed to the infection. Till date, 7,608 patients have died in the State. Of the 92 fatalities, 29 persons died in Chennai, while Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur recorded seven deaths each. As of date, 2,814 persons have died in Chennai, while 447 persons have died in Chengalpattu and 421 in Tiruvallur. Nine of the deceased did not have co-morbidities. Among them was a 39-year-old man from Chennai was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever for five days and difficulty in breathing for four days on September 1. He died on September 3 due to multiple organ dysfunction syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. After registering a decline for a week, the number of daily cases in Chennai had exceeded 1,000 starting August 14. On Thursday, it once again dropped below the 1,000-mark, as 968 persons tested positive for COVID-19. This took the city’s tally to 1,38,724 (12,059 active cases and 1,23,851 discharged). There were 378 cases in Chengalpattu, 258 in Tiruvallur and 208 in Salem. Fourteen districts recorded 100-plus cases. This included Tirunelveli 163; Ranipet 157; Kancheepuram 150 and Villupuram 150. A total of 37 returnees tested positive for the infection. Among the 52,070 active cases in the State, 4,376 persons are under treatment in Coimbatore, 3,586 in Salem and 3,256 in Cuddalore. The total number of samples tested in the State crossed 50 lakh. With 82,901 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, a total of 50,47,042 samples have been tested till date. U.T. tally The active cases in Puducherry crossed the 5,000-mark on Thursday with 431 new admissions and seven deaths recorded in the last 24 hours. Puducherry recorded six deaths and Karaikal one.  Cuddalore district reported 590 fresh cases.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 curve dips in 5 zones||COVID-19 cases have reduced in north Chennai. While the positivity rate is about 5% to 6% in the northern region, officials say they are keeping a close watch on localised clusters. Officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation said the northern region that comprises five zones — Tiruvottiyur, Manali, Madhavaram, Tondiarpet and Royapuram — had been recording less than 200 COVID-19 cases a day now. The number of cases were much less in Tiruvottiyur, Manali and Madhavaram zones, hovering around 30 cases a day. In the northern region, the number of samples tested daily was around 2,000 in the last two weeks, according to data. “COVID-19 cases have come down substantially. In the northern region, the cases are less than 200 a day and there has been a consistent decline. In fact, the cases were low even in zone 4 (Tondiarpet) and zone 5 (Royapuram). The two zones had less than 60 cases each on Thursday,” said an official. He said that there were some changes in the field realities, with buses starting to ply and metro rail to start functioning from September 7. “Shopping malls sans theatres, and bars have been opened. Places of worship have opened up. So, we are watching out for localised clusters or spikes,” he added. They recently came across localised spurts in certain pockets of Royapuram zone. “We managed to trace all close contacts of the patients. These are not big clusters but isolated ones. We are testing aggressively to ensure there is no spread. With more liberalisation of activities, we can expect some more isolated and smaller clusters that will not increase the number of cases substantially. We will keep a close watch on emerging clusters that happen sporadically,” the official said. The official said influx of people was a challenge. “As more and more people come from outside, it will increase the incidence of infection. A small analysis showed that three weeks ago, most of our positive cases were either persons with influenza-like illness who were picked up through fever clinics, their contacts and extended contacts. We noticed a new category of travellers. Nearly 10% of the cases were among travellers,” he said. He said 13,000 to 14,000 samples a day were tested in Chennai. “The travellers category is manageable. The positivity rate is plummeting like never before, he said.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Homemakers on a higher pedestal than earning members, says HC||Homemakers stand on a higher pedestal compared to earning members of a family because their contribution towards the well-being of others is immeasurable, the Madras High Court has said. It held that in motor accident cases, injured housewives should be awarded compensation by considering the family status, income of their husbands and other factors. Justice S.M. Subramaniam held so while enhancing the compensation awarded by a motor accident claims tribunal to a homemaker from Rs. 8.46 lakh to Rs. 14.07 lakh. The claimant Bhuvaneswari of Salem had lost her tongue and suffered permanent disability due to injuries on her ribs and spinal cord when a speeding private bus knocked her down when she was waiting at bus stop in 2017.  The victim was 39-years-old at the time of the accident and now she could neither walk without support nor sit for long hours. Since she was a homemaker, the motor accident claims tribunal had fixed her notional income to be Rs. 4,500 a month to arrive at a compensation amount. Dissatisfied with such an approach, she had come on appeal before the High Court. Holding that she was justified in seeking enhancement of the compensation amount, Justice Subramaniam said when a homemaker dies or becomes permanently disabled, the impact on the family would be much higher, than the death of an earning member, because the love and affection showered by her could not be expected from a paid domestic help. “Therefore, they stand on a higher pedestal than that of the earning member in a family. Thus, mitigating factors, family status, income of the husband and other aspects are to be considered while fixing the compensation for homemakers,” the judge concluded.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Car driven by teenager runs over watchman||A 68-year-old security guard was run over by a car while he was sleeping in the parking lot of an apartment complex in Foreshore Estate. An 18-year-old girl, a resident of the complex and daughter of a real estate businessman, was arrested for driving the car and causing death due to negligence. Police sources said the victim had been identified as D. Sivaprakasam, 68, who retired from government service and was working as security staff in the apartment on North Leith Castle Street at night. Foreshore Estate police received information that the security staff was lying dead after he was run over by a car in the parking lot of the apartment. Investigation by the police revealed that Aparna, 18, daughter of ‘Kittu’ alias Palaniappan, a real estate businessman, had driven her car and parked the vehicle at 9 p.m. After parking the vehicle, she noticed a bedsheet stuck under the wheel and pulled it aside and went home without noticing the man who was crushed under the wheel. Later, her sister came down and spotted the body of the security staff, said the police. After scrutinising CCTV footage, Foreshore Estate police interrogated her and arrested her for offences under Section 304A (causing death due to negligence) and Section 279 (rash driving). She was immediately released on bail. The police said the security staff was inebriated and was sleeping in space leading to the parking lot. The girl had a valid licence and had no knowledge that she had driven the car over him, said the police.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala may be released by September end: lawyer||V.K. Sasikala, close confidante of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, who is serving a four-year prison sentence in Bengaluru in a disproportionate assets case, is expected to be released in September, her lawyer Raja Senthoor Pandian said. Mr. Pandian said while her prison term is set to actually end in January 2021, she is entitled to remission for good behaviour as per the Karnataka Prison Manual. “This provision for reducing a sentence for good behaviour has so far not been denied to anyone. We believe that she would also get it. Already she is eligible for a reduction of 129 days in her prison term based on the number of days served by her in jail,” Mr. Pandian told The Hindu . On the issue of Ms. Sasikala having to pay a fine of Rs. 10 crore, he said it can be done any time and would be done within a matter of days. “That will not be an issue. We are ready with it,” he said. Rationale questioned He also questioned the rationale of the Benami Prohibition Unit, Chennai, of the Income Tax (Investigation Wing) attaching approximately 71 properties located in four places, including a property opposite Jayalalithaa’s Veda Nilayam. The properties were purchased by Sri Hari Chandana Estates Pvt Ltd, in which Ms. Sasikala is a shareholder. “We will reply to their notice within 90 days once Ms. Sasikala receives a copy at the Parapanna Agrahara prison and we receive directions from her. The officials who have issued the notice have wrongly understood the provisions of the Benami Transactions (Prohibition ) Act,” Mr. Pandian claimed. If the IT department officials were not satisfied with their reply, they would approach the courts in the matter, he added. Mr. Pandian questioned as to how the properties could be attached citing Ms. Sasikala’s shareholding in the company as proof of wrongdoing. “The company bought these properties back in 2003. Ms. Sasikala became a shareholder only in 2013. If the department proceeds with the case, then it would pose a danger to almost every company whose dealings by shareholders who exit and enter the companies would come into question,” he said.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Blood clots caused by COVID-19 may lead to loss of limbs, says expert||Thrombosis, or blood clot, which can cause loss of limbs or failure of other organs, is increasingly being observed among COVID-19 patients, said S. Saravanan, vascular surgeon and director, Institute of Kidney Diseases, Urology and Organ Transplantation, Madras Medical Mission Hospital. He said that while such COVID-19-induced thrombosis and the consequent loss of limbs were being widely reported in countries like the U.S., it had not received much attention in India so far. Stressing the need for caution even if the patients remained asymptomatic and even after recovery, he said numbness, pain or inability to move the limbs must receive immediate medical attention. Citing two cases he handled in which the patients had numbness and pain in a leg and an arm respectively, Dr. Saravanan said the thrombosis observed among COVID-19 patients was starkly different from the thrombosis observed normally. “Thrombolysis [the removal of clots through medicines] would not have worked in these cases. We had to do thrombectomy (a surgical procedure), and even then it was difficult. The thrombus burden was high and hard in consistency,” he said. He said the limbs could be salvaged in both cases, but further delay on the part of the patients in getting medical attention would have made it difficult. “With body pain being a commonly reported symptom of COVID-19, it is possible for people and even doctors to mistake thrombosis for such pain. If there is numbness or pain in the limbs, pulse in that particular limb must be checked. Doctors can also check if it feels cold. They should be referred to a vascular surgeon immediately,” he said. The possibility of salvaging the limbs would be higher if the patients got the right medical attention within a few hours. Apart from the limbs, blood clots could affect other organs, he said. For instance, severe abdominal pain might indicate thrombosis in blood vessels leading to intestines. he said that while there was still no conclusive proof of why and how COVID-19 resulted in thrombosis, one of the possible reasons being agreed upon was the cytokine storm caused by the body’s immune response.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Medicines for TB patients delivered at their doorstep’||Anti-tuberculosis drugs were delivered at the doorstep of 52,489 patients undergoing treatment for tuberculosis in the State during the lockdown. According to a press release issued on Thursday, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said that steps had been taken to ensure that tuberculosis patients continued to receive treatment and medications and were monitored during the lockdown. Those under outpatient treatment for tuberculosis received the required medications at their houses. Field staff delivered the drugs to the doorstep of 52,489 patients — 50,038 persons with tuberculosis and 2,451 diagnosed with multi-drug resistant tuberculosis — from March to date, the release said. As per treatment protocols, arrangements were made to lift sputum samples at their houses and dispatch mobile X-ray units to patients who required X-rays to be taken. Patients monitored The patients were continuously monitored by way of phone calls and guided on the appropriate dosage of medications and their side effects, the release added. As tuberculosis patients need to consume nutritious food, the government supplied the required groceries to volunteers and NGOs to ensure they reached the patients, the press release added.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss urges State govt. to ban online classes||PMK founder S. Ramadoss has urged the State government to ban online classes by private schools, stating that they create inequality among students and cause mental stress. In a statement, he pointed out the increase in the number of students committing suicides because they could not afford the infrastructure for online classes and were not able to follow and understand the classes well. Dr. Ramadoss said parents from poor backgrounds were not able to buy high-end mobile phones or laptops for the classes. He condemned the promotion of online classes and said they were defeating the purpose of education — social justice and creating equality in society. Dr. Ramadoss alleged that online classes were not held properly and that teachers were not allowing students to raise doubts. “This form of education does not serve any purpose,” he said. He said if it was unavoidable, the government could permit online classes only for Classes X, XI and XII, for a maximum of two hours. The government should mull the report of the expert committee that said the syllabus should be reduced by 50% for the current academic year, he said. On Ministry’s stance He also expressed disappointment over the Union Finance Ministry’s stance in the Supreme Court that a waiver of interest on interest during the moratorium would be against the basic canons of finance. In a tweet, he said borrowers should be treated with sympathy and likened the banks charging interest on loan moratorium to the business of usury.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pubs, bars to resume operations||Pubs and bars attached to hotels and clubs, which remained closed since March due to the COVID-19 pandemic, have been granted permission to resume operations with immediate effect. The Commissioner of Prohibition and Excise, in a letter addressed to all the District Collectors, said that all the FL2 (recreation clubs), FL3 (star hotels), FL3A (hotels run by the Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation), FL3AA (hotels run by the franchisee of Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation) and FL10 (airport restaurants) licences in your jurisdiction (except in containment zones) can start functioning after duly following the standard operating procedures and guidelines laid down by the State government. They will have to wind up operations by 8 p.m. Instructions have been to Deputy Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners (Excise) of all districts to ensure that the instructions are followed in all the bars. Bars attached to the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) will remain closed. Safety protocol In bars, not more than 50% of seating capacity to be permitted. Persons above above 65, persons with co-morbidities and pregnant women will not allowed to enter the bars attached to the hotels/clubs. Large gatherings, conduct of musical events and cultural programmes in the dance floor, continue is prohibited. A self-declaration form along with contact details of one person must be provided by the visitor to the bar at the reception or bar entrance. Instructions have been given to keep the premises clean and disinfected frequently. And to take ample precautions while handling liquor stock supplies, inventories and other goods. On Thursday, bars attached to hotels and some prominent pubs sent alerts to their patrons on Instagram and other social media pages informing that they are back in business. A few luxury hotels, including Taj Coromandel (Chipstead) and The Park (Leather bar) in Chennai immediately re-opened. The other hotels have indicated that they will start business within a day or two. “We have opened our coffee shops and restaurant. The bar will opening only after we get stocks,” said the manager at one of the big hotels in Chennai. Arasu Dennis, MD, AD Associates and consultant to several pubs in the city, said that business at bars would pick up gradually.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Subject Class X private candidates with mental, physical disabilities to COVID-19 tests, says HC||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the School Education Department to ensure that all those with physical or mental disabilities wanting to write the Class X examinations from September 21 as private candidates, as well as their scribes, are subjected to COVID-19 tests at least two days before the exams. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha also directed government officials to explore the possibility of letting the candidates and the scribes interact with each other through mobile phones or by maintaining a safe physical distance. They said it would be difficult for those suffering from cerebral palsy to wear masks for long hours. Making it clear that their suggestions were only illustrative and not exhaustive, the judges left it open to the authorities concerned to put in place all mechanisms necessary to ensure the safety of the candidates as well as their scribes, invigilators and others involved in the examination process. The directions were issued on a public interest litigation petition filed by Balakrishnan Subramaniyan, father of a 24-year-old suffering from cerebral palsy in Tiruchi. The petitioner wanted the written examinations scheduled for private candidates between September 21 and 26 to be cancelled due to the COVID-19 threat.  Alternative mechanism If the examinations for all private candidates could not be cancelled in toto, as had been done for regular Class X students this year, the government could be directed to devise an alternative mechanism for assessing the knowledge of the private candidates and awarding them the necessary marks, the petitioner said. His counsel said countries the world over followed different means to assess knowledge, and that written examination was only one of the many possibilities. The counsel wondered how the government could expect candidates with mental or physical disabilities to adhere to physical distancing norms when most of them require scribes to write their exams. Noting that those who suffer from cerebral palsy and similar issues keep salivating frequently, he said it would be difficult for them to wear masks. He contended that the government had decided to conduct the examinations this month without considering the special needs of those with mental and physical impairments.
04 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Poor response to admission counselling||Seats in government arts and science colleges through single window counselling are not getting filled up fast. In some colleges in the suburbs, principals said students approached them but wanted to block seats till they could mobilise the money to pay the fees. According to the Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers’ Association office-bearers the response was only to be expected. “We generally call the toppers who have applied in the first phase. Most of them would have chosen other colleges. Some may even go for engineering or write the NEET. The pace will pick up in the second phase,” said T. Veeramani, general secretary of the association. The association has proposed to request the Higher Education Department to permit the colleges to admit students who had not applied online after the counselling is completed. “There are many students from remote and tribal areas who did not know about the process. We would like to give them a chance,” he said. The first phase of counselling began on August 26 and will end on Friday. The situation is not very different in self-financing and aided colleges. A college in the city’s western suburb had quite a few students seeking admission but with a request that they be given time to pay fees. “Most of these students come from modest backgrounds and their parents are auto drivers or share auto drivers. Only now has the government allowed them to function. It will take them sometime to return to normal life. Our management has many scholarships but we cannot help all of them,” a college official said. Principal of New College, Basheer Ahmed, said some students did have trouble paying the fees. “If students ask for 10 days’ time we give them 12 days,” he said. Faculty in Pachaiyappa’s College said in some departments the admission was in single digit. The intake in the first year is around 1,500 students as each department is allowed to admit around 70-80 students. The intake is almost double that number in Commerce department. Some teachers here said appointing faculty with little experience and the poor image the institution had created in media had led to the poor response.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||KMC Hospital to open post-COVID-19 care clinic||The Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital is set to start a post-COVID-19 care clinic. The hospital has already been following up on patients who tested positive for COVID-19 and required over 28 days of hospitalisation. It will now launch a separate facility that will serve as a post-COVID-19 outpatient/rehabilitation unit. A total of 7,022 COVID-19 patients have been admitted to the KMC Hospital so far, of whom 6,232 have been discharged, according to the hospital authorities. KMC Dean P. Vasanthamani said such a facility had been operating for nearly a month, and it was being established as a separate ward now. “Patients who required treatment for more than 28 days were brought under a programme for follow-up in a separate ward,” she said. The facility will have doctors from medicine, physical medicine and rehabilitation and psychiatry. “The purpose of the post-COVID-19 follow-up clinic is to address the day-to-day problems faced by patients and help them in the long run. Nearly 90% of the patients do not have any health issues. But around 20%-30% who had severe COVID-19 experience health problems like dry cough, excessive sweating and breathlessness and psychological issues like depression in the post-COVID-19 period,” she said. Patients would be advised appropriate diets and physiotherapy and provided counselling. “If a patient has a dry cough, we will advise modifications in diet, drinking of hot water and avoidance of cold beverages. A few patients with breathlessness can use oxygen concentrators and work within their lung and physical capacity,” she said.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. portal hosts virtual job fair for returnees||Virtual job fairs are now being hosted for non-resident Tamil candidates, who have recently returned from abroad, through the government web portal for the private sector on a pilot basis. The Department of Employment and Training plans to scale up the initiative to district-specific and sector-specific fairs to provide localised jobs. The first virtual job fair was hosted recently for drivers and nurses with a minimum work experience of five years. About 90 candidates participated. They were chosen from the registry of the Directorate of Employment and Training on non-resident Tamil candidates. Drive to be intensified Sources in the Labour and Employment Department said details of about 3,000 non-resident Tamils had been collected so far. The next job fair through tnprivatejobs.tn.gov.in would be organised for the automobile sector. Besides non-resident Tamil candidates, about 38,000 people have registered so far for jobs on the portal, launched in mid-June. Of this, nearly 350 candidates have been placed in private companies through online interviews during the lockdown. R. Abinaya from Rasipuram, Namakkal district, said: “I had applied for a job recently on the portal after completing the computer operator course. I was called for an online interview in a week and offered a job as an executive in a manufacturing company of aeronautical components. I’m happy I got a job in my native place.” The portal has about 1,100 employers, who have put up vacancies in different sectors. Officials said it provided data on the industrial demand and the sector-wise job availability. Of the nearly 11,500 vacancies, nearly 3,000 are in the automobile industry.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Film distributors call for abolition of local body tax||The Tamil Nadu Film Distributors’ Association said on Thursday that it would initiate action against producers who took money through distribution rights for their films and then released them on OTT platforms. “If producers cause any financial loss to distributors after receiving funds from them, we will take steps to recover the money and even pursue legal action against them,” association president T. Rajendar said in a statement. The association again appealed to the State government to abolish the 8% local body tax. The burden fell on filmgoers, who had to pay for it through ticket prices, it said. Addressing the recent developments, including the release of a few Tamil films on OTT platforms, the association said smaller films would lose out because only films that featured big stars and that came highly recommended would find a place on these platforms for release. “We have always supported producers and theatre owners. While the industry has been affected by COVID-19, we expect theatres to be reopened soon,” the statement said.  If producers cause any financial loss to distributors after receiving funds from them, we will take steps to recover the moneyT. RajendarTamil Nadu Film Distributors’ Association
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown in many areas tomorrow||Power supply will be suspended in the following areas on September 5 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. for maintenance. Supply will be resumed as soon as the work is completed, a release said. Neelankarai : Blue Beach road, Maraikayar Nagar 1st to 7th Street, Kabaleeswarar Nagar 4th Main road, Sea View Avenue, Murugambal Avenue, Periya Neelankarai Kuppam and Casuarina Drive. Chinnamalai:Sri Ram Nagar, Pallippattu Main Road, Ethiraj Street, Yoki garden and Kandasamy Street. Pallavaram : Zamin Pallavaram, Cantonment Pallavaram, Old Pallavaram, Thirusulam, Pammal, GST Road and Keelkattalai. Durainallur:Arani, Sompattu, Puduvoyal, Peruvoya, Peruvallur, Kavarapettai, Chinnambedu, Durainallur, Ralapadi, Karani, Vadakanallur. Medur:Medur, Pulicat, Avoorivakkam, Kollur, Arasur and Annamalaicherry. Devanambedu:Devambedu, Agaram, Kallore, Poongulam, Rakkampalayam and Seganiyum. Pammal:Parts of Pammal (H.L. Colony), Nehru Nagar, Venkateswara Nagar, Agatheeswarar Nagar, Viman Nagar, Lakshmi Nagar, MGR Street, Bharathi Nagar. Tondiarpet:N.T. Road, Veeraragavan Road, Fishing Harbour, Cheriyan Nagar 1 to 4th Street, Market from 1st to 7th Street, Ashok Nagar 1st to 4th Street, Butchammal Street, Washer Varadhappa Street, Desiyan Nagar 1st to 4th Street, Kannu Street and Irusappa 1st to 2nd Street. Gummidipoondi:Gummidipoondi Sipcot SS II Industrial Complex area, Chithala Kuppam, Shithiraj Kandigai, Gopal Reddy Kandigai, Papam Kuppam and Bodi Reddi Kandigai. Avadi:Senthil Nagar, Power Line Road, 60 Feet Road, Thirukkural Road, Jothi Nagar, Tholkapiyam Street, Nanul Street, Thembavani Street, M.G. Road, Kamaraj Salai, Sinthamani Street, Sakundhalam Street, Gandhi Nagar, C.T.H. Road, Kavarapalayam and Sindhu Nagar.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||S.Ve. Shekher expresses ‘remorse’ for questioning CM over saffron shawl row||BJP functionary and actor S.Ve. Shekher on Thursday expressed “remorse” for having asked Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami why the latter considered the draping of a saffron shawl around a statue of AIADMK founder M.G. Ramachandran in Puducherry on July 23 a disgrace, despite saffron being a part of the national flag. In an affidavit filed before Justice A.D. Jagadish Chandira of Madras High Court, the actor said: “I submit that I am definitely remorseful of having raised those questions to the honourable Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu since I feel that any statement that he makes would be from his perspective and he is the best judge of his own statements.” The affidavit was filed in response to a stand taken by Central Crime Branch (CCB) police, Chennai, that it would have no objection to grant of anticipatory bail to the actor if he files an affidavit tendering apology for his act besides undertaking not to repeat it in the future. He had sought advance bail in a case registered under the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act of 1971. After the petitioner’s counsel Venkatesh Mahadevan pointed out that his client had filed an affidavit expressing remorse, the judge adjourned the case to Monday for ascertaining from State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan whether he could now be granted anticipatory bail. The petitioner should not be arrested till then, the judge said. Mr. Shekher told the court that, in a video shared on social media on August 3 questioning the Chief Minister, he had equated the colours of the national flag with different religions in the country since Mahatma Gandhi himself had, while writing in Young India in April 1921, wanted the colours of the flag to represent the religious denominations. Stating that he had the highest regard for the national flag, the actor said he had never even dreamt of causing even a minor slur much less an insult to the national tricolour. In the video that had led to registration of a First Information Report by the Cyber Crime Cell of the CCB, the petitioner had taken exception to the Chief Minister having termed the Puducherry incident as a disgrace.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five IPS officers transferred||Five IPS officers, including R.V. Varunkumar, Superintendent of Police, Ramanathapuram district, were transferred. Mr. Varunkumar was not given any new posting, according to a notification issued by the Home Department. In his place, E. Karthik, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Flower Bazaar, Chennai, has been posted. Pravesh Kumar, SP, Vellore, was transferred and posted as SP, Railways, Chennai, while S. Selvakumar, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Tiruppur, was posted as SP, Vellore. S. Maheswaran, SP, Railways, Chennai, was shifted and posted as Deputy Commissioner of Police, Flower Bazaar, Chennai.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘SPB continues to show clinical progress’||Singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam continues to show clinical progress. He is conscious and responsive, a health bulletin from MGM Healthcare said on Thursday. Mr. Balasubrahmanyam was admitted to the hospital in August after testing positive for COVID-19. Thursday’s bulletin said he continued to remain on ventilator and ECMO support in the Intensive Care Unit. He was being closely monitored by a multidisciplinary clinical team. S.P. Charan said Thursday marked the fourth day that his father had remained stable, and that he was hoping for more positive developments by the end of the week.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||200 vials of vaccine arrive for trials||Oxford University’s COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, has arrived in Chennai for clinical trials. Health officials said they had received 200 vials of the vaccine for trials that will involve two institutions and 300 volunteers. Clinical trials of the vaccine will be taken up at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and the Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research. The Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine has been appointed as the principal investigator. Official sources said the clinical trials were likely to begin next week.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin: extend due date for semester fees||DMK president M.K. Stalin has urged Anna University to extend till September-end the time to pay the semester fees. In a statement, he said the university had said that the names of B.E. and M.E. students, who failed to pay the fee for the odd-semester by September 3, would be displayed on the notice board and their names would be removed from the courses on September 7. Against the backdrop of the COVID-19 lockdown, this was “inhuman and condemnable”, Mr. Stalin said. “At a time when families are struggling to make ends meet, the deadline of the university indicates its failure to understand the situation,” Mr. Stalin said.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State to get moderate rains till weekend||Many places in interior and south Tamil Nadu will continue to enjoy moderate rainfall till Sunday under the influence of a weather system over the Arabian sea. While Wednesday’s cyclonic circulation in Bay of Bengal has weakened, another cyclonic circulation off the Karnataka and north Kerala coasts is likely to trigger rains in interior and southern parts of the State, according to Meteorological department officials. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday, many places recorded rainfall. Yercaud and Yethapur in Salem district recorded heavy rainfall of 9cm followed by Dharmapuri with 7cm. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said the same weather trend would continue till the weekend. One or two places in a few districts such as Salem, Erode, Karur and Madurai may get heavy rainfall. Interior and southern areas would experience fairly widespread rainfall. Coastal areas, which have missed rains during the past few days, may get rains too. When easterlies move towards the weather system in the Arabian sea, coastal districts may have rainfall during early morning, he said.
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway to operate five special trains from September 7||The Southern Railway has announced that five special trains will start running from September 7 as fully reserved services. The trains are Dr. MGR Chennai Central - Coimbatore - Dr. MGR Chennai Central super fast intercity special (daily), Coimbatore - Mayiladuthurai Jn - Coimbatore Janashatabdi (except Tuesdays), Dr. MGR Chennai central - Coimbatore - Dr. MGR Chennai Central Intercity Superfast (daily). Dr. MGr Chennai central - Coimbatore - Dr. MGR Chennai Central superfast express (daily) and Chennai Egmore - Tiruchi - Egmore special. Reservations start on September 5. Only those with reserved tickets can enter the station.
04 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Activists express concern over disruptions caused to streams in Thadagam valley||Uncontrolled operations of brick kiln in Thadagam valley has affected the flow of rain-fed seasonal streams that are part of the Sanganoor Pallam which in past used to recharge Singanallur tank in the heart of Coimbatore, activists have alleged. According to them, a major stream of the Sanganoor Pallam, which originates near Mangarai, was blocked by brick kiln operators at a place called 'S' bend in Veerapandi village. In the recent rain, the road and surrounding areas got inundated as the course of the stream has been blocked, they alleged. “We found the stream’s route blocked before rain and informed authorities. Brick kiln operators made a mud road blocking the stream due to which the rain water is not able to pass through the natural course. Flow of other streams of Sanganoor Pallam has also been blocked,” alleged S. Ganesh, an activist of Thadagam. President of Irula Nala Sangam, Mallan, former councillor of Nanjundapuram village Manickaraj and Mr. Ganesh had taken up the issue with the authorities concerned. According to environmental activist K. Mohanraj, Sanganoor Pallam is an important seasonal stream of Coimbatore district that recharges groundwater in areas through its course towards Singanallur tank in Coimbatore city. “We request authorities concerned, including the District Collector to ban the use of excavators in the valley as they are used by brick kiln operators to change the landscape of the important ecosystem as they want,” he said. V. Velunaicker, State secretary of Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam, said that the streams from the valley also used to bring water to a 167- acre tank at Chinnavedampatti, recharging the groundwater in the region. “Now rainwater is not coming to the tank due to disruptions on the course of streams in the valley due to red earth mining. Water could not be found when a borewell was dug up to 1,240 feet at Idigarai area recently,” he said. P. Dharmaraj, president of the brick kiln operators’ association, however, denied the charges levelled against the brick makers. “The flow of the rainwater was much more so that it overflowed the road. The mud road is not blocking the stream and it is not only used for the movement of trucks. People in the locality are finding it useful,” he claimed. Suresh, Revenue Divisional Officer, Coimbatore North, said that his Department would look into the allegations against brick kiln operators and the disruption caused to the flow of the stream.
04 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Banks urged to support micro units under MUDRA scheme||Officials from the District Industries Centre (DIC) and micro unit owners held meetings with bankers on Wednesday regarding financial assistance for micro and small-scale industries that did not have bank loans. The DIC general manager B. Karthigaivasan said micro, small and medium-scale enterprises (MSMEs) that had bank loans had two schemes now to get additional financial support - subordinate loans to fund units in distress and emergency credit line guarantee scheme. It was estimated that in Coimbatore district there were nearly 3,000 units that did not have bank loans and were in the cottage / micro sector. These units did not have proper balance sheets now. These units were affected by the lockdown and spread of COVID-19 and required financial support now. Meeting However, they were unable to get support under the two schemes. The industrial associations sought support for such units under the MUDRA scheme and this was discussed at a review meeting held last month by Minister S.P. Velumani and Collector K. Rajamani. It was followed up at the bankers’ meeting too. About 470 applications were collected from such units and nearly 400 were submitted to the banks by the unit owners. “The DIC wrote to the banks urging them to support these micro units. The DIC officials and representatives of the micro unit associations visited some of the banks here on Wednesday and submitted the remaining applications. We also discussed the problems in these units getting financial support under the MUDRA scheme. Some of the banks wanted Income Tax statements or balance sheets. We have asked the units to at least give data on their annual business,” he said. The response from the banks was positive and this would be followed up, Mr. Karthigaivasan said.
04 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Name Coimbatore as the second capital: Kongu Global Forum||Kongu Global Forum, which includes heads of industrial associations of the districts in the western region, have appealed to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to declare Coimbatore as the second capital of the State. In a memorandum submitted to the Chief Minister, the Forum said Coimbatore is well-connected to neighbouring States by road and rail. It has an international airport and efforts are on to improve the city’s infrastructure under the Smart Cities Mission. Manufacturing hub Coimbatore and the nearby districts are a major manufacturing hub in the country, with the presence of a large number of industries in textiles and engineering sectors. These industries contribute supply to the domestic and international markets and make significant revenue contributions to the State exchequer. “Taking into consideration all its positivity, I requested our Respected Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu to consider and declare Coimbatore as the second capital of Tamil Nadu,” said A. Sakthivel, president of the Forum in a press release.
04 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Cargo office opened||Air India has opened an office at the cargo terminal at Coimbatore International Airport. The 160 sq.ft. office at the terminal is to improve its domestic and international cargo handling from this region. The office will be to book cargo and to have better co-ordination with the stakeholders.
04 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman run over by truck||A 36-year-old woman died after she was run over by a truck at Hope College here on Thursday. The police have identified the deceased as T. Mahalakshmi from Sukrawarpet. The police detained the driver of the truck who hailed from Palakkad district in Kerala. The Traffic Investigation Wing (East) has booked the driver.
04 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bike-borne men snatch from woman||Two-wheeler-borne men snatched the gold chain of a 58-year-old woman hailing from Avarampalayam here late on Tuesday. The police said a 10-sovereign chain belonging to the resident of Kamaraj Nagar near Avarampalayam was snatched by the two men when she was walking on a road, said the police. Police have registered a case in this connection and are on the look out for the men.
04 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||September 4   Thudiyalur, Kallimadai, Somanur, Elachipalayam, Karumathampatty, and Kalipalayam sub-stations (9 a.m. to 4 p.m):  K. Vadamadurai, Thudiyalur, Appanaikenpalayam, Aruna Nagar, VSK Nagar, VKV Nagar, NGGO Colony, Palanigoundanpudur, Pannimadai, Dhaliyur, Madathur, Chinnathadagam, Kalayanur, Somayanur, KNG Pudur, Venugopal Hospital area, Kamaraj Road, Bharathi Nagar, Sakthi Nagar, Jothi Nagar, Ramanuja Nagar, NK Palayam, Krishnapuram, Singanallur, GV Residency, Uppilipalayam, Indra nagar, Balan Nagar, Sarkarai Chettiar Nagar, NGR Nagar, Hope College to Civil Aero, Varatharajapuram, Nandanagar, Housing Unit, part of Ondipudur, Masakalipalayam, Medical College road, Somanur, Karumathampatti, Krishnapuram, Samalapuram, Ramachiyampalayam, Thottipalayam, Senthil Nagar, Segudanthali, Paramasivanpalayam, part of Kaniyur, Segudanthali, Elachipalayam, Rayarpalayam, Karumathampatti four road, Thanneerpandal, part of Kalipalayam and part of Ayyampalayam.  Somayampalayam sub-station   (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)  Yamuna Nagar, alappanaickenpalayam, G.C.T Nagar, K.T.N Palayam, Marutham Nagar, Navavoor Pirivu, Bharathiar University, Somayampalayam, Vasantham Nagar, I.O.B Colony, Maruthamalai, Agarwal Road, Kanuvai, K.N.G Pudur and Thadagam Road.  September 5   Ukkadam sub-station   (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)  Variety Hall Road, Town Hall, Oppanakara Street area, TK Market area, Selvapuram, Kempatty Colony area, Karumbukadai, Athupalayam area, Ukkadam, Sungam bypass, Shanmugha Nagar, Alwin Nagar, Indira Nagar, Pari Nagar, Dr. Munuswamy Nagar, State Bank Road, Collector Office, GH, Railway Station and Lorry Pettai.
04 September 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Impounded vehicles auction today||Vehicles impounded by the police for various violations would be auctioned on September 4 (Friday) here at the office of the Superintendent of Police. According to a release from the office of the Superintendent of Police, the bidding on the vehicles will commence at 10 a.m. Public can inspect the vehicles from 8 a.m. onwards. The vehicle transaction would include GST on the auction amount. Public are encouraged to participate in the bidding process, the release said.
04 September 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Two held for video clip||Two persons have been arrested in connection with the videographing of a self-immolation by a woman, and posting it on social media. Malathi (33) of K.C. Patti near Keezhmalai had set herself ablaze, upset that Satish, who had promised to marry her, did not do so. She had delivered a baby recently. Satish videographed the self-mmolation and his brother Saravanakumar posted the clip on social media. Thandikudi police are investigating.
04 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable traders demand shops on new market premises||Urging the Corporation to give priority to them in allotment of shops in the proposed modern vegetable market on R.K.V. Road, traders staged a road blockade here on Thursday. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, the Nethaji Vegetable Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market that was functioning on R.K.V. Road was shifted to the Corporation’s Central Bus Stand premises in March and later to V.O.C. Park Ground. On Thursday, traders numbering over 150 blocked the road claiming that the civic body had started demolishing the shops on R.K.V. Road where it had proposed to construct a modern market. The traders said they were carrying out business at the market for 44 years and due to poor infrastructure at the V.O.C. Park Ground, their business was affected. They said the market premises turned slushy during the rainy season and they were unable to carry out their business. Hence, they wanted the market to function on the old premises. They also condemned the Corporation’s move to demolish the shops without their consent. The traders demanded that priority should be given to them in the modern market. The Corporation and police officials held talks with the protesters and assured them to take up the issue with the Corporation Commissioner.
04 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Underground sewerage scheme work commences||The Corporation has begun Underground Sewerage Scheme (UGSS) works at a cost of Rs. 42 cror to cover residential areas in Thindal and Villarasampatti here on Wednesday. MLAs K.V. Ramalingam (Erode West) and K.S. Thennarasu (Erode East) inaugurated the works. Officials said that under the Smart City Mission project, a total of 3,981 houses will be covered in Wards 31 and 33 for which the collection system pipeline would be laid for 82 km. Sewage collected would be taken to the pumping station at Nallipalayam located near Perumpallam Canal from where it would be connected to the existing lines. Currently, the civic body is developing the Perumpallam Canal from Kadirampatti to Vendipalayam at a cost of Rs. 183.63 crore and after completing the UGSS at Thindal and Villarasampatti areas, flow of sewage from these two areas into the canal would be stopped completely. The project is scheduled to be completed in 24 months.
04 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Free swab test||People can get their swab samples tested free of cost at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai and get their results online after 36 hours. In a release, Collector C. Kathiravan said that after giving sample at the laboratory in the hospital, people can register athttp://erodecovid19 result.in/with their Specimen Referral Form ID as login id and their mobile number as password and view their results.
04 September 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Collector interacts with COVID-19 patients at Karur Medical College Hospital||Collector T. Anbalagan made a surprise check at the Karur Medical College Hospital, where COVID-19 patients had been admitted for treatment. He interacted with a few patients over video call and checked whether they were being screened by doctors regularly or not. He also took stock of the system of food being supplied to the patients and enquired with patients about the quality of food supplied to them. As on Thursday, 172 patients, who tested positive for the virus, were admitted to the Karur Medical College Hospital. Most of them were from Karur district. A few patients from Dindigul and Namakkal too were being treated, Mr. Anbalagan said. He said patients, who had breathing difficulties and pre-existing conditions, were admitted to the medical college hospital. Arrangements were made to treat asymptomatic patients at the Siddha COVID Care Centre at the old government hospital in the town. The Collector said that a helpline had been set up to provide information about the patients admitted in COVID wards. It can be accessed by dialling 7339031031. Stating that a few persons had been spreading false information on social media about the treatment and food supplied to the COVID-19 patients, Mr. Anbalagan said frontline workers, doctors and nurses had been working hard to treat the patients since the last week of March. Action would be taken against those spreading false information.
04 September 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Inflow into dams increases following heavy rain||Heavy rain lashed through the district, increasing the inflow into Kelavarapalli and KRP dams here. Rain continued to lash across the district for the second consecutive day recording an average rainfall of 37.15mm here. Barur recorded highest rainfall of 60 mm, followed by Shoolagiri - 59 mm, Denkanikottai - 51 mm, Pochampally - 46.20 mm, Penucondapuram - 41.20 mm, Anchetty - 30.60 mm, Uthangarai - 25 mm, Nedungal - 30.60 mm, Thally - 35 mm, Hosur - 32 mm, and Krishnagiri - 20.20 mm. Heavy rain was recorded in Hosur for the third consecutive day. The rain had resulted in the filling up of tanks. Kelavarapalli dam with a total capacity of 44.28 ft was filled up to 40.34 ft. The inflow into the dam was 834 cusecs and the outflow 808 cusecs. This included outflow into Thenpenai of 720 cusecs. KRP dam recorded an inflow of 237 cusecs, and discharge of 92 cusecs. Heavy rain created swamps of temporary markets and brought with it, its own set of civic woes with ill-maintained storm water drains in many parts of the town in Krishnagiri. After a dry spell, Thenpennai river was filling up thanks to the outflow from Kelavarapalli dam that receives water from Karnataka. With heavy rains reported in Bengaluru, the inflow into Kelavarapalli dam had increased considerably in the past few days.
04 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Limit attendees at marriage hall to 50’||Only 50 persons would be allowed to participate in a wedding inside a marriage hall, said Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan here on Thursday. The Commissioner was addressing the owners of marriage halls in the city to sensitise them on the safety precautions that they need to follow to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Former Director of Public Health K. Kolandaisamy also participated in the meeting. Hand washing facilities must be provided at the entrance of the hall. Everybody must wear face mask and undergo thermal screening before entering the hall, said Mr. Visakan. Mr. Kolandaisamy said hall owners had been asked to place disinfectant floor mats at the entrance. Chairs must be placed six feet apart to maintain physical distancing. There must be sufficient number of exhaust fans and pedestal fans inside the hall. Windows should be kept open to ensure proper ventilation inside the hall. Safety precautions were to be strictly followed inside dining halls too, he added. “It is noticed that COVID-19 infection spreads during weddings when human interaction is higher and at departmental stores where there is poor ventilation,” Dr. Kolandaisamy said. The Commissioner said the hall owners must follow the rules issued by the government without fail. He urged them to buy medical kits from the Corporation and distribute them to their staff to boost their immunity.
04 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tax collection on the rise after lockdown lull||Tax collection in Madurai Corporation has risen in the past couple of weeks after a lull during the initial months of the financial year owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. An official from the revenue wing of the Corporation said around Rs. 54 crore had been collected as taxes till date in this financial year. “This also includes the excess amount paid by residents in the last financial year. The excess was a result of the government scrapping the tax revision last year,” he said. Corporation officials say since August 15, demand notices are being issued to the residents to remind them to pay their taxes for this year. “In the past few days, more residents are paying their taxes for this year. Ït is being ensured that the residents follow the personal distancing norms while they come to pay at the tax collection centres,” added the official. The civic body has introduced a new system to ease the process of bringing vacant land under the tax ambit. The residents can either mail the civic body atmducorpvst@gmail.comor WhatsApp at 84284 25000. Then Corporation officials will visit the residents at their doorstep, collect the documents and finish the registration process. During the last financial year, only around 60.29% of targeted tax amount was collected by the Corporation. “Ït is usually in March when tax collection gains momentum. However, this year the collection was lower in March due to the pandemic,” said the official.
04 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A perilous ride for motorists||After Ambedkar Road near Periyar statue was dug up for constructing a ramp for elevated corridor on New Natham Road, traffic on a small but important stretch of this arterial road has slowed down. With the simultaneous relaxation of lockdown norms and an active monsoon, motorists and bike riders find it difficult to cross the stretch between Periyar statue and the northern entrance of Corporation’s Anna Maligai building. While vehicles coming from Mattuthavani side ply on a portion of the existing black-topped road, those proceeding on the opposite lane face the inconvenience. With no metal surface on the dug-up portion of the road that serves a huge volume of traffic between Goripalayam and Mattuthavani, road users struggle to cross this stretch. The ride for two-wheeler riders becomes worse and dangerous when the road goes under water after a rain. The ramp for the elevated bridge provides landing for vehicles coming from Iyer Bungalow side and proceeding towards Mattuthavani. National Highways Authority of India has acquired a huge portion of Corporation land for facilitating road on both sides of the ramp of the bridge. The pavement along Ambedkar Road was consequently removed and while one portion has been dug up, another portion has been cleared of trees and the pavement. “We did plan to lay bitumen for providing a smooth surface for riders on the dug-up portion, but the sudden spell of rain has spoilt our work,” said an official. With increased movement of vehicles, including heavy vehicles such as trucks and buses, the bitumen-less surface has become loose and developed potholes. The difference in height of the road on the bitumen surface and mud surface is around half-a-foot to more than one foot that could lead to accidents, complain autorickshaw drivers. The residents want the authorities to act swiftly to prevent accidents on this important road.
04 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||File counter affidavit: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the CBI to file a counter affidavit in the bail petition filed by suspended Inspector S. Sridhar, one of the accused in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks. Justice V. Bharathidasan directed the CBI to file the counter affidavit on September 9.
04 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Collector, Commissioner summoned||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday summoned Dindigul Collector and Palani Municipal Commissioner to assist the court in a batch of petitions that sought removal of encroachments in Palani. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the officials to appear before the court via video conferencing on September 15 to ascertain steps taken in this regard. The court was hearing a batch of petitions that sought removal of encroachments in Palani, including unauthorised and unapproved buildings around Sri Dhandayuthapani Swamy Temple.
04 September 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||School fees complaints||Parents could lodge complaints against schools demanding full fees during the lockdown period to the e-mail feescomplaintceonkl @gmail.com. The district administration has said that stern action would be taken against such schools.
04 September 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Couple electrocuted||A couple were electrocuted to death after they came into contact with a live wire fence they had put up on their farm at Venbavur on Thursday. Police identified the deceased as R. Periasamy (58) and P. Malarkodi (50) of Krishnapuram village. Police said Periyasamy had put up the electric fencing around the corn crop he had raised to prevent it from being damaged by wild animals.
04 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Turf war in U.T. hurting COVID-19 response’||Legislators belonging to the AIADMK on Thursday staged a sit-in in front of the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare Services to protest against the “poor handling” of the COVID-19 situation in the Union Territory. Party legislators A. Anbalagan and Vaiyapuri Manikantan staged a protest for over half-an-hour to highlight the government’s failure in controlling the pandemic spread. Talking to reporters, Mr. Anbalagan said the turf war between the Lieutenant Governor and the elected government was weakening the administration’s COVID-19 response. The AIADMK leader said the death rate had considerably increased in the last few days merely because of poor medical facilities, including the absence of ventilators, in hospitals.
04 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry unit president of MNM dies||President of the Puducherry unit of Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) and three-time legislator M.A.S. Subramanian, 70, on Thursday died at a private hospital, where he had been admitted for COVID-19 treatment. A doctor by qualification, Dr. Subramanian was admitted to the hospital five days ago. He had diabetes and hypertension, a health official said.
04 September 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Teams constituted to rescue wandering mentally ill persons in Pudukottai||Taluk level teams comprising officials from various government departments have been constituted in the district to rescue wandering mentally ill persons and accommodate them in the Emergency Care and Recovery Centre established within the Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial Government Hospital premises here. The teams have been formed in all the 11 taluks in the district following an order issued by the District Collector P. Uma Maheswari a few days ago. The inter-department teams consist of Tahsildars, doctors at the taluk and block levels, police Inspectors, Block Development Officers in case of rural areas, municipal commissioners and executive officers of municipalities and town panchayats respectively. One of the taluk level teams had rescued seven persons in Pudukottai and they were accommodated at the Emergency Care and Recovery Centre, said R. Karthik Deivanayagam, District Mental Health Programme Officer, Pudukottai. After preliminary screening, the rescued persons were subjected to COVID-19 tests. Once they were found positive, they would be shifted to the separate COVID ward created for such persons within the government hospital premises for treatment, Dr. Deivanayagam said. The Emergency Care and Recovery Centre, which was established by the district administration presently accommodates 15 mentally ill persons. It was established with the objectives of providing medical care and psychosocial support post rescue to the rescued mentally ill persons and taking necessary steps to reunite them with their family. The centre is equipped with 50 beds to provide necessary treatment and psycho-social therapy and rehabilitation to the rescued mentally ill.
04 September 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Two more surrender in murder case||Two more persons, suspected to be involved in the murder of Arun Prakash, 22, on August 31, surrendered before the Judicial Magistrate Court, Arupukkottai in Virudhunagar district on Thursday. When Arun Prakash and his friend Yogeswaran were standing in front of an ATM in Vasantha Nagar here on August 31, 10 persons, who came on five bikes, stabbed the duo. Arun Prakash died on the spot while his friend sustained injuries. He was shifted to the hospital. Superintendent of Police V.Varun Kumar, who formed three special teams, said that some persons were detained after vital clues were obtained from CCTV cameras in the area. Based on inputs gathered from suspects, the police team was searching for the gang. Four of the suspects - Left Shaik, Saddam, Ajis and Kasim Rahman - surrendered before the Lalgudi JM Court on Wednesday. Saravanan alias Vellai Saravanan, 24, and Vijay, 22, of Ramanathapuram surrendered on Thursday. A police officer, part of the investigations, said the crime had no communal angle. However, BJP functionaries were campaigning in social media that Arun Prakash was a victim in the hands of some Muslims as he had actively taken part in the Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations. Denying the allegations, police officers said previous enmity over sale of narcotics led to the murder.
04 September 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||More people will join BJP, says youth wing leader||BJP State youth wing president Vinoj P Selvam has said that more and more people would join the party since general elections to the TN Legislative Assembly is fast approaching. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, he said that like the entry of Annamalai, an IPS officer, who quit his service recently and joined the BJP, more such ‘prominent’ people would come into its fold. The BJP youth wing cadre, across Tamil Nadu, have made elaborate arrangements for the aspirants of NEET to reach the examination centres on September 13. A helpline number exclusively for this purpose would be announced in a day or two. On the new education policy and on the language policy, Mr. Vinoj blamed the DMK for its double standards. They cannot have one format for their family members and another for the public consumption, he said in an apparent reference to the DMK president M K Stalin’s family members. As and when the election comes closer, the party high command would take a call on the poll pact, he responded to a query.
04 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Drop Salem-Chennai green corridor project: MPs||Members of Parliament from the constituencies through which the Salem- Chennai green corridor project would be implemented have urged the State government to drop the project. The MPs, along with the members of the anti- eight-lane movement, unanimously passed a resolution in this connection at a meeting held at Kullampatti on Thursday. MPs S.R. Parthibhan (Salem), S. Senthil Kumar (Dharmapuri), Pon. Gautham Sigamani (Kallakuruchi), A.Chellakumar (Krishnagiri), M.K. Vishnu Prasad (Arani) and G. Selvam (Kancheepuram) took part in the meeting. R. Mohanasundaram, convener of the anti- eight-lane movement, also took part in the meeting.
04 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Steaming idlis in Modi’s name||On Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday, residents of Salem will be able to devour four steaming idlis with sambar at just Rs.10. 40,000 idlis a day Named Modi idlis, the organisers plan to dish out over 40,000 idlis a day for a nominal rate. S. Mahesh, State vice-president of Bharatiya Janata Party’s propaganda cell, is the person behind the initiative and he is organising it through a charitable trust named after his father, Professor P.S.Sreedharan charitable trust. “As many as 22,000 idlis would be prepared in the morning and an equal quantity in the evening. Nearly 60 people are involved in this. The idlis would be sold at 22 places in the district and it would be distributed in an eco-friendly manner,” he said. The idea to launch Modi idlis came from the people. “Several people used to visit my office and seek assistance on various issues. Many complained about not having proper food to eat,” he said.
04 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Collector flags off ambulances||Collector S.A. Raman on Thursday flagged off 13 ‘108’ ambulances, allocated by the government, on the premises of the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here. He also inaugurated a swab collection centre set up outside of the COVID-19 block.
04 September 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Ensure safety in fireworks units||Fireworks industry has been cautioned against leaving unused mixture of chemicals, involving aluminium powder, used for making crackers to avoid explosion. “In the last one month, three fire accidents have been reported due to lightning in Virudhunagar and Tenkasi districts,” said K. Sundaresan, Deputy Chief Controller of Explosives, Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation. The damage was not much as the quantity of left-over chemical was very less in two accidents reported in Virudhunagar district. But lightning strike at Jayaram Fireworks unit at Varaganur in Tenkasi district on Tuesday razed down working shed completely and damaged four other buildings severely. Since lightning struck after working hours, there was no injury and loss of life in all the three accidents. He said he had collected samples of chemicals from the site after inspecting the accident site at Varaganur on Thursday. “Enquiry with the workers revealed that they had left unused mixture of chemicals inside the working shed.” He instructed fireworks units to watch out for weather report and plan their daily work accordingly. “If rain is likely in later part of the day, factories could go for chemical mixing in smaller quantities so that the mixture is exhausted before rain interrupts the work,” he said. In case, the mixture is left over due to rain interruption, the foreman should ensure that the remaining chemical is taken to the waste burning pit and destroyed as per instruction. When the mixture is in the open ground, lightning strike can ignite fire. When it happens in a closed room, it leads to explosion and causes damage and huge loss.
04 September 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Wards for treating non-COVID-19 patients with breathing problem||Special wards have been set up at the government hospitals in the district for treating non-COVID-19 patients suffering from breathing problems. Disclosing this in a press release, Collector M. Govinda Rao said that non-COVID-19 patients would be admitted at these special wards for treatment. Hundred small oxygen cylinders have been made available at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, Thanjavur, Government District Headquarters Hospital, Kumbakonam and at the Government Hospital, Pattukottai, to treat patients suffering from severe breathing problems. Persons who have opted for self-isolation or quarantine at homes have been urged to keep pulse oximeter and thermal scanner with them to check the level of oxygen saturation and body temperature twice in a day. In case, the oxygen level falls below 95 they should immediately seek medical assistance at the nearby government hospital. Further, those suffering from cold, fever and cough along with breathing problems should come forward to check their health condition at the fever camps organised in their respective areas. Patients who require further medical assistance should alone be admitted at the special wards for breathing problems set up at the government hospitals, the Collector added. In a bid to allay the apprehensions over the pandemic among the public, Mr. Govinda Rao said that till August, 1,126 pregnant women have given birth in the district. Lives of 259 out of 267 people who were admitted to the government hospitals for snake bites had been saved. Dialysis treatment was provided to 1,200 patients, including 46 patients who had tested positive for COVID-19, till August. Patients suffering from cardiac, orthopaedic and other ailments were also treated at the government hospitals as usual during the pandemic period, he added.  Hundred small oxygen cylinders have been made available at government hospitals for treating patients suffering from severe breathing problems M. Govinda Rao Collector, Thanjavur
04 September 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Farmers have not received crop loss compensation’||The Communist Party of India has alleged that farmers in 213 revenue villages in Tiruvarur district have been left out in the list of farmers eligible to receive crop loss compensation for the last three years. In a memorandum submitted to Collector T. Anand, the CPI, Tiruvarur district office bearers have claimed that the crop insurance company had completed the crop cutting experiments, which forms the base for calculating the compensation for the loss, without involving the farmers’ representatives, village administrative officers and the village panchayat presidents. Further, procurement of paddy brought from other districts at the direct procurement centres in Tiruvarur district had also compounded the problem. Though the crop on several acres raised in 573 revenue villages in the district was affected by Gall Midge and other pest attacks last year, only around 360 villages were declared as places where crop loss was substantial to become eligible for compensation. The party urged the Tamil Nadu government to ensure that all affected farmers in the 213 left out villages were sanctioned compensation immediately. V. Sivapunniyam, CPI Tiruvarur district secretary, M. Selvaraj, Nagapattinam MP, P. S. Masilamani, Tamilnadu Vivasayigal Sangam and others met the Collector and presented the memorandum. Meanwhile, R. Mutharasan, State Secretary, CPI, will be leading the campaign against the anti-people policies of the Union and State governments at Darasuram near Kumbakonam on Friday. The State-wide event is being organised by the party against the “pro-corporate and anti-secular attitude” of the Central Government and “anti-people” actions of the State government, according to a party release.
04 September 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Banned tobacco products seized||The District Crime Branch CID police have seized banned tobacco products from a godown in Kumbakonam and arrested a person. Information was received that banned tobacco products were being sold by a trader in Kumbakonam. The seller, Jayaprakash’s (37) godown was raided and 760 kg of banned tobacco products and 21 kilograms of tobacco and `beedi’ bundles were seized. Rs. 1 lakh in cash was also seized. Jayaprakash was arrested.
04 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Slushy roads in ward 63 prove a nightmare for residents||Slushy road conditions following the recent spell of rain in residential colonies where phase II of the underground drainage scheme is under execution has triggered calls from residents for immediate repairs to roads that were dug up for laying the sewer lines. Internal roads in many of these colonies, especially in ward 63, have been rendered unmotorable as the trenches dug up for laying the pipelines have not been properly covered. Phase II of the UGD project is being implemented in different phases at a total estimated cost of about Rs. 344 crore. Many of the streets in New Town, Muthu Nagar, SAS Nagar, Roshan Nagar, Balaji Nagar and Prakash Nagar present a picture of mud and slush. “The situation is very bad and residents face much hardship. Many slip and fall on the slushy roads. The work has been progressing for nearly six months. We wish the authorities expedite the work and ensure that the roads are relaid expeditiously,” said A. Sathik, a resident of Muthu Nagar. Damaged pipelines In many places drinking water supply pipelines were also damaged due to the works, he complained. “Residents in ward 63, between Malaikovil and Manjathidal, have been worst affected. Roads in the colonies have been badly damaged due to the work. People are silently enduring slips and falls. While closing the trenches, the roads have not been properly levelled. The situation is quite critical,” A. Sakthivel, a resident of Balaji Nagar and organiser of the Federation of City Residents Welfare Associations. The Federation, in a representation submitted to the Corporation authorities in August, had sought the relaying of the roads at the earliest  and defer the collection of deposits for UGD connections until the roads were relaid. Over the past five years, the roads were not relaid citing the impending execution of the UGD scheme. Now the roads have been extensively damaged and pedestrians and motorists are facing much difficulty, it said. A Corporation official, when contacted, assured to look into the matter.
04 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers back and work on new regulator picks up pace||Migrant workers, who went to their native places due to the lockdown, have returned to Mukkombu and joined the local workforce involved in the construction of a new regulator across the Kollidam river. Migrant workers had constituted about 80% of the 250 workers employed by Larsen & Toubro, which is executing the new regulator project at an estimated cost of Rs. 387.60 crore for the Public Works Department. Nearly, 200 workers returned to their native places and many of them were skilled in fabrication, painting, reinforcement, shuttering, welding and gas cutting. The lockdown also forced the contracting company to suspend the work for about two months in April and May. Since it had slowed down the progress of the project, which is scheduled to be completed by March 2021, the Public Works Department initiated efforts to resume the work by employing local workforce. More than 100 construction workers were subsequently roped in. Meanwhile, most of the migrant workers, who had gone to their native places in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal and others, have returned to Mukkombu and joined the local workers. While a section of them were brought back by road after getting e-passes, another group of workers reached Tiruchi a few days ago by road from Bengaluru after reaching the city by trains from their respective States. “About 170 migrant workers have so far returned to Mukkombu. One more group of 18 workers from West Bengal are on the way to Tiruchi and they will report for duty in a few days,” said a senior engineer. He said that steps were being taken to bring 70 more migrant workers shortly. Since the State government lifted many restrictions, it was expected that they would reach Tiruchi soon. Upon reaching the worksite, all would be subjected for COVID-19 test. Till the outcome of the results, they would be put in isolation. Arrangements had been made to screen all workers thrice a week by doctors.
04 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Halt corporatisation of ordnance factories’||Espousing the cause of Trade Union Federations of employees of 41 Ordnance Factories, All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to desist from handing over the defence units to private corporates. It has also flagged ‘irregularities’ in the Expression of Interest (EOI)-cum- Request for Proposal (RFB) floated for appointing consultant to implement corporatisation of Ordnance Factory Board. In a letter to the Prime Minister, AITUC General Secretary Amarjeet Kaur said the ordnance factories being the fourth force of the Defence of the country must always be under the control of the Government for strategic reasons. Changing its status to a public sector undertaking and then privatising was not in the interest of national security and defence preparedness. The decision of the government to corporatise the ordnance factories was against the past written assurances given by the previous Defence Ministers and also against the assurances given in Parliament, the letter said. Finalisation of contract at a time when two complaints filed with the Central Vigilance Commission was under investigation has created doubts in the minds of the people, Mr. Amarjeet Kaur said. Ordnance factories were the pioneers of ‘Make in India’ motto, with over 90 % indigenous products. Ordnance factories cannot survive as a PSU as they are war reserve and there will be fluctuation in the requirement of armed forces. Corporatisation will lead to handing over Rs. 1 lakh crore worth of assets and 62,000 acres of land to crony capitalists and private corporates. The Ministry of Defence will not be able to fix accountability, the letter said. The AITUC fully supports the ‘historic struggle’ of the employees to save the defence industry from liquidation through the indefinite strike commencing from October 12, the letter to the Prime Minister said.
04 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 600 new cases and 11 deaths||The central districts on Thursday recorded 600 new COVID-19 cases, a slight dip compared to Wednesday’s tally of 664. Eleven deaths - three each in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur, two each in Karur and Thanjavur and one in Pudukottai -- were recorded in Health Department’s bulletin. In Nagapattinam, a 58-year-old woman and a 65-year-old man, both with no pre-existing medical condition, and an 86-year-old man with coronary artery disease succumbed to the viral infection. In Tiruvarur, a 69-year-old man with no pre-existing condition, a 76-year-old woman with a medical history of diabetes, hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and a 55-year-old man with diabetes died of the viral infection. A 77-year-old man with no co-morbidity and a 58-year-old woman with kidney disease, coronary artery disease and hypertension died of COVID-19 in Thanjavur while in Karur, two men aged 59 and 86 died due to COVID pneumonia. A 53-year-old man who had suffered an acute kidney injury and had been suffering from pre-existing conditions and diabetes succumbed to the infection in Pudukottai. Among the central districts, Thanjavur recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases on Thursday with 136 patients testing positive. Among them were two employees of a nationalised bank, a worker of the Primary Healthcare Centre in Neyveli, a Village Health Nurse at Alakudi and three staff nurses of a private hospital. Several primary contacts, and patients identified at fever camps were also among the 136. In Tiruchi, 114 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Ante-natal mothers, primary contacts of those who tested positive, and local cases with no travel history were among those who tested positive. Two new containment zones- Ponneripuram 2nd street in Ward number 31 and Patel Street in Ward number 38- were added as residents in the area tested positive for the infection. Pudukottai, recorded 103 cases, many of whom were contacts of those who tested positive earlier and local index cases with no travel or contact history. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur recorded 89 new cases for the viral infection, many primary contacts and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. In Nagapattinam, 59 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Among them were 26 index cases, 13 patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses, three inter-district travellers, nine primary contacts. While 24 have been admitted to the Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital, 10 are undergoing treatment in Mayiladuthurai, 18 in Sirkazhi and seven in other parts of the state. A total of 47 fresh cases were recorded in Ariyalur. Among them, 13 hailed from Ariyalur block, seven from Thirumanur, seven from Sendhurai, 10 from T. Palur, four from Andimadam and six from Jayankondam blocks. Karur recorded 31 fresh cases with patients hailing from Noyyal, Pugalur and Paramathi Velur among other localities. The patients have been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital. Of the 21 patients who tested positive in Perambalur, 11 were patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses (ILI), seven were primary contacts of ILI patients while seven were inter-district travellers. Among them, 14 hailed from Perambalur block, three from Alathur, two each from Veppur and Veppanthattai. Meanwhile, 271 throat swabs were lifted from residents in containment zones, primary contacts and those with COVID-19 symptoms in the district.
04 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Four die in road accidents||Four persons died in separate road accidents that occurred in Pudukottai district on Thursday. A mini goods carrier that was carrying pandal items from Thuvarankurichi overturned on the Madurai - Tiruchi national highway near Viralimalai in the afternoon after one of the rear tyres suddenly burst. Two persons K. Murugan (60) and M. Murugan (50) who were seated in the rear side of the vehicle sustained injuries and died on the way to hospital. The Viralimalai Police are investigating, said police sources. . The other accident occurred at Pappankudi village near Illupur involving two motorcycles that collided head-on. The riders of both vehicles succumbed to injuries at the Government Hospital in Illupur. Police gave the names of the victims as M. Vellaisamy (29) and S. Ajai Ghosh (48) who was a EB wireman. The Illupur police are investigating.
04 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Bullock cart operators stage protest||Bullock cart operators and labourers, owing allegiance to the Tiruchi District Sand Bullock Cart Labourers Association, affiliated to CITU, staged a symbolic protest by cooking gruel near the Collector’s Office in the city on Thursday urging the Public Works Department to open exclusive sand reaches for bullock cart operators on the Kollidam river. The protesters demanded opening of sand reaches, exclusively for the bullock cart operators, on the Kollidam river bed at Thalakudi, Koogur, Madhavaperumal Kovil and Killiyanallur as agreed during tripartite talks held in July. Since the sand quarry meant for the carts on the Cauvery river remained closed since the lockdown and now on account of the water flow in the river, the livelihood of over 4,000 families have been endangered, said G. K. Ramar, president, of the association. The agitators withdrew the agitation after senior Revenue Department officials held talks with their representatives and assured to take steps to open sand reaches for bullock cart operators.
04 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Salary cut leaves teachers of self-financing arts and science colleges high and dry||Salary cuts enforced during the COVID-19 lockdown period has left many a teaching and non-teaching staff of self-financed arts and science colleges in dire straits, teachers associations say. The crisis they face is that they are not in a position to even borrow money for settling their bills since most of these institutions have not given assurance to clear the backlog of salaries in the near or distant future. The situation is only slightly better for teachers handling self-supporting programmes in government-aided colleges where salaries have been slashed in the range of 25% to 50%. Even experienced teachers are paid only around Rs. 20,000 per month in many arts and science colleges. Salary cuts have put several teachers in a piquant situation. “Their work is no lesser than that of those receiving time-scale pay of the government. The institutions ought to be supportive of teachers in a critical situation such as this,” S. Sahaya Sathish, General Secretary of Aided-College Teachers' Association, said. In some of the self-financed colleges in the region, the teachers have not been paid for months, but have been compelled to attend to daily work, he observed. Though they are highly qualified, these teachers are unable to find any part-time employment. “I will be losing my self-respect if I borrow money without the capacity to repay. We are in a piquant situation as finding part-time employment has become next to impossible, not because of reluctance of employers but there is simply no jobs outside of educational institutions that suits our skills,” a teacher of a self-supporting course in a leading government-aided college said. Most of the higher educational institutions are reported to have effected steep salary cuts. “With the government imposing restrictions on collecting full tuition fee, we are left with no option but to slash the salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff,” a college head said. Since colleges run by trusts cannot operate with profit motive, there is no scope to maintain huge corpus funds to address such exigencies, he reasoned.
04 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||RPF conducts security drill to test alertness of field-level personnel||A security drill was conducted by the Railway Protection Force (RPF) authorities here on Thursday to test the level of preparedness and alertness of the field-level personnel. The RPF divisional security control room received an “anonymous phone call” in the morning in which the caller claimed that a bomb had been placed in the workmen special train being operated from Thanjavur to Tiruchi daily for the railway personnel. The anonymous caller also claimed that the explosive had been placed in the first coach after the engine. On receipt of the anonymous call, RPF personnel at Tiruchi were alerted to attend the train upon its arrival here. The information was also simultaneously flashed to the Government Railway Police personnel and the station manager. Bomb Detection Squad of the RPF and a detective dog trained in finding explosives were also pressed into service to check the train which arrived at around 7.40 a.m. at platform 2. The RPF personnel checked all coaches of the train in coordination with Government Railway Police. During the search, an explosive substance kept inside a bag in the first coach of the train was found by the detective dog. A senior RPF officer said the drill was conducted to test the alertness and the level of preparedness of the field-level personnel during such a scenario. The exercise has been conducted days before the recommencement of train services within the State from September 7.
04 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Clergyman held||The City Crime Branch has arrested a clergyman of Chennai on charges of cheating and committing criminal breach of trust. The accused S.D. David was held in Chennai by the City Crime Branch team which went there on a complaint preferred by P. Sathyamurthy. The City Crime Branch has named four accused in this case including Mr. David. Police sources Mr. Sathyamurthy had paid Rs. 3.85 crore to the accused as advance for purchasing a piece of land said to be owned by a trust at Velachery in Chennai. The sources said the accused neither repaid the advance amount nor handed over the land as per agreement thereby committing criminal breach of trust. Mr. Sathyamurthy recently preferred a complaint with the City Crime Branch that took up investigation. The sources said the team brought Mr. David to Tiruchi on Thursday.
04 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Nab suspects evading arrest, says IGP||S. Murugan, Inspector General of Police, South Zone, chaired a meeting here on Thursday to review the law and order situation and security arrangements to be put in place during ensuing months, particularly during celebrations organised by caste outfits. He urged officers to solve undetected cases, particularly crime cases, and arrest the culprits involved in them. They should strive hard to arrest the accused evading arrest and against whom arrest warrants were pending. He asked the officers to put in place foolproof security arrangements during celebrations or guru puja in which members of various caste outfits participate. He asked his subordinates to deal with the aggrieved petitioners with compassion and go ahead with immediate registration of cases if there was merit in the complaint. He honoured meritorious police personnel and the ministerial staff while receiving petitions from the policemen and the officers. “This is only a routine review meeting being held in every district as it was done at Tenkasi and Thoothukudi recently,” said sources in the police. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu, Superintendent of Police, Tirunelveli, N. Manivannan, Additional Superintendent of Police Subbaraju, Deputy Superintendents of Police, Inspectors of Police from 32 police stations in Tirunelveli district and the Sub-Inspectors participated in the review meeting.
04 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP has grown substantially in TN’||BJP southern region coordinator Nainar Nagendran on Thursday said he was fully prepared to contest in the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha by-election if the party high command fielded him. The constituency had fallen vacant following the death of Congress MP H Vasanthakumar. Prominent BJP leader and former Union Minister Pon Radhakrishnan had contested from the seat including in 2019. Mr. Nagendran had unsuccessfully contested from the Ramanathapuram Lok Sabha constituency last year. Before participating in a meeting of BJP office-bearers from all southern districts held in Palayamkottai on Thursday, Mr. Nagendran said he had convened the meeting to evolve strategies for preparing the party for next year’s Assembly polls and for the Kanniyakumari by-poll. “The BJP candidate to be fielded in Kanniyakumari will register resounding victory in the by-poll. If the high command wants me to contest in the by-election, I am fully prepared,” he said adding that he would make the party feel proud. He said the meeting would discuss, among other things, the electoral strategies to be followed if the BJP had to go it alone in the Assembly polls and in the by-poll for Kanniyakumari. While acknowledging that the AIADMK and the DMK were stronger than the BJP in Tamil Nadu, he said every party’s real strength would come to light only when the parties contested the elections on their own strength instead of going in for electoral alliance with other parties. “The BJP’s vote bank has grown substantially over the years in Tamil Nadu and our party candidates had polled significant votes in the last Assembly and Lok Sabha elections. Our base is growing rapidly and the elections to be held in Tamil Nadu will prove our strength,” he said.
04 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Tally inches towards 10,000 mark in Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari||Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts continue to register more number of COVID-19 cases, even as their tally is inching closer to the 10,000 mark. While Tirunelveli recorded 163 new cases to have a tally of 9,959, with 1,289 active cases, Kanniyakumari added 92 fresh cases to register a case count of 9,913, with 926 active cases. In Tirunelveli, 104 patients were discharged. The district, which lost two patients on Thursday, has registered a toll of 180. Kanniyakumari, which marked 165 discharges and two deaths, has so far lost 187 lives. Tenkasi reported 61 fresh cases to have a tally of 5,606, with 660 active cases. A total of 140 people were discharged. One person died to take the toll to 105. Thoothukudi recorded 53 cases, which raised its tally to 11,587. After 105 people were discharged, the district has 791 active cases. Theni recorded 83 fresh cases, which pushed its tally to 12,910. There were 211 discharges. The district, which has marked a toll of 149, has 1,122 active cases. Dindigul added 137 new cases to its tally, which now stands at 6,939. The district marked 74 discharges after which it has 951 active cases. The district’s toll is 131. Ramanathapuram reported 74 fresh cases to have a tally of 4,889. There were 30 people discharged from hospitals. The district, which has registered a toll of 107, has 437 active cases. Sivaganga’s tally rose to 4,145 with the addition of 31 new cases. After 62 people were discharged from hospitals, the district has 218 active cases. The district has reported a toll of 109. With 125 fresh cases reported, the total number of positive cases in Virudhunagar rose to 12,970 on Thursday. After 28 patients were discharged, the number of active cases stands at 499. Two patients died of the viral infection. Eighty-seven new cases were recorded in Madurai, which took its tally to 14,455. A total of 60 people were discharged from hospitals. The district has 813 active cases.
04 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Accused still at large in cheating case||The Vellakoil police on Thursday continued their search for six persons who allegedly cheated a man of Rs. 7.5 lakh on Tuesday. Mohammed Rafiq, 39, a resident of Palladam who runs a garment company, was contacted by a man a few weeks ago who claimed to exchange cash into Rs. 100 currency notes and an additional amount as interest. The man, who allegedly identified himself as ‘Karaikudi Chettiar’, also claimed to additionally offer 2.5% of the total cash received, the police said. On Tuesday, Mr. Rafiq arrived at Vellakoil with Rs. 7.5 lakh cash hoping to receive Rs. 10 lakh in return. However, the six persons absconded the spot upon receiving Rs. 7.5 lakh, the police said. One of the accused was said to have been in a police uniform during the incident. No CCTV footages were available as the accused chose a clandestine spot for the cash exchange. The complainant was also unable to ascertain the identities of the accused, according to the police. Vellakoil police registered a case under Sections 120B (Criminal conspiracy), 171 (Wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent) and 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code.
04 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Solar power plants in Tiruppur||The Tiruppur Corporation plans to commission by December two solar power plants set up under the Smart Cities Mission, said Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar on Thursday. These solar energy plants were being erected at Iduvai at a cost of Rs. 39.73 crore. Construction works for the solar power plants began earlier this year. “The Corporation is expecting to save around Rs. 6 crore per year in electricity bills after these power plants become functional, which can be used for other development projects,” Mr. Sivakumar said.
04 September 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Tiger that mauled woman ‘sighted’||The tiger that mauled a woman to death in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) may have been successfully identified by the Forest Department on Thursday. Officials said that images of a 10-year-old male tiger were captured on Thursday in the camera traps placed around the site where the incident occurred. “The animal that was captured in the camera trap does not seem to have any external injuries,” confirmed Deputy Director (buffer zone) of MTR, L.C.S.Srikanth. There had been no prior reports of the animal entering nearby human habitations, and so officials believe that the attack on the woman was a stray incident. “However, our only concern is that the animal is nearing old age, when it could potentially turn into an animal that preys on cattle or enter human settlements,” an official from MTR said, adding that the department was continuing to monitor the situation closely. Political parties are exerting pressure on the Forest Department to capture the animal, officials claimed. A committee is to be formed by the Chief Wildlife Warden as per protocols laid down by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). The committee will be headed by the Deputy Director (buffer zone) of MTR, and will comprise a nominee of the Chief Wildlife Warden, the NTCA, a veterinarian and a member of the local panchayat. The committee is usually formed as per guidelines when a tiger strays close to a human habitation and attacks humans. “However, as we are treating this incident very seriously, the committee will be formed to investigate the incident though it had happened inside a reserve forest, and we will keep tabs of the tiger,” an official said. The official reiterated that the attack occurred when the victim, along with a few others, was grazing their cattle in a reserve forest in the Singara Range, and not near a human habitation. The Forest Department continued to sensitise local residents to not graze their cattle inside reserve forests in the buffer zone of the reserve, officials said.
04 September 2020||Udhgamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Elephant found dead under suspicious circumstances||A male elephant was found dead under suspicious circumstances in the Padanothorai area in the Gudalur forest division on Thursday. The elephant, aged between 35 and 40, was found dead inside a patch of reserve forest in Gudalur. ‘Foreign object’ A postmortem conducted on the remains revealed that it had a “foreign object,” made of metal and plastic lodged in one of its legs. When contacted, Sumesh Soman, District Forest Officer, Gudalur division, said that the object did not resemble a bullet, but said that investigations were going on. “We were unable to identify whether the object was a projectile or had got stuck in the elephant’s leg by other means,” said Mr. Soman, adding that the forest department has collected samples of the animal’s visceral organs as well as its blood to find out if the object had resulted in its death.  Forest department officials believe that the foreign object had become embedded in the animal’s leg over a month ago. Officials said that the death would be treated as suspicious and a case would be registered and steps would be taken to figure out whether the elephant’s death was caused by humans.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 593 cases, three deaths||Coimbatore district on Thursday reported 593 new COVID-19 cases, the highest single day spike reported so far. Sources with the Health Department said the district was witnessing a positivity rate between 10-11 % in the last two-three days. The number of daily cases might cross the 600-mark soon, they said. With 486 persons being discharged on Thursday, 4,376 patients were under treatment. Coimbatore also reported the death of three patients aged 51,78 and 75. In Salem, six persons including a 58-year-old Special Sub-Inspector under the Salem City Police died of COVID-19. One person died in Erode, taking the district’s toll so far to 45. Tiruppur reported the death of three persons aged 51, 62 and 80. Salem district saw 214 cases, of which 206 were indigenous including 127 in the Salem Corporation limits. Two patients returned from Namakkal and six from Jharkhand, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. In Namakkal, 58 persons including two police personnel, a Collectorate staff and a government hospital doctor tested positive. Fifteen patients returned from Coimbatore, Salem, Erode, Karur and Thiruvallur. Erode’s 120 new cases took the district’s tally to 3,475. Seventy-four persons were discharged on Thursday while 1,171 persons were under treatment.  Tiruppur crosses 3,000 mark With 112 more persons testing positive, Tiruppur district crossed the 3,000-mark in the total number of cases; the tally stood at 3,018. A total of 52 patients were discharged. In the Nilgiris, 61 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 1,720, with 1,373 persons having recovered. The death toll stood at 12. Krishnagiri reported 84 cases, taking the district’s total count to 2,322. Dharmapuri saw 21 cases. In Krishnagiri, the office of the Chief Education Officer was closed, after one person reported positive, and a few others had developed symptoms.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC imposes cost on educational officer||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has imposed a cost of Rs. 10,000 on a Block Educational Officer for acting without application of mind. The officer had turned down the proposal to approve the appointment of a teacher to an elementary school. It was hearing the petition filed by A. Packia Rexlin, who challenged the officer’s order rejecting the proposal to approve the appointment of the petitioner to R.C. Elementary School in Nanguneri, Tirunelveli district, a recognised minority school. The school had sent the proposal to the officer. The officer turned down the proposal on the ground that the relieving order of the previous teacher, who had attained superannuation, was not annexed and a certificate from Fire Service and Health Department was not produced. Besides, the officer said the school should have obtained a certificate stating that there were no excess staff in the school and annexed recognition order of the school. Taking cognisance of the fact that the school was recognised from 1940, Justice R. Suresh Kumar pulled up the officer for passing a mechanical order with unsustainable reasons. The court observed that the records of the previous teacher, who had retired from service in 2018 and was receiving pension, was available in the office of the Block Educational Officer. The other reasons cited by the officer were ridiculous, it added. The judge said the officer was only a forwarding authority and the proposal should have been forwarded to the District Educational Officer for approval. The court remitted the matter back to the District Educational Officer to pass necessary orders.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two killed||R. Tamil Selvan, 15, and Sarath Kannan, 14, were killed in a road accident on Dindigul-Tiruchi Road on Thursday. The van driver was arrested. Police said that when the two boys, studying eighth and seventh standard, went to a nearby ration shop at Tamaraipadi and were returning, a goods vehicle heading to Dindigul from Tiruchi, hit the cycle at Kallathupatti. The two boys were thrown off in the collision and died on the spot. The van driver identified as Kanagaraj, 39, of Alandur near Manaparai in Tiruchi district was arrested. Vadamadurai police have registered a case.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till September 3    Persons tested +ve so far: 17,258 Indigenous cases: 17,214 Imported cases: 44 Active cases: 4,376 Persons recovered: 12,564 Deaths: 318     Persons tested +ve so far: 3,018 Persons recovered: 1,993 Active cases: 953  Deaths: 72
04 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||State to take up Rs. 600-cr. watershed project with World Bank assistance||Karnataka is set to implement a Rs. 600-crore project for brining 10 lakh hectares of parched land in 10 districts under watershed development with World Bank assistance. The State Cabinet that met on Thursday cleared this proposal, said Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy. The project titled ‘Rejuvenating watershed for agriculture resilience through innovative development’ would be implemented for the next six years. Under the project, the State government would provide Rs. 180 crore while the World Bank would extend an assistance of Rs. 420 crore, the Minister said. Pointing out that 20 taluks would be chosen for the project, he said 50,000 hectares of parched land with depleted groundwater table would be chosen for watershed development in each taluk. The main intention is to increase the groundwater table. The project would start from surveying of land inventory and comprise various aspects, including water conservation, he explained. The taluks to be covered are Bagepalli, Challakere, Shikaripur, Gundlupet, Harapanahalli, Sira, Arsikere, Kadur, Bailhongal, Athani, Hirekerur, Hungund, Kundgol, Bagewadi, Ron, Jewargi, Basavakalyan, Manvi, Yelburga, and Shahapur. The Cabinet also approved a proposal for taking up tourism infrastructure works at Jog Falls at a cost of Rs. 120 crore through the Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd. The works include building a ropeway. The Cabinet also decided to appoint judges Amarnarayan and H.J. Vijayakumari as additional registrars for the Lokayukta. The Cabinet also granted clearance for building new medical colleges in Haveri and Yadgir at a cost of Rs. 327.46 crore and Rs. 309 crore, respectively, and building a fishing harbour at a cost of Rs. 85 crore at Maravante of Udupi. The other decisions taken by the Cabinet include continuing the Raitha Suraksha Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana for two years, extending the term of the Karnataka Agriculture Prices Commission by three more years, and declaring Arakera gram panchayat of Deodurg taluk. The Cabinet also decided to prescribe only an annual rent of Rs. 800 an acre that prevailed in 2007 for 10.7 acres of land leased out to Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara Trust for setting up Manjunatheshwara Ayurvedic College and Hospital in Udupi.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COMEDK: Students from State secure 45 of top 100 ranks||Only 45 students from Karnataka made it to the top 100 in the engineering undergraduate entrance examination conducted by the Consortium of Medical Engineering and Dental Colleges Karnataka (COMEDK), the results of which were announced on Thursday. The remaining high rankers were students from outside the State. Two students from Karnataka bagged ranks in the top 10 list. Bengaluru student M. Rakshith from R.V. PU College, who got 168 out of 180 marks, bagged the top rank. He had also topped the engineering stream in the Common Entrance Test (CET). While fewer students from Karnataka made the cut in top 10 and 100 ranks, this was not the case in the top 1,000. More students from the State were in the top 1,000 when compared to the previous year. As many as 346 out of the 1,000 rank-holders were from Karnataka.  The overall performance among high rankers improved this year compared to 2019. The notification issued by the consortium also stated that 1,219 of the top 5,000 rank-holders secured more than 70% marks in the entrance test, while the remaining 3,781 secured 56.67% and above, but below 70%. In 2019, however, only 1,144 of the top 5,000 ranks secured more than 70% in the test. COMEDK conducted the entrance test for admissions to undergraduate engineering courses in private colleges for the academic year 2020-21 on August 19. The test was conducted online in 259 test centres in 60 cities across the country. While 61,290 candidates applied for the test, 43,249 attended.
04 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. may seek postponement of BBMP polls to provide for ward delimitation||There is a likelihood of the State government approaching the High Court of Karnataka seeking extension of time for holding elections to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), as it is considering increasing the number of wards. Dropping hints after the Cabinet meeting, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said the government was examining the proposal for increasing the wards from the present 198 to 225. A final decision would be taken after holding consultations with various stakeholders. Pointing out that the joint select committee of the State legislature that is looking into the BBMP Bill is meeting in Bengaluru on Friday, the Minister said the committee was expected to discuss issues related to increasing the number of wards. If wards have to be increased, the delimitation exercise would have to be undertaken again. Such a process needs time, he said, while pointing out that the term of the BBMP would end this month. In such a situation, the government would have to approach the High Court within this month to seek postponement of BBMP polls, he said. The joint select committee, with 13 MLAs and seven MLCs as members, was constituted in August to look into the BBMP Bill that was tabled in March. The framing of a separate Act for Bengaluru was in fact discussed during the previous Assembly session in March this year. Sources in the Bharatiya Janata Party said the party was keen on reorganising the city’s administration set-up before the next civic polls. To bring the number of wards to 225, it has been proposed to bring in around 65 villages, especially those in the Electronics City–Sarjapura stretch within the BBMP limits. Many party leaders are batting in favour of the proposal, referring to urbanisation of the 65 villages and potential to garner more revenue to the financially starved civic body. However, not everyone agrees with this line of argument. Civic experts have for long been pointing out that the present BBMP is itself unmanageable as a single unit. Several reports, including the BBMP Restructuring Committee Report, 2015, have recommended for multiple corporations. Sources in the BJP said that while the party was against multiple corporations, it was keen on adapting certain provisions from the BBMP Restructuring Report, 2015, especially empowering zones. The BBMP Bill provides zonal committees, which will have councillors elected from that particular zone as its members. It has been proposed that these zonal committees will be headed by an IAS officer who will be posted as zonal commissioner.  Meanwhile, the Cabinet granted clearance for taking up fourth phase of KHB’s Surya City residential layout project under which the Board would develop the layout with land owners at a ratio of 50:50.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With 1,000 fatalities in a week, COVID-19 toll crosses 6,000||COVID-19 fatalities in Karnataka, which have been on the rise since July, touched 6,054 on Thursday, with 104 deaths reported in 24 hours. What is worrisome is that the State has added 1,000 deaths to its toll in a week after it hit 5,000 deaths overall. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. The State toll first hit 100 on June 17. Subsequently, the total number of deaths touched 1,032 on July 16, almost doubled in 12 days to hit 2,055 on July 28, and added another 1,036 in the next 10 days. On an average, the State has been recording 94 deaths per day since July 7. The toll started spiking from the beginning of July. The toll crossed the 4,000-mark on August 17 and another 1,029 deaths were added in 10 days to touch 5,091 on August 26. Eight days since, the toll has now crossed 6,000. With 2,066 deaths in Bengaluru Urban so far, this district has contributed 34% of the total deaths. But the number of deaths in Bengaluru has come down in the last one week, and on Thursday the district recorded 29 deaths. While the number of deaths has touched 475 in Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada and Dharwad have seen 382 and 346 deaths, respectively, and Ballari 273. The toll has crossed 100 in 10 other districts and is nearing 100 in four. With a Case Fatality Rate of 1.63%, Karnataka is now in third position in terms of deaths. New cases Karnataka on Thursday recorded 8,865 new cases, taking the total number to 3,70,206. As many as 7,122 people were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,68,035. Of the 96,098 active patients, 735 were beingmonitored in the ICU. Bengaluru Urban reported 3,189 cases and 29 deaths. With this, the total number of cases there touched 1,38,701. As many as 71,124 tests, including 32,403 rapid antigen tests, were conducted in 24 hours.  Spiking numbers The State toll crossed the 4,000-mark on August 17 and another 1,029 deaths were added in 10 days to touch 5,091 on August 26. Eight days since, the toll has now crossed 6,000.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State continues borrowing to bridge revenue gap||As the Centre asked States to borrow from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to bridge the revenue gap in 2020–21 owing to disruption in economic activity by COVID-19, Karnataka continued its borrowing of the State Development Loans (SDLs) through the bankers’ bank. After the 41st GST Council meeting on August 27, the State raised two SDLs of Rs. 1,000 crore each on September 1 through the RBI. In August, the State borrowed five SDLs totalling Rs. 5,000 crore at interest rates ranging from 6.32 to 6.77 for a period ranging from eight to 13 years. In July, the State raised five SDLs of Rs. 1,000 crore each to meet the challenging financial situation post COVID-19. With this, so far the State has raised a whopping Rs. 19,000 crore through the RBI in the current financial year, according to the RBI data. The Karnataka’s borrowing is expected to reach Rs. 50,000 crore in 2020–21 and it would be within the borrowing limit of the State. Like Karnataka, other States too have been frequently borrowing through the RBI to meet revenue shortages. Lower compensation On Wednesday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa held discussions with Finance Department officials and opted for lower compensation to enable the State to borrow unconditionally an additional of up to 1% of (Rs. 18,036 crore) of the GSDP to make up for a huge shortfall of revenues expected in the current fiscal year. At the GST Council meeting, the Centre gave two options for States to meet the GST revenue shortfall. After evaluating the two options to avail of the GST compensation of Rs. 18,289 crore or Rs. 25,508 crore, Mr. Yediyurappa, who also holds the Finance portfolio, opted for lower compensation so as to be in a position to unconditionally borrow up to 1% of the GSDP. The government said it opted option one because the State would be eligible for total compensation of Rs. 18,289 crore, of which Rs. 6,965 crore would come from the cess collected. The remaining Rs. 11,324 crore, the State would be able to borrow through a special window with the entire burden of interest repayment being met out of the compensation cess fund in the future, the government said.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Office leasing in Bengaluru down by 60%: report||Office leasing activities in Bengaluru were down by morethan 60% in the first half of 2020 compared to the corresponding period in 2019, according to a report by realty market research and advisory firm Savills India. During the first half of 2019, the city reported leasing of 8.5 millionsq.ft of office space; this year, the demand dipped to 3.3 million sq.ft. The lower demand, obviously, was on account of the business uncertainty during the period of complete lockdown. About 75% of the overall city-wide space absorption is concentrated across East Bengaluru, Whitefield, Brookefield, and Outer Ring Road areas, it said. “A few interesting trends emerged in the city in the first six months of the year. While over 70% of the leasing activity came from captive clients (mostly the U.S. and European MNCs), there was a drop in SEZ space offtake by about 85%,” noted the study. In the beginning of the year, the Bengaluru market was projected to have an additional stock of 17.3 million sq.ft. However, a shortfall is expected because of the current pandemic. The supply addition is now expected to be in the range of 10-13 million sq. ft. “This is in line with the micromarket-wise demand for office space. At the end of H1-2020, the total stock in the city stood at 162 million sq.ft,” said the report. According to Savills India, Bengaluru has been the frontrunner in office space demand for many years. Undoubtedly, the city witnessed a dip in demand for commercial spaces, especially during the lockdown period when there was no activity, but some argue the situation is not entirely bleak. As per Colliers International India, a global commercial realty services firm, Bengaluru still remains not only a top occupier location (notably for technology companies), but also Asia Pacific’s second largest Grade A office market by stock after Tokyo. “Tenants have had to adjust to new realities — that of social distancing. While many companies may continue with the work from home model for a certain percentage of their workforce, they will also need to de-densify their office spaces to adhere to social distancing norms for those employees who cannot work from home. The area needed for employees in the past was 80 sq.ft per employee; it has now gone up to 120-130 sq.ft. Meanwhile, major companies such as Google are actively scouting for major office spaces in the city,” said Anuj Puri, chairman of ANAROCK Property Consultants.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Handloom coop. to give some of its products to poor for free||Over the next few weeks, the Heggodu-based Charaka Society that supports nearly a thousand Handloom weavers, dyers, and tailors will distribute for free among the poor a chunk of Handloom garments that has remained in its stock. The society, which closed down last week owing to choking of funds, is saddled with 87,000 m of Handloom fabric worth over Rs. 1 crore and garments that were stitched in its bid to provide employment in rural areas. While the society continued to purchase the Handloom fabric from weavers during the lockdown, it could not sell the garments through a network of 15 stores that the Desi Trust runs across Karnataka as footfall reduced post lockdown. Desi is also left with garment stock of over Rs. 1 crore. The combined stock with two organisation is close to Rs. 3 crore. The distribution will also be a mark of protest against the “system failure” in the Handloom Department, said Charaka founder Prasanna said. Revival efforts Meanwhile, the Desi Trust is working to ramp-up marketing to exhaust its stock even as the footfall to its stores has gradually increased. Gift coupons — both physical and virtual — are being discussed with corporates, who can distribute them among its employees. Recently, when a well-known foundation wanted to donate Rs. 10 lakh so that Charaka could restart, the trust instead gave the foundation gift coupons worth the amount. It is also working to attract people living near its stores. “The salespersons in the stores will use a couple of hours of free time to go door to door in the 1-km vicinity of the stores and hand over a small gift pouch to invite people to buy the products,” Mr. Prasanna said. The gift pouches will contain a handkerchief, mask, and small items that will be given free. If people are not willing to accept them owing to COVID-19 scare, the gift pouches will be dropped off into letter boxes.  Satyagraha is being taken up to raise theatmanirbharataof the urban and rural poor with the demand for jobs and not doles.Prasanna,Charaka founder
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No more than 50 passengers to be allowed at metro station||Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) has come out with a detailed SoP for commuters who want to use Namma Metro services, which will resume on September 7. To help passengers maintain social distancing, yellow retro reflective tapes have been put up on platforms and other areas. Inside the train, the rule on alternate seats has to be followed and passengers will be allowed to stand only at yellow strip-marked locations. While using escalators, passengers have been advised to use alternate steps. Only four to six passengers will be allowed to use lifts and they have to stand on foot-mark stickers. The temperature in trains and underground stations will be maintained in the 24-28 degrees Celsius range. Trains will halt for 60 seconds at stations, but at Majestic interchange station, it will be for 75 seconds. “All passengers with smartphones are encouraged to use the Arogya Setu app and show green colour displays on their phones regarding their safety,” said BMRLC in a release. While BMRCL has limited the number of commuters in each train to 400, it has decided not to allow more than 50 passengers from entering stations, barring terminals and interchange stations. Sanitisers will be provided at the entrance. Those without masks will not be allowed entry. Passengers have to undergo thermal screening. People with symptoms, such as cough and cold, will not be permitted to travel. Security staff will record their name, phone number and home address. “Such passengers shall be advised to get a medical check-up,” said the release.  All passengers with smartphones are encouraged to use the Arogya Setu app.BMRCL
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||How many prison inmates have tested positive, HC asks govt.||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the State government to submit details of the number of prisoners who have tested positive for COVID-19 across all the prisons in the State and the measures taken to prevent the spread of the infection on jail premises. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Hemant Chandangoudar passed the order on a petition filed by Amol Kale, a prime accused in the Gauri Lankesh murder case who is under judicial custody and is lodged at the central prison in Mysuru. The Bench directed the government to inform the court about the facilities available at all the prisons for treating COVID-19 positive undertrials and convicted prisoners. It also asked whether the facility for isolating prisoners was available. The government was also asked to explain whether prisoners were being checked regularly for symptoms of COVID-19, if there was a policy to test undertrials, and whether undertrials brought for the first time were being kept in quarantine. It was pointed out in the petition, filed in July, that some prisoners had tested positive for COVID-19 at Mysuru prison and there was apprehension about spread of the infection. The petitioner stated that he was living in mental agony as he was lodged in a cell next to the isolation section where some inmates awaiting their COVID-19 test results were lodged. The petitioner complained that there was no separate place for isolation and one of cells situated next to other regular cells was used for isolation. Pointing out that he was not able to get bail based on the apex court guidelines as he had been charged under the special law of Karnataka Control of Organised Crimes Act, and there was no possibility of an early trial in the present scenario, the petitioner said it was the government’s duty to ensure that the fundamental rights of himself and other prisoners were not curtailed. He sought a direction to the authorities to subject all the prisoners at Mysuru prison to COVID-19 test and to direct the authorities to set up an isolation centre outside the main prison, besides providing immunity-boosting Vitamin C tablets, Ayurvedic medicines, masks, and sanitisers. The petitioner also sought a direction to shift him back to the central prison in Bengaluru.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. to penalise private labs for delay in testing samples sent by it||Bogged down by complaints of inordinate delay in testing of samples sent by the government to private labs, the State government has decided to incentivise early testing (within 24 hours) through the RT-PCR method while penalising late testing (beyond 48 hours) by private labs. According to a Government Order issued on Thursday, the government will pay an incentive of 10% of the testing cost of each sample to the private laboratory if the report is made available and entered into the ICMR portal within 24 hours of the sample being sent to it. The government had, in April, fixed a price of Rs. 2,250 for every sample sent by it to private labs for testing. While the regular price will be paid for the samples that are tested and entered into the ICMR portal within 48 hours, a penalty of 10% will be slapped for every sample whose testing period goes beyond 48 hours. The government has also decided to initiate disciplinary action against the staff of government labs if testing of 25% of the sample load at a particular lab is kept pending beyond a week. All dues towards sample testing in private labs will be cleared in a time-bound manner, the order stated.
04 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Floods: Central team to visit State from Sept. 7||A six-member Central team will undertake a three-day visit to the State from September 7 to assess the extent of losses owing to the recent floods in different districts. Disclosing this to mediapersons here on Thursday, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said the team would be led by K.V. Pratap, Joint Secretary in the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. The team would have a discussion with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on the first day and visit the affected districts the next day. It would also hold talsk with the State Revenue Minister and the officials concerned on the third day, Mr. Ashok said. He said the Centre had already given Rs. 395 crore towards flood relief besides granting four helicopters and deploying nine NDRF teams. To a query, the Revenue Minister said the State was planning to submit a memorandum to the team seeking an assistance of Rs. 4,800 crore.
04 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||GP polls: Postal ballot for COVID-19 patients||Those who have contracted COVID-19 and are undergoing treatment either in hospitals or under home isolation too can exercise their franchise in the gram panchayat elections. They, however, have to use the option of postal ballot. SOPs The State Election Commission, which has come out with standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed during the elections to the gram panchayats, said a separate order/guidelines would be issued in this regard. The SOPs state that those who have tested positive for the infection can file their nominations through their proposers. Similarly, candidates who have tested positive are barred from taking up public campaigns or meeting people in groups. Mask mandatory It is mandatory for all the voters and officials to wear masks during voting. Similarly, victory celebrations by candidates have been banned and also officials have been told to desist from the practice of greeting the victorious candidates by shaking their hands.
04 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Drivers can no longer choose hospitals under ‘108’ ambulance service||The State Cabinet has decided to remove some of the obstacles in transporting patients in ‘108’ ambulances. Presently, there are complaints that ambulance drivers are deciding the hospitals to be admitted in case of an emergency rather than the patients and their families taking a call on the issue, Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said. The new rules would now allow the patients to decide the hospitals based on their requirements. Similarly, there were issues related to geographical jurisdiction as earlier each ambulance was allowed to travel within a certain area. This was resulting the ambulance drivers often shifting the patients into other jurisdictional vehicles in case of a long journey. However, now such curbs have been removed and it is the responsibility of the ambulances to reach the patients till the end point, the Minister said. The government, which has called for tenders to choose the service provider for these ‘108’ ambulance service, would incorporate such changes in the rules concerned, the Minister said.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Upload documents for online counselling||Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, COMEDK has decided to conduct online counselling for students. Candidates have to upload scanned copies of documents using their login. The uploaded documents will be verified by an expert panel. “The process of Digilocker verification appears to be a problem because many States have not uploaded the details of the candidates. Further, without verification they just endorse the documents referred to them. This facility is available for only one or two years and if the candidate’s documents happens to be from prior to this, Digilocker system will not enable us to verify the documents,” the notification issued by the consortium stated. Details on number of seats available, tuition fees and counselling dates will be notified after the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) announces its counselling dates. Although COMEDK had previously tried online counselling a few years ago, it had reverted to physical counselling sessions as many of seats went vacant.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BU to conduct final semester exam for foreign students in Dec.||While Bangalore University is all set to conduct final semester examination for undergraduate and postgraduate courses later this month, it has decided that international students will be given the opportunity to sit for the papers in December. K.R. Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor of the university, said there are around 700 final year students in undergraduate as well as postgraduate programmes in colleges affiliated to the university. “Many of them have gone back to their homes due to COVID-19 and are unable to return as there are no international flights. So we want to give them an opportunity to write their examination in December when the situation will hopefully get better,” he said. He added that a majority of their students are from Sri Lanka, Nepal, Malaysia, and Middle-Eastern countries. The university has also forwarded letters to various embassies requesting them to extend visas of students so that they will be able to come back and attend the examination. Unable to travel A professor of a Bengaluru-based college said that they have over a dozen international students who are unable to travel now. “Till the last month, they were hopeful of coming and writing the examination. But last week, they communicated to us that they would not be able to travel. They explored all other options, but international travellers still have to follow a mandatory 14-day home quarantine and it is absolutely not feasible for them at this point in time,” he said. For other students, the final semester undergraduate examination begins on September 12 and postgraduate examination on September 23.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Unaccounted cash of Rs. 65 lakh seized, 3 held||The city police, which stepped up security in the last few days as part of a special drive against drug menace, arrested three persons on Wednesday night, who were moving suspiciously with unaccounted cash amounting to around Rs. 65 lakh. The trio — Dastagir, 41, Kiran Kumar, 30, and Masthan — were in an Andhra Pradesh registered car. When the beat police stopped the car, they found a bagpack hidden in the back seat. “Upon checking, they found 18 bundles of currency notes in Rs. 500 and Rs. 2,000 denomination. The three men did not provide a convincing reply about the source or money, following which they have been brought to the station,” said a police officer. A day earlier, on September 1, the police arrested three people from Dakshina Kannada who were attempting to sell diamonds without the required documents. The police recovered 80 pieces of diamonds valued at Rs. 40 lakh from them.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to track CFR in private hospitals||With a majority of COVID-19 patients dying in private hospitals, the State’s Critical Care Support Unit is now planning to track facility-wise Case Fatality Rate (CFR) in private hospitals. K.V. Trilok Chandra, who heads the CCSU, told The Hindu that data collection for this has already begun. “Although we have shared the same protocols that are being followed in government facilities with private hospitals too, the number of deaths reported from private hospitals is relatively higher than that in government hospitals. After analysing the reasons, we will discuss with private hospitals what more can be done to reduce mortality,” he said. On the increasing number of deaths, the official said that over 70% of the deaths were within 72 hours of admission, and 600 either died at home or were brought dead to hospital. “Those who died within 72 hours of admission were clearly those brought in a bad shape and the doctors had very little time to manage the cases. People reporting late is the biggest challenge.” Saying that over 60% recovery has been recorded among patients in government hospital ICUs, Mr. Chandra said, “Clinical management has been optimised at government hospitals and the staff have been adequately trained in ventilation and fluid management strategies.”
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,322 new posts of ASHA workers sanctioned||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has been sanctioned 1,322 new posts of ASHA workers by the State government. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said that 1,229 ASHA workers have already been sanctioned to the civic body under the National Urban Health Mission. With the new sanctions, there will be one ASHA worker for every 5,000 people. “The population projection has been taken as 1.27 crore for 2021, with a total of 2,551 ASHA workers,” he tweeted. The government issued an order for sanction of 1,786 new posts of ASHA workers for 11 different city corporations on Wednesday. As per the order, there already were 42,524 ASHA workers in the State.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Satyagraha at Heggodu today||Weavers, dyers, tailors, and employees of Charaka will be launching a satyagraha at Heggodu on Friday by cleaning the panchayat office and its environs to send a “Gandhian message” for cleaning up of the administration.The satyagraha is being taken up to raise the “atmanirbharata” of the urban and rural poor with the demand for jobs and not doles, Charaka founder Prasanna said. “We are calling this the second independence movement and hoping that the local campaign will take a national character. Many persons, including Medha Patkar and Vandana Shiva, and many civil society groups in the country have evinced interest in taking this panchayat-level satyagraha across the country,” he added.
04 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nearly 20 bills to be tabled in session||The ensuing session of the State legislature is likely to see the tabling of nearly 20 Bills. Dropping broad hints in this regard, Law and Parliamentary AffairsMinister J.C. Madhuswamy told reporters here that the proposed Bills included about 10 that were to replace Ordinances, including the Karnataka APMC Ordinance. However, a decision in this regard would be taken after discussing the issue at the Business Advisory Committee meeting of the legislature, he said.
04 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Pre-primary courses in public schools||The 276 public schools in Karnataka will offer pre-primary courses from this academic year itself. The State Cabinet on Thursday gave clearance for such a proposal. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy told reporters after the Cabinet meeting that teachers having relevant experience and qualification would be hired to run the proposed LKG and UKG courses. Even those with Montessori experience would be taken, he said. The teachers would get a honorarium of Rs. 7,500 a month, he said.
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Malnutrition problem not getting much attention||With health workers roped in to take up activities to control the spread of COVID-19, a lot less attention is being given to reducing malnutrition among children, according to Rajani Nagesh Rao, Deputy Director of the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Speaking at a webinar on ‘Poshan Abhiyan: towards curbing malnutrition’ on Thursday, Dr. Rao said faulty breastfeeding practices, improper and inadequate complementary feeding, and micronutrient deficiency were some of the reasons for malnutrition among children. Surekha Vijayprakash, Joint Director of the Department of Women and Child Development, said studies have found that the first 1,000 days in a child’s life were very important to ensure the child is not malnourished. She said that soon, anganwadi workers would be provided with smart phones, which will help them maintain 21 registers digitally. An app has also been developed for this by the centre, she said. Stressing the need to reduce consumption of sugar and junk food, Sanjeev Kulkarni, a gynaecologist, spoke about the importance for incorporating fresh and local produce in one’s diet and of spreading awareness. “In just a few months, everybody has become aware about the importance of wearing masks. A similar thrust should be given to creating awareness about good dietary practices,” he said.
04 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KMC Bill to be tabled in session||KMC Bill seeking to replace an Ordinance will be tabled before the ensuing legislature session, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy has said. The proposed Bill, among other things, would have provisions to slap penalty ranging from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 2 lakh on those dumping debris in public places and failing to comply with norms related to solid waste management, he said.
04 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Dalits complain of threat calls over temple entry, seek protection||Fearing physical assault, Dalit families of Tejur in Hassan taluk have appealed to the district administration to provide them security and ensure peace in the village. In a meeting convened by the district administration here on Thursday, the families said they had received phone calls threatening them of dire consequences for entering the temple in the village on Wednesday. Alleging that the “upper” caste people had socially boycotted Dalits in the village, Govind, a resident, said: “The shopkeepers have refused to sell things to us. The water supply line was damaged. Many have stopped talking to us. We heard that they have resolved to impose a penalty of Rs. 10,000 on those who talk to us.” Yashwanth, another resident of the Dalit Colony, said he and his friends were assaulted while they were placing a banner of a popular TV serial featuring B.R. Ambedkar’s life. ‘Ensure peace’ H.K. Sandesh, a Dalit Sangharsha Samiti leader, said: “The youths of the village approached the officers seeking entry into the temple. That has not gone down well with the ‘upper’ caste people. The administration should take measures to ensure peace and provide security.” In the presence of the police and officials, a few Dalits entered Veeranjaneya Temple at Tejur on Wednesday. The “upper” caste people opposed to the move raised slogans. Following this incident, Assistant Commissioner Naveen Bhat had convened a peace meeting on Thursday. However, representatives of the Vokkaliga community did not turn up for the meeting scheduled at Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Bhavan in Hassan city. Instead, they gathered at Kannada Sahitya Parishat Bhavan. The officials held a separate meeting with them and listened to them. The Assistant Commissioner also visited the village. Action to be taken Mr. Bhat told Dalits that the police would take action with regards to complaints of threat calls and policemen would be deployed in the village. He also assured them that nobody would be allowed to practice social boycott. In the meeting with the Vokkaligas, the officials said nobody could be stopped from entering the temple. Shopkeepers who discriminate among customers would lose their licence. Deputy Director of Social Welfare Department A. Sridhar, Dy.SP Lakshme Gowda, Hassan tahsildar Shivashankarappa, and others attended the meeting. The administration resolved to hold a peace meeting involving members of both groups soon.  Assistant Commissioner Naveen Bhat said the police would take action on the complaints of threat calls and policemen would be deployed in the village
04 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||250 more test positive||As many as 250 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Hassan on Thursday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 9,026. With today’s five deaths, the toll went up to 209 in the district. So far, 5,916 have recovered from the infection and 2,901 are under treatment. Among them, 51 are in the intensive care unit.
04 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Priority to rehabilitation of people who are into illicit liquor manufacturing||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has said that apart from checking the menace of illicit liquor, priority is being given to rehabilitate those who were involved in illicit liquor manufacturing and trade by providing them education and employment. Chairing a review meeting of the district-level standing committee on Excise in Dharwad on Thursday, Mr. Patil said that from 2007-08 onwards, as many as 29 centres of illicit liquor manufacturing had been identified and of these, 27 centres had already been completely alleviated. At present, illicit liquor trade activities were being reported in and around Annigeri and Tadasinakoppa in the district and officials had kept a check on them through continuous vigil and action, he said. Elaborating on the rehabilitation programme meant for those involved in illicit liquor trade and hooch production, Mr. Patil said that after collecting details of families residing in areas known for illicit liquor trade, based on their educational qualification, employment opportunities would be provided to them in various boards and corporations. They would also be helped to take up self-employment by providing financial assistance, he said. Police Commissioner R. Dileep said that strict action would be taken against those involved in illicit liquor trade and necessary cooperation would be extended to the Excise Department to check such illegal activities. Deputy Commissioner of Excise Shivanagouda Patil said that while raids were being carried out on a regular basis, various programmes had been launched with the association of other government departments to rehabilitate those involved in such illegal activities. Mr. Patil said that from the year 2018-19 to August of 2020-21, the Excise Department had registered 205 serious cases and 14 cases related to hooch manufacturing. Deputy Conservator of Forest Yashwanth Ksheersagar, Deputy Commissioner of Police G. Krishnakanth and R.B. Basaragi were present. Officials from Excise, Police, Revenue, Public Instruction, Social Welfare and Regional Transport Department participated in the meeting.
04 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||External degree exams||The examinations of BA/B.Com courses under the distance education programme of Karnatak University will be conducted from September 11. In a press release, Registrar (Evaluation) of the university has said that the timetable and hall ticket had already been sent to students concerned and also published on the official website, www.kud.ac.in. Those students who have not received the timetable and information on examination centres can contact Ph: 0836-2215220/2215278 for details.
04 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Deputy Commissioner tests positive||Deputy Commissioner of Bidar Ramachandran R. tested positive for COVID-19 late on Wednesday. He is isolated at his residence and being treated by doctors.
04 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||ABVP stages protest seeking action against drug abuse||Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) activists staged a protest near the Clock Tower here on Thursday urging the governments concerned to control drug menace by taking stringent steps. Both the Union and State governments should protect the youth from falling prey to drug abuse, Mangaluru city secretary of the unit Manikantha said. It is sad that some persons who should have emerged as models to society have become drug addicts. The drug mafia has not even spared students. Parents should be cautious and ensure that their children did not become victims. He said that the ABVP urged the government to give full freedom to the police to crack the recent Bengaluru drug case without succumbing to any pressure. The influential and eminent personalities in society should raise their voice against the drug mafia, he said. ABVP State co-convenor Sandesh Rai and others took part in the protest.
04 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||18 teachers to get Teacher’s Day award in Udupi district||The Department of Public Instructions in Udupi district has announced district-level awards for 13 primary and five high school teachers on the occasion of Teacher’s Day. B. Mohandas Shetty, head master, Janata High School, Hemmady-Kundapur, Vinayaka Naik, assistant teacher, Government High School, Renjala-Karkala, Sanjeev H. Nayak, assistant teacher, Government High School, Rajeev Nagar, Udupi, B. Uday Kumar, head master, Sanjay Gandhi High School, Amparu-Kundapur, and Premananda Shetty, assistant teacher, Viveka PU College, Kota-Brahmavar, have been chosen for the award in the high school section, according to a press release. In the primary school section, Sesu, head teacher, Government Model HPS, Hangarakatte-Brahmavar, K. Sathish Rao, assistant teacher, GHPS, Eliyala-Karkala, U. Vishalakshi, assistant teacher, GHPS, Koravadi-Kundapur, Krishnappa, head master, GHPS, Padu Alevoor-Udupi, S. Vijay Kumar Shetty, assistant teacher, GHPS, Keradi-Byndoor, Srinivas Bhandari, assistant teacher, GHPS, Mudradi-Hebri, Bhaskar Naik, assistant teacher, Selkod-Byndoor, Arvind Hebbar, GHPS, Kallianapur-Brahmavar, Sunitha Shetty, assistant teacher, Hejmady-Udupi, V.T. Francis, assistant teacher, GHPS, Soorkunda-Byndoor, H. Prabhakar Shetty, assistant teacher, Padu Valthur-Kundapur, Poornima Shenoy, assistant teacher, GLPS, Parappadi-Karkala and Shashidhar Shetty, assistant teacher, GLPS, Yaloorkoplu-Byndoor, have been chosen for the award.
04 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Seaweed cultivation will help create job opportunities’||The Department of Fisheries will promote seaweed cultivation in the State’s coastal region from the next year, according to Director of Fisheries Ramacharya. Speaking to The Hindu , he said that the country has the potential to produce about 17 lakh tonnes of seaweed annually. Now, the annual production stood at about 25,000 tonnes. He said that the department is in touch with the Central Marine Fisheries Institute (CMFRI). The institute has carried out experiments on cultivating seaweed in Ankola and Karwar areas in Uttara Kannada district which is best suited for the purpose. The director said that places that do not see much sea wave action and where the salinity level is constant are best suited for seaweed cultivation. “There is good demand for seaweed from pharmaceutical companies and ice cream manufacturers,” he said and added that the department is ready to procure seeds from Mandapam in Tamil Nadu where seaweed is grown in large quantities, and supply them to growers. The department will also work on creating a market link. Mr. Ramacharya said that the raft on which seaweed is cultivated will cost about Rs. 15,000. The department will provide subsidy for each such raft. The department is planning to promote seaweed cultivation is association with self-help groups or non-government organisations. Seaweed cultivation will help create employment opportunities, he added. “We will, in association with the CMFRI, identify places where seaweed can be cultivated,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while addressing a rally of SHGs promoted by Shri Kshetra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project in Ujire in Dakshina Kannada in October 2017, had asked fishermen, women and SHGs along the coastline to opt for seaweed farming. Mr. Modi said that seaweed, which are full of water, can be used as input in farming to fight drought. Cultivating seaweed would help fetch income for women and fishermen. The Research Centre of the CMFRI in Mangaluru demonstrated a method of seaweed cultivation at Alvaekodi village, Udupi district, on March 7, 2018. It was to create awareness among the coastal people on alternative livelihood options.
04 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MRPL bags award||Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. has bagged the Silver Medal in the Indian Green Manufacturing Challenge-2019 for its green initiatives. The company had won this award in 2017. A release from MRPL here said that the IGMC was an awarding platform designed to recognise manufacturing firms that have shown consistent progress in improving sustainability factors associated to a manufacturing facility.
04 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Some intra-State trains to operate as specials||The Railway Board on Thursday approved South Western Railway’s proposal to operate six pairs of trains within Karnataka as special trains. Train No. 06581/06582 Hubballi-Mysuru-Hubballi special express will run from Friday and Saturday respectively to the timing of Train No. 16591/592 Hampi Express. Train No. 06535/06536 Mysuru-Vijayapura-Mysuru special express will run from Friday and Saturday till September 8 and 9 respectively. The Yeshwantpur-Karwar-Yeshwantpur express special (Train No. 06585/06586) would run from Friday and Saturday respectively to the timing of Train No. 16595/596 Yeshwantpur-Karwar-Yeshwantpur overnight express. Bengaluru-Kannur-Bengaluru overnight express would run only till Mangaluru Central from Friday. Train No. 06515/06516 Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central-Bengaluru overnight express (four days a week via Kunigal) would run from Friday and Sunday. Train No. 06517/06518 Bengaluru-Mangaluru-Bengaluru overnight express will run from Sunday and Saturday. Train No. 06931/06932 Belagavi-Shedbal-Belagavi Jan Sadharan special will run from Saturday to Wednesday.
04 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Advisory on contact tracing||Commissioner of Mangaluru City Corporation Akshy Sridhar has issued an advisory on contact tracing and successful enforcement of home quarantine of primary contacts of COVID-19 patients to prevent the spread of the disease in the jurisdiction of the corporation. He asked hotels and restaurants, apartment associations, resident welfare associations, hostels, commercial complexes, police stations and private and government office buildings to cooperate with the corporation in contact tracing. “People in close contact with someone who is infected with the virus are at a higher risk of becoming infected. A close watch on these contacts will help them to get care and treatment and will help prevent further transmission of the virus,” he said.
04 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Trial to study efficacy of BCG vaccine||While human trials for COVID-19 vaccines are under way in different parts of the country, JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research (JSSAHER) in Mysuru will soon begin trials to study the efficacy of BCG, the tuberculosis vaccine, in providing a protective cover against COVID-19. As part of the trials, which have been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), an estimated 250 elderly citizens in the age group of 60 to 80, free of COVID-19 or any other ailments, will be inoculated with a dose of BCG vaccine. “Over the next one year, the inoculated persons will be monitored for the presence of antibodies in their blood and for how they respond in the context of COVID-19,” JSSAHER Pro-Chancellor B. Suresh told The Hindu . JSSAHER is one of the few centres chosen by ICMR for the BCG vaccine trials. Though the BCG vaccine is mandatorily given to children in India, the immunity is believed to wane with time and reduce substantially after 60 years. The vaccine administered as part of the trial will be a “boosterdose” to see if it can provide additional cover to tuberculosis and also cover COVID-19 in the process, he said. The BCG vaccine is given when children are young and is expected to last for 40 to 50 years, during which they develop a strong immunity to face the tuberculosis challenge, he said. The persons vaccinated in the trial will be first checked after 28 days.  “We will check how they have responded after the inoculation and test them for antibody titer. We will keep checking them over a period of time to see how long the antibody cover is available and how the person responds with the cover,” Dr. Suresh said, adding that the trial would last one year. The clinical trials of BCG against COVID-19 come in the backdrop of studies indicating a slower spread of the infection in countries where the vaccination is mandatory for children.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A new start||
04 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||87 more test positive in Alappuzha||The district reported 87 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. While 82 patients acquired the virus through local transmission, three people who came from other States and one from abroad and a Mavelikara native also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The source of infection of the Mavelikara native remains untraceable. Contact cases Of the 82 contact cases, 16 were reported from Alappuzha, nine from Thanneermukkom and eight from Chunakkara. Rest of the contact cases were from Kayamkulam (5), Cherthala (4), Kainakary (4), Vettiyar (4), Punnapra (3), Mavelikara (3), two cases each from Thamarakulam, Pallippuram, Cherthala South and Budhanoor and one case each from Thumpoly, Kudassanad, Arattupuzha, Ambalappuzha, Pallippad, Kanichukulangara, Ezhupunna, Mararikulam North, Thaikkal, Peringala, Mannar, Panavally, Champakulam, Kareelakulangara, Keerikkad, Thalavady, Neelamperoor and Perumbalam. 212 persons cured The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 1,621. The district reported 212 recoveries on the day.
04 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Green shoots in Wayanad’s traditional rice conservation||Though traditional rice varieties in Wayanad district have advantages such as the ability to withstand harsh climatic conditions, drawbacks like low yield and lodging character have forced farmers to go for high-yielding new varieties. (Lodging is the bending over of the stem of grain crops, which makes them difficult to harvest.) Now, the Community Agrobiodiversity Centre (CABC) of the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) here has started a farmer participatory project to address the issues. The MSSRF and the farming community have been working together to find a solution to the low yield of 10 traditional varieties such as Adukkan, Veliyan, Chenellu, Chomala, Chenthadi, Thondi, Gandhakasala, Jeerakasala, Mullankaima and Kalladiaryan under the project, says Shely Mary Koshy, agriculture scientist, MSSRF. Organic inputs Organic inputs such as farmyard manure, vermicompost, azospirillum, phospho solubilizing bacteria, potassium mobilising bacteria, and groundnut cake have been used for yield enhancement at a trial plot, Dr. Shely said. A randomised block design is used for the experiment in 60 cents at Kallanchira in the district. The system of rice intensification (SRI) method of planting is adopted for the trial (seedlings that are 10 to 12 days old are transplanted with just one seedling instead of a clump at a distance of 25 cm between each plant and row), she said. “The trial is planned for three years and the second year trial is under progress now,” P. Vipindas, Development Associate, MSRF, said. Throughout the different stages of the trial, active participation of the farmers has been ensured to make the programme a success, Mr. Vipindas said. “Based on the results of the trial and the cost of cultivation, the most suitable practices for the traditional variety cultivation will be popularised among farmers,” he said. “We are curious about the results of the project and many traditional farmers have been visiting the plot for knowledge exchange and to learn more about traditional rice cultivation,” K.R. Anilkumar, a farmer at Kallanchira, said. The MSSRF, with financial support of the Department of Science and Technology, Seed Division, has been involved in the conservation of traditional rice varieties under the Medicinal and Aromatic Rice Initiative (MAARI) project in the district for the past eight years.
04 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Ivory weighing 21 kg seized||A team of forest personnel led by M.K. Rajeev kumar, forest range officer of Periya of the North Wayanad forest division, arrested four persons at Kunhome in the district on Thursday for keeping in their possession two pieces of elephant tusk, weighing 21 kg. The arrested were identified as K. Vinod, 30, of Ittilattil tribal hamlet; K. Raghavan, 39; K.Raju, 34; and K.Gopi, 38 of Kattiyeri tribal hamlet near Kunhome. They had been illegally keeping the ivory for the past 18 months for sale after collecting it from the carcass of a tusker at Kolamathara forest under the North Wayanad forest division, Mr.Rajeev Kumar told The Hindu . The officials seized the ivory kept in a tree trunk in Chappathode forest near Niravilpuzha. The accused were charged under various sections of the Kerala Forest Act 1961 and Wildlife Protection Act,1972. Judicial custody The arrested persons were produced in the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court at Mananthavady, which remanded them in judicial custody for 14 days.
04 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Sudhakaran seeks CBI probe into murders||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) should conduct an inquiry to ascertain the motive behind the Venjaramoodu murders and who committed them, Member of Parliament and Congress leader K. Sudhakaran has said. He was speaking at the inauguration of DCC president Satheesan Pacheni’s fast at Kannur Stadium Corner on the call of the KPCC to end the violence against Congress offices in the State and restore peace Mr. Sudhakaran questioned if the LDF government was ready for a CBI inquiry. He said Ministers E.P. Jayarajan, Kadakampally Surendran and CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan were trying to hold the Congress responsible for the double murder in Thiruvananthapuram. He said it was now clear who had killed both the men. Three of those arrested in connection with the murder were CPI(M) supporters, he said. Even though one suspect was a Congress supporter, he had no party membership. Despite being aware of this, there was an effort to cover up the murders by levelling allegations against the Congress, Mr. Sudhakaran said.
04 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Fisherman goes missing||A fisherman, V. Suresh Kumar (55), a native of Payattuvila, Kollam, who went into the sea along with three others in a boat from Thalassery on September 1, has been missing. The Coastal Police have registered a case based on a complaint filed by Roy Babu Dcruz, who was with Suresh in the boat. According to the complaint, by 10 p.m, everyone had gone to sleep in the boat after they had cast the net. However, when they woke up in the morning, Suresh Kumar was missing. The Coast Guard, with the help of the Marine Enforcement wing, has begun a search.
04 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||IndiGo flights from Kannur to Chennai||IndiGo has resumed its flight service to Chennai from the Kannur international airport. The airline company will operate to Chennai three days a week — Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday. The service was resumed on September 1. The airline also operates flights from Kannur to Hubli, Kochi, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, and Thiruvananthapuram.
04 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Paid agencies working for Cong., BJP, says Jayarajan||CPI(M) Kannur district secretary M.V. Jayarajan has clarified that he had given instructions to party workers to comment on the Public Service Commission (PSC) appointment controversy in a planned manner only to clear the propaganda being spread against the party on social media. The clarification has come in the wake of a voice recording Mr. Jayarajan had purportedly sent to party workers following the death of a youth who was on a PSC rank list. Mr. Jayarajan is heard asking the party workers to post at least 300 comments from a local committee. Mr. Jayarajan said here on Thursday that paid agencies were working on the social media against the party. All of them were posting comments from paid news agencies of the Congress and the BJP, he alleged. A plan was drawn up to deal with anti-party campaigns. The comments were prepared in capsule form to avoid any negative reactions, Mr. Jayarajan said.
04 September 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||133 test positive in Kasaragod||In Kasaragod, 133 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. Of them, 120 were infected through contact, while five came from other States and eight from abroad. As many as 6,474 people are under observation in Kasaragod. The district has recorded 5,378 COVID-19 cases so far. In Kannur Seventy-four cases of COVID-19 were reported in Kannur on Thursday. Of the infected, 63 contracted the disease through contact, while one came from abroad and six from other States. Four are health workers. The total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district so far is 3,883. As many as 2,927 patients have been discharged from hospitals, including 140 on Thursday. In Thrissur As many as 93 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Thursday, while 145 people recovered from the disease. Of the positive cases, 91 persons contracted the disease through local transmission. The source of infection in 12 cases is not known. There are 1,382 active cases in the district and 8,954 people under observation. In Wayanad As many as 18 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Thursday. While 15 of them contracted the virus through local contacts, three arrived from other States. There were 17 recoveries in the district. There are 222 persons undergoing COVID-19 treatment and 2,927 persons under observation.  (With inputs from Kannur, Thrissur and Wayanad bureaus)
04 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi metro to operate every 10 minutes from Monday||Kochi metro trains will operate at a frequency of every 10 minutes once operations resume on September 7 (Monday), after a gap of over five months. Services will resume in a staged manner. Trains will thus operate from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. and again from 2 p.m. to 8 p.m., on September 7 and 8. There will thus be no service from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. Trains will operate every 10 minutes from 7 a.m. to 12 noon and from 2 p.m. to 9 p.m., from September 9. The frequency will be every 20 minutes, from 12 noon to 2 p.m., Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) informed. The last train will depart from terminal stations at Aluva and Pettah at 9 p.m. On Sunday, the service will start only at 8 a.m. “We are trying to make the arrangements as passenger-friendly as possible. Kochi metro wants to ensure that the trains are clean, hygienic, and fully sanitised,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, managing director, KMRL. In addition, the halting time at stations has been extended from 10 seconds to 20 seconds. This is to ensure proper ventilation and fresh air circulation. Trains will halt at the terminal stations — Aluva and Pettah — for a minimum of 5 minutes, as the layover time, with all doors kept open to enable fresh air circulation. Physical distancing Aimed at ensuring physical distancing, passengers will have to occupy alternative seats. Stickers have been pasted on seats which have to be left vacant. Each train will carry a maximum of only 100 passengers, including a few in standing position. Spare trains will be kept ready in case of a sudden surge in the number of passengers.
04 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||164 new positive cases registered in Ernakulam||Ernakulam district on Thursday reported 164 COVID-19 cases, of which 149 were through contact. Among those infected through contact were two doctors and 10 health workers attached to various private hospitals. Mookkannoor accounted for the most number of cases through contact at 22 followed by Pallippuram with 10 cases and Kalamassery and Thoppumpady with six cases each. Among the 209 persons cured of the disease, 194 are natives of Ernakulam, 12 from other districts, and three from other States. While 918 people were brought under observation, 2,892 were removed from the list on completing the observation period. Among the total of 15,052 people under observation in the district, 12,738 are in home quarantine, 99 in COVID treatment centres, and 2,215 in paid institutional care. First-level treatment centres (FLTCs) and hospitals recorded 132 new admissions. Of the 2,240 active cases in the district, 653 continue to undergo treatment at their homes. Nearly 4,200 samples, including from private hospitals and labs, were sent for testing. While 1,329 test results were out on Thursday, 538 results are awaited. The new normal Meanwhile, in an interaction with techies on innovative ideas to fight the pandemic and easing post-COVID life, District Collector S. Suhas urged people to get accustomed to a life with COVID in view of the surge in its spread. He, however, clarified that this did not mean not to take the disease lightly but to take precautionary measures to avoid getting infected. Mr. Suhas said the district administration had now prioritised reducing the death rate due to the pandemic. The Collector warned that uncontrolled rise in the number of patients would derail the fight against the pandemic. Masks distributed The Rotary District 3,201 handed over 70,000 N95 masks to the Ernakulam General Hospital, to be distributed to doctors as part of its COVID relief project. The consignment costing Rs. 70 lakh was handed over by Hibi Eden, MP, to hospital superintendent Dr. Anitha on Thursday. The masks will be given to doctors in Ernakulam, neighbouring districts, and Coimbatore.
04 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||MEC sees near-100% campus placements||Though COVID-19 continues to travel the world almost unhindered, there appears tremendous hope for a post-pandemic world, as big companies have recruited nearly all graduates of the 2019-20 batch of the Model Engineering College (MEC) here and are looking to recruit more from the 2020-21 batch. “MEC students have conquered new heights in campus recruitments,” the college authorities said on Thursday. Almost all the 360 candidates, who graduated this year have found placements in companies like Amazon, Microsoft, LinkedIn, ServiceNow, Amadeus, Deloitte, Synopsys, FactSet, Cypress Semiconductor, Oracle, and redBus. MEC, Thrikkakara, “has constantly raised the bar for campus recruitments in Kerala,” and the new highlight is for the 2019-2020 batch of students, who have been recruited to over 80 companies, said principal Dr. Vinu Thomas. There is near-100% recruitment in almost every engineering branch, and the fresh graduates have been offered notable pay packages. The new recruits have been offered an average salary of Rs. 6.6 lakh a year for product companies and Rs. 4.5 lakh for services companies. The highest compensation offered were Rs. 30 lakh CTC and Rs. 20.9 lakh CTC. A new normal is emerging, with seven big companies announcing their intention to hold online interviews with graduates from the 2020-21 batch. “We were not expecting this to happen so fast,” said Dr. M.V. Rajesh, placement officer.
04 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Audit of ICT equipment in schools commences||The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE), formerly known as IT@School, has kick-started its annual audit of the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) equipment deployed across schools in the State as part of its hi-tech school and hi-tech lab projects. About 1.16 lakh laptops, 67,194 projectors, 4,545 televisions, 4,611 printers, 4,720 webcams, 4,578 DSLR cameras and 97,655 Bluetooth speakers have been deployed across 16,026 government and aided schools in the State. KITE held its first ever audit during the last academic year and decided to make it an annual affair coinciding with the start of every academic year in June. “We could not conduct it as planned in the wake of the pandemic but are confident of wrapping it up this month. Earlier, a circular was issued for the maintenance of the ICT equipment since schools have been remaining closed since March and the audit is being conducted as a continuation of it,” said K. Anwar Sadat, CEO, KITE. The audit aims at taking stock of the usage and maintenance of ICT equipment and whether they have been allocated as directed for facilitating “First Bell” an initiative rolled out by the government for State school students through Victers educational channel under KITE. The audit would be conducted by KITE representatives by visiting schools in strict compliance with the COVID-19 protocol. The deputy directors of education have been asked to conduct audio-video conferencing along with the principals of schools within their jurisdiction and KITE representatives to assess the usage of ICT equipment and their safe upkeep for which the service of master trainers, technical assistants, and IT coordinators would be made available. The ICT equipment allocated to each school would be verified against online inventory. Whether maintenance records are being logged into the IT Advisory Council Minutes or being preserved as a special report would be looked into. Schools where irregularities were detected in last year’s audit would be closely examined. Documents such as police FIRs and service receipts accounting for the repair, diversion and loss of equipment would be verified.
04 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||No impact on patronage for private bus services: operators||The resumption of Kochi metro services from Monday will have negligible impact on around 200 private buses which now operate in the city and suburban towns, bus operators said. Fall in operations The pandemic scare and the subsequent fall in the number of passengers have resulted in the number of buses that operated services intra-city and from mofussil towns to Kochi from 2,200 to 200. Of this, only 15 buses are operating on the Aluva-Ernakulam route, beneath the metro corridor. “The metro resuming service will not affect the patronage for buses, since the metro carries mostly commuters who otherwise rely on private vehicles. Many consider buses safer than the metro, since there is no air conditioning,” said K.B. Suneer, general secretary of Ernakulam District Private Bus Operators Association. A bulk of private buses, numbering 2,000, are parked for months together, after their operators submitted G-form to the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD), seeking temporary halting of service. Another bus operator, Nisar Karukapadath, said that the number of buses that operated on the Vyttila-Vyttila circular route had come down from 40 during pre-COVID days to seven now. Restrictions “We stop service at 6.30 p.m., since the government has permitted operation from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. It would be ideal if buses are permitted to operate till 9 p.m., so that operators can gain revenue from evening peak hours,” he added.
04 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||A ‘ stray rescuer’ at the receiving end||In the past nearly five years, Sachithra Soman, a 42-year-old working woman in Kochi, had to shift home eight times. The latest was when she was hounded out of her rented house at Edappally allegedly by her neighbours this Onam. Like all previous occasions, it was about the stray cats and dogs she has rescued from streets and brought home. This time, the exit was a lot more acrimonious as it descended into a nasty legal battle between Ms. Soman and her neighbours. She requested not to reveal her new address for fear that her former neighbours may instigate those in her new neighbourhood and get her vacated yet again. Playing Good Samaritan in rescuing a stray kitten from the North railway station five years ago has since grown into a passion for her. Ms. Soman, who adored pets growing up in her ancestral home at Kilimanoor in Thiruvananthapuram, has 30 cats and 12 dogs in her care now. Being a salesperson, she keeps travelling and often returns with stray puppies and kittens. Alerted by her Facebook posts, people keep approaching her and she gives away five to six kittens or puppies a month for adoption. “Occasionally some animals fall sick, putting the whole herd at risk. In such cases, adoption has to be stalled till they are cured. By then, some animals will be too old for adoption and they end up with me,” says Ms. Soman, who lives alone as her husband works outside the State. Even pedigree breeds rescued by her are available for adoption. Despite the recurring hardships, Ms. Soman has no intention to let go her passion. She has plans to purchase a plot in some rural area for raising her ‘pets’ if people cannot tolerate their presence. (Those interested in adopting kittens and puppies may contact her at 90610 80017).
04 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Gang arrested for attempt to murder||A special investigation team (SIT) of the police on Thursday arrested an eight-member gang accused of hacking and seriously injuring a youngster at Aikkattakavu in Puliyanam near Angamaly on the eve of Onam. The arrested are Anson, 23, Elias, 24, Krishnaprasad, 23, Martin, 23, Mithun, 24, Sreejith, 23, Tony 24, and Vaishnav, 23. While the prime accused, Abhijit, was arrested on the day of the incident, the rest had been absconding. The SIT constituted by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik nabbed the accused from a forest region at Mullaringadu in Idukki where they had been hiding since the incident. All the accused have criminal antecedents. The police said the accused had a run-in with the victim in the past, and the assault was an act of vendetta. The victim remains hospitalised, and his condition is critical.
04 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||More short-distance express trains sought||The Centre’s issuance of ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines, which include permission to resume metro rail services in a phased manner, has given impetus to the demand that Southern Railway operate special express trains linking neighbouring districts in Kerala. Currently, only half-a-dozen train services, including long-distance ones, operate in the State. P. Krishnakumar, member, Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee, said Railways must introduce short-distance special express trains in most sought-after sectors, so that traffic could be reduced on highways. Regular passengers, who travel to Ernakulam for jobs or for business, have been demanding resumption of train services from Kottayam and Alappuzha to Ernakulam. Among those who wrote to the Centre, demanding special trains in Kerala was T.N. Pratapan, MP. “Railways must introduce more special trains. The sectors most in demand are Thrissur-Ernakulam and Kollam-Thiruvananthapuram. ,” he said in a letter to Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal. Currently, the only short-distance special train is the Venad Express. The pair of Jansatabdi Express trains from Thiruvananthapuram to Kozhikode and Kannur, are the other intra-State trains in service now.
04 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Protest march turns restive, 20 arrested||The Ernakulam Rural police arrested 20 persons after a march taken out by the Yuva Morcha to the Aluva civil station, demanding the resignation of the Chief Minister, turned restive. The organisation claimed that two activists, including Yuva Morcha Aluva constituency president Vaisakh, were injured in the melee. The protesters were stopped at the entrance to the civil station by a police team, leading to minor skirmishes.
04 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Twin fishing harbours at Munambam closed||The twin fishing harbours of Munambam in Pallippuram panchayat will remain shut from Friday for a week or until it is declared safe from COVID-19 spread. The decision to shut down the harbours was taken after a man and a woman, whose jobs are related to the harbour activities, tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Sunila Dayalu, member of the Pallippuram panchayat’s Harbour ward said that around 40 persons, who were identified as the contacts of the COVID-19 positive people, were in house quarantine now. Those in quarantine included the contacts as well as their family members, she said.
04 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC dismisses plea against panchayat chief’s election||The Kerala High Court has observed that the election of president and vice president of a panchayat can be challenged before an election tribunal only by a member of the panchayat concerned. The court, while disposing of a case relating to the election of the president of the Nedumkunnam grama panchayat in Kottayam, said on Thursday that the petition contesting the election of a member to the post of president or vice president could be submitted only by a member of the panchayat before the notified election tribunal (munsif court concerned).  The remedy as per Section 153(14) of the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act can be availed of only by the elected member of the panchayat.
04 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cargo ferry to Maldives to call at Kochi||A regular cargo ferry service between India and the Maldives will be launched on September 20 from Tuticorin. The service will be received at Kochi on September 22 and will reach the island country on September 26. The vessel will return from the Maldives on October 1. There will be two or three services a month, said Amit Narang, Joint Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs, during a virtual conference organized by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry. Mr Narang said the commencement of the direct dedicated cargo ferry service was an important milestone in the geo-economic and political relations between the two countries. The new service will be a boost to business communities in both the countries to expand their businesses and trade relations, he added.
04 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||65 cases, 81 cured in Kollam||The district reported 65 cases of COVID-19 and 81 recoveries on Thursday. Fifty-five contracted the infection through contact. The infected also include two health workers and eight persons who returned from abroad. The health workers who tested positive include a 35-year-old Pattathanam resident and 53-year-old Kottankara resident. While the former is an employee at Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, the latter is a staffer of Kollam District Hospital. The district currently has 15,078 persons under observation. While 457 persons completed home quarantine on Thursday, the Health Department has traced 18,183 primary and 4,973 secondary contacts of the positive cases. 1,442 active cases The number of active cases is 1,442. The district administration has urged the public to intimate the authorities about all events such as weddings and betrothals. “Some persons who attended a wedding at Vellimon had tested positive and if we had prior information of the event, further transmission could have been prevented,” said District Collector. Station House Officer of the concerned police station and medical officer of the area should be informed about the function three days in advance. “Strict action will be taken against those who conduct functions without informing the authorities,” he added. The district administration has instructed hospitals not to deny emergency treatment for patients, if they test positive.
04 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||UDF warms up to Mani again||After months of indecision, the United Democratic Front (UDF) has opted to roll the dice and put its faith in the legacy of K.M. Mani once again. Close on the heels of a Central Election Commission (CEC) order allocating the electoral symbol of the Kerala Congress (M) to the party led by Jose K. Mani, the coalition has started informal discussions to explore the possibility of the faction’s return to the fold. Notwithstanding its strong protest over the neutral stance taken by the Mani group during the recent Assembly session, the Congress has commenced efforts to mobilise the opinion of the party cadre in this regard. The move comes even as Mr. Mani, bolstered by the CEC order, intensified his efforts to strengthen the party base by bringing back more leaders from the rival group led by P.J. Joseph. As part of it, the regional party here on Thursday started district-level leadership meetings to decide on the action against those who switched to the rival group. Warning issued Elected representatives from various local bodies who are unwilling to abide by the party line have been warned to face proceedings under the anti-defection law. The other day, it had lodged a police complaint against Saji Manjakkadambil, a leader of the Joseph faction, for `impersonating' as president of the KC(M) Kottayam district unit. According to a senior UDF leader, it is important for the UDF to keep the ‘official’ KC(M) with it considering the significant presence of the regional party in 14 Assembly constituencies. “With the CEC order, Mr. Joseph has been practically stripped off all the powers in the KC(M), though he has not been formally ousted from the party,” the leader said. The move, as expected, has not gone down well with Mr. Joseph, who on Thursday acknowledged the need to apprise the UDF of the CEC order. “It appears a few leaders in the UDF are yet to get a clear picture on the CEC order,” he said, adding that “the Jose faction has gone out of the coalition on its own and there is no scope for a discussion on this within the coalition.” Joseph’s stand Reiterating that an appeal would be filed against the CEC order, Mr. Joseph pointed that an order by an Idukki munsif court preventing Mr. Mani from officiating as party chairman was still valid. “To say that Mr. Mani is the KC(M) chairman amounts to contempt of court and hence legal action will be initiated against it,” said Mr. Joseph. The Mani faction, on the other hand, reacted sharply to Mr. Joseph's statement and warned legal action against any attempts to ‘scandalise’ the CEC order. “Having claimed the authority over the party symbol during the crucial elections, including the Pala byelection, Mr. Joseph is now attempting to cover humiliation of loss,” said N. Jayaraj, MLA and a Mani loyalist.  A senior UDF leader says it is important for the front to keep the ‘official’ KC(M) with it considering the significant presence of the regional party.
04 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam’s tally remains high at 160||As many as 160 persons, including a health-care worker at a private hospital in Changanassery, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. Of these, 159 persons contracted the viral infection through local transmission. Kottayam municipality reported 21 cases, followed by Erumeli with 15 cases. Erattupetta had 14 cases while Uzhavoor and Nedumkunnam reported nine cases each. Eleven recoveries The district also reported 11 recoveries during the day. The number of active cases in the district is 1,543. Meanwhile, the authorities have imposed fines to the tune of Rs. 14.8 lakh during a drive conducted between August 24 and September 2 from those who violated the COVID-19 protocol.  6,900 booked As many as 6,900 cases were registered for violation of physical-distancing norms. Also, cases were registered against 4,301 persons for not wearing face-masks in public places. Cases were registered against 258 persons, including nine who violated quarantine norms.
04 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Focus on Vadakara, Chorod as Kozhikode reports 131 cases||An alert has been sounded in Vadakara and Chorod areas in Kozhikode where a large number of COVID-19 cases are being reported of late even as 131 people tested positive for the virus in the district on Thursday. According to the Health Department, there is a possibility of local transmission in places such as Koyilandy which are adjacent to Vadakara. As many as 284 people have been tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the Vadakara cluster so far and there are 162 active cases at present. Sixty-five people were diagnosed with the infection in the past three days in Vadakara and 15 in Chorod. There are 155 active cases in Chorod and 323 people from the area have been so far tested positive. Strict action Health officials claimed that people are thronging public places such as markets there. Action will have to be initiated as per the Disaster Management Act against shopkeepers who do not insist on physical distancing and do not keep hand sanitizers. People should follow the COVID-19 protocol while venturing out of their homes, added the officials. Meanwhile, the district administration pointed out that more lab tests were being conducted within Kozhikode Corporation, Vadakara, Chorod, and Olavanna limits. The District Medical Officer said 118 of the 131 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Kozhikode were through local transmission. There are five health workers among the infected. There are 30 cases of local transmission in Kozhikode Corporation area, 21 in Kadalundy, and 10 in Mavoor. As many as 186 people recovered from the infection and there are 1,844 active cases in the district.
04 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Lockdown comes in handy to master massive open online courses||Like any student of her age, Megha is attending online classes from June. But with a difference. The Class VI student in Bengaluru, stuck in Kozhikode after the lockdown from March, has taken to online courses. “Now I have completed three courses: AI basics, mobile app development, and Web designing. My cousins who were attending such courses encouraged me to try them,” says Megha. She says her uncle, a software engineer, introduced her to the topics. “Yes, it was initially difficult. So I had to consult and clarify with my cousins. Now I am doing Python and HTML basics. It all depends on interest and aptitude,” says Megha. Online certificate courses have become hugely popular with school and college students alike. Apart from their curriculum, these courses offered by platforms such as Coursera, a worldwide online learning programme founded by Stanford University’s computer science professors Andrew Ng and Daphne Koller, or Google Digital Unlocked or edX, a massive open online course, are helping even young people cope with emerging learning and job opportunities. However, many engineering and science students have chosen the National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning (NPTEL), jointly developed by the Indian Institutes of Technology and the Indian Institute of Science. Eyeing Deep Learning “I have enrolled for mathematical courses to do research in future. I think these courses will help me in project works,” says Abraham Mathew, a second year BTech student. This apart, he says he had already done a set of courses in Deep Learning, which is basically an AI function to mimic the workings of the human brain in processing data for use in multiple fields. “Courses in Machine Learning are taught as electives. But learning them is advantageous during internship and in improving career skills,” he says. Many disciplines meet Online courses offer students an opportunity to explore new areas of interest which are not available in their regular curriculum. “We are living in an era in which multidisciplinary learning and research are gaining momentum more than ever before. Quite a lot of milestone achievements have been made possible by the harmonious collaboration of researchers from different disciplines,” says K.A. Abdul Nazeer of the computer science department, who is also chairman, UG admissions, National Institute of Technology, Calicut. “For example, elucidation of the human genome and the subsequent developments in bioinformatics and life science domains resulted in many innovative results in the health-care sector,” he says. He says gaining multidisciplinary knowledge will help students fine-tune their skillset to solve a real world problem more efficiently and effectively. “Many universities now allow students to credit such online courses, to a certain extent, as electives,” says Prof. Nazeer.
04 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Daunting task awaits new DCC chief in Kozhikode||A Herculean task awaits U. Rajeevan, who was appointed Kozhikode district Congress committee (DCC) president by Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday. Several names were considered for the post after the elevation of T. Siddique as one of the 12 State vice presidents of the party five months ago. One of the factors that helped Mr. Rajeevan was his organisational skills as general convener of the Vadakara parliamentary committee thrice in a row. Congress nominees have been winning the Lok Sabha seat since the surprising victory of Mullappally Ramachandran from the CPI(M) fortress in 2009. At present, Mr. Rajeevan is the leader of the opposition in the Koyilandy municipality and general convener of UDF Koyilandy Assembly segment. The State leadership believes that the new DCC chief should take more efforts to steer the Congress-led UDF in the upcoming local body polls and the Assembly polls next year. The Congress party has had no legislator from the district for the last three terms. Factional feud The three-year tenure of Mr. Siddique had helped quell factional wars in some ways. It has to be seen how Mr. Rajeevan will be able to handle disgruntled leaders from the A and I groups of the party who have been left out of the reconstituted KPCC.
04 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Teacher alleges cyberbullying by lawyer||Sai Swetha, a Kozhikode-based primary school teacher, whose online classes became quite popular among students in the State recently, has reportedly approached the State Police Chief and the Chief Minister against a lawyer, accusing him of cyberbullying.  Film offer According to reports, Ms. Swetha claimed that Sreejith Perumana, the lawyer, had approached her to find out if she was interested in acting in a film. After consulting her family, she told him that she was not keen on the offer. Ms. Swetha alleged that Mr. Perumana then insulted her through social media posts. Meanwhile, Mr. Perumana claimed that he had never insulted Ms. Swetha but had only highlighted the lack of propriety in dealing with the offer. Ms. Swetha could not be reached for comments. Cyber cell sources claimed they were yet to get details of the complaint.
04 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta reports 118 fresh cases||The district reported 118 fresh cases of COVID-19, including 98 local contact cases, on Thursday. As many as 22 of these cases were linked to the Kadakkadu cluster while cases were also reported from the COVID-19 clusters at Nellad and Kadambanadu etc. With 101 recoveries, the district currently has 843 active cases and 12,181 persons under surveillance. Two deaths The pandemic also claimed two lives in the district, taking the COVID-19 fatalities in the district to 26. Comorbidities According to officials, a 90-year-old man from Adoor and a 59-year-old woman from Elanthoor succumbed to SARS-CoV-2 infection. The 90-year-old, who died at a private hospital in Pathanamthitta, had been suffering from high blood pressure and heart disease while the woman had kidney problems and diabetes. These deaths, however, have not been included on the official list of the government.
04 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Solo ‘competitor’ for Uthrittathi boat race||The Uthrittathi boat race at Pampa in Aranmula will be staged in line with the COVID-19 protocol here on Friday. The event will be mostly symbolic in nature. The most notable absentee this year will be the festive atmosphere as the participation of Palliyodams has been limited to just one. As per the event schedule, the Llaka-Idayaranmula Palliyodam, carrying only 24 persons on board, will be accorded a reception by the Palliyoda Seva Sanghom at the temple ghats. The low water level in the river too has cast a shadow over the smooth conduct of the event. According to the organisers, 25 snake-boats had participated in the annual regatta even during the floods two years ago. Plans to organise the event by lining up 52 boats this time had to be scrapped due to the COVID-19 restrictions. While representatives of the Palliyoda committees from the eastern zone were permitted to board the snake-boat during the Thiruvonathoni procession, those entering the Palliyodam this time will be representatives of the committees from the western region. The remaining committees will be given representation during the Vallasadya on September 10.
04 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Accused in murder case nabbed||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police on Thursday nabbed a key accused in the Venjaramoodu twin-murder case, even as the collection of evidence gained momentum. Madapuram Unni, alias Biju, the fourth accused in the murder of DYFI workers Haq Mohammed and Mithilaj at Thembamoodu, who allegedly had direct role in the murder, was apprehended by the police from a hideout at Madapuram, near Vembayam, by around 9 p.m. With this, the number of people caught in the case has gone up to eight. The second accused, Ansar, who also had purportedly taken part in the murder, remained on the run. The police are currently probing the alleged conspiracy to ascertain if more people were involved in the crime. The call detail records (CDR) of the accused were being scrutinised as part of the ongoing efforts. Meanwhile, political tension continued to simmer in the aftermath of the incident. Nine activists of the DYFI and Youth Congress were arrested by the Fort police after a clash that occurred at the Karimadom colony late on Wednesday. Rash driving While the incident was triggered by a few Youth Congress workers rebuking a DYFI activist for driving an autorickshaw rashly within the colony, it later turned into a full-blown confrontation against the backdrop of the Venjaramoodu murders. An assistant sub-inspector who was part of the police team that rushed to the scene also sustained injury. Accusing the Congress of unleashing violence, the CPI(M) demanded a probe into the alleged role of Attingal MP, Adoor Prakash, in the twin murder case. Party district secretary Anavoor Nagappan, who raised the demand at a press conference, said the deceased, who were reportedly seen in CCTV visuals to have been wielding sharp weapons, could have done so for self-defence and out of fear for their safety, considering there had been similar attacks on DYFI workers in the region in the recent past. CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and Health Minister K.K. Shylaja visited the houses of the deceased. On the other hand, the Congress maintained that the incident was not one spurred by political animosity. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, who protested against the attack on party offices, alleged that the police shielded the perpetrators who were involved in such incidents of vandalism. While the Congress accused the District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) B. Asokan of partisanship while leading the investigation, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said during his briefing that no complaints had been received in this regard.  The police are currently probing the alleged conspiracy to ascertain if more people were involved in the crime
04 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC improvises for revenue||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is rolling out a slew of measures to increase its revenue from the fleet and and to put it to optimal use. After the Buses on Demand (BonD) service during the morning and evening peak hours for short-distance travellers and ‘relay’ services for long-distance passengers, the utility has now come up with ‘unlimited ordinary service.’ The new service, to be launched mainly in the southern districts, will primarily focus on city and mofussil routes. Instead of the current practice of stopping only at designated bus stops, these buses will halt and pick up passengers on demand. “Through this, we hope to win over short-distance commuters and those using other modes of transport,” a top official of the operations wing said. ‘Stay’ at last bus stop The KSRTC has also decided not to operate schedules that do not fetch at least Rs. 25 per km. Another initiative is not to operate ‘ferry services’ back to the base depot from the last bus stop. Instead, the buses would be positioned at these points and crew would be paid Rs. 2 per km for the distance from the base depot as stay allowance. Those in the locality will be given preference as crew on these buses as they will be allowed to go home after parking the buses. The utility has asked unit officers to look into the unviable schedules as the aim is to reduce fuel consumption by 15% and increase revenue by 25% in the post-pandemic times. On Thursday, the first working day after Onam holidays, the KSRTC operated 1,900 buses. The lack of revenue from the fleet is a major concern. On Wednesday, the revenue from 1,501 buses was just Rs. 95 lakh. “The per km revenue is pegged around Rs. 24. The money is enough just to foot the fuel bill. A revenue of Rs. 52 per km is needed to avoid loss from operations,” he added.  Revenue for utility pegged around Rs. 24 a km At least Rs. 52 per km required to stem losses
04 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM reaches out to Church factions||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday invited the leadership of the feuding Orthodox and Jacobite factions of the Malankara Church for a meeting on September 10. Officials said the Chief Minister would make a bid to resolve or at least mitigate the conflict between the factions. Preparations on A Cabinet subcommittee headed by Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan is working out the modalities of the videoconference. It is not known whether the factions have agreed to confer with Mr. Vijayan individually or separately. The Orthodox faction had earlier expressed its reservations on any government-mediated reconciliation talks with the Jacobites. The group had reiterated its demand for the implementation of the Supreme Court order of July 3, 2017 over the administration of disputed parishes in Kerala.
04 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State’s depressing suicide statistics for 2019||Kerala figures among the top five States and Union Territories with high suicide rates in the country, reporting 8,556 suicides during 2019. While the national rate (number of suicides per one lakh population) was 10.4 during last year, it was 24.3 in Kerala. In 2018, it was 23.5 in the State when the national average was 10.2. In 2019, the Andaman & Nicobar Islands had the highest rate of suicide (45.5) followed by Sikkim (33.1), Puducherry (32.5), Chhattisgarh (26.4) and Kerala (24.3), as per the ‘Accident Deaths and Suicides in India in 2019’ of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Case in cities The number of suicides in Kerala had gone up from 8,237 in 2018 to 8,556 in 2019, the percentage variation being 3.9. The suicide rate in cities (13.9) was on the higher side compared the national suicide rate (10.4). Kollam followed by Asansol have reported the highest suicides rate of 41.2 and 37.8. Kollam had reported 457 suicides last year, Thrissur 405, Thiruvananthapuram 331, Kozhikode 258 and Kochi 222. In all, 22,390 suicides had been reported from 53 cities. Of the suicides committed by unemployed persons, 14% were in Kerala (1,963 out of 14,019 suicides), 10.8% in Maharashtra (1,511), 9.8% in Tamil Nadu (1,368), 9.2% in Karnataka (1,293) and 6.1% in Odisha (858 suicides) Out of 32,427 suicides committed by persons educated up to matriculate/secondary level, 17.6% were reported in Maharashtra followed by Kerala and Tamil Nadu (10.4% each) and Karnataka (8.6%). An increase in suicides during 2019 (1,39,123 suicides) had been observed as compared to 2018 (1,34,516) in the NCRB statistics. Maximum cases of mass/family suicides were reported in Tamil Nadu (16 cases) followed by Andhra Pradesh (14), Kerala (11), Punjab (9) and Rajasthan (7) during 2019, with a total 43 persons in Tamil Nadu, 36 in Andhra Pradesh, 24 in Kerala and 22 persons in Rajasthan losing lives in such instances. Family problems (other than marriage-related problems) (32.4%), marriage-related problems (5.5%) and illness (17.1%) together accounted for 55% of total suicides in 2019. Of the victims, 12.6% were illiterate,16.3% were educated up to primary level, 19.6% up to middle class level, 23.3% up to matric level and 3.7% were graduates and above. Homemakers accounted for 51.5% of the women victims and constituted nearly 15.4% of the total suicide cases. A total of 10,281 persons involved in farming sector committed suicides during 2019.
04 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||317 fresh cases, seven deaths in capital||The capital district recorded 317 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, while the death toll jumped by seven, taking the official toll to 99. The deaths included those of natives of Kovalam (93-year-old) and Pulluvila (86), who died on August 29; Poovar (52), Poojappura (45), and Dhanuvachapuram (29), who died on August 28; Chennilode (75), who died on August 27; and Manalil (60), who died on August 26. Barring two imported cases, all the other fresh cases have been attributed to local transmission, including 15 health workers. The source of infection in 26 cases is unknown. Though testing is yet to be back in full swing in the district, cases were reported in significant numbers from various places. Ten inmates of a rehabilitation centre at Mundayil, near Varkala, tested positive from among 38 people who were subjected to antigen test at the Varkala taluk hospital. Twelve people were diagnosed with the disease in Kallikkad grama panchayat. Other cases were also reported from Balaramapuram (14), Attingal (three), and Anchuthengu (two). As many as 1,409 people were quarantined in the district on the day. A total of 357 people were also admitted to hospitals with various symptoms. At present, there were 21,551 people in quarantine in Thiruvananthapuram. Among these, 17,358 people were quarantined in their homes. The district administration declared containment zones at Moonnukallinmoodu ward in Neyyattinkara municipality; Perayathupara region in Chayam ward, Tholicode grama panchayat; and Chandramangalam and Amachal wards in Kattakada grama panchayat. Containment zones Areas that were taken out from the list of containment zones include Kaniyaramcode, Panacode, and Tholicode wards in Tholicode grama panchayat; Melariyode and Kilikottukonam wards in Maranalloor grama panchayat; and Lakshmi Nagar and Chaithanya Gardens in Kesavadasapuram ward of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation.
04 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nemom coaching terminal in limbo||The delay on the part of the Railway Board to give approval to the Detailed Project Report (DPR) and failure to earmark capital in the Union Budget has resulted in Nemom coaching terminal being confined to paper. The railway authorities are groping in the dark on the way forward for the project as only Rs. 50 lakh was made available from the Safety Fund in the last Budget. But, the votaries for developing Nagercoil as a terminal are putting pressure on the Centre and the Railways for Nagercoil citing the advantages like easy availability of land and more development to the southern peninsula. “Land is available for Nagercoil terminal and acquisition is not burdensome as in Kerala. Funds is not an issue in view of the ongoing doubling of Vanchi Maniyachchi-Tirunelveli-Nagercoil stretch. Unless the State exerts pressure, Nemom will meet the same fate of the Rail Coach Factory at Kanjikode,” Railway officials say. The DPR for the Rs. 116.57 crore Phase I of the Nemom coaching terminal has been lying in the Railway Board since November 2, 2019. The foundation stone was laid by Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal through video conferencing from Delhi on March 7, 2019 when the file was still pending with the Finance wing of the Southern Railways, Chennai. The construction wing of the railways commenced the Rs. 15-crore preliminary works on Phase I hoping to get the approval from the Board and adequate funds. But works for two platforms, each 600-m-long, and railway tracks, each 750-m-long, to divert the existing tracks has now come to a standstill due to lack of land. For the preliminary works, land has to be acquired for two ROBs and for reconstruction of an aquaduct. The development of Nemom yard also needs further land. Land to the extent of 14.80 hectares is needed for doubling the seven km from Thiruvananthapuram Central to Nemom. The proposed coaching terminal, aimed at decongesting Thiruvananthapuram Central and bringing more trains needs 5.28 hectares of land. The State government has sought Rs. 207 crore from the Railways for the cost of acquiring 14.80 hectares for doubling and the terminal. Lack of capital is preventing the Railways from moving ahead, railway officials say. Minister for Public Works and Railway G. Sudhakaran and the General Manager, Southern Railway, in separate letters to Mr. Goyal and the Railway Board respectively have sought funds for the terminal. But, it had not evoked any response. Four stabling lines, a pit line, two additional platform lines, and a shunting neck will come up in Phase I and a complete coaching terminal with power car shed, four pit lines, and sick lines in Phase II.
04 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Nobody faked my signature: Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said nobody in his office or outside had faked his physical signature on any official file during his absence. Mr. Vijayan was responding to a charge raised by the BJP that a signature of his in written form was found on an official file processed by his office on September 9, 2018. He was briefing media on the COVID-19 situation. BJP charge BJP spokesperson Sandeep Warrier had alleged that Mr. Vijayan was in the U.S. at the time for treatment. It was physically impossible for Mr. Vijayan to put his signature on the file in person. Hence, the signature was a forgery. M.V. Jayarajan, now district secretary of the CPI(M) in Kannur, was the Chief Minister’s political secretary during the period, he said. Mr. Warrier distributed an RTI copy of the file to journalists. It concerned the conduct of Malayalam Language Week celebrations. The Chief Minister had left for the U.S. on September 2 and returned on September 23. Mr. Warrier challenged Mr. Vijayan to explain the “manual signature” penned during his absence. CM’s explanation Mr. Vijayan flourished an iPad and said the Chief Minister’s Office had sent the file to him in digital form. He had perused the electronic file on the device and affixed his signature digitally. A government order in 2013 had legalised file processing via e-office. He said he always used the system when he travelled outside the capital. Mr. Vijayan said the “accuser” might be unaware of the e-office system. But, Indian Union Muslim League leader P.K. Kunhalikutty indeed did. Mr. Kunhalikutty had echoed the BJP’s accusation in Kozhikode and had said the charge was serious enough to warrant a criminal investigation.
04 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SCTI MST develops safe system for di sposal of secretions||Researchers at the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) here have come up with a method for safe handling and disposal of respiratory secretions of patients admitted to hospital ICUs for treatment of highly contagious diseases such as COVID-19, tuberculosis (TB) and influenza. The team of biomaterial scientists and clinicians comprising Dr. Manju, S., Dr. Manoj Komath, Dr. Asha Kishore and Dr. Ajay Prasad Hrishi developed suction canister bags lined with super-absorbent material containing a disinfectant, named ‘AcryloSorb.’ Up to 500 ml Each bag can absorb 500 ml of secretions and solidify it immediately. The contents will be also be decontaminated by the disinfectant, eliminating the risk of secondary infections by avoiding spilling, and aerosol formation, thereby protecting health-care workers. Biomedical waste The canister bags are enclosed in a customizable spill-proof sealer bag that can be safely incinerated as biomedical waste. A pressnote issued by the institute said the canister liner bag named AcryloSorb had been tested as per international standards and the know- how transferred to a UP- based medical device manufacturing company for production.
04 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Olympic Wave’ for fitness||For fitness buffs in the State, here is something from the Kerala Olympic Association (KOA). The association is creating a forum for fitness enthusiasts and to encourage the public to take up exercise to create a healthy and physically fit society. Christened ‘Olympic Wave’, the initiative is open to all, R. Ayyappan, convener, Thiruvananthapuram District Olympic Association (TDOA) ad hoc committee, said in a statement. Absence of adequate exercise has been cited as a major reason for the spike in lifestyle diseases. Through Olympic Wave, the association will provide exercise tips and help people design customised exercise programmes. The association aims to popularise walking as an exercise in all 14 districts. The membership fee is Rs. 100 for individuals and Rs. 250 for clubs. It is planned as a decentralised programme which will be coordinated at the State, district, Corporation and panchayat level, the TDOA said. For details, call 9447094430. e-mail:thiruvananthapuramdoa @gmail.com.
04 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||14 mobile medical units launched||Health Minister K. K. Shailaja on Thursday launched 14 more mobile medical surveillance units as part of tackling COVID-19. The vehicles have facilities for medical examination and lab tests. The 14 mobile units will complement the 27 units launched earlier. The Health Department is making extensive arrangements for combating the pandemic, given the possibility of a spike in cases, the Minister said. The medical needs of the quarantined can be met through these surveillance units. The new units will facilitate the collection of samples, disease prevention activities, first aid, lab tests, diagnosis. The project is being implemented by the National Health Mission through the Kerala Medical Services Corporation.
04 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Briefly 1||Power supply to areas coming under the Kudappanakunnu electrical section will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Friday on account of scheduled maintenance works, an official release stated.
04 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Briefly 2||The Fisheries Department has invited applications from fisherwomen units to launch microenterprises for self-employment under the Theeramythri scheme. The units, comprising workers numbering two to five who are aged between 20 and 50, can avail themselves of financial assistance up to Rs. 5 lakh. Application forms can be collected from the office of the Assistant Director of Fisheries in Vizhinjam and Matsya Bhavan offices in the district from September 9 onwards. The deadline for application is September 22.
04 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Street vendors’ appeal||Street vendors have demanded permission to resume sales adhering to COVID-19 protocol. The Vazhiyora Kachavada Thozhilali Federation submitted petitions to the Chief Minister in this regard. The forum staged a protest here on Thursday.
04 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur’s tigers migrate to new platform, get on with the game||There were no prancing tigers, no rustic drum beats or moving floats at Thrissur Swaraj Round on Thursday, the fourth Onam day this time. But thousands of people watched Pulikkali, the hallmark street pageant, from their homes. In Thrissur, Onam celebrations are not complete without Pulikkali. The tiger-hunt-themed street pageant, in which people done up in tiger body art roam the streets in feral dance steps, will bring the curtains down for the celebrations. Though the COVID-19 protocol prevented the street performance, Thrissur’s tigers were not ready to surrender. When the pandemic snatched away the fun and frolic of Onam after two back-to-back floods, the Ayyantole Desham Pulikkali team decided to keep up the spirit with an online performance. People across the world watched the one-hour live Pulikkali performance on the Facebook page of the Ayyantole Desham Pulikkali Sanghadana Samiti from 3.30 p.m. on Thursday. In all, 16 tigers performed from their houses. ‘We pioneered masks’ “The masks are not new to people of Thrissur. We had introduced the masks to the world long back, much before COVID-19, as Pulikkali masks,” said caricature artist Jayaraj Warrier, while introducing the online performance. “Pulikkali is a secular celebration. People from all religions participate in the event,” he said. “We are going through a strange period. COVID-19 has changed our personal and social life. The pandemic has forced us to redefine every stage of life. But people of Thrissur are smart. They find opportunities in even the toughest times,” said Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar, congratulating the performers. The only change was in the platform. The preparations were all the same. Tiger dens were busy as usual. The body art was done with utmost precision. Steps were practised with care. The dance steps had the same spirit and the pot bellies of tigers vibrated in the same vigour. A minor problem However, the organising committee had a huge task of introducing the new normal performing style to the tigers. Tigers, used to the joyous dance steps sans any rules, found it difficult to dance within the limit of the frame.
04 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||READ 2020 for adolescents||Responsible Adolescence (READ) 2020,  a  programme that aims at helping adolescents develop into self-aware, socially responsible, and well-rounded individuals, will be launched on September 25. READ will be delivered through a series of interactive online classrooms and seminars, which will impart skills and knowledge not usually included in academic curriculum. The subjects covered include Internet safety, financial literacy, Indian Constitution, human rights, food safety and environment among others. The interactive sessions will be delivered via Zoom by experts. The programme is promoted by MKMS Education with the support of the Indian Medical Association, Lions Club, Kerala High Court Advocates’ Association, Thrissur Government Medical College, GranEd Education Trust and Prajyoti Niketan College. The programme is being offered free of charge. The deadline for application is September 12. For details, visit the websitewww.muttath.com/READ 2020or contact 98479 10002.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||An idea that slipped and fell on its own||The curse of the quirky idea in cinema is that it does not take much for it to slip into absurd territory, even though there is half a chance for it to become something special. In Maniyarayile Ashokan , writer Vineeth Krishnan and director Shamzu Zayba had one such idea, which could have been developed into something unique, probably in a short film, but squanders it to deliver a rather flat, run-of-the-mill feel-good film. Whether it manages the feel-good part is another question. At the centre of the film, streaming now on Netflix, is Ashokan (Jacob Gregory), a village office clerk who is obsessed with the idea of getting married. The obsession is fuelled by pressure, after seeing his friends and cousins getting married.  As luck would have it, horoscope plays spoilsport, setting the stage for what could have been a film which represents the plight of the many youth who have become victims of societal pressure to get married and the superstitions that spoiled many a prospective marriage. This is the point where the script banks on its quirkiness with Ashokan falling in love with and marrying a plantain tree to get over some kind of curse in his horoscope. There are indeed one or two points where the film manages to make us empathise with the protagonist who is fast losing his sanity but at the same time one cannot miss the fact that it does become absurd and unbelievable beyond a point. In Kerala, where there is no dearth of jokes on planting a plantain tree instead of taking up some pointless endeavour, this script writes jokes about itself. One wonders whether the film has some deeper message on organic farming for one of Ashokan’s friend’s relationships is framed around the exchange of a coconut sapling. Cameo role Producer Dulquer Salman appears in a cameo, while there are just too many songs to accommodate female stars who have agreed for a cameo. Maniyarayile Ashokan slips and falls on its own quirkiness, although some clever navigation could have saved it. S.R. Praveen
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Grave reminder||
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In full swing||
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Protest against arrest||
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Countercharges||
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Weaving a home||
04 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Industries wait for orders, manpower||The order book of small and medium industries is slowly picking up after the COVID-19 Unlock period began in September first week showing 30-35% of original business returning to Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). However, manpower shortage has hit hard some labour-intensive units like steel mills and casting industries. The Thumukunta Industrial Park close to the Karnataka border in the district is a miniature cluster with above 200 units of all sizes having their operations and many of them were back on production track, Independent Local Authority (ILA) Chairman Mella Venkata Satyanarayana Murthy told The Hindu . While pharma and bulk drugs units are the least affected, medium industries like the Vedic Steel and the HTL had to close shop along with a few small and tiny units. The staff working in the steel industries are from Bihar, West Bengal, U.P. and Chhattisgarh and a majority of them were willing to come back, but due to lack of transport facilities like trains and buses, they were held up, Mr. Murthy said. A few units took permission and sent buses to some States and got their workers back to Hindupur during July and August. “The Re-start loans have come handy for us, easing pressure on salary payments,” said Mr. Murthy, who owns the Micron CNC Products company. They manufacture pistons, pins and adapters for Wipro. Even for them the order book had dried up, but now it improved to 35-40%, he explained. Out of the 40,000 workforce in the industrial area, about 6,000 are migrant labourers and about 2,000 of them stayed back at Hindupur thanks to the support provided by their managements. Interest burden “We are eagerly waiting for the Supreme Court order on waiver of interest or interest on interest on industrial loans, but the Re-tart package announced by the Centre and the State government provided us 20% of our loan and the banks had on their own risk given another 10%, which we utilised for retaining manpower or infusing working capital. The recession in the economy had set in from May 2019 and it was at its worst in March 2020 and COVID-19 had compounded it,” Mr. Murthy observed. The District Industries Centre General Manager Gurrala Sudarshan said under the Re-start scheme Anantapur district approved 817 proposals out of 1,214 applications received and it was the highest in Andhra Pradesh. In Prakasam, 337 approvals were given against 1,224 applications and Chittoor sanctioned 594 packages. The high tension power demand for industries too drastically reduced from 4 million units to below 2 million units during the four months of the pandemic, but demand began rising from August and now it stands at 50% of the original, APSPDCL Superintending Engineer S. Varakumar said.
04 September 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspended||K.V. Mohan Rao, Deputy Inspector-General (DIG) of Police, Eluru Range, on Thursday suspended T. Narsapuram station SI Prem Raj and writer P. Maheswara Rao in connection with the missing of the liquor bottles seized from smugglers recently. The police seized huge quantity of liquor stocks from smugglers at the border check-posts. However, a few seized bottles were reportedly missing from the police station. The DIG directed the police to file criminal cases against them.
04 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 bodies wash ashore in E. Godavari||The bodies of three persons, including two women, washed ashore on Thursday at different locations at the confluence point of river Godavari with the Bay of Bengal near Antarvedi in East Godavari district. On being informed by the locals, the police retrieved the bodies. The police believe that the age of the victims could be between 35 and 45 years. As of now, we do not know if the bodies were washed ashore from the river or the sea, a police officer said. The bodies have been sent to the Area Hospital in Razole, for post-mortem was performed. The police are preparing to perform the last rites on Friday.
04 September 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Overflowing sewage water raises a stink||Accusing the authorities of turning a cold shoulder to the overflowing sewage water at Bellary Chowrasta in Kurnool, the CPI(M) activists staged a demonstration on Thursday, claiming that the issue had been left unattended since the past four months. Party leaders T. Ramudu and J. Kiranmayee told the media that the party would stage a dharna near the municipal corporation building unless the authorities did not fix the problems within a week. “We have brought this issue to the notice of Municipal Commissioner D.K. Balaji and Collector G. Veerapandian several times, but no action has been taken thus far. At a time when the authorities are giving sanitation a top priority to check the COVID-9 pandemic, the sewer lines should have been fixed by now,” they said. “The overflowing sewage water is raising stink even as the motorists and pedestrians are forced to walk or drive through the pool of stagnant water,” pointed out Ms. Kiranmayee. She said the stretch reported many accidents caused by skidding of vehicles. The stagnant water in the Ward No.42 has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. The CPI(M) leaders demanded that remedial measures be taken soon.
04 September 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Retain Kallur, Orvakal mandals in Kurnool dist.’||The Kallur and Orvakal mandals should be retained in the Kurnool district even after the proposed reorganisation of the districts, demanded the members of Kallur Parirakshana Samithi here on Thursday. The Samithi members held a meeting at Chennakeshava temple in Orvakal and took out a rally up to the Tahsildar’s office. They also submitted a memorandum seeking retention the two mandals in Kurnool district and not merge them with the second entity as these mandals are part of Nandyal Parliamentary Constituency. Samithi president Chandrasekhappa, who participated in a dharna at the RTC bus stand, said that people of Kallur and Orvakal were attached to Kurnool city and for the future of the people in two mandals, it was essential to keep these mandals under the purview of Kurnool district administration. “If the two mandals are made part of a new district, agitation will be intensified,” he added.
04 September 2020||MANDAVALLI (KIRSHNA DT),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Rowdy sheeter’ attacks constable||An alleged rowdy sheeter, V. Satyanarayana, reportedly attacked a police constable, Chanti Babu, on Thursday. The constable had an argument with Satyanarayana over the behaviour of the latter, and in a fit or rage, Satyanarayana allegedly attacked Chanti Babu with a knife causing bleeding injuries. The constable was rushed to hospital and his condition is stated to be critical. The police launched a search for the accused.
04 September 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine more die, tally goes up by 2,200 in Prakasam, Nellore||The coronavirus continued to haunt in the south coastal Andhra Pradesh as nine more people died and more than 2,200 persons got infected during the last 24 hours. The toll rose to 317 in Nellore district with six more patients succumbing to the virus during the period, while the same in Prakasam district went up to 298, with three new deaths, said a health bulletin released by the government on Thursday night. With 1,282 new positive cases, the cumulative cases rose to 35,829 in Nellore district. In Prakasam, 926 more people were tested positive, taking the tally to 25,444. The health staff were worried as the number of fresh admissions outnumbered those got cured during the period by over 1,500 patients. The health infrastructure appears to be insufficient to meet the challenge at hand as the two districts have been reported about 2,000 cases daily this week. Only 674 patients, including 54 in Prakasam, were discharged on recovery during the period. Taking stock of the situation, Prakasam Collector P. Bhaskar said oxygen facility has been provided to 1,000 beds to cope with increasing need for respiratory healthcare by the COVID-19 patients. As the number of active cases increased to more than 11,500, health officials treated about 9,000 asymptomatic patients at their homes. More than 500 patients in the need of critical healthcare services were put on ventilator support. Oxygen requirement Oxygen requirement for the increasing number of symptomatic patients was projected by doctors at about 24 tonnes per day. The district administration is now planning to approach Visakahapatnam for oxygen supply after the authorities in Chennai turned down their request in view of the increase in demand by the patients there, sources said. Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakardhar Babu felicitated plasma donor M. Subashini.
04 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP, Cong. oppose metering of farm pumpsets||The TDP and the Congress have warned of protests if the YSRCP government goes ahead with its plan to install meters for farm pump sets. ‘Farmers at risk’ TDP State official spokesman N. Balaji on Thursday contended that metering of farm pump sets on the pretext of introduction of direct benefit transfer (DBT) was nothing but an attempt to dilute the free power scheme over a period. Farmers were at a risk of disconnection of power supply for non-clearance of bills for various reasons, he feared. He wanted the State government to take up the responsibility of paying the bills for the entire units consumed instead of first transferring the amounts to the bank accounts of farmers, who might suffer due to delay in the process of settlement of bills. ‘Puppet in Centre’s hand’ While the Telangana government had opposed the metering of farm pump sets, Andhra Pradesh had turned into a “puppet in the hands of ruling BJP at the Centre” for reasons best known to it, he charged. Metering was also an attempt to moderate power consumption by the farmers, who, according to an estimate, consumed power between two-and-half to four-and-half hours only against the promised nine hours of power supply, and charge for the excess power consumed, or put a ceiling on power consumption in the future. Meanwhile, DCC president E. Sudhakar Reddy said the party would stage agitations against the attempt to fix meters for farm pump sets. Both the Union and State governments were making efforts to reduce power subsidy under one pretext or the other, Mr. Sudhakar Reddy alleged. The Congress party, when in power, had implemented the free power scheme, overcoming various problems in its implementation, Mr. Sudhakar Reddy claimed.
04 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Release of Krishna water brings cheers to Ongole||The anxious wait of the residents of Ongole for the Krishna river water ended as the water released from the Nagarjunasagar reservoir reached the second summer storage tank in the town on Thursday. The water gushing out from the Ongole branch canal brought cheers to the denizens, who were getting the supply once in three days earlier. The supply to the city was put at 100 litres per capita day (LPCD) when compared to the standard supply of 135 LPCD. The civic officials also heaved a sigh of relief as the water storage was sufficient only for a week with the first summer storage tank being empty. The city is dependent on the Krishna river for replenishment of its reservoirs. Storage capacity At present, the second summer storage tank has 409.02 million litres (ML) of water. The combined storage capacity of the two summer storage tanks is 5,800 ML, including 3,850 ML in the first one. “We have started receiving 235 cusecs of water from Thursday. The inflows into the summer storage tanks will be stepped up to 300 cusecs in the coming days,” said Municipal Engineer D. Sundarama Reddy. The officials took care that the released water got filled in the tank without developing any breach on the way. The filling up of SS tank I would start on Thursday night. There will be no water shortage in Ongole till March 2021, when a fresh replenishment from Nagarjunasagar would be required. It will take another 15 days for the two tanks to get filled up, he said. Full quota Meanwhile, DCC president Eda Sudhakar Reddy accused State Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy of not keeping his promise to provide drinking water to denizens on alternative days. “Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar reservoirs are full their full capacity. Yet, the city reservoirs are yet to be filled up due to mismanagement of the water which was drained into the Bay of Bengal,” he lamented. The full quota of the Krishna water to Prakasam district remains elusive all these years as it has been in the tail-end of Nagarjunasagar Right Bank Canal system, he added.
04 September 2020||POLAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four persons go missing in Godavari river||Four persons who were travelling by country boat in Godavari river reportedly went missing. The river is in spate for the last 20 days, and the police had appealed to the villagers not to travel on small boats. The missing were identified as A. Sri Hari and T. Yesu of Purushothapatnam and Venkanna and Babi of Gandipochamma villages in East Godavari district. They ventured into the Godavari two days ago to collect firewood, but did not return, the police said on Thursday. The ITDA, police and expert swimmers launched a search for the missing persons in the river at Gutala, Patha Polavaram and in the downstream. “We received information about the disappearance of the four youth through their family members, and the Irrigation officials and swimmers were asked to search in the flood waters at Rajamahendravaram and Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram,” a police officer said. In spate The river which was in spate due to heavy rains and huge inflows in the upstream, was rising. Water level, which touched 41.5 feet at Bhadrachalam on Thursday morning, Irrigation officials said. Water level at Coffer dam was 26.3 metres and at Polavaram was 12.2 metres. At Sir Arthur Cotton (SAC) Barrage, Dowleswaram, flood level was recorded at 10.2 metres, and the discharge was about 8 lakh cusecs into the sea. The Irrigation, Revenue, Police, Fire, A.P. Transco, Medical and Health, Panchayat Raj and other department personnel were put on alert. Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana said that State and National Disaster Response Forces were kept ready in low lying areas as a precautionary measure.
04 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic pushing pvt. schools, colleges towards closure||Reeling under sever financial crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic, many private schools and junior colleges in Srikakulam district are staring at closure. The managements of many educational institutions have reportedly dropped hints to the lecturers, teachers and the non-teaching staff that they would not be able to pay salaries. Fees pending The managements say that many parents are yet to pay the fees that were supposed to be cleared in March and April. “As a practice, the institutions are paid the last installments of their annual fees just before the final examinations. However, the examinations could not be conducted this year as the nationwide lockdown was imposed in the third week of March and the fees are yet to be paid,” says a proprietor of a private school requesting anonymity. Forget about staff salary, many institutions could not clear the building rent, electricity bills and the statutory payments to the respective universities and other government organisations, he explains. “Many families received Rs. 15,000 from the government towards Amma Vodi benefits in January. However, a majority of them chose not to pay the fees. The government also stopped the fee reimbursement scheme for intermediate colleges after the introduction of the Amma Vodi scheme and this affected the colleges directly,” says director of a private college. Impact on enrolment Further, the private schools are also not hopeful about good enrolment in the next academic year. “With the government schools being modernised under the Nadu-Nedu scheme, many parents may not sent kids to private schools. It will have a direct impact on the admissions. So, situation is very grim and we are staring at an uncertain future. More than 50 schools and colleges in Srikakulam district are staring at closure,” says correspondent of a private high school. Samaritans offer help Meanwhile, several organisations and Samaritans have come forward to help the teaching and non-teaching staff who have been struggling to make their ends meet. The Tech Mahindra-Bollineni Medskills is distributing ration to 350 teachers and non-teaching staff of educational institutions. The alumni of Palasa-Kasibugga Zilla Prarishad High School led by Chapara Venugopal, A. Harishkumar Srikanth and Nabili Srinivasa Rao distributed Rs. 1,000 each to 300 private school teachers, other employees and school bus drivers in the district. “Around 20,000 private school teachers are in the need of help and the government should bail them out,” says Mr. Venugopal.
04 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD likely to go for audit of its accounts by CAG||The TTD board has reportedly resolved to have its accounts audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India. The decision is believed to have been taken at the board of trustees’ meeting on August 28. MP Subramanian Swamy, in a tweet on Wednesday, said that the TTD board had passed a resolution to this effect and also mentioned his filing of a PIL in the Andhra Pradesh High Court along with his associate Satyapal Sabharwal seeking a direction for auditing of the temple funds by the CAG. The audit is expected to cover all the income and expenditure besides jewellery and other properties of the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala. According to highly placed sources, the move was intended to usher in more transparency in the spending of the temple funds besides winning the confidence of donors and devotees. Sources said that the board would take the matter to the notice of the State government seeking its approval for engaging the CAG from 2020-21 with a request for special auditing of funds spent during the past five years.  Vijayawada Staff Reporter adds: Mr. Subramanian Swamy tweeted that the task of getting its (TTD’s) funds audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) was completed after it was agreed by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. In his message, Mr. Swamy said TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and member Govind Hari piloted it through the board.
04 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID positive mothers can breastfeed newborns: expert||The women who have tested positive for coronavirus after their delivery can breastfeed their newborns, Sri Venkateswara Ramnarain Ruia Government General Hospital (SVRRGGH) Superintendent K. Bharathi has said. Addressing the women employees during an online awareness programme organised by Sri Venkateswara Employees Training Academy (SVETA), the training arm of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Thursday, Ms. Bharathi said mother’s milk is a major source of strength and immunity for infants. She advised the new mothers to clean hands and breasts before feeding babies. “Even as a woman tests positive for coronavirus in the eighth or ninth month of pregnancy, the newborn is unlikely to contract the infection. However, it is wise to get COVID-19 test done for the baby as well,” she said. Dr. Bharathi also advised pregnant women not to consume lime juice and take hot water and a 50 ml concoction of garlic, jaggery, black pepper boiled in water once a day. She urged the women employees to take all precautions and not to ignore any symptoms of coronavirus such as mild cold, cough, sore throat and breathlessness. SVETA director Ramanjulu Reddy said the COVID-19 awareness programmes have been conducted for TTD employees since July by roping in experts.
04 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIT Tirupati launches M.Sc courses||Continuing its academic expansion spree, the Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati (IIT-T) launched M.Sc programmes in Chemistry and Physics, which admits fifteen students in each of the streams. The premier institute is already offering similar postgraduate programmes in Mathematics and Statistics since last year. The M.Sc. Chemistry programme was formally launched by the former Director of IISc Padmanabhan Balaram recently on the sidelines of a symposium titled ‘The bird’s eye view of excitement and challenges in chemistry’. A dozen stalwart chemists including IISER Mohali’s former Director N. Satyamurthy, Directors K.N. Ganesh (IISER Tirupati), S. Umapathy (IISER Bhopal), J.N. Moorthy (IISER Tiruvananthapuram), Sourav Pal (IISER Kolkata), V. Chandrasekhar (TIFR Hyderabad) and SERB Secretary Sandeep Verma explained the challenges ahead of the human community and the role of chemistry in addressing them. The M.Sc. Physics programme was launched by Condensed Matter Physicist T.V. Ramakrishnan, who narrated to the students the ‘excitement’ in studying and researching physics. IIT-T Director K.N. Satyanarayana explained the idea behind the launch of the ‘Centre for Atomic, Molecular and Optical Sciences and Technologies’.
04 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers’ body seeks opinion poll on power sector reforms||Taking serious exception to the power sector reforms, the Federation of Farmers Associations (FFA) has urged to the government to conduct an opinion poll before going ahead with its plan. Direct benefit transfer “The government’s decision to make farmers pay their power bills on the pretext that it would be reimbursed in the form of direct benefit transfer (DBT) is nothing but doing away with the free power scheme,” said FFA State president Mangati Gopal Reddy. Instead of opening a separate account for every farmer, he suggested that the government calculate the quantum of power supplied to farmers and directly transfer the amount to the account of the power distribution companies. “The farmer does not have to know about the power bill as it will serve no purpose,” said Mr. Reddy. When the government pays the DISCOMS, it has the right to insist on quality power, but at the same time, farmers should not be penalised in the form of power disconnection in case the government’s failure in paying the bills, he said. The farmers’ body also demanded that any new reform measure should be introduced only after consulting the farmers.
04 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No respite from surge in positive cases||The State reported 75 new deaths and 10,199 new infections during the past 24 hours as of Thursday morning. For the ninth day in a row, the State witnessed over 10,000 new infections, and so far over 94,000 cases were reported in the past nine days. During the same period, an average of 60,991 samples per day were tested. The overall tally has gone up to 4,65,730 and the death toll to 4,200. As many as 9,499 patients recovered leaving 1,03,701 patients active. The recovery rate stands at 76.83% with a total of 3,57,829 recoveries so far. Testing ratio The number of samples tested so far has increased to 39.05 lakh as 62,225 samples were tested in the past day. The tests per million ratio has further increased to 73,142 and the cases per million is at 8,722. The overall positivity rate of the tests was at 11.92%. Only East Godavari reported more than a thousand new infections and 10 new deaths, the highest tally and toll respectively among the districts. It is followed by Chittoor and Guntur with nine deaths each while Anantapur, Krishna and West Godavari reported seven deaths each. Nellore reported six deaths, Kadapa reported five, Kurnool and Srikakulam reported four each while Prakasam reported three deaths. Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram reported two deaths each. Meanwhile, Nellore reported 982 new cases, Prakasam 926, Kadapa 898, Chittoor 885, Anantapur 854, West Godavari 836, Guntur 805, Srikakulam 717, Visakhapatnam 695, Kurnool 616, Vizianagaram 577 and Krishna 318. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (62,900), Kurnool (46,871), Anantapur (43,248), West Godavari (39,775), Chittoor (39,726), Visakhapatnam (38,889), Guntur (38,083), Nellore (33,663), Kadapa (28,811), Srikakulam (26,027), Prakasam (25,444), Vizianagaram (22,088) and Krishna (17,310). Active cases Having reported more cases recently, Prakasam has over 46% of the total infected cases active. Vizianagaram has 38% of cases active. West Godavari has the least active cases at 8%. Six districts — Anantapur, Krishna, Kurnool, Visakhapatnam, Nellore and Guntur — have 20% or less active cases. East Godavari, Kadapa, Srikakulam and Chittoor have 30% or less cases active.
04 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||AP CID ties up with NALSAR varsity||Andhra Pradesh Crime Investigation Department (CID) police entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with National Academy of Legal Studies and Research (NALSAR), University of Law, Hyderabad, on Thursday. CID Additional Director-General of Police P.V. Sunil Kumar and NALSAR Vice-Chancellor Faizan Mustafa signed the MoU online, in the presence of DGP D. Gautam Sawang and University Registrar V. Balakista Reddy from AP Police Headquarters, Mangalagiri. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Sawang said: “The police are facing many challenges at every stage and the pact will pave way for police-institution interface and strengthen the criminal justice system.” “The MoU will provide a platform for investigation officers and the academicians to take up discussions on some case studies and on the judgments in sensational cases, improve quality of investigation and in gathering evidences,” the DGP said. As CID Police were investigating sensational cases, including economic offences, cybe rcrimes, crime against women, bodily offences, major scams, ponzi schemes and fraud cases, the initiative would help the investigation officers very much, said Mr. Sawang and praised the CID team for entering into pact with the national academy. Dr. Faizan said the national university, which has high reputation, would soon enter into an agreement with Telangana State Police, to train the police officers on diploma in criminal justice system. “We took some important sentences, including the recent Prashanth Bhushan case, delivered in the Supreme Court as subjects for our students, who are undergoing internship with famous lawyers and doing research,” the Vice-Chancellor said. Exchange of knowledge Mr. Sunil Kumar said the agreement would help both CID and NALSAR varsity researchers in exchanging knowledge. CID experts would visit the university campus and train the students and a team of research students would visit the CID headquarters soon, he said. Additional DG (Law and Order) Ravi Shankar Ayyannar, CID DIG S. Hari Krishna, CID legal advisers Sravan Kumar and P. Hari Kumar, SPs G.R. Radhika and V. Ratna, Additional SP K.G.V. Saritha and other officers were present.
04 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Short film contest to propagate ill-effects of liquor addiction||To propagate the ill-effects of alcohol addiction, Andhra Pradesh Madya Vimochana Prachara Committee (AP Liquor Prohibition Awareness Committee) is organising a short film contest. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayana Swamy and Minister for Information and Public Relations Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) released a poster of the proposed competition on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, committee chairman V. Lakshmana Reddy said alcohol abuse had the potential to destroy families. Recognising the harms the liquor addiction could cause to a society as a whole, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy decided to impose total prohibition in the State in a phased manner. The slew of measures like removal of belt shops, cancellation of permit rooms, bringing down the number of liquor shops in the State, reducing the timings for the functioning of liquor shops and increasing the price were aimed at moving towards total prohibition. Topic Explaining the topic of the contest ‘Ill-effects of liquor-implementation of prohibition in phases in Andhra Pradesh’, Mr. Rao said they should reflect the good results that were seen around due to the government decisions. The films should portray the happiness the government decisions had brought for women especially who had been bearing the brunt of liquor abuse, he said. He said the length of each film should not be more than 5-10 minutes and it should be in Telugu language. From the entries, 15 best works would be selected for five prizes in each of the first, second and third prizes category. The first best five films would get a cash award of Rs. 10,000 each, the second ones would get Rs. 7,500 and the third best would get Rs. 5,000 each. Besides, the best director would get a cash prize of Rs. 5,000, best writer Rs. 5,000 and best actor/actress Rs. 5,000. All participants would be given certificates and mementoes and September 25 is the last date for submission of the short films. No participation fee would be charged. The names of the winners would be announced on September 28 and prizes would be given on October 2 at a function coinciding with Gandhi Jayanthi. The entries could be sent to apmvpc.gov.in@gmail.com and enquiries for more details could be made by calling phone numbers 8790005577 or 9381243599.
04 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strengthening of road network is top priority, says Minister||Strengthening road network in the State is one of the priorities for the YSRCP government, Minister for Roads and Buildings M. Sankara Narayana has said. Dig at TDP Addressing the 29th general body meeting of the Andhra Pradesh Road Development Corporation here on Thursday, Mr. Narayana said the TDP government had obtained loans through the corporation and diverted the money for other schemes, and pushed it into debts. He said the government had to pay Rs. 250 crore as interest on Rs. 3,000 crore loan. From December, the principal amount should be paid, he added. Mr. Narayana said the YSRCP government was committed to creating better infrastructure, besides rolling out welfare schemes. The government would spend Rs. 15,000 crore on various projects, he said. Union Minister Nitin Gadkari would inaugurate the Kanakadurga and Benz Circle flyovers on September 8 virtually, and also lay stone for several new projects, Mr. Narayana said. The meeting discussed projects such as the 32-km Vizag - Chennai Industrial Corridor, Samalkota-Rajanagaram road, external connectivity road to Naidupet Industrial Cluster, and Anakapalli-Achyuthapalli road. R&B Principal Secretary M.T. Krishna Babu, APRDC MD, and State Highways CE P.C. Ramesh Kumar took part.
04 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSSDC plans online training on ‘R Programming’||The Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC), in collaboration with GNV IT Solutions, a learning center of 360 DigiTMG (Digital Transformation, Management, Governance) plans to conduct a faculty and student development programme on 'R Programming Language', extensively used in handling data science algorithms, famously called a statistical programming language. A statement released by the Skill Development Corporation on Thursday said the online 40-hour training programme would commence on September 7. The programme would be conducted from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. Monday to Friday and last day for registration is September 5 (Registration link:https://forms.gle/ qgpZMHvvD7Yr7v6V7). D. Bharani Kumar, alumnus of ISB and IIT and senior data scientist (Research in Analytics) Sharat Chandra would be the resource persons. The advantages of R Programming are that it is an open source programming language, provides exemplary support for data wrangling, offers an array of packages like quality plotting and graphing, highly compatible, independent platform and it enables eye-catching reports and machine learning operations. The training will continue till October 5.
04 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ID liquor, jaggery wash destroyed||In a major operation, personnel of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and the Special Task Force (STF) conducted raids on ID liquor manufacturing units in the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary in East Godavari district on Thursday. SEB Commissioner Vineet Brijlal said 16 teams headed by Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi and SEB Additional SP Sumith Garud raided 22 brewing units in the mangrove forests. They seized 1,400 litres of illicitly distilled (ID) liquor, destroyed 46,000 litres of fermented jaggery wash stored in 230 barrels, and confiscated many mechanised and manual boats used by the accused, Mr. Vineet said in a release. “This is one of the major operation in the State. Some hundreds of ID liquor manufacturers might be involved in the illegal trade in the deep mangroves. SEB personnel are searching for the absconding accused,” the Commissioner said.
04 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB raids continue||Sleuths of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) continued surprise checks on the Tahsildar and Sub-Registrar Offices (SRO) in the State on the second day on Thursday. About 12 teams conducted raids on nine Mandal Revenue Offices (MRO) and SROs and the Gudur Municipality in Nellore district on Wednesday. They seized huge unaccounted cash, undistributed pattadar passbooks, land records and other documents from the offices. The ACB police found many private persons in the Sub-Registrar Offices. The sleuths, who verified the records, found many discrepancies and questioned the officers and staff for the second day on Thursday. They grilled the Tahsildars, Deputy Tahsildars, Sub-Registrars and other staff on the source of the unaccounted cash. Raids were conducted on nine MRO offices in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam districts and four Sub-Registrar offices in East Godavari, Kadapa and Chittoor districts. The sleuths verified documents in the Town Planning Section of the Gudur municipality. “We have taken a few persons into custody and are questioning them. A report would be submitted to the government on the surprise checks,” an official said, adding no arrests had been made so far after the raids.
04 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adviser gets hefty pay hike for his ‘valuable work’||The government has sanctioned an astounding hike in the monthly pay and allowances of Adviser (Communications) G.V.D. Krishna Mohan, from Rs. 14,000 to Rs. 2 lakh with retrospective effect from the date of his appointment, according to G.O. RT No. 1400 issued by Principal Secretary (general administration) Praveen Prakash. It was stated that the government viewed the work done by Mr. Mohan and its quality as more valuable than the compensation being given to him. Cabinet Minister rank Mr. Mohan was appointed Adviser (Communications) in June 2019 and given Cabinet Minister rank two weeks later.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police Department on its toes as over 1,000 personnel test positive for virus||Over 1,000 policemen from Visakhapatnam district have tested positive for COVID-19, which they contracted while on duty. Among them, 589 personnel are from various wings of the city police while 328 are from the district police. Ninety personnel are from the Andhra Pradesh Special Police (APSP). A number of CRP personnel are also hit by the virus, it is learnt. There are some police stations in both the city and the district where most of the personnel were affected due to the virus. Families spent many a sleepless night after some of the police personnel faced severe health complications after contracting the virus. Having Appughar and Peda Jalaripeta, the COVID-19 hotspots under their limits, most of the staff of the MVP police station including the Station House Officer (SHO) tested positive for COVID-19. The staff at the police station were directly exposed to the virus while conducting counselling programmes, manning the area, and shifting COVID-19 patients to hospital. SHO Ch. Shanmukha Rao had to spend almost 12 days in hospital, including seven days in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), after testing positive for COVID-19. He took around 20 days to recover from the virus. “I suffered from breathing problems for some days. My body temperature was very high and with some co-morbidities, it was a nightmare for me. My family was under a lot of stress,” Mr. Shanmukha Rao said. After two weeks, the SHO is again back on duty. “The support I have received from the department as well as the doctors is invaluable,” he recalled. Mungagapaka police station in Anakapalle Rural police station limits saw 10 of its personnel being affected by COVID-19. “Most of our staff were hit by the virus as they did patrolling in containment zones. The virus also spread to a few family members of some personnel. Fortunately, all of us have recovered,” said D. Srinivasa Rao, Sub-Inspector of Munagapaka police station, who was welcomed by locals with a floral shower when he rejoined work after recovering from COVID-19. According to a police officer from the district, even when the pandemic continued to spread rapidly, a number of people approached the police stations seeking help. “It is our duty to deal with public issues and rectify them. We cannot avoid them, no matter what happens. Moreover, many fell ill after patrolling containment zones,” he said. Department support According to Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone I) Aishwarya Rastogi, among the 589 policemen who were affected due to the virus, around 80 are still active cases as of now, while the rest have recovered. The department is giving complete support to the personnel as well as the families, he said. From bringing in glass shields to appointing liaison officers to check the status of COVID-19 patients, the department is lending a helping hand to the policemen, he said. Superintendent of Police B Krishna Rao conducted a video chat with the personnel affected by COVID-19 to give them moral support. A senior officer from the district police said that tests are being conducted on a massive scale for the frontline warriors. “The policemen are being given kits and every police station gets a pulse oximeter. For a long time, we are allotting only desk work to those over 55 years of age,” he said.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Good nutrition is need of the hour’||National Nutrition Week is observed from September 1 to 7 every year to create awareness among people on the nutritive values of food. Intake of nutritious food has become all the more important now in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the need to build resistance. “While a vaccine is yet to come out, people can still overcome COVID-19 by eating a healthy diet rich in nutrition. Proper food is needed for a healthy body, and one can lead a healthy life by taking nutritious food,” said T. Lavanya, consultant dietician at KIMS Icon Hospital in Visakhapatnam. The food for COVID-19 patients should be fresh and hot. Foods that are rich in antioxidants like beta carotene foods, leafy vegetables, carrot, pumpkin and capsicum, food rich in Vitamin C like amla, guava and capsicum, egg white for proteins and a handful of dry fruits like almonds are recommended. Dr. Lavanya recommends 200 ml of milk with turmeric and pepper powder every alternative day. Curd should be taken twice a day with food as it increases good bacteria and helps in digestion. Oily foods should be avoided or minimised as gastric reflux may arise because of the use of powerful antibacterial and antiviral drugs. She also suggested intake of ginger, garlic and tulsi along with breakfast, food and tea.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 60,000 women from Vizag process waste by adopting home composting||Having learnt lessons from the past, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) focussed on source segregation to secure better ranking in Swachh Survekshan 2020. A large number of women of Self Help Groups (SHGs), associated with the GVMC, and officials from the Urban Community Development (UCD) wing played a crucial role by creating awareness about source segregation and processing the wastes by home composting among women. Their effort helped the civic body achieve high marks to some extent. According to GVMC Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao, the civic body has achieved full marks in source segregation. “Initially, we had claimed that we are good in practising source segregation in ‘Documentation’ category. When the team came for inspection, they interacted randomly with the public as part of ‘Direct Observation’ and were satisfied with the response,” he said. In the SS 2019, the GVMC failed to get good score in source segregation. Later, the UCD wing of the GVMC and the Public Health Department created awareness on separation of dry, wet, medical and other wastes before giving it to the sanitary staff. The Self Help Groups (SHGs) working with UCD also promoted home composting techniques on a large-scale. “Classes were conducted by the SHGs to teach women the benefits of using household wastes to grow flowers and vegetables. Last year, there were around 1,200 women practising home composting. But this year, the number has increased to nearly 60,000,” a senior official of the UCD said . GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that first they had concentrated on segregation at source and later on processing of the segregated waste properly.“A huge part of that processing is home composting. The GVMC also has a fully functional Construction & Demolition (C&D) waste processing plant. ” she said.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andhra University in a dilemma over utilisation of RUSA funds||Andhra University is in a dilemma over spending the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan-II (RUSA-II) funds, as the deadline is fast approaching. The university was sanctioned Rs. 100 crore under RUSA-II, and it has already received the first instalment of Rs. 41 crore. The fund was approved three years ago and the first instalment was granted seven months ago. Now, the university has only around seven months to utilise the funds, as per the Detailed Project Report (DPR) which was submitted and subsequently approved. “If we do not utilise the funds within the next seven months, we will have to return the entire money back to the Union Government and at the same time we also cannot deviate from the DPR,” said AU Vice-Chancellor Prof. P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy. The fund was sanctioned three years ago and if the funds were given earlier, then we would have got sufficient time to utilise the funds. Now, we will have to do it in a hurry as the deadline is approaching. Moreover, if the funds were given earlier, we would have been prepared for the second instalment by now,” he said. It is learnt that the State Government has established a special cell to oversee the proper and quick utilisation of the fund while a commissioner has been appointed to monitor it on a daily basis. MBA college On what are the projects that are being covered by the RUSA funds, Prof. Prasada Reddy said that the international MBA college is being set-up with it. The MBA college is coming up at the new commerce and management block on 40,000 sft and Rs. 5 crore has been earmarked for its renovation and development. The classrooms are being designed on the lines of ISB, he said. The course will have an intake of 60 students and of them 45 are international students and admission is over for this year, and classes are expected to start from November. An exclusive hostel for international students is coming up near the international students hostel block, at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. Even professors will be recruited exclusively for this course and we are trying to rope in a few teachers from premier institutes and Rs. 8 crore have been earmarked for their salary component, said Prof. Prasada Reddy. The course is designed to be a five-year integrated course BBA+MBA, with exit option after three years, and the course is planned in tune with the new National Education Policy. “It is a joint programme of AU and IIM-Visakhapatnam. IIM-V will be the mentor for the first three years,” said the V-C. Special labs With the RUSA funds, AU is also setting up a new scientific laboratory. The laboratory will have three wings – pharmacy, food testing and genetics. The old quarters opposite Siripuram will be demolished to facilitate its construction and it will solely be for research purpose with industry participation. For food testing lab, we have already tied up with Food Crafts Institute, a government-owned institute, said Prof. Prasada Reddy.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chintapalli police arrest Maoist militia commander||The Chintapalli police on Wednesday night arrested a militia commander of the CPI Maoist, who was allegedly involved in a number of offences in the district. The accused, Bonangi Nageswara Rao alias Nagesh (34), a resident of Balapam panchayat, worked as a Korukonda Area Militia commander and Dalam member. According to the police, Nageswara Rao joined the militia in 2005 and was allegedly involved in the murder of Gemmeli Bhaskara Rao and Pangi Sathi Babu of Veeravaram village and the recent landmine blast at Chinthalaveedhi of Jamiguda panchayat that killed two tribals. Apart from his involvement in a few exchanges of fire, he planted landmines with an intention to kill police parties. The accused also used to collect funds from contractors with the support of a few Maoist leaders. He forcibly organised rallies and used to provide shelter and food to Maoists, they said. Two held In another case, a militia committee member and an armed militia member were arrested by the Paderu police at Pedabayalu. They were Gaduthur Ramachandrapadal alias Chandra (35) of Ginnnelakota village, Pedabayalu mandal, a militia committee member of Ginnelakota pocket of Pedabayalu Dalam and Sindri Apparao alias Mugiri (31) of Injari panchayat, Pedabayalu mandal, an armed militia member of Pedabayalu area. Circle inspector of Paderu P. Pydapu Naidu said they were involved in several murders – including that of Pangi Shivayya (35) of Busiputtu in Munchingputtu mandal – and incidents of arsons and exchange of fire, he added. The duo also planted landmines with an intention to kill police in between Salebu and Chikitapalli village during the Martyrs Week observed from July 28, police said.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call for ESI hospital grows louder||The 500-bed ESI Hospital and Medical College, sanctioned to Visakhapatnam city by the Centre four years ago, is yet to take off. The failure of the previous State Government in allocating land and its reported attempts to get the project shifted to Vijayawada are being cited as the factors behind the delay. Sources claimed that there are several obstacles in the establishment of the hospital in the city, such as the corporate hospital lobby as well as vested interests in the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC). After the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh, the maximum number of industries in the State are now located in Visakhapatnam region, with over four lakh employees covered under the ESI scheme in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. There is no major ESI hospital in Visakhapatnam for referral of employees, who are covered under the scheme. When the proposal for setting up an ESI hospital came from the Centre, Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) and other trade unions demanded that it should be set up in Visakhapatnam as it would facilitate the maximum number of employees in the State. BMS All-India vice-president M. Jagadiswara Rao and others convinced then Union Minister of State for Labour Bandaru Dattatreya, to which he had consented. Initially, it was planned to set up a 300-bed ESI hospital and the State Government had allotted 8.50 acres of land for the project. Later, it was agreed to build a 500-bed hospital with an attached medical college, and an additional 10 acres of land was sought by the Centre. The BMS vice-president alleged that the former government planned to get the project shifted to the capital region and dodged the issue without allocating the additional land. “We have been representing the issue for the past five years but there has been no positive action so far. Assistant Director of ESIC Regional Office, Vijayawada wrote to me in April this year, saying that the present State Government was requested to allocate an additional 10.25 acres of land, adjacent to the 8.50 acres sanctioned in the past,” Mr. Jagadiswara Rao said. BJP State president Somu Veerraju alleged that former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu tried to get the project shifted to Vijayawada during his tenure.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||22-year-old youth ‘kills’ grandmother for gold||A youth allegedly killed his grandmother for her gold jewellery at Pandrangi panchayat in Padmanabham mandal in Visakhapatnam district, according to police. Though the incident reportedly occurred on Wednesday, it came to light on Thursday after police received a complaint. The deceased woman was identified as K. Papayamma (63), a resident of Dakammari of Bheemili mandal. Her grandson, K. Srinu, is absconding. According to Padmanabham Inspector of Police A. Visweswara Rao, the accused had been allegedly frequently asking his grandmother to give him some gold jewellery as he wanted to buy a van. However, she kept rejecting his requests. “After being repeatedly turned down, Srinu hatched a plan to eliminate her in order to take the gold at any cost. On Wednesday evening, Srinu asked his grandmother to accompany him to the hospital claiming that he was suffering from stomach pains. Some neighbours saw him taking the elderly woman somewhere on his motorcycle. However, he returned alone,” Mr. Visweswara Rao said. “On Thursday morning, Srinu was taken to the village heads where he was questioned about the whereabouts of his grandmother. Srinu reportedly confessed that he murdered her in an isolated place in Pandrangi panchayat. After showing the villagers the scene of offence, he fled from the spot,” the Inspector said. A manhunt has been launched for the accused. A case has been registered, police said.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Organise medical camps in Agency: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) District Committee has appealed to the district Collector to organise medical camps in the Agency areas of the district to save the tribal people from a “strange disease” that has already claimed three lives. In a memorandum to the Collector on Thursday, party district secretary K. Lokanadham said that a pregnant woman and two children of Thokaraya village of Darakonda panchayat died in the last 15 days. The victims were experiencing swelling all over their bodies and dying even before they could be shifted to a hospital, he said. Reddy Suseela (25) of Thokarayi village had fever and swelling all over her body. She was taken to the Darakonda PHC. The doctors referred her to the Chintapalli CHC. She died on the way to the CHC. The roads in the Agency area were badly damaged during the recent rains, causing untold hardship to the tribal people during emergencies. Medical staff were also not visiting the villages in view of the pandemic, he alleged. The CPI(M) leader appealed to the Collector to organise camps.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Game ban sees a mixed response in Vizag||The Union government’s ban on the popular online game PUBG though has left many youth and children upset, has brought a sigh of relief for parents struggling to wean off their kids from the addiction for the game. However, as concerns have been raised about the possible adverse fallout on children used to playing the game, experts agree that there could be some impact, but will be temporary and not a cause for worry.  “Since the game is still available, there is no worry. But what if it completely goes off. Last night, he felt bad after coming to know about the ban and looked bothered. We have seen him feeling depressed for a week after India losing cricket matches and when a character dies in Avenger series,” says K. Prasad from Madhurawada, who is concerned about his son Vicky, an eighth class student. According to former Superintendent of Government Hospital for Mental Care, N.N. Raju, the impact could be temporary. Except for those impulsive personalities who take decisions aggressively and who need to be monitored, others can come out of the addiction easily, he explains. Some children may get frustrated and create some trouble. “In such cases, parents should monitor them and create a schedule of activity. It is suggested to give them some token of appreciation for every activity like a good meal,” he adds.  Positive side On the other hand, there are quite a few who have some good experiences to share about the game. With no way to go out and meet friends, PUBG has been one option which entertained them during the lockdown, they feel. For some it has given new friends and brought old ones much closer. “Yes, there are several disadvantages and there were instances like addicted youth ending lives and children swiping off parents’ money, but for me it has been a positive factor,” says 27-year-old S. Tanveer. “For the last two years, I have been playing PUBG with my childhood friends. We stay connected daily for an hour talking in the game and having good time,” he shares, adding his gang has started to look for alternatives.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appeal for plasma donation||District Medical and Health Officer K. Vijayalakshmi has appealed to people who have recovered from COVID-19 to donate their blood plasma as it would be of invaluable help in treating other COVID-19 patients. In a statement issued here on Thursday, Dr. Vijayalakshmi said that the State Government would give a cash incentive of Rs. 5,000 to donors. She said that those interested in donating plasma can contact District Surveillance Officer Ch. Sridhar on 8790407037.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VFS plea for Padma award to Sonu Sood||The Vizag Film Society (VFS), affiliated to the Federation of Film Societies of India (FFSI), at its virtual meeting on Thursday resolved to appeal to the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister to confer a Padma Award on actor Sonu Sood at next year’s Republic Day celebrations. The meeting, chaired by P. Viswanadham, adopted a unanimous resolution in this regard. Vizag Film Society secretary Narava Prakasa Rao drew the attention of the Prime Minister and the Home Minister to the yeoman services rendered by Mr. Sood towards a large number of people affected by the pandemic since April this year. He was the first actor to have arranged transport and food to migrant workers, who were walking for hundreds of miles to reach their homes in the absence of public transport.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tally nearing 40,000-mark||The COVID-19 tally in the district is inching towards the 40,000-mark, with 695 new cases being reported on Thursday. With the new cases, the total number of confirmed cases now stands at 39,519. Two more persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 273. The number of discharges in the last 24 hours stood at 708. As per the COVID-19 bulletin, the total number of active cases now stands at 6,468, with a total of 32,778 persons being discharged. There are now 739 clusters in the district, including 49 very active ones. As many as 171 clusters have been de-notified. Facility at KGH The COVID-19 facility at the CSR block of King George Hospital (KGH) will be ready in the next two to three days, Collector V. Vinay Chand said. The Collector inspected the facility here on Thursday and said that it has 150 ICU beds and 500 beds with oxygen support. It also comprises a lab, three operation theatres, and an information centre for patient attenders. Every room will have CCTV cameras which will be monitored by officials from a control room, he said.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU’s online yoga classes from Sept. 7||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness at Andhra University is conducting a one-month online yoga camp for children from September 7. Children will be taught fun activities along with techniques to increase their immunity and refresh their body and mind, said head of the department K. Ramesh Babu. He said that those interested can contact Thakshila at 8985947523. The department is also conducting a special online month-long yoga camp on ‘back and neck pain’ from September 7. The programme will be held from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. The yoga classes will be held under the supervision of yoga teacher Krishna Kumari, Department of Yoga & Consciousness, Mr. Ramesh Babu said on Thursday.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘abusing’ Dalit woman||The Gajuwaka police on Thursday arrested a man for allegedly abusing and intimidating a 27-year-old tribal woman, who works as a junior assistant at the Sub-Registrar’s office in Gajuwaka, on Thursday. The accused, identified as M. Krishna Rao (55), a document writer, would allegedly threaten the victim, M. Vujaya, to get his documents registered despite not having full information and supporting papers, police said. The woman lodged a complaint with the police stating that Krishna Rao would obstruct her from attending work and insult her by passing casteist slurs. Assistant Commissioner of Police (SC/ST Cell) visited the Sub-Registrar’s office and examined the witnesses and recorded their statements. An investigation revealed that Krishna Rao was abusing and threatening the woman. Police arrested Krishna Rao and registered a case under the Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act-2015.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||EO takes over||Y. Trinadh Rao, Executive Officer of the Annavaram temple, who assumed full additional charge as the EO of the Simhachalam Devasthanam, has said that the COVID-19 pandemic has taken a toll on the temple’s income and it was not in a position to pay even the salaries of the employees. He told the media here on Thursday that measures would be taken for protection of temple lands.
04 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore woman ‘duped’ of Rs. 1.40 crore||A Nellore woman was allegedly cheated to the tune of nearly Rs. 1.40 crore by a woman of Simhachalam in Visakhapatnam city. The latter allegedly made the former believe that gold ornaments of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy would be sold to her through the devasthanam. According to sources, the woman allegedly forged signatures of several officials of the devasthanam to commit the crime.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tough times||
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Change for the better||
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Im‘posing’ pair||
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Documents seized from fertility hospital||The police inspected the premises of Universal Srushti Fertility and Research Centre in the city on Thursday, in connection with the child trafficking case booked against the hospital branch in Visakhapatnam. The police seized documents and computer hard drives. The seized material will be investigated further inthe wake of the charges being faced by the hospital, the police said.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS healthcare workers have highest positivity rate in India||The positivity rate among healthcare professionals in Telangana is 18%. As per the statistics announced by Union Health Ministry officials at a press conference held on Thursday, the positivity rate (percentage of people tested who are positive) of 18% is the highest when compared to other states. Healthcare professionals include doctors, nurses, para-medical staff, lab technicians, and patient care providers. Around 80,000 to one lakh healthcare professionals in Telangana are involved in COVID-19 management for the past six months. Last week, senior officials of the State Health department said that around 2,000 healthcare workers contracted the infectious disease, and at least 14 had died. “In Telangana, the positivity rate in healthcare workers is 18%. In Maharashtra, it is 16%, 14% in Delhi, 13% in Karnataka, 12% in Puducherry, and 11% in Punjab. These are the states where the positivity rate is on the higher side,” said secretary, Union Health Ministry, Rajesh Bhushan. Attention of the states and Union Territories to this issue was drawn. Officials of the Telangana Health department said that they have asked doctors, nurses, and others in non-COVID government hospitals too, to maintain all precautions such as masks and face shields while attending patients. Now, questions arise on how healthcare professionals are contracting the infectious disease. The source of infection could be hospitals they work at, or the locality they live in. The Union Health Ministry official said that they have issued Standard Operating Procedures on precautions to be taken, cross checking the preventive measures, and hospital infection control. Mr. Bhushan said that they have suggested buddy system where in two doctors or nurses check on each other if the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) is donned and doffed appropriately. Gandhi For the last six months, Gandhi Hospital remained the ground zero for COVID-19 treatment. It is the largest COVID care centre in the State, and a large number of patients of varying severity are admitted there. Though doctors, nurses, para-medical staff, sanitation workers, patient care providers and others at Gandhi Hospital attend to only COVID patients, only 38 of them tested positive for coronavirus. “There are around 2,500 doctors, nurses, ward boys and other staff here. As every patient is coronavirus positive, all of us take every possible precaution. No one is negligent about it. Observing precautions such as wearing a mask, and hair cover, have become a part of our lives. Even an electrician who walks into the hospital wears PPE,” said superintendent of the hospital Dr. M Raja Rao, who himself attends to COVID patients daily.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New Revenue Act to come up in Assembly||The new Revenue Act to be enacted by the legislature, “injustice” to States in payment of GST compensation and the `illegal' construction of Rayalaseema lift-irrigation scheme by Andhra Pradesh were among several issues proposed to be raised by the State government in the Assembly session from September 7. The issues were flagged by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at a meeting on Friday with eight Ministers and a dozen MLAs and MLCs of TRS to discuss the ruling party's strategy in the session. Mr. Rao told the meeting that the government will also propose for discussion of issues like spread of coronavirus in the State, and put them before the Business Advisory Committee of the Assembly prior to the commencement of the session. The government will use the session as a platform to explain to people steps taken for treatment of coronavirus patients, crop loss on account of recent rains, fire accident at Srisailam hydel power station, successes in power sector, irrigation issues and loss to States on account of public finance policies of the Centre. The indifference of the Centre to resolutions passed by the Assembly on reservations, regulated farming in vogue in Telangana and centenary celebrations of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao will be listed. Mr. Rao said the government wants a threadbare discussion on all matters of public interest. Ready for debate Irrespective of the number of days that the Assembly would function, the government is prepared to debate anything put forward by parties in the Assembly. The House will pay tributes to Dubbaka MLA S. Ramalinga Reddy who died recently on the first day. Thereafter, the session should continue reflecting the democratic values, he said, and hoped the members will contribute to making the Telangana Assembly a model of good conduct for the rest of the country. He wished a change in the familiar scenes of noise, hurling of charges, use of abusive language, chaos and condemnations in the Assembly. It should not become a ground for meaningless insinuations and intolerance. The Assembly should stimulate sound debate to aid enactment of laws and approve budget and take up their analysis finally. ‘Speak facts’ Members can raise any matter of their choice. The government is always prepared to reply to them. But, they must speak facts. Their version should mirror the ground reality, Mr. Rao said.
04 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Football in India is going to improve and get bigger’||This year, Indian Super League (ISL) is set to take place in Goa. Having kicked off in October 2014, the football championship has ten franchises based in Chennai, Bhubaneswar, Goa, Guwahati, Kochi, Kolkata, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Jamshedpur. At its core, ISL has, over the past six years, created a platform to groom football talent in the country, as well as embrace international talent from other countries. One of the international talents is the 26-year-old João Victor from Brazil who was signed on to play for Hyderabad FC. In an email interview with The Hindu , the forward left-winger, who is currently playing for German club VfL Wolfsburg, starts with his awareness of India’s football scene. “To be honest, I didn’t know too much about Indian football. I have the basic idea because of some players that I have played with,” he admits, but says he is excited for what is ahead in Goa. João says the reason he joined Hyderabad FC is his belief in the project that the club has, explaining, “I believe that football in India is going to improve and get bigger and known all around. Personally, I want to be part of this journey and try and make my contribution to the cause.” João has had his hand — or foot, rather — in championship leagues such as Bundesliga, ÖFB Cup, Europa League and DFB Pokal among others. Admitting he has never played cricket because Brazil and the other countries in which he lived did not have much of it, his heart is committed to football. He also loves where the sport has taken him. “I’ve played in different countries before, where the teams have had a lot of international players, making it multi-cultural. So, I’m used to this kind of set up. In fact, I really enjoy it. You can learn a lot about different cultures, and make friends in many different places.” He adds, cheekily, “It means that when I go for a vacation in many countries, I won’t need to book a hotel, as I’ll always have a house to stay for free.” When it comes to short-term championships like ISL, João insists he goes full-on with training and playing. “I’m not the kind the guy that keeps my best for later, or someone who likes to take it slowly. I think I adapt very quickly wherever I go, because I enjoy football a lot. I enjoy the ambience of the dressing rooms, the stadiums, and more importantly matches. So that’s why I’ll always give my maximum in everything,” he affirms. The COVID-19 pandemic has not been easy on the sporting world, and João is well aware of it. “It’s a very tough moment for everybody. But at least we can use our job as footballers to bring some joy to the people. Mentally, it is not going to be easy because everything will be different from what we’re normally used to. We’re going to play without fans behind closed doors. We’re going to be staying in a bubble in a hotel, we’re going to be without families,” he says. João, who has never been to India, concludes, however, on a positive note, “In this situation, your team becomes your one big family and that’s a special thing about sport. But at the same time, we need to stay concentrated because the league is going to be a short one and those who can manage to have a strong mind will be a step ahead from the others.”
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UAV that can deliver heavier payloads to longer distances||T-Works, the country’s largest prototyping centre, is now developing an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) capable of delivering heavier payloads with longer endurance at higher speeds and for longer distances. The conception of the idea began about a month ago and has resulted in a recent test flight of a scaled-down model at T-Works’s facility in Begumpet. The UAV, an eVTOL Quadplane, is capable of vertical take-off and landing. Speaking to The Hindu , Director of T-Works Anand Rajagopalan explained, “The UAV is a 1:2 scaled down model with a wingspan of about 1.6 metres. This is in continuation with the other UAVs that we had built in different classes: long endurance UAV, a heavy payload UAV, one built for speed, and one was a VTOL UAV. The one we are working on will combine these different aspects and is a part of a long development cycle to understand and develop such technology.” The eVTOL UAV is one of two models that will be tested. The second UAV prototype will have a bigger wingspan than the one that was test flown. This is likely to culminate in a full-sized UAV with a wingspan of 3 metres. The full-sized UAV is likely to be completed in six weeks, Mr. Rajagopalan said. Touching upon the challenges in the course of development, he said, “One challenge is to achieve longer endurance. We are looking at a range of 30 km and a payload of 3 kg.” Another question that the T-Works team involved in developing the UAV is dealing with is whether to go fully electric, or to power it with gasoline as well. “Before COVID, we had received an expression of interest from the State government to demonstrate the UAV’s ability to deliver medicines. We are already in discussions with the Telangana State Aviation Corporation (TSAC) for guidance and advice,” he said. The UAV can have a host of applications, including those in healthcare. “Applications can include delivery of vaccines and blood to rural areas across the State,” he added.
04 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||I’m not on Facebook, says Raja Singh||After Facebook banned BJP legislator T Raja Singh from its platform and Instagram on Thursday for violating its policy around content promoting violence and hate, the MLA clarified that he had not been on Facebook since April 2019. “I came to know that I have been banned by Facebook for the so-called controversial speeches. I would like to clarify that I'm not on Facebook since April 2019,” Telangana’s lone BJP MLA said. In October 2018, Mr. Singh wrote to Hyderabad Cyber Crime police stating that his official Facebook verified page had been hacked and requested them to take action. “Again we have started a new page even that was unpublished/deleted in April 2019. I've even raised concern about it,” he said. “Since I'm not on Facebook, there is no question of banning me,” he said, accusing that Facebook was working under the pressure of the Congress. Facebook stated that Mr. Singh was banned for violating their policy prohibiting those that promote or engage in violence and hate from having a presence on their platform. A report recently published in the ‘Wall Street Journal’ alleged that Facebook had ignored posts containing hate speech by Mr. Singh. Since then, the ruling BJP and Congress have been trading barbs over social media giant’s alleged bias.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Happy news for football lovers of Bolarum||For the football lovers in and around Bolarum, there is something to cheer about. Senior Congress Party leader and Malkajgiri Lok Sabha member A. Revanth Reddy has promised to develop the football stadium now being maintained by Valluvar Nagar Football Club. It may be mentioned here that this is the belt which has produced outstanding footballers who have represented the country, including Peter Thangaraj, D. Kannan, T. Balaram, John Victor, Victor Amalraj and Aleem Khan. In fact, this was the ground where some of the aforementioned legends honed their skills before cycling their way to the city to be mentored by one of the greatest football coaches of India, late S.A. Rahim. So, when Mr. Revanth Reddy announced that he would get Rs. 50 lakh released from the MP’s Constituency Fund, the joy of the football fraternity was understandable. P. Rajendran, president of Ranga Reddy District Football Association (RRDFA), said, “Well, this is something we have been waiting for long. And when Mr.Revanth Reddy unveiled the club’s flag and logo at the ground this Monday, we were obviously thrilled.” “Interestingly, Mr. Reddy promised not only to develop the football stadium but also the entire stretch around the venue so that it would be a full-fledged stadium which can host national and international matches,” the RRDFA chief said. “Mr. Reddy mooted this proposal long ago, but because of the pandemic, it was put on hold. Now, we hope to get things started at the earliest,” he said. Terming it as a huge moment for Hyderabad football, Mr Rajendran said, “Since we have qualified coaches like P.D. Emmanuel, K. Shivakumar and many former players willing to help groom the young talent, I am sure the stadium, once complete, will change the contours of football in the city itself.”
04 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Digital classes: Inter board reaches out to over 90% of students||Overcoming the hurdles of reach and content, students of government junior colleges are all set to catch up with their peers in private colleges with digital classes streamed into their homes and gadgets. The digital classes that began three days ago have received tremendous response with more than 90% of the 1.7 lakh students reached through various means. The fact that reaching out to students on such a massive scale, more so among the ‘digital-poor’, is a big positive step. “The dividends will be seen soon going by the enthusiastic response from our students,” Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) Secretary Omer Jaleel exuded confidence in a chat with The Hindu . “We have pooled our best teachers in the State to prepare the video lessons and acceptance from students is satisfying,” he said. The BIE is reaching out to the students through video lessons aired on Yadagiri – Doordarshan’s Telugu channel everyday and the same lessons are aired on the TSAT Channels – Vidya and Nipuna the following day for those who missed out on Yadagiri channel. While the BIE is able to reach about 95% through these platforms, the teachers are playing a pro-active role in bringing the remaining on to the learning curve through other modes like WhatsApp groups where the same lessons are being shared. There are more than 3,000 WhatsApp groups in 404 government junior colleges. “Every teacher has a WhatsApp group of their students and they have been further divided into smaller groups for easy reach and monitoring,” the BIE Secretary reveals. To ensure that participation of students is serious, teachers are sending some assignments on the WhatsApp groups. “This works both for monitoring their participation and also involving them in the academic exercises,” he said. Some peer groups have also been created so that students interact among themselves without any hesitation. On the content creation, Mr. Jaleel said the BIE picked up the best teachers in each subject based on the recommendations of the principals. Called Content Poolers, their lessons were placed before the Content Reviewers, who are generally senior lecturers. The short-listed were then placed before a approval committee, and after its consent, the recording was done. “The content developed is on par or much better compared to any other digital platforms,” Mr. Jaleel said. Some issues like the flashy white boards obstructing clear view and poor visibility of the content written on the board were brought to the notice of the BIE by the students. “We are working on rectifying them and it will be done soon,” he said adding a grievance redressel platform is being created for students to share the feedback. Students can share their views on ‘http://bigrs.telangana.gov.in’. The lessons are also available on the Youtube platforms of Yadagiri channel, TSAT and the BIE so that students can access them if they miss out or for revision.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Elective OT of General Surgery ward of OGH accommodated||The issue of no elective surgeries in the General Surgery department of Osmania General Hospital (OGH) is partly resolved. Superintendent of the government tertiary care hospital Dr. B. Nagender issued orders to accommodate the elective Operation Theatre (OT) of General Surgery ward in the Cardio Thoracic OT in Quli Qutb Shah block. From July 17, elective surgeries under three departments: Surgical Gastroenterology, General Surgery and Orthopaedics, were kept on hold. Hundreds of patients from Telangana who needed surgeries, including removal of tumours and benign tumours from stomach or chest, were deprived of free medical service at OGH. As Gandhi Hospital, another government tertiary care centre in the State, is converted into a COVID-19 centre, thousands of non-COVID patients rely on OGH for surgeries and other crucial medical services. So patients who opted for the three departments in OGH had to wait indefinitely or shell out heavy amounts at private hospital. However, junior doctors from the hospital said that more issues have to be resolved. “If post operative ward, all facilities in Acute Surgical Care, and elective OTs for Orthopaedics are not provided, we will boycott duties after September 8,” said Dr. P Rohith, president of Telangana Junior Doctors’ Association (T-JUDA), Osmania Medical College unit. Dr. B. Nagender said that elective surgeries would resume from early next week. The junior doctors have also requested for better duty doctors’ rooms.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||3 start-ups selected for Innovation Challenge||Three start-ups have been selected to develop proof-of-concept (PoC) systems in the RTX Innovation Challenge in Computer Vision that aerospace and defence company Raytheon Technologies had initiated in partnership with technology start-up incubator T-Hub. The three finalists, selected after T-Hub and Raytheon Technologies reviewed applications from 70 start-ups in 14 countries, are required to develop a tool to improve how Raytheon Technologies assesses required aircraft engine repairs. Each received a grant funding from RTX to build the PoC. A release, announcing the finalists, said Raytheon Technologies was seeking a system that would improve and automate how it inspected leased aircraft engines, using computer vision and machine learning. The three finalists are Awiros, a visual intelligence platform company based in Delhi, Utvyakta Solutions, an industrial IoT system integrator specialising in predictive maintenance and quality inspection operating in India, Sweden and the US, and the California-based PRENAV that develops software and systems to digitise and visually inspect industrial assets. Technical mentorship The start-ups received technical mentorship from leaders and subject matter experts at T-Hub and Raytheon Technologies on how to build innovative technology solutions for the aerospace industry. In addition, they received direct access to T-Hub’s ecosystem of mentors, industry experts, investors and service providers, the release said. CEO of T-Hub and Chief Innovation Officer of Telangana Ravi Narayan said, “Through the RTX challenge, in partnership with Raytheon Technologies, we have accelerated the best solutions that speed up the inspection process and enhance quality. This challenge has also laid a fertile ground for start-ups that are driving innovation in the aviation industry.” “We are always looking for new ways to improve efficiency and ultimately lower costs for our customers,” said Limor Spector, Raytheon Technologies’ executive director of Ventures & Alliances and executive director of Business Processes.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Business facilitation centre set up||GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo (GHAC) has become more business-friendly with the commencement of Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI) Business Facilitation Center at its terminal on Thursday. It was inaugurated by principal commissioner of customs J.S. Chandrasekhar, in the presence of additional DG DGFT (Director General of Foreign Trade) G Seetharam Reddy, CEO, GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo, Saurabh Kumar,and FTCCI president I. Ramakanth. With this, exporters and cargo agents can get ‘Certificate of Origin’ at the cargo terminal itself saving a lot of travel time. The centre will also offer ‘Visa Recommender Letters’ for overseas travel for business promotion. It would save time for documentation for export shipments for perishable shipments like fruits, vegetables and marine export shipments. The first ‘Cool Dolly’ temperature-sensitive shipment of Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories under 15-25 degree Centigrade was also flagged off on the occasion in the presence of the firm’s VP Ravi Prakash Mathur, a press release said.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Railway Board takes new avatar||Railway Board Chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav has become the first Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Indian Railways with Central government clearing the restructuring of the Board. Mr. Yadav, in his second year as the chairman, will continue to be in the post in addition to being the CEO with the Appointments Committee of the Union Cabinet releasing orders to this effect on Wednesday. Four other members of the restructured Railway Board are — Pradeep Kumar as Member – Infrastructure, P.C Sharma as Member – Traction and Rolling Stock, P.S Mishra as Member – Operations and Business Development and Manjula Rangarajan as Member – Finance. Rajesh Tiwari, who was earlier Railway Board Member for Traction, has been redesignated as Officer on Special Duty (OSD) for Safety and he will succeed Mr. P.C. Sharma when the latter retires this month-end, the order said. Three posts of Member – Staff, Member – Engineering and Member – Materials Management have been surrendered while a new Director-General for Human Resources (HR) has been created. All the Group 1 railway services dealing with traffic, civil, mechanical, electrical, signal and telecom, accounts, personnel and so on, will now merge into a single management cadre of IRMS or the Indian Railways Management Service with the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) scheduled to conduct a separate examination from next year, top railway sources said on Thursday. Eminent economist Bibek Debroy’s committee of 2015 and the earlier committees including those of nuclear scientist Anil Kakodkar and economist Rakesh Mohan, which studied the functioning of the Indian Railways, had endorsed these reforms, it was pointed out. A massive multi-skilling and re-skilling of the second level technical cadre and other personnel is also on the anvil, they added.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||8 SME branches opened||State Bank of India (SBI) has opened eight new SME branches in Telangana, taking the number of such facilities for small and medium enterprises of the bank in the State to 49. The eight branches were digitally inaugurated by SBI Managing Director (R&DB) Challa Srinivasulu Setty, in the presence of SBI Hyderabad Circle Chief General Manager Om Prakash Mishra. The new branches are in Balanagar, Bible House, Balkampet, Kattedan, Parishram Bhavan, Yellareddyguda, Huzurabad and Karimnagar. A release said SBI had created a separate SME vertical and recently implemented several measures to revamp the SME segment for providing quick sanctions, disbursement and better monitoring with least turn-around time. On the measures initiated for SMEs during COVID-19, it said besides sanctioning new loans, relief measures such as 10% additional fund-based working capital limits by way of Common COVID 19 Emergency Credit Line and 20% of additional fund-based working capital limits under Guaranteed Emergency Credit Line were provided to existing SME borrowers. Under Common COVID 19 Emergency Credit Line facility, the bank had sanctioned Rs. 415 crore. Mr. Setty said SBI was working to provide maximum product delivery on its platform YONO.
04 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Still popular on YouTube, Twitter||Bharatiya Janata Party’s legislator in Telangana T. Raja Singh might have been muted on Facebook and Instagram, but his messages remain popular on Twitter and YouTube. On Twitter, he has 385,760 followers. Not surprisingly, the legislator took to Twitter to spread the message about the deletion of his FB account. Interestingly, on August 16, he had disowned having Facebook pages with a statement on Twitter: “I have got to know many FB pages are using my name. Let me clarify I'm not having any official page, I'm not responsible for any of their post (sic).” His official FB page had 280,218 followers. Another page called Raja Singh had 110,931 followers where he greeted his followers on Basant Panchami on January 29, 2020. After he posted about being removed from Facebook, his supporters came up with ideas ranging from banning the social media site to taking it to court. “Pls use the opportunity to expose them. File a defamation case for dragging your name through mud, make it costly for them. They will come to your door to negotiate and apologize It is a chance to subpeona their internal emails/comms and expose their bias. Set up a donation page (sic),” suggested one twitter user. On YouTube, a channel called ‘Shree Ram Channel Telangana’ was devoted to amplifying the message of the Goshamahal MLA. All his songs, messages, incendiary statements, and seasonal greetings can be found on the channel.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||13 proposals cleared for GHMC||The GHMC standing committee, at its meeting on Thursday, cleared 13 proposals, including one to develop a model Hindu graveyard at Danialgutta in Begumpet with an expenditure of Rs. 4.6 crore. A proposal revising the locations of the theme parks to be constructed in Khairatabad zone too received nod from the standing committee. From the 13 locations approved earlier, 10 locations were cancelled, and 11 added, taking the total number of parks to 14. The estimated cost, however, would remain at Rs. 41 crore. Widening of the road from BSNL office to GSM Mall in Miyapur up to 60 metres, a 30-metre road from ORR service road o Khajaguda lake via Maulana Azad National Urdu University, and widening of a road between Hitech City Phase-II up to Inorbit Mall road up to 12 metres were approved by the committee, together with the property acquisition obligations. Provision of Rs. 1 lakh worth sports equipment besides the already sanctioned Rs. 1 lakh to each corporator too received approval.
04 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Couple found dead||A couple were found dead at their house in Chilkalguda here on Thursday. The victims, Venkatesh (32), a sub-engineer with the TSSPDCL, and his wife Bhargavi (28), a Postal department employee, committed suicide by hanging, reportedly owing to family issues. The couple had a three-month-old son. The incident came to light on Thursday morning when Venkatesh’s parents found him dead, police said.Bhargavi was found hanging in the bathroom. (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: : +914066202000 or 6666 1117)
04 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CS directs officials to gear up for session||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed senior officials to be ready with detailed reports of activities of their respective departments for the forthcoming monsoon session of the State Legislature starting September 7. The officials were directed to focus on questions raised by the members in the Assembly and Council for which answers are still pending. The Chief Secretary gave this instructions during a meeting with special chief secretaries, principal secretaries and other senior officials on Thursday to review the preparedness of the administration. He directed the officials to submit replies to the pending questions with immediate effect in coordination with the Legislature officials. They should be prepared with notes pertaining to the issues which are expected to be raised by the members during the course of the session, he said. Steps should be taken to ensure presence of senior officials in the Council, according to an official release.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Resuscitating a cardiac attack patient in COVID times||Due to the COVID-19 pandemic that underscored the importance of social distancing, people are wary about extending any help, which involves close contact, to strangers. Precautions are taken assuming every person encountered has been infected with the virus. In such situations, what can one do if he or she encounters somebody suffering from a cardiac arrest and collapsing at home or anywhere outside a hospital? Professor of Resuscitation Medicine Dr B. Vijay Rao said that family members at home or bystanders on road or colleagues at office have to weigh their personal safety before trying to resuscitate such a patient. “The first thing to do before offering help is to alert emergency service providers by dialling ‘108’ or ‘112’ or any local hospital. Since PPE might not be available immediately outside any hospital, one can cover the patient’s mouth and nose with a paper, handkerchief or a piece of cloth, so that aerosols from the patient’s mouth do not come out. Thereafter, chest compressions need to be given,” Dr. Rao said. The cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) trainer said that the chest of a patient has to be compressed at depth not less than 5 cm and not more than 6 cm. Around 100 to 120 chest compressions per minute has to be offered until the patient starts coughing, talks, moves or walks, or till the emergency service providers arrive, or until the rescuer becomes fatigued. He also suggested people, who can afford, to keep ready Automated External Defibrillator (AED) that costs anywhere between Rs. 65,000 and Rs. 1 lakh. This can be used for CPR.
04 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Ensure salaries to teachers in pvt. institutes’||AICC secretary Ch. Vamshi Chand Reddy has urged the government to stand by the teachers – both in government and private sector ensuring they receive their full salaries for the lockdown period. In a letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao, he said the COVID-19 indu27ced crisis has worsened the situation of teachers. With no salaries, private school and college teachers are struggling hard to feed their families and are unable to make a decent living, he said. He said it is the responsibility of the government to treat teachers with respect and demanded that the government announce certain decisions in their favour at least on the Teachers Day. He wanted the government to announce PRC and release Interim Relief and pay portion of salaries slashed during the lockdown period. He said promotions should be announced to all eligible candidates, and initiate transfer process immediately. He said budget schools should be given interest-free loans while all pending dues of mess charges, tuition fee and fee reimbursement should be settled immediately. As a mark of respect for teachers, he suggested that the government pay Rs. 20,000 to every teacher in the form of ‘guru dakshina.’
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Owaisi writes to LS Speaker||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla urging him to include question hour in the Parliament session. The move comes soon after it was reported that the Monsoon Session of the Lok Sabha, which begins on September 14, would not have question hour. In an email to Mr Birla, he said that during the Indo-China war in 1962, the question hour was suspended only after holding consultations with parliamentarians from different parties.
04 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Modi to interact with IPS cadets||Prime Minister Narendra Modi would interact with Indian Police Service probationers through video conference after the 'Dikshant Parade' (passing out parade) at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy here on Friday. As many as 131 IPS probationers, including 28 women cadets, will graduate from the academy. The batch comprises 121 probationers of the 2018 batch and 10 probationers of the 2017 batch, NPA Director Atul Karwal said. The passing-out parade is commanded by Kiran Shruthi DV of Tamil Nadu cadre. Adjudged best all-round probationer, she would receive the Prime Minister’s Baton and Home Minister’s revolver.
04 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||For briefly...||Karimnagar district Collector K. Shashanka on Thursday directed Revenue and Panchayat Raj officials to complete inquiry into allegations of grabbing lands of government and private persons in Bommakal village. Identify the culprits to take action against them, he told the officials at a meeting.
04 September 2020||HYDERABD,TELANGANA||TMREIS holding oline classes||Telangana Minorities Residential Educational Institutions Society (TMREIS) Secretary B Shafiullah on Thursday said that its 204 schools had been conducting online classes for its students for the past two months. Classes had been suspended since March 13 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Taking teachers on board, the TMREIS had worked out a plan for students. Previously, before online classes, OAKS online education applications platform was used.
04 September 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||‘TRS stifling voices of those exposing 2BHK anomalies’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar has alleged that the TRS dispensation was stifling the voices of those exposing the ‘substandard’ construction works in the two-bedroom (2BHK) housing scheme in Kamepalli mandal and various other parts of the State. Mr Sanjay visited Harishchandrapuram in Kamepalli mandal late on Thursday evening. He interacted with the local youth, who have recently exposed alleged the inferior quality of works in the newly constructed houses of the yet to be inaugurated 2BHK colony in Harishchandrapuram, through social media. Referring to the cases reportedly booked against three persons including two tribal youths of the village over their social media posts, Mr Sanjay alleged that the persons at the helm were unleashing repressive measures against those bringing the “lacunae” to public attention. The local dwellers, those facing the “threat of eviction” owing to the proposed Gollapadu modernisation plan, poured out their woes before him. Mr Sanjay demanded that the authorities desist from evicting dozens of poor families from the areas along the Gollapadu channel in view of the coronavirus crisis, until alternative housing is made for them. BJP Kisan Morcha State president K Sridhar Reddy and others were present.
04 September 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Bathukamma sarees reach Nalgonda||Bathukamma sarees will be distributed to 5,34,637 beneficiaries in the district this year. District Handloom and Textiles Officer Md. Zaheeruddin said the first consignment of 3.01 lakh sarees were received on Thursday, and stored in respective godowns in the mandals. Distribution of the sarees would start in the second week of October, while adhering to all safety protocols against COVID-19, he said.
04 September 2020||R. Avadhani,TELANGANA||Encouraging organic farming by rearing cows||Totaraju Yadagiri, a farmer was donated a cow by officials in the beginning of this year as he was finding it difficult to cultivate his land under organic farming. The officials procured the cow from a donor and handed it over to Yadagiri, but with a rider. He has to donate the calf to another farmer in case he is unable to look after it. As promised, Yadagiri donated his calf to Chakali Yadagiri of Magdumpur village of Havel Ghanapur mandal a few days ago. As many as eight farmers in Medak district, with the active involvement of officials from the agriculture department, have taken to cow-based organic farming and were able to reduce the input costs drastically. Take the case of Ch. Narender from Anantasagar village in Chegunta mandal. He has about five acres of land and is doing organic farming in one acre for the past four years and cultivating paddy. And he had been getting cow dung and urine – the raw material for preparing Jeevamrutam and other required inputs for land. Observing his problem, the officials have ensured that he got a cow. From then on, his job has become easy. As both cow dung and urine are available at his farm, he has been preparing the required inputs for the land on his own. The investment he has been making to prepare fertilizers and pesticide – both cow based – is about Rs. 2,000 for buying 15 kg of pulses and 20 kg of jaggery. The soil health has also improved considerably. Mr. Narender, who used to spread Jeevamrutam in his field four times a year, has reduced it to three times from this year. “Surely, but slowly, the soil health has been improving. I am able to save between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 15,000 per acre with cow-based farming. Even the customers are coming forward stating that the rice is good,” Mr. Narender told The Hindu . “We are able to get as many as seven cows donated to farmers in the last one year. Now a farmer donated one of his calves to another farmer who is practising cow-based farming. The results are encouraging,” said Ms. Vizrumbhana, agriculture extension officer of Haveli Ghanapur.
04 September 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||KCR culpable for inaction in COVID battle: Bhatti||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka said on Thursday that ‘failure’ to take timely decisions and ‘overall negligence’ by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Health Minister Eatala Rajender led to the rapid spread of COVID-19 in the State. “Hospitals are under-staffed and poorly-equipped, and the staff do not have PPE kits or gloves. The State was pushed to Rs. 3 lakh crore debt, but not even Rs. 10, 000 crore was spent on public health infrastructure and not a single hospital was built,” he said. Continuing his tour of government hospitals in the State to inspect COVID treatment, Mr. Vikramarka along with other CLP leaders was in Jangaon on Thursday. He said treatment to coronavirus patients was inadequate, with lack of RT-PCR tests, among others. Like other districts, Jangaon also suffers from medical staff shortage, with 32 posts waiting to be filled out of the total 104 posts, he said. The senior Congress leader later visited Bhongir and interacted with COVID-19 patients. “Even here, equipment related to general medicine are in bad condition. Frontline warriors are not provided PPE kits and gloves,” he said. In the last leg of his tour in Medchal, Mr. Vikramarka launched a scathing attack against the CM and said that he was ‘culpable’ for ‘inaction and untimely decisions’. “Government’s home quarantine prescription was a reason that coronavirus spread to 40% of villages. A health emergency should be declared and the maximum funds diverted for public health and to provide free treatment to all,” he said. He alleged that the State government led by Mr. KCR continued to ignore their plight despite doctors and other medical staff risking their lives. He demanded the government to immediately roll out ex gratia and insurance cover for medical staff.
04 September 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||18-year-old meets watery grave||An 18-year-old man, who was out on fishing at the Devadula project canal here, reportedly slipped and drowned on Thursday. The victim was identified as M. Sivaraju, a native of Anantharam village of Gundala mandal in the district. Police suspect that the teenager might have slipped into the canal. Locals who were nearby rushed to the spot, but could not rescue him. The police are investigating the case.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||E-mode||
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||Woman, partner held for trying to kill her husband||A 25-year-old woman and her partner have been arrested for allegedly trying to kill the former’s husband in west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden, the police said on Thursday. During interrogation, the accused allegedly told the police that he was having an affair with the woman.
04 September 2020||Mumbai,||MNS joins chorus to reopen temples in State||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray on Thursday wrote to his estranged cousin and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding the reopening of temples in the State. Mr. Thackeray asked why the government is refusing to open the doors of temples when it has allowed even malls to resume operations. “I do wonder if the government is in a trance or a daze and has turned a deaf ear to the reverent sentiments of Hindus,” he said. The MNS chief said he had wholeheartedly supported the government’s decision to shut religious places in the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak. He said during the lockdown all businesses were closed and only essential services were allowed to function. “However, now when the process of normalisation has begun, why are the temples in Maharashtra still closed?” he asked. In his letter, Mr. Thackeray said it is time the government issues standard operating procedures for the reopening of temples. He said, “Keeping the reopening of temples at the bottom of the list is not a sign of progression. Instead, the State needs to set out practical protocols for the opening of temples.” He warned the government that if it continues to ignore the pleas of the people, then they will have to go against the laid down restrictions and forcibly reopen temples in the State. The MNS chief also praised the understanding and maturity displayed by members of the Hindu community in Maharashtra while observing religious festivities such as Aashadi Wari and Ganesh Chaturthi. He said they adhered to the rules and regulations set by the government with utmost sincerity. Mr. Thackeray said, “If the government decides to open up the temples, I have full faith that my Hindu brothers and sisters will meticulously abide by the protocols. Opening temples is not just for devotees. One has to look at it holistically. There are priests and various shops selling ‘ puja requirements’ in and around temples. In short, it is also a small business sector. Why is the government not concerned about their livelihood?” Last week, the Bharatiya Janata Party organised a State-wide ‘Ghanta Naad’ (ringing of bells) agitation and Imtiyaz Jaleel, All India Majlis-e- Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen MP, also demanded the reopening of mosques. Concluding his letter, Mr. Thackeray said, “Citizens need solace and a prayer to god to save them from this catastrophe. I firmly believe that the government should not be an obstacle between god and devotees.”
04 September 2020||Mumbai,||Shiv Sena backs Centre on Question Hour debate||The Shiv Sena on Thursday came out in support of the Centre’s move to drop Question Hour from the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament, and said the decision was taken due to an “emergency situation” caused by the pandemic, which everyone needs to understand. Talking to reporters, Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that other platforms to question the government are always available. According to the notifications issued by the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats, there will be no Question Hour and private members’ bills will not be taken up in the monsoon session, while the Zero Hour will be restricted. “Even though the monsoon session of Parliament will not have a Question Hour, it is important to understand why it is so,” Mr. Raut said. “This is an emergency situation. We need to understand and not criticise,” he said, adding that even in Maharashtra, the monsoon session of the Assembly will be held only for two days. Several Opposition parties have criticised the move to exclude Question Hour during the monsoon session, with some leaders accusing the Modi government of trying to “murder the democracy” in the name of the COVID-19 pandemic and of reducing “Parliament to a notice board”. Replying to a question, Mr. Raut said that Army chief M.M. Naravane rushing off to Ladakh shows that the China-India stand-off was serious. “Even External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar had tweeted the situation was worse than 1962,” he said. Mr. Raut criticised the Opposition’s demand to reopen places of worship in Maharashtra amid the pandemic.
04 September 2020||Mumbai,||Kangana Ranaut compares Mumbai to PoK, draws flak||Actor Kangana Ranaut landed in controversy on Thursday after she compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) in a bid to counter Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut who had slammed her for saying she was scared of the Mumbai Police. The actor who is presently at her home town in Himachal Pradesh has been levelling allegations of an active drug cartel in Bollywood. She has even linked it with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, which is presently being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation, as an abetment to suicide case. Replying to Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Ram Kadam, who claimed that the Maharashtra government and the Mumbai Police were not providing her protection after her expose on Bollywood-drug mafia nexus, Ms. Ranaut had tweeted, “Thank you for your concern sir, I am actually more scared of Mumbai police now than movie mafia goons, in Mumbai I would need security either from HP government or directly from the Centre, No Mumbai police please.” Mr. Raut reacted sharply to her tweet and said, “We kindly request her not to come to Mumbai. This is nothing but insult to Mumbai police. The Home Ministry should take action over it.” Ms. Ranaut on Thursday tweeted, “Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena leader has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai, after Aazadi graffitis in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan occupied Kashmir?” Leaders across parties reacted strongly to her statement. “This one sided agenda driven narrative against Mumbai and Mumbai Police, calling @MumbaiPolice worse than mafia, sharing fake screenshots of Mumbai CP & now comparing Mumbai to PoK is sickening & shameful. Silence to such lies will be betrayal hence needs to be condemned,” said Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi. The Congress said it condemned the comparison of Mumbai to PoK. “Mumbai is a city which gives shelter and food to crores of Indians. Comparing it to PoK is an ungrateful act. We condemn such statements,” Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, adding that Mr. Kadam who has been comparing Ms. Ranaut to ‘Jhansi ki Rani’ is insulting the queen of Jhansi.
04 September 2020||Mumbai,||Sushant case probe: media asked to exercise restraint||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said media organisations should exercise restraint and report on actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case in such a way that it does not hamper the ongoing probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). A Division Bench of Justices A.A. Sayed and S.P. Tavade was hearing two public interest litigation (PIL) calling for an end to the media trial in the case. One of the petitions was filed by eight former IPS officers against the “unfair, malicious and false media campaign” against the Mumbai Police. The petitioners include former director general of police (DGP) and Mumbai commissioner of police (CP) M.N. Singh; former DGPs Parvinder Pasricha, K. Subramanyam, D. Shivanandan, Sanjeev Dayal and Satish Mathur; former additional DGP Krishipal Raghuvanshi and former Mumbai CP Dhananjay Jadhav. They were represented by senior advocate Milind Sathe. Mr. Sathe said, “The media has virtually taken over the investigation and is carrying out a parallel investigation and trial. The Mumbai Police are being called co-conspirators. There is a malicious vilification campaign.” He said media houses are violating provisions of the Police (Incitement of Disaffection) Act and sought directions to the “Union of India, Press Council of India, News Broadcaster’s Association and News Broadcasting Standards Authority” to issue guidelines to media houses and publications. The Bench said, “We urge and expect the media to exercise restraint before publishing or reporting on details of the investigation, and report in such a manner that it does not hamper the investigation.” The other petition was filed by Nilesh Navlakha, a filmmaker; Mahibub D. Shaikh, the editor of a regional newspaper; and Subhash Chander, a retired civil servant, seeking directions to news channels to refrain from conducting media trials. Senior advocate Devadatt Kamat, who appeared for the trio, told the court that they are not demanding a prohibition on reporting in the case, but only seeking the media to adhere to journalistic standards and ethics.
04 September 2020||Mumbai,||Govt. treading with caution, says CM||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said his government is exercising caution in the wake of demands from Opposition parties to reopen temples and other places of worship in Maharashtra. The Chief Minister said, “As part of the Unlock process, we have restarted many activities in the State. There are demands for the opening of temples, but we have to exercise caution.” Mr. Thackeray said the present times are challenging and after the rains, the administration will have to ensure the safety of citizens during festivals like Navratri, Dussehra and Deepavali.
04 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Mahad building collapse: absconding developer finally surrenders in court||The developer of the building in Mahad, which collapsed on August 24, surrendered before the Mangaon District and Sessions Court on Thursday. Farooq Mamudmiya Kazi (51), who is also the main accused in the building collapse case, had applied for an anticipatory bail before the sessions court and the hearing date was on Thursday. “In order to cooperate with the police investigation, my client decided to surrender himself. Hence, on the day when his anticipatory bail was to be heard, we initiated another application which stated that he would like to surrender. The court accepted the application and he surrendered,” the advocate of Mr. Kazi said. The spokesperson of the Raigad police confirmed that Mr. Kazi was arrested at 6.30 p.m. on Thursday and would be presented before the Mahad magistrate court for police custody. The police had been looking Mr. Kazi, a resident of Taloja, who absconded after the five-storey Tarique Garden collapsed, killing 16 people and injuring nine. On August 30, Yunus Abdul Razak Shaikh, who had sold 40 % of the flats after an agreement with the developer, was arrested from his residence at Kharkand Mohalla in Mahad. The first arrest was made on August 26 of RCC consultant of the building Bahubali Dhamane. On August 25, the Mahad police had booked five people. They have been identified as Mr. Kazi, Mr. Dhamane, Gaurav Shah, an architect consultant, Deepak Jhinjhad, chief officer of Mahad Municipal Council, and Shashikant Dighe, junior civil supervisor with the council. They have been charged with causing death by negligence, culpable homicide not amounting to murder, and for causing grievous hurt by act endangering life under the Indian Penal Code.
04 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Central ministry official approaches police against contractor for forgery||An officer attached to the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has lodged a complaint with the Belapur police against a Maharashtra-based road contractor for allegedly forging two letters with signs of the joint secretary and the superintendent engineer of the ministry. A case was registered on August 30 based on the complaint by Anshumali Srivastava, chief engineer and regional officer for the National Highways Authority of India, who has an office at Konkan Bhavan in Belapur. As per the complaint, the company — Patil Infrastructure — had got nine contracts worth around Rs. 3,000 crore for constructing road in the State, from the ministry through tendering. However, three of the projects worth around Rs. 790 crore had been pending for a few years, despite crossing the deadline for completion. In a review meeting conducted on June 16, it was decided that the contract given to Patil Infrastructure should be scrapped and a new work order should be issued to another firm after completing the tendering procedure. The review meeting was chaired by Union Minister Nitin Gadkari via videoconferencing. On August 11, Sanjay Dashetwar, business development officer of Patil Infrastructure, sent two letters to Mr. Srivastava on WhatsApp. The first letter dated July 31, which was signed by Amitkumar Ghosh, joint secretary, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, stated that a committee had been constituted to reconsider the decision of cancellation of the contract of Patil Infrastructure. The second letter, which was dated August 10, signed by superintendent engineer, director general (road development) Sanjay Garg, of the ministry, said that the committee was constituted under him and they were reconsidering the termination of the contract. Mr. Srivastava who got suspicious sent the letters to the ministry’s department in Delhi which looks into the works of Maharashtra roads. By August 21, Mr. Srivastava received responses from both Mr. Garg as well as Mr. Ghosh denying to have issued any such letters. The officials also directed Mr. Srivastava to consider taking legal action in the case. “We have registered the case as per the complaint received under sections of cheating and forgery, and we are investigating the case further. No arrests have been made yet,” senior police inspector Dinkar Mohite from Belapur police station said. The case is registered against Mr. Dashetwar and the MD of Patil Infrastructure M.B. Patil.
04 September 2020||Pune,||COVID-19 situation in western Maharashtra alarming: Uddhav||Stating that the daily rise in fresh COVID-19 cases in western Maharashtra is “alarming”, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday urged the district administrations to involve local self-help groups in the fight against the virus and ramp up contact tracing and door-to-door screening. “The focus of the virus has now shifted from Mumbai and Thane to Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli. This will entail more responsibilities and vigilance on part of people. There is a need for the district administrations to create awareness among people by involving corona vigilance committees and local self-help groups,” Mr. Thackeray said, while urging the administrations of the three districts not to repeat the mistakes made by other districts in combating the contagion. The Chief Minister was reviewing the pandemic situation in Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli districts via videoconferencing in which senior officials of the State government and those of the district administrations were present. The scenario remains bleak in the State’s ‘sugar heartland’, with an average 500 new cases being reported daily in each of these three districts for the last three weeks. Mr. Thackeray said the challenges facing the State and the country were far greater than those faced by other countries across the globe. “Other nations have only the pandemic to tackle, while we also have to take into account the problem of infections spreading during festivities…While the Ganpati festival and Muharram are behind us, we have to gear up for the Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali, and ensure that people are discouraged from gathering in large numbers. Also, parts of the State are reeling under heavy rain,” he said. The CM said that while the government could go on creating more facilities, the chain of virus could only be broken and results gotten within a fortnight if some basic measures were diligently followed. “Increase contact tracing, implement ‘Chase the Virus’ campaign in these districts more rigorously, make sure that people within containment zones are strictly adhering to regulations, and increase sample testing capabilities,” he told the district collectors and other officials. While the situation in Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli remained in check till June, cases and fatalities have spiked since the beginning of July. The three districts have reported a cumulative death toll of more than 1,400 while the total number of active patients in these districts collectively has exceeded 20,000. Mr. Thackeray further said that while there had been demands about reopening temples, care must be taken before any such decision was reached. Last week, Vanchit Bahujan Agahdi (VBA) chief Prakash Ambedkar, along with warkaris (devotees) of the Vishwa Warkari Sena, had held a massive protest in Pandharpur in pandemic-racked Solapur district, seeking reopening of major temples across Maharashtra on grounds that a lockdown on them was adversely affecting the livelihoods of many. Mr. Ambedkar, who was permitted entry with 14 other VBA leaders, has given the Thackeray government 10 days’ time to reopen all temples across the State. The VBA chief has claimed that the CM had promised him that all temples would be opened soon.
04 September 2020||Pune,||Former Pune Mayor succumbs to virus||Socialist leader and former Pune Mayor Dattatraya Ekbote (84), who had recently tested positive for COVID-19, passed away early on Thursday at Sassoon General Hospital. Ekbote, who had fought for rights of bidi workers and other deprived classes and was affectionately known as ‘Datta’, had held positions in the Samajwadi and the Janata parties before joining the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). According to sources, Ekbote had futilely contacted a number of private hospitals to secure a critical care bed after he had tested positive. Eventually, he admitted himself to Sassoon Hospital where he reportedly was not receiving proper treatment. Critical care facilities “It was only after an ex-corporator got in touch with local Congress leaders, senior NCP leaders like [Deputy Chief Minister] Ajit Pawar and Ankush Kakade, and the Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Pune, Girish Bapat, that critical care facilities were made available for Ekbote,” a Pune Municipal Corporation corporator, who did not wish to be named, said. He passed away in the intervening night between Wednesday and Thursday, hospital sources said. The veteran leader had lost his 45-year-old son Ravi, who too had tested positive for COVID-19 on August 31. Ekbote is survived by his wife, two daughters and a grandson. Ekbote’s death, coming barely a day after television reporter Pandurang Raikar succumbed to the virus allegedly because he could not get a ventilator bed and a cardiac ambulance on time, has again raised questions on the state of Pune’s medical infrastructure. “Pune has now become the number one COVID-19 hotspot in the country. Yet, its medical infrastructure lies in shambles. The newly set up 800-bed jumbo COVID-19 facilities, built at the expense of crores of the taxpayer’s money, lack trained medical staff. Complaints of critically ill patients not getting food and proper medical care in these centres are flying thick and fast,” Ramesh Iyer, Pune city Congress general secretary and party spokesperson, said. Alleging that 23 patients had succumbed in the newly set up jumbo facilities within a week’s time, Mr. Iyer said that it was high time that the district administration be made accountable for their poor planning and lack of coordination. “In July, botanist Lakshminarasimhan lost his life because he could not get an ICU bed on time. Then journalist Pandurang Raikar, and now Ekbote. Not to mention scores of less well-connected citizens who died because of the administration’s negligence. Who is to blame for all this? Authorities must be made accountable from now on,” he said. Deficiencies remain Mr. Iyer said that planning for ramping up the district’s health infrastructure ought to have started in March itself. “When the virus began spreading rapidly in the city’s slum clusters in April, the then district collector, divisional commissioner and PMC commissioner ought to have begun preparing for the drastic surge in cases that they surely knew would take place in the monsoon season. However, nothing was done then and not much is being done now,” he said, adding that despite the administration claiming to have streamlined bed management data on the administration dashboard, deficiencies continued to persist.
04 September 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lankan Cabinet appoints panel to draft new Constitution||The Cabinet has set up an experts’ committee to draft Sri Lanka’s new Constitution, even as the government gazetted the draft of the 20th Amendment that would reverse the preceding 19th Amendment, a 2015 legislation that clipped certain executive powers of the President. The move follows the ruling Rajapaksa brothers’ poll pledge to abolish the 19th Amendment, introduced by the former government. After a securing a comfortable two-thirds majority in the August general elections, the government took up the promise swiftly. In his inaugural address to Parliament on August 20, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa announced that Sri Lanka would draft a new Constitution, jettisoning the 19th Amendment that sought to strengthen Parliament and independent institutions, besides curbing presidential powers. Two-step process The government’s amendments to the Constitution will be carried out in two-steps, Minister Udaya Gammanpila told the weekly Cabinet press briefing on Thursday. While the 20th Amendment would “correct anomalies” in the current Constitution, a completely new Constitution would replace it soon after, authorities said. Earlier, on examination of the draft amendment, the Attorney General told the government that it could be passed with a two-thirds parliamentary majority, and did not require a national referendum. Government sources said the public would have about two weeks to go through the draft and petition the Supreme Court if they have objections. Once the Supreme Court gives its determination on the draft to Parliament, it would be taken up for debate in the House, a senior official told The Hindu, requesting anonymity.  Asked what time frame the government was looking at to complete the process, the official said: “As soon as possible.” The committee tasked with drafting the new Constitution will be led by senior lawyer Romesh de Silva.
04 September 2020||Washington,||FB to ban political ads in week before U.S. election||Facebook says it will ban political advertising the week before the U.S. election, one of its most sweeping moves against disinformation yet as CEO Mark Zuckerberg warned of a “risk of civil unrest” after the vote. The social media giant also vowed to fact check any premature claims of victory, stating that if a candidate tries to declare himself the winner before final votes are tallied “we’ll add a label to their posts directing people to the official results.” And it promised to “add an informational label” to any content seeking to delegitimise the results or claim that “lawful voting methods” will lead to fraud. “I’m concerned about the challenges people could face when voting. I’m also worried that with our nation so divided and election results potentially taking days or even weeks to be finalised, there could be an increased risk of civil unrest across the country,” Mr. Zuckerberg said in a post. Democrats have long warned that President Donald Trump and his supporters may try to sow chaos with false claims on November 3, when the vote will take place amid unprecedented health and economic crises, social unrest and protests for racial justice. The U.S. remains the epicentre of the world’s worst coronavirus outbreak, and voters are expected to shift to mail-in voting, with an estimated three-quarters of the population eligible to do so. As a result, officials are warning that the final tally may not be revealed until well after voting day — spurring fears that paranoia and rumor-mongering could hit an all-time high. Mr. Trump — a prolific user of social media who is trailing Democratic challenger Joe Biden in the polls — has recently hurtled down a rabbit hole of conspiracy theories filled with claims that he is victim of a coup and/or plans to rig the polls. Almost daily, he claims that increased mail-in voting is a gambit to “rig” the election against him, and he has refused to say whether he will accept the results. He has also opposed more funding for the cash-strapped U.S. Postal Service (USPS), acknowledging the money would be used to help process ballots.
04 September 2020||BEIJING,||Xi praises China’s spirit of resistance||President Xi Jinping on Thursday praised China’s spirit of resistance in commemorating the 75th anniversary of the end of Second World War in the Pacific, saying any attempt to alter the nation’s course under Communist Party rule would be resisted by all of its 1.4 billion citizens. Mr. Xi led government officials in a minute of silence and presentation of floral wreaths at a memorial hall dedicated to soldiers and civilians, who participated in the war, in which China endured a brutal invasion and occupation of much of its territory by Japan. “The Chinese people demonstrated to the world their patriotism, national character, heroism and a strong will to win during the war,” Mr. Xi, who is also Communist Party leader, said in a speech following the ceremony. “The Chinese people will refuse any person or any force that attempts to distort the history of the Communist Party, its character or its mission,” he said. Mr. Xi’s remarks come as China faces increasing political and economic pressure from the U.S., friction along its border with India and push-back from European countries and Southeast Asian nations over its economic and territorial ambitions. Japanese invasion Japan launched a full-on invasion of China in 1937, marked by urban warfare and atrocities such as the notorious Rape of Nanking. While armies under Nationalist Party leader Chiang Kai-shek fought most of the major battles, Communist Party guerrillas under Mao Zedong forced Japan to divert soldiers and resources from battlefields elsewhere with low-level engagements. Although Japan formally surrendered aboard the USS Missouri on September 2, 1945, China marks the end of the war on September 3 when it first held nationwide celebrations. The Communists swept to power in 1949 following renewed civil war against the Nationalists and continue to uphold the struggle against Japan as a source of their legitimacy to rule. Chiang relocated his Republic of China government to Taiwan, where it continues to enjoy strong, though unofficial, U.S. support after making a transition to full democracy more than two decades ago. On the mainland, the Communist Party has retained one-party authoritarian rule and crushed all efforts to mount a political opposition or even question its legitimacy. In the process, Mr. Xi has taken control of all major levers of power and eliminated term limits, effectively setting him up to be China’s leader for the rest of his life. Thursday’s relatively low-key commemoration reflected social distancing rules in place during the pandemic and contrasted sharply with how China has marked other significant anniversaries.
04 September 2020||Kabul,||Afghan govt. frees 400 Taliban prisoners ahead of Doha talks||The Afghanistan government said on Thursday it had released 400 Taliban prisoners under an exchange deal with the militants, except for “a few” opposed by foreign nations, and expected peace negotiations to start soon. The two warring sides are set to launch direct talks in Qatar, tying up the end of a contentious and months-long prisoner exchange. Kabul has already sent a logistical team to Doha, where the Taliban’s political office is based, with the negotiators expected to depart later on Thursday. “The Islamic Republic of Afghanistan has received our commandos held hostage by Taliban, after which the Gov’t released the remaining 400 convicts, except the few for which our partners have reservations,” National Security Council spokesman Javid Faisal said on Twitter. “Diplomatic efforts are ongoing. We expect direct talks to start promptly.” Two Taliban officials confirmed the prisoners had been freed but that those opposed by France and Australia were still in custody. Paris and Canberra made protests over the release of the militants because of their links to the murders of French and Australian civilians and troops in Afghanistan.
04 September 2020||Beirut,||Presumed Israeli strikes kill 16 in Syria: observer||Presumed Israeli air strikes on eastern Syria killed 16 Iran-backed fighters on Thursday, a war monitor said, hours after Damascus said it intercepted Israeli missiles fired at a central air base. Those killed were “Iraqi paramilitary fighters loyal to Iran, seven of whom were killed outside the city of Mayadeen,” Rami Abdul Rahman, head of the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said. The other nine were killed in strikes south of the city of Albu Kamal, on the Iraqi border further east. Mr. Abdul Rahman said Israel was “likely” responsible for the attack, which if confirmed, would mark the second such strike in less than 24 hours and the third this week. Late Wednesday, Syrian air defences intercepted missiles fired by an Israeli warplane at the T4 air base in central Syria, state news agency SANA reported. “Our air defences intercepted most of them,” it said, adding the attack caused only material damage. On Monday, Israeli strikes killed one civilian, three government troops and seven allied foreign fighters, the Observatory said. Monday's strikes hit Syrian Army positions south of Damascus and facilities used by Iran-backed paramilitaries, including fighters of Lebanon's Hezbollah, the Observatory said.
04 September 2020||ANKARA,||Russia will hold drills in Mediterranean: Turkey||Turkey has announced that Russia will hold live-fire naval exercises in the eastern Mediterranean, amid escalating tensions between Turkey and its coastal neighbors Greece and Cyprus over rights to search for energy resources in the region. The navigational notice issued on Wednesday said the Russian exercises will take place during September 8-22 and September 17-25 periods in areas of the Mediterranean, where Turkish seismic research vessels are operating. There was no immediate comment from Russia on the exercises, which Turkey announced after the U.S. said it was partially lifting a 33-year-old arms embargo against ethnically divided Cyprus. It’s unclear why NATO-member Turkey would announce such drills on Moscow’s behalf, but the two countries have in recent years significantly strengthened their military, political and economic ties. They are coordinating closely on their military presence in Syria, while Turkey has purchased Russia’s advanced S-400 missiles and has broken ground on a Russian-built nuclear power plant on its southern coast. Turkey has reacted angrily to the U.S. move that it said went against the “spirit of alliance” between Washington and Ankara. It also warned that it would harm efforts to reunify Cyprus.
04 September 2020||Lahore,||Non-bailable arrest warrant issued against former Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif||A Pakistani court on Thursday directed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to execute a non-bailable arrest warrant against former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in a 34-year land allotment case, according to reports. The warrant against Mr. Sharif comes two days after the Islamabad High Court gave him a “last chance” to surrender in another case.PTI
04 September 2020||Washington,||Washington, Sept 3, 2020 (AFP) -||Police shot dead an African-American man in the U.S. capital Washington on Wednesday, the force said. The man, said to be aged 18, was shot in as officers were following up on a tip about guns allegedly stashed in a vehicle. Police said two guns were also recovered.AFP
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Should the age of marriage for women be raised to 21?||In his Independence Day speech, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the government will soon take a decision on the age of marriage of women. Earlier, a task force had been formed to consider raising the age of marriage from 18 years to 21. Madhu Mehra and Jayna Kothari discuss the issue in a conversation moderated by Jagriti Chandra . Edited excerpts:  Do you agree with the move to increase the age of marriage for women to 21 years? Madhu Mehra:It is important that girls are not pushed into marriage early; marriage should not be compulsory for them to gain social and economic status. Yet, an increase in the minimum age of marriage to 21 years will be counterproductive. Minimum age of marriage does not mean mandatory age. It only signifies that below that age there could be criminal prosecution under the child marriage law. Now, to increase the age of marriage to 21 years would mean that girls will have no say in their personal matters until they are 21. In our research at Partners for Law in Development, we looked at 10 years of use of the child marriage law. Overwhelmingly, the law was used by parents against eloping daughters. It has become a tool for parental control and for punishment of boys or men whom girls choose as their husbands. So, most cases that are taken to court are self-arranged marriages. And only one-third of the cases relate to arranged marriages, which are sometimes brought by parents or husbands to dissolve or to nullify marriages that have broken down because of domestic violence, dowry or compatibility issues. So, nowhere is age an issue in people’s minds. An increase in age to 21 years would mean further persecution of girls right up till 21 years. We’ve seen this in the Supreme Court and the Kerala High Court in the Hadiya case, where an adult woman’s decision to marry was challenged by her parents. This is how it plays out in the Indian context. The elementary right that the child rights convention bestows upon minors — the right to be heard, the right for their views to be considered — will be denied to girls right up till 21, beyond adulthood. How does the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act (PCMA), 2006, view underage marriages and how effective has it been on the ground? MM:The PCMA sets the minimum age of marriage at 18 years for women and at 21 for men. It treats underage marriages as valid, but voidable. It means that an underage marriage is valid as long as the minors involved in the marriage want it to remain valid. The PCMA also treats those underage marriages as void or having no legal validity, where they involve trafficking, enticement, fraud and deceit. A valuable provision in the PCMA is that it allows the minor party to repudiate the marriage or to have it nullified right up till two years of attaining majority. This allows girls who elope with their partners to demand that their marriages are protected. This right should never be taken away. There is also a provision for injuncting an underage marriage from happening, which allows social workers flexibility in negotiating with the families involved and in getting the help of the district administration, child protection agencies, as well as the police. They usually do not use the law to formally prosecute as the repercussions at the village level are very severe for those who interfere. We saw this with Bhanwari Devi who was gang-raped for stopping a child marriage. Even if the law declares a child marriage void, in the eyes of the community, arranged marriages will have social validity. There are huge financial penalties, which go into lakhs of rupees depending on which caste and biradri you come from, for breaking a marriage which the law does not address or provide protection against. So the legal force of the PCMA and its flexibility, rather than prosecutions, enable social workers to prevent marriages. One argument for raising the age of marriage for women to 21 years is that it will make the marriage age equal for both men and women. Do you welcome that? Jayna Kothari:I agree that the age of marriage should be uniform for men and women, but I don’t welcome the move to increase it to 21. Human rights activists, women’s groups and child rights activists demand that the age of marriage should be equal for boys and girls. Under the previous 1929 law, the Child Marriage Restraint Act, there was a thinking that girls mature earlier than boys and therefore should have a lower age of marriage. That is a very outdated perception. The Law Commission Report of 2008, on reforming family law, recommended a uniform age of marriage for boys and girls at 18 years and not 21. The National Human Rights Commission in 2018 recommended that there should be a uniform age of marriage for boys and girls. Laws such as the Indian Majority Act, 1875 grant the right to vote, and to enter into contracts, for those who attain the age of 18. And they are equal for men and women. Even the Supreme Court, in the Independent Thought case, when it looked at child marriage, said that it’s accepted universally that a child is someone who’s under the age of 18, and that should be the age of marriage. If we look at our international commitments, the CEDAW (Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women) Committee also recommends 18 as the age of marriage. If we’re looking at law reform, we should not have these different ages for marriage. At the current age of marriage for women and men, we find that implementation of the child marriage law is very hard. So there is no basis to increase it to 21. If the concern is that there should be fewer pregnancies or to avoid early pregnancies among young girls, there are different ways to address that. Moreover, the unequal age of marriage impacts girls more adversely. Both girls and boys get two years’ time after their age of marriage to repudiate their underage marriage under the PCMA, 2006, which for a girl is only till she turns 20, but for a boy it is until he turns 23. At 19 or 20, a girl is at a fairly young age to have the capacity or the wherewithal to annul the marriage. Do you agree with the principle of equality being applied here? MM:How do we understand equality is my question. My proposition is to enhance gender equality. It’s only a theoretical discussion to revise the age of marriage because we don’t have evidence that tinkering with age will be beneficial in any way. In India, we widely practise hypergamy, where the boy has to be older, more educated, must have a higher income, and so on. If we bring the age of marriage down to 18, it is possible then that the most desirable bride for that boy would be 15 or 16 years old. I would say let’s not touch the age of marriage because there is no evidence of particular harm in that regard. As far as the issue of repudiation of marriage by girls is concerned, I believe it should be four years for girls and not two. But if we are thinking about equality and non-discrimination, then another amendment is non-negotiable and of very high priority, that is the age of sexual consent. Currently, in elopement cases, boys are prosecuted for repeated rape of the minor wife, which is an aggravated offence punishable by a minimum of 20 years under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. In contrast, in an arranged marriage, in the rare case when parents are prosecuted, the maximum punishment is two years. This disparity replaces honour killings by the rule of law. This is heinous, and the age of consent must be brought down immediately. To bring in the law for consensual, non-exploitative, non-coercive relations between peers is a big flaw that needs to be corrected. Jayna, the debate we’re having emerges from the Supreme Court judgment of 2017 which said that sexual intercourse with a child bride under 18 years would be considered rape. As a result, the government is considering amending the law to make child marriages illegal or void ab initio. Do you think this will help girls? JK:I think it’s important to have the PCMA declare child marriages void ab initio, which means that all child marriages would be considered as invalid marriages. It would help young girls who are forced into marriages and want to come out of it. We need to recognise child marriage as a human rights violation as it endangers the lives of young girls by exposing them to increased domestic violence, marital rape, early pregnancies, etc. Rendering all child marriages invalid will also make them unacceptable. Of course, it has to go along with some measures to protect young girls such as maintenance and protection orders from domestic violence. Karnataka has amended the PCMA to make marriages void ab initio. What has been the impact of this in the State? JK:This amendment was brought about in 2017 based on the recommendations of a committee under Justice Shivraj Patil. There hasn’t been much impact because the Karnataka government has not advertised this amendment to create any awareness. Even the child marriage prohibition officers are not trained. Though I agree with Madhu that there shouldn’t be criminalising or policing, I would also argue that the law has to prohibit child marriage. And that’s not criminalising, that is just declaring child marriages void. Madhu, what do you think is an effective way of tackling underage marriage? MM:An issue like child marriage is a social issue, an economic issue. While there is the Right to Education Act, 2009, the quality of education is poor and doesn’t show a way out of inter-generational poverty. Poor families don’t see any value in continuing education. Second, a lot of parents are interested in private education because it is better, but they can’t afford it. Third, poor families thrive on domestic work and a girl often gets pulled out of school to help at home. So, this myth that girls leave education because of marriage is not borne out by data. We must ensure an increase in the scope of the Right to Education for girls right up to vocational studies. I would say that to introduce criminal law and punishment and to declare child marriage void is like saying hunger is a human rights problem and the way to address hunger is by criminalising those who have less food or eat one meal. As far as the Karnataka situation is concerned, one social worker shared with us a case of a minor who was widowed. When she sought to claim the pension of the deceased husband, she was told that her marriage is not valid. We can say that they have the right to maintenance, but that is of no succour to a person who’s continuing to be within that marriage but has no matrimonial rights, no right to inheritance, no right to stay in her marital home, and the man would face no legal consequences if he married again. The woman’s life doesn’t change merely by saying the marriage is void. She just becomes a de facto wife without any legal protection. Many social workers did not agree with the recommendations of the Justice Shivraj Patil Committee as they thought those made their life more difficult. How do they help girls who have no recognition in the eyes of the law?  We need to recognise child marriage as a human rights violation as it endangers the lives of young girls. Jayna Kothari
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||A politics of avoidance that must be questioned||We, the people of India, gave ourselves a Constitution that prescribes for our democracy a parliamentary form of government in which the executive is accountable to the electorate through a legislature which in turn is periodically elected by the electorate. This accountability lies at the heart of democratic government and is implemented through procedures put in place by the legislature whose functions include lawmaking, controlling the national finances and approving taxation proposals, and having discussions on matters of public interest and concern. Each of these functions is discharged, daily or periodically, during sittings of the legislature and cover questions, adjournment motion, calling attention, half-an-hour discussion, motion of no confidence, questions of privilege, etc.  Instruments of accountability Among these instruments of accountability, the daily ‘Question Hour’ has an unmatched criticality on account of its regularity and its availability on a basis of equality to every Member of the House, Rajya Sabha or Lok Sabha. It has a special significance in the proceedings of Parliament since it covers every aspect of government activity, domestic and foreign. The government of the day is thus helped to feel the pulse of the nation and give the public a view of the performance of both of its elected representatives and of the Ministers. Those who fumble are rarely forgotten. The Rules of Procedure in both Houses prescribe the operational details. These include, inter alia , the notice period, conditions of admissibility, balloting, and a host of other procedural or regulatory prescriptions. Questions are addressed to a specific Minister of the government and can seek oral answers marked by an asterisk or a written one. The veracity of the answers given are matters of utmost importance and rules permit correction of inaccuracies by the Minister concerned. Copies of answers given are available to Members at the Notice Office before the start of the day’s proceedings as also on the websites. Seeking the specifics Since questions are generally ‘pointed, specific and confined to one issue only’, they tend to elicit specific information from the government; our parliamentary history records instances of answers given to questions leading to wider debates, inquiries, and even administrative scandals. Even otherwise the information so made available adds to public information essential to informed debates on matters of interest or concern. The advantage to the government is that its position in the matter is authoritatively explained. By the same logic, incomplete or unsatisfactory answers induce resort to other forms of accountability mentioned above. For this reason, Members of Parliament and the interested citizens attach much importance to questions in Parliament and have been taken aback by the peremptory announcement in parliamentary bulletins this week that in the forthcoming session of Parliament (monsoon session that starts on September 14) that ‘there will be no Question Hour.’ The stated reason for this is the situation created by the COVID-19 pandemic. Citing the pandemic is jarring The gravity of the situation resulting from the spread of COVID-19 continues to be experienced by people the world over and by every citizen of the country. New disciplines have descended on us and we have experienced new norms and styles of existence, learnt to live with total and partial lockdowns, and have moved from no activity to partial restoration of essential activities. Procedures of social distancing and the wearing of protective masks have been imbibed. Countries far and near have brought forth their individual response patterns; some of these show that legislative bodies have continued to function with new sets of ‘dos and don’ts’. Finally, though belatedly, some of our State Assemblies took the initiative and now the Parliament of India has followed suit. The public has welcomed this. In this context, the deletion of ‘Question Hour’ from the announced agenda of the day is baffling and has understandingly been viewed as curtailment of the right to question the government. Subsequent clarifications have stated that the Unstarred Questions will continue to be received and answered and that the change will relate only to Starred Questions and the Supplementary questions emanating from them that require to be answered orally. Exploring options The purpose of a Starred Question is to explore the intent and the alleged illegality or procedural lacuna that the government decision in question has sought to camouflage in the form of words and expressions used in the answer. The Oral Supplementary questions seek to unravel these. It is a form of verbal gymnastics not unknown in daily life. Perhaps greater sensitivity to parliamentary and public sentiments could have been displayed by exploring procedural options that would retain the substance if not the complete form of a Starred Question. One way could be to admit the Starred Question, reply to it in a set of prepositions and allow the Member concerned to table in writing the permitted number of follow up questions also to be answered in writing the following day. Were these options explored and discussed with leaders of political parties and groups? The Chairman and the Speaker unquestionably have the final word on matters relating to the proceedings of their respective Houses. This can be, and has been supplemented, on occasions, by using a Motion to develop a consensus ‘on matters of general public interest’. Was this explored on this occasion? And, finally, what public purpose is served when senior members of the ruling party describe the Opposition expression of concern as ‘a fake narrative’ since ‘extraordinary times justify extraordinary measures?’ The test of a functioning democracy is its ability to face crises — social, economic, political — and seek correctives premised on institutions of democracy. A resort to what has been called ‘the politics of avoidance’ does not help the process. Executive accountability upfront cannot be allowed to become a thing of the past. Hamid Ansari is the former Vice President of India, 2007-2017
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Mind the gaps in India’s health care digital push||The Independence Day address of the Prime Minister launching the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) during an unprecedented novel coronavirus pandemic crisis, caught everyone’s attention. Yet, despite all his eloquence it was not clear to many what to expect in substantial terms. ‘Going Digital’ has no doubt been a magic phrase that has often been repeated in multiple contexts in the country, and as yet another ‘Mission’ for the health sector, they waited for more news to emerge. On August 27 we learnt that the Ministry of Health was expecting feedback and public comments on the draft by September 3. Since then the date has been extended by another week. . Even that leaves insufficient time for discussions among medical practitioners, hospital managements, associations of various stakeholders in the health-care sector and other members of civil society for any meaningful feedback. Some progress There is no disputing the premise that capturing data relating to patients and its digitising could help patients, the doctors who attend to them and the health-care facilities where they seek treatment. In fact many States have already achieved some breakthroughs in these areas with the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) and, subsequently, National Health Mission through the IT network connected to most public health centres even in tribal areas. Personal health data are generated by name till the primary health centre -level but not transmitted to higher levels except aggregated numerical data. Some patients get referred to standalone specialists or tertiary hospitals or diagnostic facilities and then they go back to their original practitioner or health centre. They carry back with them hard copies of the reports or soft copies on their smartphones. Most practitioners, especially specialists without data entry staff, often extract only the relevant notes and return the hard copies. All larger health facilities generate and store computerised patient data also for planning treatment, procurement of medicines and consumables. Most patients avail medical services from doctors or health-care centres in their own State. But when they seek advanced care in other States or migrate to another State have they not been deprived of medical care? Was it then for want of past records or for want of a national network? Or, for want of a national policy on the issue? Ironically, many tertiary hospitals and medical colleges care little for diagnostic reports from peripheral centres or even the prescriptions of previous doctors. So what happens to all the cards created under the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana and the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana? Currently, for pan-India portability or for determining insurance cover, these cards were good enough without the need for the entire medical history at any centralised platform. Without pretending that all is hunky dory now, one can still ask this: “Is there a serious problem with the way patient-related information is managed today?” Health is under the State-list subject. So did any State government ask for a national-level digitisation plan to help it in its tasks? Has there been a problem of not getting real-time State-wise aggregated data to the government of India? Have any associations of doctors or civil society organisations asked for digitisation? Let us not brush aside the benefits from a plan of virtually Aadhaar-like proportions to digitise all data relating to all patients available not just with government and private hospitals but also with diagnostic centres, laboratories and individual practitioners of all systems of medicine. The contours The elegance of that proposed ‘architecture’ can send anyone into a daze. An IT consulting firm has been engaged to build a National Health Stack and a registry of over eight lakh doctors, 10 lakh pharmacists and over 60,000 hospitals is under preparation. At a later stage, online pharmacies, insurance companies and other stakeholders will be added to the ‘Stack’. The Strategy Document states upfront that ‘Your data is safe and confidential and would be stored only locally’, ‘Only anonymised data will be shared upwards, and your consent will be taken every time for sharing any personal identifiable information’. Among the many benefits listed are that it ‘would help patients save the burden of carrying medical reports to a specialist or other hospitals’. One can also avail Telemedicine support from renowned specialists if required . And it will be a cakewalk to get your hospital bills settled with insurance cover under government schemes or the higher value policies purchased by you. Overall, the scheme appears to promise an end-to-end, hands-free Digital experience. The scheme also intends to replace existing data generation systems with a new homogenised software for all machines in the health sector in the country with a central processor that will extract the relevant data from individual records. There is a presumption that all the data entered in each patient’s file is accurate. Even entries made for Aadhaar Cards or Voter ID cards have not been error free. With all medical history recorded as ‘truth’ in the new software, insurance companies would be looking for multiple ways to reduce their obligations leading to many disputes. Extensive costs, dilemmas On the face of it, from the side of health-care institutions, the NDHM is merely ensuring customisation of a new software and changes in current practices of data maintenance. However, it would become inevitable for all institutions in the government as well as private sector to upgrade their hardware too apart from considerable costs in customisation and transfer of existing data. In the government sector there are many existing practices and systems for compilation of data as in the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme and the Health Management Information System ( IDSP-HMIS) apart from all learning acquired over the years by staff in those systems and practices. Some larger hospitals have already gone for robust and sophisticated software systems such as enterprise resource planning and would be in a dilemma as to whether they need to scrap them or run parallel software provided by the NDHM. Has anyone in the NDHM or the Ministry of Health attempted to estimate the costs of this massive transition to a new system? Public health professionals estimate the cost in thousands of crores for all government and private HIPs to upgrade their hardware and connectivity systems, training of present staff, the entry of data afresh apart from other indirect costs. Among independent practitioners in allopathic and the Indian systems of medicine who run small dispensaries especially in rural areas, there is no practice of even storing patient data on computers. It is largely based on mutual trust and personal memory. For most of them, it is not a feasible option to enter data in computers on their own or engage data entry operators merely to comply with the digitisation protocols. Data leakage How long would the system protect its data of many millions getting stored in the decentralised system holding transferable data? Informed consent may mean nothing to a patient or relatives even in normal times let alone in a time of medical emergency. Even highly educated and rational people agree to part with their contacts, photographs and other data to avail nominal or momentary benefits offered by some smart mobile apps. Informed consent is too much of a luxury for the vulnerable and a poor defence against data leakage. Public health practitioners at the grass-root level would continue to wonder if digitisation is the immediate problem facing the health sector or the best way to go about addressing data gaps. In their eyes, what millions face in the country are unreliable health-care facilities in both the government and private sectors, difficulties in getting timely care, availability of beds and hygienically maintained hospital premises, availability of doctors physically or on line, and the continuous neglect of preventive and community health initiatives. If they oppose a new plan, it could either be because of its doubtful benefits to patients or because of worries regarding data leakage. They may be blamed for trying to delay the inevitable; the inexorable march to digitisation. Perhaps they need to discover that data is the only cure, for all our ills. P. Joy Oommen is a retired civil servant who served as Chief Secretary to the Government of Chhattisgarh. Dr. K.R. Antony is a paediatrician and a public health professional who served UNICEF and the State Health Resource Centre, Chhattisgarh
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Towards inclusive syllabi||I earn my living by applying lessons from Indian history to human behaviour. Most people tell me they found history irrelevant and boring in school. Others liked it because their teacher was a great storyteller. But has it helped them in understanding their identity better, or in not repeating mistakes made in the past? Most often not. Bridging the divide How history can be taught differently is one conversation, and how the content can enable that is another. Scanning through the CBSE Class 7 textbook, a north-south divide is evident. Students in India are required to study the Delhi Sultanate and the Mughal empire, and six out of 12 chapters are dedicated to them. For the rest of the country, there is just about half a chapter on the Vijayanagara empire. In a country already divided on religion, let me not stoke the fire anymore. So, if we don’t get into what should not be included, let us consider what can be. We must do this also in the context of the history syllabi for the higher classes, since every aspect of the subject cannot be taught in Class 7 alone. The Northeast is ignored in the curriculum. A chapter on the Ahoms (or Tai-Ahom), and the oral history of other ethnic groups will make us, the “mainstream Indians”, more educated about an important part of India. Oral traditions can also open up exciting discussions in the classroom on what historians consider “valid proof” in historical research. African, South American and Asian traditions have long considered oral traditions valid proofs, whereas the western tradition considers what is in a book more truthful. Given the founding mandate of the CBSE, it will always be nationally focussed. However, with more parents opting for CBSE rather than State Board schools, the former, today, is broad-based. At least for this new avatar, it can re-examine its syllabus. Perhaps we can start with history that is closer to the child, rather than the farthest away, and hence abstract . Or we could start with local history and subsequently move to State, national and international histories, over the many years children learn the subject. Focussed changes If those are the major changes, can incremental changes be made? Could chapters be different for each State? Children in Tamil Nadu know nothing of the Pandya dynasty that promoted Tamil. It was also one of the longest-ruling dynasties in India, besides the Mughals, Cholas and other famous empires of classical India. Kerala could have chapters about the Kulasekhara (who had a state-of-the-art observatory), Andhra Pradesh the Kakatiyas, and so on. A chapter on cultural history in medieval times, about what people ate, how they dressed, the nuances of irrigation, land cultivation, how they resolved fights and what games they played, would be fascinating for 11 to 12-year-olds. Perhaps a local history project could be implemented if the region has medieval remains. At a time when the issue of Hindi imposition is gaining weight, a chapter on literature across the States of that time may work. Languages have much more than just religious verses — there are dramas, fun poems with onomatopoeia, word puzzles, or entire books where every stanza is a palindrome. Teachers in CBSE schools are fired up much more by the passion to better the lives of children than the salary they earn. They work long hours and teach multiple classes, in addition to doing administrative work. The volume of north Indian content in the book will not help increase their passion, as teaching something that stoked their own passion for history would. If there can be an option of two, or even three chapters, aided by the reliable information we have on the Internet today, I am sure we can have more representative content for medieval Indian history, rather than something that means little to those outside Delhi. History should help children increase their sense of identity. One hopes there will be a re-examination soon. Pradeep Chakravarty is a behaviourist who uses history to change behaviour in organisations
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Loyalty test||The concerns regarding the functioning of the Congress raised by 23 of its senior leaders appear to have been validated by the hostility generated against them by a coterie around the Nehru-Gandhi family. Rahul Gandhi, the de-facto decision-maker behind his mother, has always claimed to be in favour of open discussions and collective leadership in the party. Far from living up to that claim, he led the coterie in questioning the timing and intent of the reformists who did little more than echo his own views about the party’s problems. Mr. Gandhi, often accused by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of ill intent and bad timing that help the enemies of India whenever he raised valid questions about the country’s economy, national security and social harmony, must be the last person to allow the use of the same toolkit to settle an internal debate in the party. No one, least of all well-wishers of the Congress party, would find it difficult to disagree with the issues raised by the party leaders such as the erosion of the party base, particularly among the youth, a drift caused by the absence of a full-time president, the dismantling of all forums for discussions in the party, concentration of power, and the disuse of the merit-cum-consensus method of appointments within the party. While the Congress is crumbling, the BJP is advancing its contentious agenda, these leaders pointed out. Mr. Gandhi thinks that a coterie undermined his fight against the BJP in 2019. Right or wrong, obsessing about that thought would further erode his capacity. He has shown the courage of conviction to consistently articulate a critique of the Narendra Modi government. But articulation is only the beginning, and mobilisation is the name of the game, and the Congress needs to get its act together. The notion of a conflict between loyalists and dissenters is being peddled by a gang of self-serving leaders to explain the churn in the Congress. The real dialectic is between reform and status quo. Those who may not play the obsequious roles conventionally scripted for a Congress leader are Mr. Gandhi’s greatest allies if he were to push for the party’s revival. It is possible that reformists also have a career agenda, but that is no sin in politics. Mr. Gandhi’s whole idea of opening the doors of the Congress to fresh talent and new energy would ring hollow if people such as Shashi Tharoor, Kapil Sibal and Manish Tewari are put to an archaic loyalty test that clears the crooked as easily as it bars the upright. It is such misplaced understanding of loyalty that drove mass leaders such as Mamata Banerjee and Sharad Pawar out of the party. It is time Mr. Gandhi appropriated their agenda and led the reformists rather than fight them.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Partial relief||The Supreme Court’s decision this week to allow telecom service providers 10 years’ time to settle their adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues to the government comes as a partial relief to the debt-laden industry. This will give the older providers, especially Vodafone Idea, the crucial breathing space to figure out how they can reconfigure their business plans to stem the relentless flow of operational losses and garner the resources to make the sizeable annual payments to the Centre over the next decade. However, in setting a time frame, the Court, which acknowledged the troubled landscape facing the lynchpin industry, seemed to brush aside both the companies’ requests for a longer horizon as well as the Centre’s well-deliberated recommendation for a 20-year repayment period, merely terming it “excessive”. The government having realised the enormity of the problem and its potential for significantly disruptive consequences to not just the industry but the larger economy as a whole had thrashed out the matter at various levels, including within the Cabinet, before submitting its view. Without naming any company, the Centre had made clear that were the AGR dues to be sought at one go, it could well push a service provider into insolvency proceedings. Such a turn could potentially impact millions of subscribers, with the surviving operators finding their capacities stretched to handle a sudden surge of mobile portability requests while simultaneously maintaining quality of service. The Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) had also explained its position in seeking a judicious and non-disruptive outcome. The IBA represented the various lenders, who have much at stake given that industry debt including that which is under resolution as part of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code process amounts to over Rs. 4-lakh crore. The Court, in its order, did take cognisance of the multiple threats to the industry’s well-being: the depressed levels of average revenue per user; the fraught competitive landscape where a new entrant’s tariffs had triggered a price war hurting revenues; a surge in data usage even as the price of such data plans remained almost unviably low; and an overall diminishing ability to continue to invest in capital spending for infrastructure upgradation and new technology including the upcoming adoption of 5G networks. While the companies themselves are yet to decide on whether to seek a curative review of the latest verdict, the future of India’s ambitious dreams of enabling a pan-Indian digital ecosystem that seamlessly connects the remotest rural inhabitant with a plethora of e-enabled services hinge on ensuring the industry stays healthy and vibrant. For that, the government needs to look beyond the AGR issue and reimagine the way it prices and seeks to monetise the precious yet immutable public asset of radio spectrum in future.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Pranabda, the man with a remarkable memory||It was well known to all journalists that if one planned to interview Pranab Mukherjee, one should be precise about dates. Because Mukherjee had a memory that could not be countered, and it would upset him if you got the dates wrong. What was left unsaid was what would happen if he did get upset, which I found out the first time I did a television interview with him when he was External Affairs Minister. As it happened, I did get my dates wrong while asking him a question about India’s Tibet policy. Not very wrong, but enough to see his colour and tone change. “Don’t assume we are fools, Madam,” he said, controlling his temper just enough to let me complete the interview, albeit with my heart in my mouth. I later asked a bureaucrat in his office how he had such a good memory, and whether he was always right. The bureaucrat smiled and said, “Since no one has a better memory, we have never found out!” It was during the 26/11 attacks that Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi received a dose of Mukherjee’s temper we had all been taught to be wary of. On November 26, 2008, he was in Delhi for bilateral talks with his counterpart. After the terrorists struck, it was expected that Mr. Qureshi would head back immediately, or at least give some explanation of Pakistan’s role in the attack, clearly orchestrated from its soil. Instead, Mr. Qureshi stayed back to address the Women’s Press Corps the next day. In the middle of his talk, he received a call and stepped away. Years later, in his memoir, Mukherjee wrote about what he had said. “Mr. Minister, no purpose will be served by your continuing to stay in India,” he began. Soon after, Mr. Qureshi returned to Pakistan, his face ashen. For the large part, however, Pranabda had a way of charming all with his sense of humour. Each of his bilateral interlocutors were left in awe of his knowledge of history. During a visit to Taxila in Pakistan, he recounted the ancient site’s glorious history. He ran an open house for journalists throughout, and always had time for a chat during his visits abroad. As President, he was famous for increasing the number of journalists invited to all official events, and did away with the officious ropes that used to segregate journalists from other guests (the ropes have returned since then). Being part of his entourage one heard stories of his softness in personal ties as well. His soft corner for Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, who had been looked after in Delhi by the Mukherjees after her father’s assassination in 1975, was well known. He also had a good relationship with the Bhutanese royalty and once presented the former King Jigme Singye Wangchuk with a scarf knitted by his wife. My last official trip with him was when he was President. I travelled with him to Moscow in 2015 to join the 70th Victory Day celebrations. The Western world had boycotted the event, due to Russian actions in Crimea, and the impact of India’s gesture was something Mukherjee saw first-hand, as his motorcade was stopped by large crowds of Russians who expressed their gratitude. He didn’t mind the delay. On the flight home, he spoke at length about Indian foreign policy’s traditional moorings. Even when I asked a contentious question about India’s policy towards the Army’s role in the World Wars, he smiled before beginning, “You clearly don’t know your history, Madam...”
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Tilak, a portent||The “New Statesman” writes: When Tilak died in Bombay, at the end of last week, his body was cremated, not according to the universal Hindu custom in the privacy of the burning ghat, but on the seashore in the presence of an innumerable company of mourners. The incident is unparalleled, but so was Tilak in his character, influence and career. He was a Brahmin and orthodox, his personal life being laid along the ancient ways. But since he was, in everything associated with his public activity, so entirely a man apart, it was fitting that even the immemorial funeral rites of his race and religion should be modified in his honour. The man himself was a portent, and as such the historians of British India will have to deal with him. Bal Gangadhar Tilak was a Maratha of the Deccan. His sixty-five years were for the most part spent at Poona, the old capital of Maharashtra. It was from Poona that, forty years ago, he achieved his first conquest of the young generation, at that time no more politically conscious in the Bombay Presidency than it was in Bengal. The libral viceroyalty of Lord Ripon had not yet stirred the reform movement.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||BBC row: Settlement urged||The feeling is growing in left-wing circles in Britain that the recent confrontation between the BBC and India over the controversial film series of French TV producer Louis Malle was largely due to uncompromising positions taken by officials here [London, Sept. 2] and in India and that the dispute should be settled at the political level by the Indian Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi. In an editorial to-day the Daily Mirror which supports the Labour Party has said: “Mrs. Gandhi must set to extricate herself and her Government from a situation which disturbs all India’s friends here”. Hailing Mrs. Gandhi as “the famous daughter of a famous fighter for freedom and as a person respected throughout the world”, the paper asks, “How can a woman of this stature, with such a great record and background, permit censorship which can only bring harm to her country?” Last week the Socialist Weekly, New Statesman commented that members of the Indian High Commission here had “encouraged their Government to escalate a minor matter of miffed feelings into virtually a nuclear confrontation.”
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 distress should not impact credit assessments: FM||Lenders must not use COVID-19 related distress as a factor in determining the creditworthiness of borrowers, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman told top bankers via a video conference on Thursday. She also directed them to roll out their loan resolution schemes by September 15, aiming to maximise relief before the start of the festive season, the Finance Ministry said in a statement. “During the meeting, Ms. Sitharaman impressed upon the lenders that as and when moratorium on loan repayments is lifted, borrowers must be given support and COVID-19 related distress must not impact the lenders’ assessment of their creditworthiness,” the Ministry said in the statement. The Finance Minister also emphasised that bankers must immediately put in place Board-approved policies for resolution, carry out widespread awareness campaigns, identify eligible borrowers and reach out to them, with quick implementation of sustained resolution plans in order to revive every viable business. Bankers gave an assurance that they had started the process of identifying eligible borrowers and will comply with the RBI’s timelines, the statement added. Ms. Sitharaman advised lenders to try and extend the maximum possible relief to borrowers before the festive season. So far, only 36% or Rs. 1.11 lakh crore had been disbursed out of the Rs. 3 lakh crore Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme aimed at medium, small and micro enterprises. Rs. 1.58 lakh crore has been sanctioned so far.
04 September 2020||Lalatendu Mishra,||COVID-19, NEP fuel fund raising by education technology firms||The recently announced National Education Policy (NEP) has come at the right time and can lead to a double-digit growth for the estimated $3.5 billion education technology (ed-tech) sector, say industry players. With schools shut and online education gathering pace, ed-tech players are firming up plans to raise funds to transform schools through digitalisation and digital training of teachers even as students are confined to ‘home schooling.’ They are of the opinion the education sector is poised for a telecom and banking-like revolution. A day after Eruditus announced raising $113 million, Tech Avant-Garde announced plans to raise up to $30 million in the first round of fund raising. In June, Byju’s had raised an unspecified amount reportedly valuing the firm at $10.5 billion. In July, Vedantu had raised $100 million.  “NEP and COVID-19 are stimulating digital transformation and holistic learning of schools,” said Ali Sait, CEO, Tech Avant-Garde.  "Post NEP, the ed-tech revolution in India will finally facilitate universal access to quality education for every child using digital/mobile technology. It will create a bank of meritorious children who will be the assets and future of our country,” said Praveen Tyagi, CEO, Eduisfun Technologies.
04 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Extended lockdowns weigh heavy on corporate India||In the backdrop of the prolonged nationwide lockdown, an ICRA analysis of financial results of 489 companies (excluding financial sector entities), has shown a year-on-year and sequential contraction in revenues, with aggregate revenues contracting by 31.1% y-o-y in the first quarter of FY2021. During the same period, the PBT margin contracted by 498 bps on a y-o-y basis, and by 70 bps sequentially to multi-quarter lows of 3.6%. “Restrictions on manufacturing, industrial, construction and consumption activities for the major part of Q1 FY2021 due to imposition of nationwide lockdown primarily hurt the financial performance of the Indian corporate sector,” Shamsher Dewan, VP, Corporate Sector Ratings, ICRA, said. “The contraction in revenues was visible across most major sectors, but it was sharpest in consumer-oriented sectors where revenues contracted to nearly half of the year-ago levels, given customer wariness to effect purchases, especially large-ticket ones, because of the uncertain economic environment and erosion of purchasing power,” he said. As per the analysis, stress was visible across major sectors, with the exception of select sectors like IT, telecom, sugar and pharma.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||IndiGo to lift capacity to 60% by Diwali, says COO||IndiGo aims to raise its passenger capacity or flights to 60% of pre-COVID-19 levels by Diwali, a top official said. “We welcome the government’s announcement to allow airlines to operate up to 60% of daily flights,” said Wolfgang Prock-Schauer, president and COO. “We believe there is an underlying demand waiting to be tapped. In the first 100 days, we were not able to fully utilise the capacity permitted because of various restrictions, including on the part of airports like Mumbai and Chennai,” Mr. Prock-Schauer added. On Wednesday, the government relaxed the cap on the number of flights airlines could operate to 60% (from 45%) of the summer schedule. However, even with a cap of 45%, airlines couldn’t reach the target as passenger demand continued to remain weak. IndiGo, with a fleet size of almost 250 planes, was able to realise only 37% capacity. On May 25, when the government allowed the resumption of domestic flights, airlines were permitted to operate only 30% of the regular flights. For IndiGo, which enjoys more than 50% of the market share, this meant it could only restart 200 of the 1,500 daily flights operated by it before lockdown. Eyes 900 daily flights In the first week of September, it had reached 600 flights and targets to achieve 900 by Diwali in November. To utilise its grounded aircraft, IndiGo, much like other airlines, started cargo and chartered flights for repatriation. To a question on whether the airline planned to add to its network some of the new international destinations it flew to, the airline’s president said it would wait to study whether there is sustained demand. IndiGo had long planned to start operations to London, which, however, did not materialise even while some of its competitors such as Vistara had started flying to the U.K. capital to gain from the demand from a large presence of Indian expatriates. The airline said its priority now was to stay afloat despite the challenges posed by COVID-19 and the plunge in demand. “Our business model is good for a flight of up to six hours,” he said. “There is no need for us to rush into that [introducing flights to London]. Our first goal is to improve the economics, and establish our network to pre-COVID- 19 levels. But we keep our mind open.”
04 September 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Firms to raise spend on hybrid cloud’||Indian enterprises are expected to spend almost half of their cloud budget on hybrid over the next three years, said IBM. Business executives in the country are increasingly planning to invest in hybrid multi-cloud platform strategies and capabilities to drive business transformation and unlock value, as per a survey by IBM Institute for Business Value. Indian companies may be using at least 10 clouds from a growing number of vendors by 2023 but only 29% of businesses have a holistic multi-cloud management strategy. According to respondents, some 17% of their IT spend is allocated to cloud at present and they plan to increase the share of spend on hybrid from 42% to 49% by 2023. The majority of the cloud budgets are being allocated to hybrid cloud platforms even as public cloud spend is set to reduce from 50% share to 43% by 2023. The survey covered 6,000 executives globally, including 412 from India, across industries, job titles and geographies.
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||EESL to procure 250 Tata, Hyundai electric vehicles||Energy Efficiency Services Limited, which comes under the Ministry of Power, said on Thursday it will procure 250 electric vehicles from Tata Motors and Hyundai Motor India. While Tata Motors won the bid to supply 150 Nexon EVs, Hyundai Motor India will supply 100 Kona electric vehicles for government use. “The companies were selected through an international competitive bidding process, which was aimed at increased participation. The letter of award for the procurement was presented to the two companies,” EESL said in a statement. This procurement will utilise $5 million from the recent grant provided by the Asian Development Bank towards financing high priority areas like demand side energy efficiency sector projects. EESL will procure the Nexon EV for Rs. 14.86 lakh each, which is cheaper by Rs. 13,000 than the ex-showroom price of Rs. 14.99 lakh, whereas Kona Electric, which offers a higher range, will be procured at an 11% lower price band of Rs. 21.36 lakh. “These EVs will replace the existing fleet of petrol and diesel vehicles of the Central and State Governments,” it added. “A shift to EVs, facilitated by our e-mobility programme will reduce dependence on oil imports and promote power capacity addition in India,” Saurabh Kumar, Executive VC, EESL, said.
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fund pooling can help add capital: Goyal||Commerce and Industry Ministry Piyush Goyal pitched for more Indian businesses — traditional as well as new-age unicorn start-ups — pooling in funds to enable access to Indian capital that can be used to help youngsters, exploring new ideas, overcome the hurdle of insufficient capital. While he was not stopping anybody from importing technologies, Mr. Goyal said, India also had the tremendous potential to innovate and build business. “Very often, the detriment is adequate capital,” he said. [The] government has its own limitations in understanding new businesses, providing adequate funding and really assessing and analysing the potential of new businesses,” he said at a CII event. The CII could also look at creating such a fund among its members, he added.
04 September 2020||COIMBATORE,||‘Apparel exports set to rise by 40%’||Apparel exports are expected to increase 40% this financial year mainly because of the focus on medical textiles, according to industry body AEPC. “We are working with a target to achieve a 40% increase in apparel exports this financial year with major focus on new medical textiles,” said A. Sakthivel, chairman, Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC). “This will take our total apparel exports up from $15.4 billion last financial year to about $22 billion in 2020-2021,” he said. Mr. Sakthivel also said with the government lifting export ban on many PPE items, apparel exporters should venture into man-made fibre-based (MMF) garments in a big way. The council is also setting up an R&D centre at its head office at Gurugram.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||Ramakrishnan is MD of South Indian Bank||Private sector lender South Indian Bank on Thursday said the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has approved appointment of Murali Ramakrishnan as its MD and CEO with effect from October 1. Mr. Ramakrishnan had retired from ICICI Bank as senior general manager on May 30 and joined South Indian Bank as adviser on July 1. RBI’s approval is for three years, the Kerala-based bank said in a regulatory filing. In his last assignment at ICICI Bank, Mr. Ramakrishnan headed a business transformation project for SMEs.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||Vodafone Idea surges ahead of board meet||Shares of Vodafone Idea on Thursday zoomed nearly 30% ahead of its board meeting on Friday to consider fund raising through various means. The stock climbed 26.7% to Rs. 12.56 on the BSE. Vodafone Idea Ltd. had said on Monday that the meeting of the board of directors of the company is scheduled for September 4, 2020. The board would consider “proposals for raising of funds in one or more tranches by way of a public issue, preferential allotment, private placement, including a qualified institutions placement or through any other permissible mode,” the company had said in a filing.
04 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Dr. Reddy’s introduces generic version of Concerta in U.S.||Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories has introduced Methylphenidate Hydrochloride extended-release tablets, for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, in the U.S. market. The tablets are a generic version of Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s Concerta. The Concerta brand and generic market had U.S. sales of about $1.159 billion MAT for the most recent 12 months ended in June 2020, Dr. Reddy’s said.
04 September 2020||Mumbai,||Plexconcil unveils app-based marketplace to boost exports||The Plastics Export Promotion Council of India (Plexconcil) has unveiled a mobile app with buyer-seller connect features for all plastics exporters, including MSMEs, to boost plastic exports. Every exporter can now display three products through the Council’s virtual marketplace. The app also provides updated information on the Centre’s export schemes and trade notifications, it said.
04 September 2020||Mumbai,||Tata Power to power Tata Motors carport in Pune||Tata Power has signed a power purchase pact with Tata Motors Ltd. (TML) to power India’s ‘largest carport’ in Pune, the firm said. With 6.2 MWp capacity, the solar-energy project is expected to reduce 1.6 lakh tonnes in carbon emission for TML in its life time. The plant needs high level of engineering and customised designing, it said.
04 September 2020||Chennai,||TVS Motor invests Rs. 30 cr. more in EV start-up Ultraviolette||TVS Motor Company Ltd., a manufacturer of two-and-three wheelers, has invested an additional Rs. 30 crore in EV start-up Ultraviolette Automotive Pvt. Ltd. In 2017, TVS Motor had picked up almost 15% stake in the start-up by investing Rs. 5 crore. The company invested an additional Rs. 6 crore in 2018. With the present infusion, TVS Motor’s stake has risen to 29.48%, the company said in a filing.
04 September 2020||New York,||Garcia stuns top seed Pliskova; Osaka sails through||Novak Djokovic overcame an early scare to move into the third round of the US Open on Wednesday but women’s top seed Karolina Pliskova crashed out in the tournament's biggest shock so far. Djokovic extended his undefeated run in 2020 to 25 matches even as Pliskova was stunned in straight sets by France's Caroline Garcia, the World No. 50. Thinking positive World No. 1 Djokovic dropped the first set against Britain's Kyle Edmund but rallied to progress 6-7(5), 6-3, 6-4, 6-2 inside a subdued, spectator-free Arthur Ashe Stadium at Flushing Meadows. Pliskova — the 28-year-old World No. 3 from the Czech Republic — suffered a miserable 6-1, 7-6(2) loss to a confident Garcia.  In the women's draw, 2018 champion Naomi Osaka sailed into the third round, dismantling Italy's Camila Giorgi 6-1, 6-2 in just one hour and nine minutes. Unseeded Russian Varvara Gracheva dumped out French 30th seed Kristina Mladenovic 1-6, 7-6(2), 6-0. Remarkable collapse Mladenovic's exit came after a remarkable collapse.  The Frenchwoman led 6-1, 5-1 and failed to convert four match-points as Gracheva came roaring back to win. India’s Divij Sharan and Serbian partner Nikola Cacic fought hard before going down 4-6, 6-3. 3-6 to eighth seeds Nikola Mektic and Wesley Koolhof in one hour and 46 minutes.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Virat is a fast-bowler’s captain’||India international and Royal Challengers Bangalore seamer Umesh Yadav feels the depth in India’s pace resources has been built with a captain who likes fast-bowlers and believes in them. “Virat [Kohli] is a fast-bowler’s captain,” Umesh told Sportstar from the UAE, where he is training with the RCB squad for IPL 2020. “His aggressive brand of captaincy suits the team in all formats. Fast-bowlers, especially in Twenty20 cricket, enter with an aggressive mindset. “It is about maintaining an attacking attitude and not a defensive one. When you are always looking to take wickets, your head is in the right place.” The conditions could bring spin into the equation. Umesh feels the bowling group should be prepared to adjust accordingly. “Going by the net sessions here so far, the practice wickets have been a bit sticky, slightly on the flatter side,” said Umesh. “If there is no seam or swing movement and there is no pace off the pitch, then you need to hit the deck hard to extract pace. “It depends on the surfaces during the tournament: if it’s medium and gets slower as the match progresses, then we have to adapt accordingly.” Umesh praised RCB head coach Simon Katich and team director Mike Hesson for briefing the players about their roles. “I’ve worked with Katto during our time at KKR [Kolkata Knight Riders]. “Both him and Mike are very calm and chilled out. It’s my first season with Mike. “As team director, he has done a good job of assigning each member of the team clear-cut individual roles,” he said.  It is about maintaining an attacking attitude and not a defensive one
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sanjay Singh now shaping new careers||Sanjay Singh has been Leander Paes’s Man Friday for nearly 29 years on the professional Tour. He has learnt so much from travelling with Paes that he has grown into a fine coach. He has now taken under his wings Brazilian Luisa Stefani, who won the women’s doubles title at the Lexington WTA event in August along with Hayley Carter of the US, and is competing in the ongoing US Open. Stefani trains with Sanjay at the Saddlebrook Academy in the US and has moved from 380 four years ago to her current rank of 39 in doubles, a career-high. The 23-year-old is happy with her progress under Sanjay. “Trust is important,” she said and was confident that Sanjay was playing a significant role in her growth. The duo interacted with the tennis fraternity on Instagram, in the Ace Talks series of Decathlon. The experience at the US Open this time has been different for Sanjay. He observed that it was a challenge for coaches to communicate with their players “with the mask on”. Sanjay also recalled his humble beginnings when he used to play with his uncle’s bent wooden racquet at the South Club in Kolkata, using one side for serve and the other for playing strokes! South Club in Kolkata was where Paes learnt his tennis too. “Leander has been of great support and always encouraged me to learn new things and upgrade my skills,” recalled Sanjay.
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||HI struggles with coaching staff crunch||The last time the Indian men’s and women’s hockey teams stepped out competitively was in February. The next time they will do so will be in 2021. But, in the meantime, Hockey India has some personnel issues to resolve. MacDonald quits Amidst uncertainty over analytical coach Chris Ciriello’s return, men’s team physio Dave MacDonald quit on Wednesday citing “personal reasons”. Two weeks back, high performance director David John had done the same. In the midst of a pandemic and with less than a year to go for the Olympics, HI is struggling to get things back on track. Baskaran’s view “I don’t understand the planning. Everyone knew things would not go as scheduled as far back as March, during the first lockdown. And yet the players were kept at SAI till June without any training. They should have been allowed to go back much before,” said former India coach and captain V. Baskaran. “And now, when again everyone knows there is no competition till January, why is there a camp in Bengaluru? Ideally, they should have decided to assemble in October and flown to Europe which is now relatively safer, staying there for a month or more. That would have given them both physical and mental freedom and proper competition against the clubs there,” he reasoned. Also, the junior men’s team has just two members in its support staff as per the HI website — coach B.J. Kariappa and physio Sanjeet Kumar. The junior women’s team has three — a coach and a video analyst and analytical coach Erik Wonink. Chief coach Baljit Singh Saini, now in the US, has reportedly sought a salary hike and no longer features on the HI roster.
04 September 2020||SOUTHAMPTON,||Top-ranked T20 sides go head to head||Denied a Twenty20 World Cup this year because of the coronavirus outbreak, fans might have the next best thing in the upcoming days — a three-match series between England and Australia beginning at the Ageas Bowl here on Friday. They are the top two teams in the T20 world rankings — Australia is No. 1 — and their fierce sporting rivalry is deep-rooted. They also have some of the most explosive batsmen and fastest bowlers in world cricket. “The way the players have hit the ground running has been really exciting,” said Australia captain Aaron Finch on Thursday. “I know not just me but everyone is just absolutely pumped to be playing international cricket again.” England, which shared the T20I series with Pakistan, has a strong squad with the likes of Jos Buttler, Jofra Archer and Mark Wood at its disposal . Though the host is missing all-rounder Ben Stokes and opener Jason Roy, one exciting newcomer is Tom Banton, the opening batsmen who likes to go on the attack immediately. He scored 71, 20 and 46 in the games against Pakistan.           The schedule   Sept. 4 , 10.30 p.m.  Sept. 6 , 6.45 p.m.  Sept. 8 , 10.30 p.m.  All times IST
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||SRH players undergo full-fledged training||New Zealand captain Kane Williamson has boarded the flight and is on his way to join his Sunrisers Hyderabad (SRH) teammates in the UAE for the IPL. Flamboyant Australian opener and SRH captain David Warner and Jonny Bairstow of England will join the team after the Australia-England ODI series ends on September 16. But the absence of these two big names is not a deterrent for the others to have full-fledged practice, which kicked-off on September 1. With mentor and former Indian batsman V.V.S. Laxman conducting the sessions, there is a predictable sense of precision in planning them. Keeping players upbeat “It is the team bonding and the camaraderie which makes SRH so different and special from others,” Laxman said as he left for UAE. When some of the players, including Wriddimahan Saha, newcomer B. Sandeep, Manish Pandey and Abdul Salad engaged themselves in beach volleyball, it was done with a specific intent to keep the boys mentally and physically ready for the bigger challenges. The sight of death overs specialist Bhuvneshwar Kumar bowling his heart out in the team’s video could well be a reminder that he means business. He told the IPL official website iplt20.com that he is excited after being away from the game for a while. “I can’t wait to get back to action,” Bhuvneshwar said. Bhuvnaneshwar said as a senior bowler he would love to help others in the team even while reminding that Afghanistan leggie Rashid Khan brings great value to any team he plays for with both bat and ball.  It is the team bonding and the camaraderie which makes SRH so different and special from others— Laxman   Williamson is on his way to join his teammates in the UAE Captain Warner and Bairstow will join the team after the Australia-England ODI series ends on Sept. 16
04 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Iniyan wins title||India’s GM P. Iniyan won the 48th annual world open chess tournament (online) recently. Usually held in Philadelphia, the USA, the tournament was conducted online following classical time control. In a strong field that had 31 GMs, Iniyan scored 7.5 points from nine games. Iniyan and Sanan Sjugirov (Russia) were tied on points but the former won on better tie-break. Speaking to The Hindu , Iniyan said, “the tournament had a lot of GMs since it was held online. So, it was very tough.” Iniyan became richer by $3100.
04 September 2020||Chennai,||CSK players undergo tests||The Chennai Super Kings cricketers, sans Deepak Chahar and Ruturaj Gaikwad, underwent the last of their final two COVID-19 tests on Thursday,. CSK CEO K.S. Viswanathan, talking to The Hindu from Dubai, said, “The players took the tests today and the results will be out on Friday morning.” He added, “If all the results come out negative, the CSK players can start their practice sessions from Friday evening itself.” In the first set of tests, conducted on Tuesday, all results came out negative. Viswanathan said Chahar and Ruturaj, who have tested positive, would have to clear two tests after their two-week quarantine period away from the rest of the squad before they could join the secure bio-bubble of the team. Viswanathan revealed that off-spinner Harbhajan Singh had not yet confirmed to him when he would be arriving in Dubai. “I am waiting to hear from him,” he said.  Meanwhile, Chahar and Ruturaj, recovering well, are asymptomatic.
04 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||WFI expels Vasan from EC||The Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) has expelled Anil Vasan from its Executive Committee with immediate effect. The decision by WFI was taken according to Article X-B of its constitution after it received a communication from the Kerala State Wrestling Association (KSWA) that it had expelled Vasan as its secretary for anti-association activities. The General Council Meeting of KSWA, held on August 28, had unanimously decided to remove Vasan as secretary and ban him from all wrestling activities. WFI president Brijbhushan Sharan Singh has communicated the decision to Kerala Sports Minister E.P. Jayarajan, who is also the chairman of the Kerala State Sports Council (KSSC). However, Vasan is still maintaining that his expulsion by KSWA is illegal and said he will challenge the decision in the court.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||HFC signs Aussie striker Chianese||Hyderabad FC (HFC), as part of its efforts to build a strong combination for its second appearance in the Indian Super League (ISL), signed up attacker Joel Chianese on a one-year deal. The 30-year-old Australian signs from A-League side Perth Glory after helping it to the semifinals in the recently concluded play-offs for the 2019-20 season. “I’m super excited to join Hyderabad FC. I’m looking forward to meeting my teammates and working together with everyone at the club. All the messages I have received have been so positive, and so I feel welcome already,” said Chianese, who is the first Australian to sign for HFC. “Joel Chianese is an exciting player. He has been one of the consistent performers in the A-League,” HFC co-owner Varun Tripuraneni said in a statement.
04 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Azharuddin moves to appoint HCA ombudsman||Hyderabad Cricket Association president Mohd. Azharuddin has written to Justice Deepak Verma, former Supreme Court judge, requesting him to take charge as ombudsman and ethics officer of the association. “With reference to the consent given by your Lordship, we are pleased to inform that HCA has appointed, in the sixth Apex Council meeting held on June 6, 2020, your Lordship as Ombudsman and Ethics Officer of HCA for a period of one year from the date of assumption of charge as per bylaws of HCA,” Azhar wrote in the letter on September 2 (a copy of which is available with The Hindu ). Meanwhile, HCA secretary R. Vijayanand told The Hindu that as per the HCA Constitution, the apex council recommends names and the annual general body has to ratify one of them.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||... and the training continues for IPL 2020||...and the training goes on...
04 September 2020||MADRID,||Messi might stay at Barca||Staying with Barcelona may be an option for Lionel Messi after all. A day after the Spanish club reaffirmed its position not to facilitate a transfer, Messi’s father-agent did not dismiss the possibility of his son reconsidering his decision to leave. Jorge Messi left the prospect open after being briefly questioned on Thursday on whether he was considering the possibility of Messi staying for now and leaving for free next year. The affirmation came a day after there was no agreement in the meeting between Jorge Messi and Barcelona president Josep Bartomeu. They have not scheduled another round of negotiations, but Barcelona said it still hoped Messi would change his mind about leaving.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Self knowledge is essential||The self is to be recognised as the only eternal and all pervading consciousness on which the entire universe with all its infinite form and variety is manifest. The Upanishads know that the jivatma is sure to miss this aspect of his own self when he is immersed in the world of joy and sorrow and is engaged in daily activities of the world. Hence they repeatedly exhort the jivatma to reflect on his inner eternal reality as against the external and ephemeral contexts to which he is constantly exposed, pointed out Sri R. Rajagopala Sarma in a discourse. The self is always non-dual. But when it is manifest in embodied form, it reveals itself in two ways, as the individual existential reality and also as the cosmic principle. When associated with an individual body the self is called the jiva and is in micro form; but when it is manifest as the collective body it is called Iswara and is in macro form. Both the micro and the macro forms are said to have three types of sarira, the gross or sthula sarira, the subtle or the sukshma sarira and the causal body, the karana sarira. But the self is distinct from all the three bodies which are categorised as the non-self or anatma. Their nature consists in unreality, inertness, and misery. It then follows that the self is not the five kosas that envelop it, the annamaya, pranamaya, manomaya, vijnanamaya, and anandamaya kosas. It is of the essence of existence, knowledge and bliss. This truth can be surmised by discriminatory analysis of the waking, dream and deep sleep states which every one experiences. It will be seen that in all the states, the self remains a witness. The experience of the deep sleep state when recalled by anyone is seen to be beyond any association with the senses, mind and intellect.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 09:47 IST,||Sudoku - September 4, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Classes at home||English teacher R. Malathi, who works at the Government Higher Secondary School in Kanjikoil in Erode, was saddened that only 27 of her 43 Class X students had access to a smartphone to attend classes over Zoom. Their counterparts in other schools, meanwhile, were busy with their online classes; portions were being completed at a steady speed. Malathi spent sleepless nights wondering how to help her students catch up. She then thought: why not invite them home for lessons? “I divided my class into batches of eight students each,” she says. “Initially, parents were worried about sending their children; but I explained to them that I would enforce physical distancing.” And so every morning at 9 a.m., her students arrive at her home, dressed in their school uniform. Classes go on till 1 p.m. Malathi feels that their performance is much better than in school. “They like the new environment; they have also realised that they should make use of this opportunity,” she adds. Then, there is the bonus of refreshments: Malathi serves biscuits, cakes, and savouries. “I want to do my best for my students,” she says. “This comfortable life I lead is thanks to them. I cannot call myself a teacher if not for my students.”
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Learn from the masters||Maria Montessori Her approach to education still bears her name: the Montessori Method. Born on August 31, 1870, in Italy, Maria Montessori was one of the earliest women to graduate from the University of Rome’s medical school in 1896. In 1900, she was appointed the co-director of a training institute for special education teachers. Maria began to experiment and observe which methods were the most successful. In 1907, she opened a day care centre in a poorer area of Rome, where she worked with children between three and seven years. As the children worked with puzzles and other materials, Maria watched how they taught themselves by observing their surroundings. With all this, she began to design a programme and tools to create a classroom that encouraged children to learn and the freedom to choose their own materials.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Ms. Tears and Ms. Smiles A free suggestion||The story so far: Reva finds herself in the Emotions Factory, in a meeting of all the hearts of the world. The owners, Sandra Smiles and Tracy Tears, are trying to find a way to market their products.  Before adjourning the meeting, Sandra Smiles announced, “I’ve hired an advertising agency and an image consultancy firm to make the products more trendy and consumer friendly. The advertising agency has planned a series of campaigns that will change people’s perception of our products. After that, it becomes your duty to push the products forward.” Once the sisters left the hall, Reva was escorted to their tastefully decorated office by Mr. Thank You and Ms. Sorry. Light blue transparent curtains let in sufficient light. The thick blue carpet muffled their footsteps. A teak wood desk with two laptops, two swivel chairs, an oak cabinet neatly stacked with pen drives, occupied the pride of place. “Hello Reva,” Tracy Tears greeted her. Sandra Smiles looking up from the annual reports she was reading, nodded at her visitor. In anger, she flung the annual report to the farthest corner of the room. “I just can’t believe it. Even after all the hard work, the sales aren’t increasing,” she said. Tracy Tears patted her sister’s shoulder and the sisters exchanged a look of understanding, as though a secret message had passed between them. Ideas and solutions “Can I make a suggestion?” Reva said. “Why don’t you run a scheme where people who use Apology and Regret will be rewarded with Happiness? As people like freebies, they will soon start using these two products.” “Good idea,” Sandra Smiles said. “I love the sound of this scheme. I’ll ask the advertising executive to include it in the campaign.” They were interrupted by a knock on the door. “Sorry to disturb you, but the advertising agency’s executive has arrived,” Stella Sorry announced. “Hope your campaign is successful and the sale of your products increases,” Reva said, as she left the office. As Reva emerged from the factory, she saw several hearts walk out through the gates. Reva followed them. The moment she reached the gate, she felt as if someone was pulling her. For a moment everything became dark, as she was sucked back into the cupboard. She stumbled into her room, landing on her bed. Her suitcase lay open where she had left it. As she transferred her clothes to her cupboard, she hoped that the advertising campaign would be successful. The products, though wonderful, could do with a little bit of marketing.  The end.   What about a scheme where people who use Apology and Regret are rewarded with Happiness?
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Our summer of tricks||We were asked to get off the couch, put down our electronic devices and step out of the house. “Go outside and get some fresh air. Play in the sun!” they said. We — Salim, Javed, Usha, James and I — lived in a gated community, went to the same school, and were in the same class. Following our parents’ command, we went to sit in the park. We saw a truck trundle past. Someone was moving in. Our interest piqued, we followed the truck and found it had stopped by the last gate in Avenue II. We hid and watched. After a while, a man drove up. He was not big, had a kind face, wore spectacles and kept moving his hair out of his face. He looked the perfect target for us to play tricks on. The next morning, we got started. Each one was a success. We were having a whale of a time. All through summer, our inane tricks continued. Twist of fate On the first day of school, at assembly, the Principal said, “And now for some important and exciting news. We have a new Headmaster. His credentials are excellent and we are lucky, indeed. Please welcome Mr. Venugopal.” To our horror, we saw our neighbour walk up, all smiles. The five of us went pale and our hearts stopped beating. We stood there, not hearing a word. At the end of assembly, our class monitor told us the Headmaster wanted to see us. He kept us waiting for what seemed ages. Salim and Usha were almost in tears. I was numb with fear. The other two scarcely breathed. Just when we thought we were going to drop dead, we heard him call, “COME.” “Tricksters, eh?” he said, nodding. “Very funny welcome you gave me…” “We’re sorry, sir…” we mumbled. “What punishment should I mete out?” “We can write an imposition…” began Salim. “We could clean the classrooms after school,” suggested Usha. “We made a mistake, sir…” I began. He held up his hand for silence. Then he pulled up a writing pad and began to write. He signed it, put it into a cover and sealed it. “Give it to your class teacher,” he said. We walked to class, a forlorn bunch. We had to explain why we were late and handed over the letter to our class teacher. She read it and controlled a smile. In feigned innocence, she asked, “Why did the Headmaster want to see you?” We blushed, hummed and hawed, but she was not taking that for an answer. Stuttering and stammering, we told her and the class about the summer of our tricks…in detail. The class roared with laughter. We felt extremely foolish. She asked, “So, was it right? Did your joy justify the means?” “No,” we muttered. “As punishment, the Headmaster says that you have to find the new children in the school and make friends with them, see what they need and make their passage into this school comfortable. You have to maintain a diary. And, he wants a daily account.” It sounded easy enough but, when we got down to it, it was tough. All our break times, lunch and free periods were spent taking care of the newcomers. But, halfway down the term, we realised the importance of making someone feel welcome.  Salim and Usha were almost in tears. I was numb with fear. The other two scarcely breathed.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons that matter||It’s Teachers’ Day, people! Now, I’m not a big fan of ‘days’ unless it’s Saturday, Sunday or my birthday. Plus, when I think of Mother’s Day, Father’s Day and Teachers’ Day — basically grownups’ days, it feels a little unfair. Aren’t all days pretty much their days, if you think about it? Life coaches If you’re a kid, the people who decide everything for you are your parents and teachers. What you eat, when you wake up, how much homework you get, and how much time you spend on it, what’s left over for Fortnite when you go to bed, and how often you have to take a shower... But, I also realised that when we think of teachers, we somehow always think of the ones at school. And we should. But there are so many other people (and non-people) who teach us every day of our lives. Here are some other teachers I’ve learned from in my life:  The pesky brother: If you want to learn how to a) be the most annoying person in the world b) not share anything and get away with it, and c) snore loudly, he’s the person to go to. But mean digs aside, he’s really good at convincing people to do something and then making them think it’s their idea.  W the dog: There’s no one I know who is better at chilling out, being patient and not getting stressed out than W. Even when there’s an ultimate Nerf battle going on around him, W is chilling in his cosy corner. Unless there’s a pigeon on the balcony.  My friend V: You know how some people are nice to everyone, even to people they don’t like very much? V is like that and not in a gross, fake way, but in a nice polite way.  My classmate S: I don’t know anyone who is as super-organised as S. When we do projects together, she always plans what our team will do and assigns roles and responsibilities, but not in a bossy way. Just in a super-helpful way.  My grandparents: They’re the most patient people I know. They never get angry, are always ready to stay for five more minutes at the beach, and always ready to make me one more cheese dosa . Okay, okay, the list is not complete without a big thank you to our teachers at school, at our sports coaching centres and at our hobby classes. THANK YOU! Even when we turn our cameras off, mute ourselves, chat with each other online and sneakily watch YouTube on another tab, you don’t give up on us. You keep teaching us. You keep giving us another chance. You still believe in us. And you’re still pretty scary even on Zoom. Now, that’s a skill I’d like to learn.  There are so many other people (and non-people) who teach us each and every day of our lives.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Slippery mystery||The village of Dakshinpur is full of happy and loving faces. But the evil Asura, Tobakachi, plans to conquer India by spreading the attack of the deadly Coronavirus! And just then, the soap mysteriously disappears from the village. How will the villagers save themselves? Read the story to find out. An exciting story that is also a one-stop guide to learn about the impact of Coronavirus. It also tells you how to protect yourself from the pandemic. The book can be read free here: https://books.katha.org/e-books/ , and is available in English, Hindi, Marathi, Tamil, and Assamese. Get Lucky: After reading the book, draw your thoughts on any one of the following topics: 1. Your interpretation of the book in terms of the message you would like to share. 2. If you were a leader, how would you promote health and hygiene? Mail the soft copy of your drawing to: youngworld@thehindu.co.in and don’t forget to include your name, class, school, city, and parent’s contact details . The entry has to reach us before September 18 . The contest is open to kids between std II and std VIII. The top two winners will win two e-books from Katha — Lachmi’s War and One Magical Morning . A third will get one e-book — Lachmi’s War . A collage of the top 30 artworks will be featured on Katha’s social media pages.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||From classroom to stateroom||Name: Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan  Early days: I was born in Tiruttani, a town in Tamil Nadu.  Highest honour: I was the first Vice President and second President of the Republic of India.  Also known to be: A philosopher, an academic, and a statesman.  Following dreams: My father wanted me to be a priest, but I wanted to continue my studies and have a career. I worked hard and got many scholarships to help me with my studies.  Great accidents: I stumbled upon philosophy by chance, when my cousin gave me his college textbooks! Since then, it became a passion and I’ve written many books on the subject.  First job: I was a teacher long before I became the President. I taught in universities across India as well as in the U.K and the U.S.  Big achievements: A knighthood in 1931, the Bharat Ratna in 1957, and an honorary membership of the British Royal Order of Merit in 1963.  A farewell to remember: When I was leaving my position at Mysore University to join the University of Calcutta, some of my students escorted me to the train station in a flower-decked carriage that they pulled.  Shared day: Some students and friends requested to celebrate my brithday, but I suggested we celebrate teachers instead. Now, it is an honour to have my birthday on September 5 as Teachers’ Day.  Something I like to say: True teachers are those who help us think for ourselves.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Teachers’ Day Special||Across  1. A person who has been awarded a degree (8) 6. A new thought (4) 7. "Education is the kindling of a flame, not the filling of a ____": Socrates (6) 8. If you have any doubts, please ___ (3) 9. The Art teacher teaches you to do this (4) 11. A small exam (4) 12. A wise old person (4) 13. The teachers gives you this for good work (4) 15. A _____ question does not have a straight answer (6) 16. Did you finish your ___work? (4)  Down  1. A+, A, B, C, etc. (6) 2. ____ Mater: your old school (4) 3. A place for higher education (10) 4. Tool that rubs out pencil marks (6) 5. ____point pen: a writing tool (4) 10. The English teacher teaches you to use ____ properly (5) 11. To impart knowledge (5) 12. To be seated (3) 14. An academic session (4)
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Why do dead bodies stink?  When someone dies, the body immediately begins decomposing or decaying. So, it will begin to smell due to various gases created by micro-organisms during the process of decomposition. Moreover, a dead body releases around 30 different chemical compounds. This combination of gases and compounds emits distinct odours.    Can a star t urn into a planet?  Yes, a star can turn into a planet but this transformation happens only for a specific type of star known as brown dwarf. However, not all scientists believe that brown dwarfs are true stars, as they do not have enough mass to ignite the nuclear fusion of ordinary hydrogen. Other scientists do not consider brown dwarfs to be true planets either because they typically sit at the centre of a solar system, just like a star.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Igniting imagination||Indiana Jones (“Indiana Jones”)   “If you want to be a good archaeologist, you gotta get out of the library!”  Travelling the world, escaping a rolling boulder, surviving a nuclear bomb, swinging across a ravine ... when your teacher goes on dangerous adventures like these, aren’t your lessons bound to be exciting? Dr. Henry Walton Jones. Jr. — better known as Indiana Jones — is a professor of archaeology. He offers inspiration to his students and demonstrates out-of-the-box thinking by doing. It could be said that this character may have inspired many people to study archaeology.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||A different tune||For years, one has trained and honed a skill to be able to perform. Slowly, over a period of time, performances become one’s life; it’s hard to suddenly bring it to a halt . Many musicians are floundering, not knowing which way to turn and how to remain connected to their audiences. Some like well-known Hindustani vocalist Ulhas Kashalkar prefer to sit it out and wait for normalcy: “Singing without a live audience doesn’t appeal to me,”, he says. “Our music feeds on the impulses one receives from the listeners.” Many others are trying to find that audience connect differently, through the new opportunities presented by a virtual, enormous and physically unrestricted audience. Sudha Ragunathan, senior Carnatic vocalist, has for the past four months started an interview series named ‘Expressions Espresso’, in which her role is confined to drawing out her guest, usually but not always a fellow musician, subtly and unobtrusively to reveal hitherto unknown facets of their personalities. The vibe shared between two musicians has resulted in some interesting interactions, especially with Ustad Zakir Hussain, Malavika Sarukkai and Chitra Visweswaran. Says Sudha, “I thought I should make good use of the lockdown to give back to the audience that has given me this stature as a musician. The conversations with the 22 achievers have been about what they do, what they have done and what they will do — it’s about them re-inventing themselves during the pandemic. I now have a sense of fulfilment.” Serious interactions Kolkata-based sitariya Kalyanjit Das’s inventiveness has moved in another direction — for the last four months he has put together thought-provoking online interactions between musicians of different genres. His latest venture is a monthly series of online paid concerts, beamed through a U.S.-based facilitator to a worldwide audience. Kalyanjit confesses it was a huge challenge. “As a musician, of course I connect with my audience through my music, but during the lockdown, I felt the need to communicate differently. My father and I are presenting paid online concerts as I feel free concerts should now stop and someone has to take the initiative.” Chennai-based Carnatic vocalist Girijashankar Sundaresan is exploring creative new ideas. He recently created an unusual song that is inclusive and unifying. Sung by him in Raga Desh, in the Carnatic idiom, the Hindi poem, ‘ Pushpa Ki Abhilasha’ (the dream of a flower) is written by the celebrated poet Pandit Makhanlal Chaturvedi. The novel idea of reaching out to a non-Tamil speaking and non-Carnatic music listening audience was meticulously executed through a thought-provoking video. As Girijashankar puts it, “I wanted to create something that inspired a patriotic sentiment. My wife Rajya, who has lived all over India as her father was in the Air Force, suggested I choose something with a pan-India appeal. We decided on this Chaturvedi poem that we had both studied in school and it touched a chord. The song talks about a flower’s desire to be strewn on the ground on which soldiers walk, those who sacrifice their lives to protect the motherland. I chose Raga Desh, a Hindustani raag. Expectedly, the song has been well received.” Kashmir-born, Delhi-based santoor exponent Abhay Rustom Sopori has channelled his energies into trying to improve the classical music environment. Says Abhay, “While for me, as a musician the first task is to perform, during the lockdown I realised the need to also try and create meaningful dialogue on issues that impact the world of music.” As a start he has initiated online concert reviews. “Another is a dialogue on the very issue of reviews and critiques,” he says. “Over the years, critiques have not been taken seriously and very little space is given in print media to them. Our organisation SaMaPa has taken the lead to start a weekly discussion on this on an online platform. I hope it will yield a healthy and constructive outcome.” And then there’s sitar exponent Niladri Kumar, who has used the downtime to fulfil an unusual goal. Niladri confesses with a laugh, “It’s not that I haven’t felt the need to do something different, but these past few months I haven’t done anything except grow my hair — a childhood dream.”  The Delhi-based author writes on classical music.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Theatre as liberation||In her first theatre workshop in Tirunelveli, thespian and scholar Mangai met a person she least expected to see: a young woman who rolled beedis for a living. The woman told Mangai after the workshop: “I never knew that my back could be so straight.” It was a moment of revelation. “It also had an uncanny connection to dancer Chandralekha’s statement about finding the spine in dance,” says Mangai. For Mangai, who turns 60 and completes 35 years in theatre this year, the stage is also about ‘physical liberation’. “It is certainly different for women. We live in a society where the woman’s body is consistently subjected to shame or treated as an object of gaze. In theatre, the socially constructed images around the body are broken. When it is a trans body or a queer body, it becomes an even bigger statement. Theatre lets you be free with your body, to own it.” Extraordinary moments Mangai’s journey in theatre is filled with extraordinary moments. She fondly recalls staging a play on the iconic Manalur Maniyamma, the privileged caste widow, who became a Communist, at an AIDWA conference in Nagapattinam. “We took six phases from the story, essentially around Maniyamma’s rebellion against Brahminical widowhood, her shift towards Gandhian ideology, and her doubts about socio-political questions which led her to Left politics. Also, how she equipped herself to handle threats by learning to ride a bicycle and by practising silambam. Mangai says she was not convinced about bringing Maniyamma as a character into the play. “We finally chose to bring in her spirit, which resides in each of us. Six people played the role: anyone wearing a red shawl was Maniyamma.” A day after the play, an elderly woman turned up. She told them about how Maniyamma had given her a ride on her bicycle when she was a child, and then she handed over a small donation to the group. Mangai started dabbling in theatre in the 1980s along with Chennai Kalai Kuzhu and AIDWA’s Sakthi Kalai Kuzhu. But it was not until 1990, after attending the Expressions workshop organised by Majlis, an organisation that works with law and culture, that she recognised theatre as her calling. As writer, translator and academic, Mangai was spoilt for choice. “But I chose theatre because it had space for collective and democratic work. Also, it served as a link between the politics we believed in and the form we chose to express ourselves.” Theatre groups for women  Naangal Varugirom, directed by Pralayan of Chennai Kalai Kuzhu, launched Mangai as an actor. Penn , an adaptation of Safdar Hashmi’s Aurat , took her to almost every district in Tamil Nadu. Soon she was directing plays for Chennai Kalai Kuzhu and Sakthi Kalai Kuzhu. Mangai was also the founding member of Voicing Silence and Marappachi — both theatre groups committed to increasing the participation of women in theatre. The groups brought in women from different walks of life to Tamil theatre — Karuppi was about women’s collectives and the experiences of migrant labourers; in Sudalaiamma , a graveyard worker performs the last rites of a rebel killed in an encounter; and in Avvai and Manimegalai, classic Tamil texts are given a feminist reinterpretation in Mangai’s hands. Her plays also critically examine contemporary issues through a gender lens — Pacha Mannu was on female infanticide, Aanmaiyo Aanmai was on the crisis of masculinity in the Tamil political space, and Kaala Kanavu about the feminist history of Tamil Nadu. These theatre groups played a huge role in drawing transgender artistes such as Living Smile Vidya, Sowmya and Revathi into Tamil theatre. In all, Mangai has directed some 35 plays. For research, she has depended on writer-historian V. Geetha and Tamil poet Inquilab. “Geetha was responsible for research into contemporary issues and Inquilab for research into classical texts,” she says. Mangai believes the stories of women are central to her theatre. “Everywhere, the woman’s stories remain untold.” And in war-torn Sri Lanka, even more so. When working with Batticaloa’s theatre group Surya Pengal Kalachara Kuzhu, Mangai helped enact a ritual — kulirthi (a ritual associated with Kannagi temple meant to pacify and heal), which includes neem water, turmeric water and a night full of songs. “The temple festival takes place over 10 days in a year, but when it is enacted in theatre, it heals not just Kannagi of yesteryear, but also the women from whose lives loved ones are made to forcibly disappear. They say theatre is therapeutic. I am not a counsellor, but I can certainly say that it allows everyone to open up.” Mangai’s theatre is predominantly feminist but if there is one word that would define her oeuvre, it is ‘survival’. “The system is forcing us to be survivors — there are various terms: cancer survivor, rape survivor etc. It is simultaneously about accepting pain and resisting it. It is about putting together the broken pieces and keeping ourselves intact. Whether my play is about a kurathi (gypsy), bard, or bhikkhuni (female Buddhist monk), the idea is to liberate the self.” Her latest play, staged by Marappachi on September 2 on Facebook Live, is Siripputhaan Varudhu and is about Black Lives Matter and marginalised voices in India. “From where I am, I think it is my duty to discover an idiom that will offer a dignified representation of you and your stories, whether it is about the scars of a war or about the lives of a transgender. That is all I can do.” The writer is an independent Chennai-based journalist.  They say theatre is therapeutic. I am not a counsellor, but I can certainly say that it allows everyone to open upA. Mangai   Mangai’s plays, about 35 in number, critically examine contemporary issues through a gender lens
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||As devoted as Hanuman||It is one year since the Kalakshetra legend, ‘Hanuman’ Balagopalan, passed away on August 24, 2019, a few days before his 80th birthday (September 4). His departure created a sudden vacuum in our lives. We both walked into Kalakshetra in the Adyar Theosophical Society campus on the same day — October 5, 1953, and we were initiated into Bharatanatyam and Kathakali by Rukmini Devi Arundale and Asan T.K. Chanduppanikkar on October 7 on Vijayadasami day that year. For both of us, dance was an alien art, except for having watched a few Kathakali performances in our birthplaces — Cheruvattur and Payyanur, respectively, two remote villages in the Kannur district of northern Kerala, then known as Malabar. Acting in plays Both of us had a brief experience of acting in stage plays with our fathers, who were part-time dramatists and elementary school teachers. Balagopalan’s father was known as Malabar Charlie Chaplin because of his comic roles. So both of us had common grounding and similar upbringing. Thanks to Rukmini amma, we were given full scholarship with free training, boarding and lodging. When I look back and think of those 17 years that we spent together, living in the hostel and attending classes, I realise there was never any discord or professional jealousy between us. Though we were of the same age, Balagopalan treated me as an older brother, and I ensured that I was always there for him. Initially, he was not a very serious boy, being a little naughty and playful, unlike me. I had to guide him throughout our time at Kalakshetra. He depended on me to help him revise all the lessons and to make him practise and be prepared before we entered the next day’s class. Sometimes, he escaped from Kathakali or Bharatanatyam classes to play with the Besant School students. I would drag him back from the playground to save him from being pulled up by the teachers, especially Asan Chanduppanikkar, a strict teacher who did not spare the rod. However, Balagopalan was the darling of the hostel inmates. Like Lord Krishna, he had the knack of drawing all the boys and girls towards him with his charming pranks. Indeed, he was nicknamed ‘Krishna.’ And as luck would have it, he was later cast as Krishna in Rukmini Devi’s ‘Gita Govindam’. He lived the part fully, with Shanta as his beloved Radha. The pair stole the hearts of the audience. Balagopalan had an amazing stage presence despite his short stature. He could make himself appear tall with his extraordinary histrionic ability. Rukmini Devi had an amazing eye for casting, always picking the right person to play a character. Balagopalan, a born artiste, played many successful roles and gave memorable performances. Myriad roles Balagopalan had a brief stint away from Kalakshetra in the early 1970s when he took up a job with SIFAS in Singapore, but when he returned, he was reinstated without any questions being asked about why he had left the institution without informing Rukmini Devi. His participation was very valued in the institution’s productions. The characters he played in Kalakshetra dance dramas include Lakshmana and Viswamitra in Sita Swayamvaram (I played Rama), Bharata in Paduka Pattabhishekam , Ravana sanyasi in Sabari Moksham , Hanuman in Sethubandhanam and Sri Rama Pattabhishekam , Kannappar in Kannappar Kuravanji , Krishna in Gita Govindam , Rukmini Swayamvaram and Ushaparinayam and Vidushaka in Shakuntalam , besides several other minor roles. He uniformly excelled in all these roles, but he immortalised the character of Hanuman and began to be referred to as ‘Hanuman’ Balagopalan. I left Kalakshetra in 1968 and established Bharata Kalanjali. Balagopalan was a constant visitor, keeping up our friendship intact. In later years, whenever he visited Shanta and me, he would bring us goodies he had made and fruits from his garden. He was keen that we perform together again in a production. As luck would have it, Apsaras Arts in Singapore made it possible by inviting us to be part of their mega production Aanjaneyam in 2018. Balagopalan was ecstatic and kept saying, ‘Hanuman has answered by prayers.’ Aanjaneyam depicted the meeting of Valmiki and Hanuman in the Himalayas, in which I played Valmiki. His last wish had been fulfilled. Not many people have such a fulfilled life and easy departure in, as the scriptures say, an ‘anayasena maranam.’ Carrying on his legacy His legacy is being carried forward by daughter Prithvija, a fine Bhartanatyam dancer, who won the best dancer award from The Music Academy. She is now a Kalakshetra staff and member of the Sahrdaya Foundation, headed by Sheejith Krishna, who is mentoring her. Balagopalan always wanted to be a film actor like Sivaji Ganesan, whom he often imitated. Now, his daughter has acted in some Tamil serials and in a Malayalam movie, Shyamaragam, where she played a Bharatanatyam dancer. Our contemporaries in Kalakshetra then included Krishnaveni Lakshmanan, the late Vijayalakshmi, Prof. A. Janardhanan, M.R. Krishnamurthy (Bengaluru), Kala Ramesh Rao, Ambika Buch, Savitri Jagannatha Rao and the late Narasimhachari. And all of us had the privilege of training under stalwarts like Sarada Hoffman, S. Sarada, Prof. N.S. Jayalakshmi and K.P. Kunhiraman, who assisted Asan Chanduppanikkar. Rukmini Devi’s best creations happened during those days. After retiring from Kalakshetra, Balagopalan continued to participate in the productions. Last year, he was busy practising for Kumarasambhavam that was being revived for the Art Festival. A biography of Balagopalan, titled Leap of Faith , has been written by one of his disciples, Eliza Louis. ‘Balan Anna’, as the students called him, will always be remembered by dance connoisseurs.  The author is a veteran Bharatanatyam dancer, choreographer and guru.   He had an amazing stage presence despite his short stature. He could make himself appear tall with his histrionic ability
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||When art holds a mirror||“Choreographing is like problem-solving,” said Rasika Kumar, a Bharatanatyam dancer from San Jose. “When you have to make something out of nothing, where do you start? I have a very practical approach — I break it down into smaller goals.” Dance Reflections, a three-part series, took place over three successive Sundays, with conversations among three artistes each weekend. Presented by Shreya Nagarajan Singh Arts Development Consultancy and Bharatanatyam dancer Christopher Gurusamy, ‘Dance Reflections: Conversations about Critiquing Oneself’ comprised a Nritha edition with dancers Sudharma Vaithiyanathan, Meenakshi Srinivasan and Bijayini Satpathy; an Abhinaya edition with Parshwanath Upadhye, Uma Sathyanarayanan and Ramya Harishankar; and a ‘Beyond the Margam’ Edition with Rasika Kumar, Mythili Prakash and G. Narendra. Every session was followed by a round of Q&A. While dance preserved and practised by traditional performers in temples and courts lives on in a new milieu in India and outside, the practitioners of Indian classical dance find new ways to relate to and adapt them. The past and the present inform Christopher’s artistic journey as he hosted intimate ‘living room conversations’ with the dancers, both senior and junior. For Christopher, it was all about developing a dance ideology, an aggregation of training, geography, creativity and life experiences that shape your aesthetic. Dancers were questioned about practice, the idea of practice for performance, the process of creating and critiquing through a trusted ‘dance family’, along with mirrors and recordings. On artistic impulses On questions relating to practice, ideas and artistic impulses, one thing came through —– there was no tampering with the centuries-old adavu system of training and the margam in Bharatanatyam. As with the bhangis and chauka in Odissi, the base is sacrosanct. It is the body conditioning and the packaging to suit audience taste that seem to be evolving. As Parshwanath mentioned, “A five-minute Instagram video is what dancers are practising now.” Rasika, on paying attention to feedback, said that besides her mother, Mythili Kumar, who is a dancer-teacher and her husband, whose lack of exposure is valuable, she has a few others she listens to. “I watch my videos and hear feedback but I like to detach from it. Ultimately, I try to develop my own sense. I leverage the margam and do new pieces. In ‘Shakti Unveiled’ I emulated a goddess reacting to catcalling, an extension of a relationship of a man or god to a woman. We look critically at mythology, trying to justify; I thought why don’t I look at myself like that and do something based on my life. I didn’t want to use an existing composition, I had to create one. I wrote it in English, got it translated into Kannada, and set it to music. I try some stuff and see it, then edit. I work better on tight timelines.” Mind-body technique For Mythili Prakash, choreography is more philosophical, “Choreography is the sum of everything you are in the moment. I first choreographed ‘Surya’ in 2007, after a visit to the planetarium. The sun is pre-historic, a universal symbol but now I feel I have changed; its time to reassess. Same for ‘Jwala’, which I choreographed in 2017; I had experienced death and birth as a cyclical process. Now I feel I cannot do it with the same honesty. With my mentors Malavika (Sarukkai) and Akram (Khan), I learnt about the honesty of intention. Malavika taught me to be immersed in that moment, feel the gravitas. It is a mind and then body technique. In Akram’s work, I saw how it hit the gut first and then moved up. He would say there is no need to explain — what they feel is more important than what they make of it. I become over-critical sometimes; then I surrender as to what’s working and what’s not. I come back and try to be kinder to myself,” explained Mythili. “When I work outside the margam, the choreography is so central, from where you started to where you want to end. I love choreography... but I am also fascinated by manodharma, like peeling layers or unfolding lyrics in an abhinaya class. I don’t want to be consumed with creating a good product. I am reading about Balasaraswathi, and I feel I would like to relate to dance that way. I want to be able to find a new connection every time I repeat the piece. I’m filled with responsibility as I was born to dance; my mother Viji Prakash being a dancer and a teacher.” G. Narendra spoke about his experience as a young, talented choreographer in 1999 when he choreographed ‘Abhyaasa’, a take on the gurukulam system for the Cleveland Cultural Alliance’s tour of the U.S. His choice of theme and ideas were out of the box — he wanted four margams to be learnt, so dancers on stage would genuinely be stressed about what they were expected to perform on any given day, just like in dance class, as also a Ragam-Tanam-Pallavi, both of which were denied to him. Mistakes and jokes were made on purpose on stage. Adyar Lakshman as Guru added dignity to the role; Narendra’s choice of dancers and musicians — Bragha, Mahalakshmi, Sreelatha, Joy, O.S. Arun, Ramesh, the set-up and the other details, brought back the experience afresh. Narendra has come back into the classical fold after 20 years and carries the same vision of timeless artistry, something that he is not able to fit into a one-hour performance capsule. As Christopher said, “He is so organic and so honest; I see him as the final point in the journey.”  The Chennai-based author writes on classical dance.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||A twist in sufi||Mention ghazal and the one name that comes to mind first is Mehdi Hassan. Born in a Rajasthan village, the singer moved to Pakistan after Partition. “But his voice erased borders and connected hearts,” says young ghazal and sufi singer Pooja Gaitonde. “He is a major reason why I took to the genre. The way he brought out the emotions in the lyrics in ‘Dil-e-nadan tujhe’ or Ánjuman Anjuman Shanasai’ have made these ghazals immemorable,” she adds. After training in Hindustani music under the late Pt. S.C.R Bhat and later from his disciples Raja Upasani and Suniti Gangoli, Pooja decided to pursue ghazals. “Though the training in classical music lent an edge to my singing, I realised the need to learn Urdu to convey the ada of the genre. I also learnt to play the harmonium from Pt. Tulsidas Borkar while Ustad Ibrahim Durvesh refined my Urdu diction.” From ghazal, Pooja was gradually drawn towards sufi. “And this happened because of Abida Parveen. When I heard her sing ‘Man Kunto Maula’ I was just carried away by the energy and tempo. Sufi has the ability to transport the audience and singer to a higher plane. The rhythm is so catchy that youngsters get hooked to it. When I performed a ghazal concert at NCPA, the audience wanted me to render a few sufi songs. And when I did, it enlivened the atmosphere.” In an effort to present something new, Pooja collaborated with jazz exponent Louis Banks for a sufi-jazz concert. This will be streamed on bookmyshow on September 19 (11.30 a.m.). The two will be accompanied by Qias Adhiya (tabla), Vinayak Pol (drums), Mohammed Shadab (dholak), Avishek Dey (bass), Phys D’SOuza (saxophone), Jayanti Gosher (rabab), with Vishal Jagtap, Aditya Neela and Siraj Mohammed as backing vocals. “I want to explore sufi and see how I can take it to listeners in different ways. Working with the inimitable Louis Banks helped me discover the commonalities. Finally, it is all about singing for the soul,” says Pooja.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||The connecting words||In 1998, many boys in North India on the cusp of adulthood were busy rolling their tongues around a few Malayalam lines, starting with ‘Punchiri Thanji Konjikko’. It loosely meant ‘flirt with your smiles’ and worked as a conversation starter with the other gender. The lines are part of the Malayalam chorus of ‘Jiya Jale’ ( Dil Se ), adding texture to Gulzar’s evocative imagery. Interestingly, it was the lyricist who insisted on retaining the original line and not translating it. Shot in Kerala’s backwaters, it gives the ethereal song a sense of setting. This was the time when Mani Ratnam and A.R. Rahman had emerged as pan-Indian icons, helping South Indian cultural symbols travel north as by-products. Such was the impact of dubbed films from South India that lyricist P.K. Mishra wrote, ‘Janti Ho Hindi Main Pyar Ke Kitne Akshar’ while translating ‘Urvasi Urvasi.’ These songs came to mind after a recent incident where a Tamil Nadu politician was asked by a security officer at the airport to speak in Hindi or English. Did the officer miss out on the ‘Kolaveri Di’ wave that hit the country in 2011? The Prime Minister has appealed to citizens to try and learn a new word of an Indian language every day, but to begin with, can the Bollywood film song help in the cause? What has been the story so far? Inspiring tunes Over the years, the Hindi film industry has copied or has been inspired by the tunes of iconic songs in different languages, but when it comes to lyrics, it has seldom moved beyond the Hindi-Urdu binary. Though Mumbai became home to composers and singers from across the country, the lyricists mostly hailed from the Hindustani belt. In the Dev Anand-Suchitra Sen starrer Bombai Ka Babu (1960), S.D. Burman draws from a popular tune used in a Telugu hit Rojulu Murayi (1955) to create the Asha Bhosle chartbuster ‘Bambai Se Aaya Hai Babu Salona.’ In ‘Sun Mere Bandhu Re’ (Bandini, 1963), Burman gives you the feel of bhatiyali, a form of Bangla folk music, but the words are by Majrooh. It suits the script and could spur the seeker to learn the language. Is it enough? Even English, India’s bridge language and the language of the market, didn’t have it easy in Hindi film songs. Before Independence, there were instances where Shanta Apte and Devika Rani sang English numbers in films but after freedom, it was limited to the ‘Monica! O My Darling’ ( Caravan ) or ‘My Dil Goes Mmmm’ ( Salaam Namaste ) variety. Interestingly, an English club mix version of ‘My Dil Goes Mmmm’, sung by Shaan and Caralisa Monteiro, was present in the album but it was not picturised or publicised. The English bits remained hook lines, reflecting either the ecosystem of a forbidden space in the 1970s or the mind space of a globalised citizen in the post-liberalisation era. Of course, decades earlier, ‘My Heart is Beating,’ a full-fledged English song in Julie , gave hope but the relationship remained fleeting. Even in K. Balachander’s ‘Ek Duuje Ke Liye’ where it could easily have been the bridge, Anand Bakshi kept it limited to ‘I don’t know what you say’ in ‘Hum Bane Tum Bane’. In a television interview, Preeti Saagar said that when she sang ‘My Heart is Beating,’ she thought the song would be picturised in a club setting and was surprised when she found the lead actor Lakshmi singing it in a family-friendly setting. Maybe the story, about an Anglo-Indian family, allowed the English song (written by poet-dramatist-actor Harindranath Chattopadhyay) to jump the proscribed space but nobody can deny that in the 1970s and early 1980s, the song played in every household with a transistor or tape recorder. Yet, Preeti was given a ‘special’ Filmfare Award and not the ‘usual’ one in the playback singer category. During the disco rage of the 1980s, Usha Uthup’s contralto voice suited English songs but like Burman in ‘O Bandhu Re,’ Bappi Lahiri only gave us the feel of the genre. Years later, the English song was ‘normalised’ in a Hindi film setting when Kangna Ranaut lip-synced to ‘Old School Girl’ in Tanu Weds Manu Returns . It was a rare occasion where a Haryanvi girl was singing in English to impress her UK-returned boyfriend. No, it was not a caricature. Raj Shekhar’s lyrics made sense and Kalpana Gandharv sang it with heart. Unfortunately, the song didn’t gather much traction. Hindi in the South As the south becomes an important market for Hindi films, scripts have started including South Indian characters, opening opportunities for a smattering of southern languages in Hindi songs. Shah Rukh Khan headlined two such films. In Ra. One , he plays a nerdy South Indian scientist while in Chennai Express, he is caught in a Tamil Nadu village. I particularly like the way director Anubhav Sinha and composers Vishal Shekhar use the language as a plot device in Ra.One . In the ‘Chhammak Challo’ song, they use Akon as the voice of Shah Rukh because in that song he is not the scientist but the machine. During the song, Kareena Kapoor, who plays a Punjabi girl, suddenly shifts to suggestive Tamil lyrics, ‘Unnai Thotta Penn, Ullathai Uruka Mattaya,’ ostensibly to seduce G.One in his creator’s mother tongue. Later, we discover that the evil Ra.One had entered Kareena’s body and it was perhaps his ploy to manipulate G.One. This is not explained through dialogues, making it all the more immersive. Rahat Indori using ‘Bumro’ in Mission Kashmir (2000) to describe a bumble bee evoked similar interest in Kashmiri folk music. It evolved further when Gulzar wrote, ‘Urzu Urzu Durkut’ in Yahan (2005). Sounding like blank rhyming words, it is actually a blessing for good health, literally meaning ‘strong knees’. There has been a resurgence of the influence of Marathi Lavani in Hindi films as well but as for the vocabulary, it is limited to ‘Mungada’. By the way, in Dil Se , Gulzar added one Bengali word to our vocabulary, which Mahalaxmi Iyer sang during the interludes of ‘Ae Ajnabi’. Guess which?  As the south becomes an important market for Hindi films, scripts have started including South Indian characters and a smattering of southern languages
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Two for joy||Seven years ago, a temple in Thrissur invited Nedumbally Rammohan and K.N. Meera to present a concert. Initially hesitant to sing together in public, the trained classical musician couple finally accepted the offer. It was after the success of this 2013 concert at Vishnumaya Kshetram in Peringottukara that the couple went on to carve a successful joint career. The journey broadened and deepened the couple’s repertoire, which primarily comprises Kathakali music as well as Carnatic and Mohiniyattom compositions besides a few bhajans, folk and even film songs. Even bigger audience Early this April, when the country and much of the world was reeling under the lockdown, Rammohan and Meera got a request from a Facebook group to present a live concert. They began with the ‘Kathakali Sekharam’ video, and followed it up with a series of collaborative music performances. After that, the couple has been even busier than usual. This has not meant any additional income, “but that isn’t the aim,” shrugs Rammohan. “To our surprise, we found that there has been a steep rise in audience numbers, higher than expected,” adds Meera. The initial months earned the couple more than one lakh views, a majority of them from Malayalam speaking people, including expatriates in the Gulf and the U.S. “There are techies in America and Europe. As well as lawyers and engineers in Kerala,” says the 45-year-old Rammohan. “And the other day, a doctor called to thank me for the ‘therapeutic value’ of our renditions.” On the other end of the spectrum are experts and maestros. For instance, Carnatic vocalist S. Sowmya “suggested we sing Kerala-based ragas such as Puraneera and Kanakurinji. That was a pleasant surprise,” smiles Meera. “It was unbelievable when the musician told us subsequently that she has been following us on Facebook.” On Facebook, the couple has no accompanists, unlike their stage shows, where they are supported by the violin and flute, besides mridangam, tabla, ghatam, chenda, maddalam, idakka and occasionally the keyboard. The response to the live shows has been highly encouraging, says the couple, who both have a Masters in Carnatic Music from the University of Calicut. “Listeners write to us about related subjects such as a padam that reminded them of a yesteryear master or a Kathakali show seen decades ago,” says Rammohan. Thematic concerts The couple has been working on various combinations in recent times. Thematic concerts based on the Ramayana, for example. Rammohan renders a Kathakali verse on Hanuman while Meera responds with a Carnatic kriti hailing the monkey god. Or Rammohan sings a Kathakali song with a particularly folksy tune, to which Meera replies with a piece from the traditional Kaikottikali dance where women typically sing and clap while dancing in a circle. Says Meera, “Initially, finding a mutually viable sruti was a problem, suitable for the male and female voices. Soon we worked it out.” Meera, who learned the art of Kathakali singing from Madambi Subrahmanian Namboodiri, does stage collaborations with vocalist Deepa Palanad. Rammohan had his initial training under a couple of gurus including his father V.N. Krishnan Namboothiri. As a teenager he was also initiated into Kathakali under Kalamandalam Soman of the Kalluvazhi stream. After debuting as Rugmini in Kuchelavritham , he found masters in K.G. Vasudevan, Kalanilayam Balakrishnan and Narippatta Narayanan Namboothiri. For 25 years now, Rammohan has had a busy career as Kathakali vocalist but has also been a mathematics teacher in a school since 2010.  The writer is a keen follower of Kerala’s traditional arts.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Old hits in new voices||Amid the wide range of events being streamed online, one music series caught this writer’s attention: ‘Quarantine from Reality’, being hosted by Subhashree Thanikalacham on her Facebook page. The online series features young musicians from across the world who come together to present various old classics. Each day’s song begins with Subhashree’s crisp note on the original track, singers and composers, many interesting titbits about the song, and an introduction of the present singers. The 15-minute show has featured famous songs composed by G. Ramanathan, Viswanathan-Ramamurthy, K.V. Mahadevan, Ilayaraja, et al. The series is conceptualised in a refreshing manner. The singers are given the original track to practise, sing, and record. They then send both the audio and video recordings to Subhashree. Her technical team edits the tracks, adds the visuals and suitably edits it for digital presentation. Impeccable presentations It was a pleasant surprise to see a team of young singers rendering the song ‘Maasila Nilave Nam Kaadhalai’ from Ambikapathy (1957), composed by G. Ramanathan, in an impeccable manner. Set in ragamalika, the song also has a talamalika with its changing rhythmic structure. The classic was sung by Raghav Krishna from France and Kruthi Bhat from Houston, U.S. Another excellent presentation was the evergreen song ‘Ellam Inbamayam’ from Manamagal (1951), originally sung by M.L. Vasanthakumari and P. Leela. Set to ragam Simhendramadyamam with a tricky ragamalika swara exchange, the difficult song was well-handled by two young twins. Subhashree’s team includes Shyam Benjamin and Vigneshwar, who programme the song; Venkatasubramanian Mani (percussion), flute by J.A. Jayanth or Selvaganapathi, veena by Anjani and Ranjani. Sivakumar handles the editing. Young voices add a refreshing appeal to these old classics, and that’s possibly why the series has a huge following on social media.  The series, crowd-funded so far, streamed its 150th episode a few days ago, featuring a classic number, ‘Kannum Kannum Kalandhu’, composed by C. Ramachandra from the film Vanjikottai Vaaliban. It was sung by Malavika Sundar and Kalpalathika. It’s good to see the platform bring alive these rare and forgotten gems.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Of memories and music||Last week, SPIC MACAY (Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music And Culture Amongst Youth) brought together some of the living legends of Indian classical music and dance for ‘Rasraj Smaran,’ a live online homage to Sangeet Martand Pt. Jasraj, who passed away last month.  Pt. Hariprasad Chaurasia, accompanied on flute by his disciple Devapriya, opened his tribute with a melodious alap in Khamaj as the preface to ‘Vaishnav Jan To…’, but the actual homage one felt came through the swaras of the pensive Marwa. Carefully marked by phrase and pause, with each alternate phrase ending on the pivotal komal rishabh of the raag, the rendition subtly evoked the feeling of loss and sorrow. Engaging jugalbandis Dr. L. Subramaniam talked about his close association with Pt. Jasraj, especially the jugalbandis they performed, before playing a resolute Sarasangi on his violin, known for its unique tonal quality. Thoughtfully conceived in a ragam-tanam format, it had an inner arrangement of restraint and generosity mirrored in the melodious swar sangatis establishing a ‘samvad’ or dialogue with the corresponding swaras in m andra and m adhya s aptak . His rendition spread the warmth of the raga, finally leading up to the bhajan, ‘Govind Damodar Madhaveti,’ composed and immortalised by Pt. Jasraj. The audience listened with bated breath till the swaras of Sarasangi merged with the meditative drone of the tampura. Subramaniam concluded his homage with a short video clip of their duet where Pt. Jasraj is singing ‘Narayani Niranjani’ in Bhairavi and his wistful violin joins in to delicately unfold the soulful swaras of the raga. Vidwan Vikku Vinayakram on the ghatam, accompanied by his son Selva Ganesh and grandson Swaminathan on the ganjira, was a mathematician’s delight, breaking as he did the subtle give and take of the main beat with teasing fractions of wholes and parts and odds and mnemonics of konnakkol, which wrought wonders right from the opening Aditala with the emphasis on Misra Kuraippu. He also played a challenging 7 and 1/2 beats cycle with complex rhythmic patterns. Describing Pt. Jasraj’s music as “serene, soulful and sublime,” senior vocalist Sudha Ragunathan presented an Annamacharya kriti invoking Lord Venkateswara in raga Revathi. Explaining the kriti’s philosophical content, her long introduction featured slokas like ‘Na jayate mriyate va kadachit….’ from the Bhagavad Gita. Rattan Mohan Sharma, the nephew and disciple of Pt. Jasraj, sang raag Shuddha Vairadi with a vilambit khayal set to slow ek taal and the popular teentaal bandish ‘Kunj Bihari….’, showcasing his training and practice under the legendary Guru. Fitting tribute Odissi exponent Madhavi Mudgal thoughtfully chose an invocation to ‘Bhagawati’ and an Ashtapadi from Gita Govind, both composed by Pt. Jasraj, for her tribute. Sung delicately by Pt. Madhup Mudgal, who has also learnt from Pt. Jasraj, the invocation created the right ambience for her elegant abhinaya to Jayadeva’s verses. Madhavi also shared childhood memories of Pt. Jasraj being presented by her father, Pt. Vinay Chandra Maudgalya, for the first time in Delhi at the Jayanti Samaroh in 1966, and how he instantly became the talk of the town. Pts. Rajan and Sajan Mishra spoke of bonding with Bapuji and presented his favourite raag Kaunsi-Kanhada, with the famous Bada Khayal ‘Rajan ke Siraj…’ and a teentaal bandish ‘Damodar Hari Naam Bol…’, conceived with the larger design of the raag in mind and adorned with finely articulated sargam and aakar taans. The tribute concluded with a video clip of Pt. Jasraj singing ‘Mero sankat nibaro…’, a devotional pada of Surdas in Bhairavi, in a leisurely alap style with his signature sublimity.     The author writes on      Hindustani music.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Wellness initiative for artistes||Prakriti Foundation has been running a wellness initiative, ‘Mental Well-Being with Prakriti’, since April. The programme seeks to make mental health therapy free and accessible to artistes as well as build digital community support. Future sessions include, ‘The meh during a pandemic’ by Bhairavi Prakash of the Mithra Foundation and a yoga session by Mansi Gandhi. More details on Prakriti Foundation’s Facebook and Instagram pages.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Swar and soul||Pt. Shiv Kumar Sharma beautifully analysed the title ‘Rasraj,’ given to Pt. Jasraj by Atal Bihari Vajpayee, when he said that “Pt. Jasraj conveys the essence, the ‘rasa’ of the raag he sings”. “He had a vast repertoire of raags and bandish of the Mewati Gharana. He also composed many bandish to create the rasa-bhava (mood) of the raag.” Pt. Birju Maharaj talked about the ‘Bhava-Bhakti’, the devotional element of his music, his reverence for ‘shabda’ (words of the lyrics) and ‘sur,’ the accurate tunefulness of the notes. Maharaj also stated that both of them were devotees of Krishna, another element that brought them closer. Dr. Sonal Mansingh said his voice and eyes were intoxicating — at once exciting, soothing, soulful, and transcending. She reminisced about the heart-warming rendering of ‘Mata Kalika…’ by both Pt. Jasraj and his elder brother Pt. Maniram at New Delhi’s Kalkaji temple.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Ode to guru||Thrayee presents Nrithya Upasana, a Guru Vandana series that will pay tribute to legendary dance guru K.J. Sarasa on September 6, 4.30 p.m. to 6 p.m. live on Instagram. The series will feature Shanmuga Sundaram, Padmini Ravi and Prema Sadasivam.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Mudhra’s Veenotsav from today||Mudhra’s 2020 edition of the week-long Veenotsav can be watched online from today to September 10, at 7 p.m. daily. Eminent and up-and-coming artistes will perform at the festival. The concerts can be viewed on Mudhra’s Facebook pageorwww.paalamtv.com. The inaugural concert today will be by veteran Madurai T.N. Seshagopalan followed by Ananthanarayanan. Concerts from tomorrow include, September 5: R. Parthasarathy and Yoga Vandana, September 6: Jayanthi Kumaresh and Ramana Balachandran, September 7: Kannan Balakrishnan and Jayalakshmi Sekar, September 8: Mudicondan Ramesh and Veena Venkatramani, September 9: R.S. Jayalakshmi and Nisha Ponni. The festival concludes on September 10 with the veena recital of Jeyaraaj, Jaysri Jeyaraaj and S.V. Sahana. The proceeds from this ‘pay and watch’ series will be donated to veena artistes affected by the lockdown.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||25 years of Kelucharan Mohapatra Awards||Odissi dance school, Srjan, celebrates 25 years of the Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra Award Festival this year with seven nights of classical dance and music. The festival will be streamed online from September 5 to 9 on Srjan’s Facebook page and YouTube channel at 8 p.m. The festival will begin with Madhusmita Mohanty’s Odissi performance tomorrow followed by Pt. Vishwa Mohan Bhatt’s Mohan Veena concert. On September 6, Praveen Kumar will perform Bharatanatyam and Guru Dhaneswar Swain, Mardala. Gauri Diwakar (Kathak) and Abhishek Raghuram (Carnatic vocal) will perform on September 7 followed by Vilasini Natyam by Purvadhanashree and santoor recital by Pt. Tarun Bhattacharya on September 8. The Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra Awards and GKCM Yuva Prabha Samman 2020 will be presented on the last day, followed by a Odissi performance of the Srjan ensemble.
04 September 2020||September 04 2020 00:00 IST,||04fr_calendar||InkoCentre, in association with the King Sejong Institute, Chennai, is organising a two-month online Seoye (Korean calligraphy) course, presented under the aegis of The King Sejong Insitute Foundation, Korea. To commence on September 7, classes will be conducted on Mondays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. For registration and details, call 338933655 or mail nandini.menon@inkocentre.org.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||Life in Delhi Metro in Unlock 4.0: here’s what will change||Occupying only alternate seats, mandatorily using smart cards instead of tokens, getting restricted access to enter and exit stations — these are just some of the changes that commuters have to adapt to once Delhi Metro opens its doors. Services on the Delhi Metro is set to resume after over five months from September 7 in a graded manner with staggered timings. As a crowd control measure, each station across the network will have only one or a maximum of two entry and exit gates functional. On Monday, the Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli to Huda City Centre) and the Rapid Metro Gurugram will be made operational with the metro running between 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. At each of the entry gates, thermal scanners and sanitisers have been put in place. “Passengers having temperature or signs of COVID-19 will not be allowed to travel. They will be directed to report to the nearest medical centre,” said metro officials. Once inside the station, a commuter will have to follow the signs and marks, drawn across platforms to indicate social distancing measures. Lift and escalator rules Only two or three persons will be allowed inside a lift. For the escalators, people will have to stand on alternate steps for social distancing. In a bid to prevent chances of transmission of the virus, all commuters will be required to use smart cards instead of tokens. Metro officials said the facility to generate tokens at the Token Vending Machines have been disabled. They also said commuters will be able to use the “Autope” system, which will help recharge smart cards automatically at the AFC (Automatic Fare Collection) gates, from September 7. Another feature — pre-recorded audio and visual announcements inside the metro coaches will reinforce the need to wear masks at all times and maintain social distancing – will also be added. Several messages to raise awareness on COVID-19 and the necessary protocols have also been added inside the coaches. The dwell (stoppage) time of trains at stations will increase from 10-15 seconds to 20-25 seconds once the operations resume. At interchange stations, the stoppage time will be increased from 35-40 seconds to 55-60 seconds. “This will be done to ensure commuters have enough time to board and alight,” officials added. Imposition of fines To ensure compliance of the new guidelines and travel protocol, a team of 800 officials and staff will also be deployed across stations. Monitoring through CCTV will also be done for crowd management inside the stations. The officials said in case of non-compliance of guidelines, fines will be imposed on commuters under the relevant law. Several stations like Kashmere Gate, New Delhi, Rajiv Chowk, Central Secretariat, IGI Airport and Yamuna Bank will have a new feature — foot-operated landing call switch in lifts — said officials. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has advised commuters to take extra time of 10-15 minutes for their daily commute. While parking facilities at metro stations will be operational, feeder bus services will remain suspended until further notice, the DMRC said. For stations in Haryana On the other hand, holding a meeting with the DMRC officials on the resumption of the service, Gurugram Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri on Thursday said a supervisory official would be appointed for coordination with the local metro officials for smooth running of the trains. Besides, a Nodal official will also be appointed for overall supervision. Five of the metro stations on DMRC’s Yellow Line fall within the jurisdiction of Gurugram. Mr. Khatri asked the DMRC officials to chalk out a plan to avoid the gathering of passengers. Haryana Auto Chalak Sangathan State president Mahavir Singh, also present in the meeting, said there would be separate auto stands to pick up and drop the passengers.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||With record tests, COVID-19 cases continue upward trend in Capital||With a record number of tests being done, Delhi witnessed the highest number of new COVID-19 cases in more than two months with 2,737 cases being reported in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. The total number of cases stood at 1,82,306 Delhi conducted the highest number of COVID-19 tests in 24 hours — 32,834 — since the virus outbreak in the city, according to Thursday’s bulletin. Also, 19 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,500. Of the total cases, 1,60,114 people have recovered and there are 17,692 active cases. Thursday also witnessed an increase in multiple other parameters — number of active cases, positive people under home isolation, and people admitted at hospitals. Case fatality ratio Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said that case fatality ratio is 0.75 in Delhi, which is considered very good. “Yesterday, around 30,000 tests were done. Today around 35,000 tests are done, we are trying to increase the tests,” he said. “When we find a [COVID-19] positive case and isolate the person, she will not infect 10 more people. Else, they will infect more people. You might think that cases are increasing, but after a while it will come down,” the Minister said. Mr. Jain also said that it is not a second wave of infection in Delhi. “We say there is a second wave when the cases end and after a month or two, cases start showing up again,” Mr. Jain said. When asked about availability of beds, he said that about 70% beds are vacant. “Some people ask where was Satyendar Jain admitted and want to get admitted there. This is not right. There are a lot of hospitals where you can get treatment,” he added.
04 September 2020||Chandigarh,||Kejriwal trying to exploit virus crisis: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday hit out at his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal, accusing him of trying to exploit the COVID crisis to instigate people in Punjab’s villages, which have witnessed a spurt in fake news and provocative videos. At least one video-post found to have emanated from abroad, most likely Pakistan, was allegedly propagated here by an active worker of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). The Punjab AAP unit, however, denied that the person in question was a member of the party. “AAP’s Amrinder Singh has been arrested and is being questioned to ascertain who motivated him to circulate the outrageous post of a dead body to mislead the people of Punjab into believing that organs of dead corona patients were being removed by the Punjab health department,” said the Chief Minister. ‘Endangering safety’ The Chief Minister said the video-post propagated by the AAP worker was seen to be exhorting and provoking people not to cooperate with health authorities, thus endangering the health and safety of the citizens of the State. “Such rumours are provoking a section of the community to resist proper medical care which needs to be provided to all COVID-affected citizens, which is a clear case of a deadly criminal conspiracy against the people of the State who are already suffering due to the pandemic,” said Captain Amarinder Singh, in a statement. Capt. Amarinder said Mr. Kejriwal’s announcement in the midst of the shocking viral campaign, asking AAP workers to go around villages and streets of Punjab with oxymeters to check people’s oxygen levels, raised serious questions on the role of his party in the conspiracy to undermine the Punjab government’s efforts to keep the pandemic under check and save the lives of the people. “The Delhi Chief Minister’s decision could have grave repercussions for Punjab’s security and integrity,” he said. Capt. Amarinder asked the Delhi CM to stay out of Punjab and focus on managing COVID in his own State.
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||CISF chalks out safety plan for its personnel and commuters||After the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) announced that it will resume its services from September 7, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) has issued a Standing Operating Procedure (SOP) for its personnel on Thursday. A senior CISF officer said the primary concern is health and safety of their personnel, DMRC employees, shopowners and the commuters. The CISF has prepared a Business Continuity Plan to ensure the safety and security of those at the metro stations. They said they will deploy personnel at the entry gates. As per the plan: “Security personnel at the gate will take a stock of the number of people waiting at the security checking point. They can disallow entry if the number of passengers exceeds the prescribed limit. Also, there would be a thermal screening of everyone at the entry gates.” A CISF officer said queuing areas have been marked at the security points. He said a distance of two metres shall be maintained between the frisking and line-up points. One-metre distance A distance of one metre shall be maintained between passengers waiting at the security point. In case of any suspicious baggage, the passengers will be asked to open their belongings. “The frisker shall continuously monitor the door-frame metal detector and simultaneously profile the passenger. Frisking shall be done only in case the security personnel have reasonable doubts. Contactless frisking shall be carried out by using an extended hand-held metal detector at a minimum distance of 2.5 centimetres,” reads the plan. The CISF instructed all personnel to wear a regular uniform with full sleeves, gloves and masks. Friskers and X-BIS screeners should additionally wear face shield/visor to protect their face especially eyes from exposure. The personnel shall thoroughly clean their uniforms daily after completion of duties. All personnel must follow the new uniform code issued from time to time, said an officer, adding that sufficient PPEs at all stations must be kept reserve at the CCTV rooms for handling suspected passengers and their belongings. Word to passengers Under the CISF safety plan, passengers have been advised to refrain from touching any surface inside the metro stations or trains. Frequent sanitisation of station premises to be carried out with appropriate techniques. Security equipment and fixtures at security points, including baggage checking tables, should be sanitised every 30 minutes. Sufficient quantity of sanitiser should be provided at every security point.  The frisker shall continuously monitor the door-frame metal detector and simultaneously profile the passenger. Frisking shall be done only in case the security personnel have reasonable doubts. Business Continuity Plan plan by CISF
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||Bars to be allowed to function on trial basis from September 9||Bars in hotels, restaurants, and clubs will be allowed to function on a trial basis in the city from September 9 to September 30, and these establishments will have to operate with 50% of seating capacity and adhering to social distancing norms, stated an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday. The order also allowed functioning of Metro services from September 7. “Not more than 50% of the approved seating capacity shall be allowed inside the hotels/restaurants/clubs so that social distancing norms may be maintained. No standing customer shall be served by the hotels/restaurants/clubs,” read the standard operating procedure (SOP) for operationalisation of bars in hotels/restaurants/clubs issued on Thursday. Bars within containment zones will remain closed. Adequate number of workers have to be deployed by the licensee for ensuring social distancing norms and only asymptomatic staffers will be allowed on duty on the premises. Employees have to wear gloves, face masks and maintain hygiene, such as frequent washing of hands, use of sanitiser etc., as per the guidelines. Warned of action The DDMA also warned hotels, restaurants and clubs of strict action, including cancellation of their licence, if they fail to comply with the directions issued by them. “Effective and frequent sanitisation within premises shall be done at regular intervals with particular focus on lavatories, drinking and hand washing areas. Rooms, other service areas, seats/tables will be sanitised each time a customer leaves,” the SoP read. Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) director general Vinod Giri said, “The CIABC welcomes Delhi government’s decision to permit bars, restaurants, hotels and clubs to serve liquor. We have repeatedly requested for it and are glad to see the government yet again demonstrating its progressive and business-friendly outlook. Though this sector accounts for less than 10% of liquor sales, its rejuvenation is a major psychological milestone on road back to normalcy in Delhi. In our estimates, 15,000 cases of liquor are locked up in inventory with bars and restaurants, and liquidation of that will be great relief to the hospitality sector. It will also help in dealing with the livelihood crisis, which the workers were facing due to closure of this particular business.”
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU student beaten up in hostel||A JNU student was allegedly beaten up by a group of 16 students in his hostel room on Thursday. A complaint has been filed at Vasant Kunj police station. An MA student, Vivek Pandey, claimed that the students attacked him at 1.30 a.m. at his Mahi-Mandavi hostel room without any provocation. He alleged they were “heavily drunk” and told the police that he could identify some of his attackers by face and knew four of them by name. “I spent the entire night in the hospital, got my MLC done and then came to the police station to file a complaint. The police, finally, filed an FIR after making me wait for several hours. I appeal to the Delhi police to investigate the case and punish the culprits at the earliest,” Mr. Pandey said. The Mahi-Mandavi hostel where Mr. Pandey was allegedly attacked is the same hostel where Najeeb Ahmed was allegedly attacked by a group of students in October 2016, before he went missing. The JNU students’ union reacting to the incident alleged that the people who attacked Mr. Pandey were members of the ABVP and were the same “goons” had attacked students on January 5 in which JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh was injured. ‘Reports of clash’ Reacting to the allegation, the ABVP said, “It has been reported that there were some clashes between students last night in a hostel at JNU. We don’t know anything in this regard but the Left-leaning organisations are raising baseless allegations in order to malign ABVP.” The ABVP added that it is absurd to blame the ABVP for such unthoughtful incidents and if something really happened, then the university administration must conduct a fair inquiry. “Any further allegations with an intention to defame ABVP to will lead to legal course of action,” it said. The All India Students’ Association (AISA) said that Mr. Pandey was an activist with their organisation and was attacked as has always raised his voice against any anti-student policy. It alleged that he had been targeted before as well for his views.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for duping company of Rs. 36 cr. by posing as IFS officer||A man has been arrested for allegedly duping a private company to the tune of Rs. 36 croresby impersonating himself as an IFS officer, the police said on Thursday. Piyush Bandhopadhyay, who was nabbed from Noida, used to frequently change his residence. He told his landlords that he was an IFS officer. Hence, to give an impression about his coveted status of senior government functionary, Bandhopadhyay held business meetings in five-star hotels and arrived in a beacon-fitted vehicle. Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW) O.P. Mishra said a probe was initiated against Bandhopadhyay after they received a complaint from the representative of SRM Mahadeo Smart Bio Toilet Pvt. Ltd. The said company said that they were approached by the accused’s wife, Shweta Sorout. She introduced herself as the Indian head of Intellectual Innovation Think Tank Company (IITT), which was engaged in selling patent technology to government and non-government agencies all across the world. The company alleged that Sorout arranged a meeting of the company with her husband and convinced them to buy the technology. Bandhopadhyay showed them his fake visiting card and degrees. The couple duped the company of Rs. 36 crore. The woman is said to be absconding.
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sub-inspector records SHO’s corrupt practices; inquiry ordered||A 2010-batch sub-inspector rank officer posted in a west Delhi police station has written his grievances and levelled allegations against the Station House Officer for his alleged corrupt practices in a daily diary entry on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit said that a vigilance inquiry into the DD entry has been initiated and that action will be taken according to the findings. In the DD entry, the SI has narrated an incident saying that he had called a suspect in a case of wrongful restrain but right after, he received a call from the SHO asking him not to trouble the suspect. The SI allegedly told the SHO that the man he has called is the prime suspect but the SHO allegedly refused to call him for questioning. Later, the SI, alleged that he got to know that a head constable had met the suspect’s mother and took Rs. 32,000 from her. The HC also allegedly told the suspect’s mother that he was the SHO’s aide and that the sub-inspector is not important. Disciplinary action The SI said that he is aware that the SHO might recommend disciplinary action against him but he has no other option then putting it on record for senior officers to look at. He said that he feels “mentally tortured” and that other investigating officers feel the same.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||Plea on ‘illegal’ construction at Netaji Subhash Place rejected by High Court||The Delhi High Court on Thursday dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL), which claimed unauthorised construction was being carried out at Netaji Subhash Place here, saying the plea appeared to be kind of a “blackmail” which did not seem to be filed in public interest. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan imposed a cost of Rs. 25,000 on the petitioner, noting that the plea was without any substance and that the petitioner had made the building, where the construction was going on, a party and not its owner. “If we are to issue notice, we cannot expect the building to reply to it or appear before us. It appears this is not a public interest litigation. It appears to be a blackmail,” the Bench remarked. The court directed that the amount be deposited within four weeks. The petitioner, Dilip Kumar, had challenged the construction of two additional floors in the building in question and had sought directions to the authorities to take action in accordance with law against the same. He had claimed that he had sent complaints to the local bodies and the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) seeking action against the alleged unauthorised construction, but nothing was done and therefore, he moved the High Court.  If we are to issue notice, we cannot expect the building to reply to it or appear before us... High Court Bench
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||HC allows breath analyser test via tube process for air traffic controllers||The Delhi High Court on Thursday allowed breath analyser test (BAT) through tube process for air traffic controllers (ATCs) that was previously suspended in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Justice Navin Chawla allowed a plea by Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), seeking modification of an earlier order and to implement the medical report of Directorate General of Medical Services (DGMS). As per the DGMS medical board’s recommendation, one machine once used to test a person shall not be reused for the next 12 hours. The High Court said the interest of ATCs and passengers has to be balanced and noted that BAT is being presently conducted on pilots also in a restricted manner and the medical report has been given by those who are experts in their fields. The DGCA’s application was filed in pending petition by the Air Traffic Controllers’ Guild (India) which had sought direction to DGCA and the Airport Authority of India (AAI) to temporarily suspend BAT through the current tube process to prevent further spread of the virus. Efficiency of BAT The DGCA said in pursuance to the High Court’s earlier order, DGMS (Air) had convened a meeting with representatives from the DGCA and the AAI to formulate the alternative protocol to conduct BAT and it was concluded that BAT is the most efficient and reliable form of detecting alcohol in the breath of a person.  It said the other methods, such as the testing of blood and urine are neither considered to be practical nor there is any provision in any Civil Aviation Requirements (CARs) till date.
04 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gahlot reviews installation of safety features in cluster and DTC buses||Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Thursday inspected a command centre and buses, which have recently been installed with safety features like a panic button, CCTV cameras, and automatic vehicle locator (AVL) system, at the Rajghat Bus Depot. The government had decided earlier to upgrade the fleet of around 5,500 Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster buses to ensure safety and security of the passengers. The government said the new features would make travel for women safer. During the inspection, Mr. Gahlot said, “We are trying to bring into focus more petty and unnoticed crimes faced by women commuters in the buses. Today, I have inspected the working of the command and control centre and I am glad that even the smallest instance of any crimes can be captured and recorded.” He also said the presence of bus marshals would help reduce crimes in buses. “By November this year, all DTC and cluster buses will be fitted with 3 IP Cameras, mid-tier networking vehicular radio integrated with GPS device, 10 panic buttons, a display for the driver, hooter, strobe and a two-way audio communication device for driver and conductor,” the government said. Working of panic button The panic buttons, when pressed by a passenger, driver or conductor in case of any emergency, will send in real-time an alert to the command and control centre. From here, the operator will filter the alerts and forward them to respective agencies such as police, fire department or ambulance service, all of which can find the location of the bus with the help of GPS coordinates installed in the vehicles.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||Health data management policy: plea on extension of consultation dismissed||The Delhi High Court on Thursday declined to entertain a petition seeking extension of the 15-day consultation process on Health Data Management Policy (HDMP), but asked the Centre to decide on a representation made on the issue by the petitioner. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said if such procedural aspects are made complicated, the government may not come out with policies. “Don’t make the procedural aspects so cumbersome or complicated that the government is incentivised against coming out with policies,” the High Court said. The court was hearing a petition by Satendra Singh, a doctor, to extend the notice period of the consultation of the ‘National Digital Health Mission (NDHM): HDMP’ till restrictions or the lockdown is in place under the Disaster Management Act for COVID-19 pandemic subsist, or for a minimum period of 60 days. Dr. Singh had sent a representation to the Centre highlighting concerns about the unreasonably short deadline and inaccessible and exclusionary nature of the consultation for the ‘NDHM: HDMP’. The draft policy is part of the digital health ecosystem under the NDHM announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Independence Day, the plea said. Under it, “every Indian citizen will get a health ID, which will be a repository of all health-related information of a person, such as medical tests, previous prescriptions, diagnosis, treatments, historical health records,” the plea said. “Even though the policy is currently at a draft stage, the Respondents [Centre] have reportedly already issued 55,700 health IDs in less than two weeks,” the petition stated. It said that NDHM and its draft HDMP involve several complex issues, which require expertise in multiple disciplines. “The hasty manner in which the public consultation is being conducted also shows complete disregard for the fundamental rights of persons with disabilities,” it said.
04 September 2020||GURUGRAM,||Tepid response to bar licence renewal in Gurugram||The Haryana government’s decision to allow renewal of bar licences has evoked lukewarm response from the hospitality industry in Gurugram so far with just 60-odd applications received for the re-issuance. The Millennium City has around 280 bars and hotels serving liquor. Haryana Excise and Taxation Commissioner has allowed the renewal of bar licences in the State from Tuesday. However, only 62 bar owners have applied for the renewal of licence. Hotels with ratings of three stars and above were allowed to serve liquor in rooms through an order on July 16 and their licences were renewed, but were kept inoperative. Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner (Excise, East) Aruna Singh told The Hindu that she had received 45 applications for renewal so far and the same were being scrutinised. The East Zone has 189 bars and hotels, including those in Sector 29 and along the Golf Course Road. Similarly, the West Zone, including the Cyber Hub, has 93 bars and hotels serving liquor, but only 17 have applied for the renewal till date. Ms. Singh said that seven bar owners had offered to surrender their licences. She, however, added that the figures were in sync with the annual trend. Refusing to speculate on the number of owners likely to surrender their licences, Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner (Excise, West) Anirudh Sharma said the picture would be clear in a couple of days. National Restaurant Association of India’s Gurugram chapter head Inderjeet Banga expressed apprehensions that around 50% bar owners might find it infeasible to operate due to high rentals and surrender their licences. “The bars have been shut for five months and their opening now does not guarantee the return of the business. So most of the bars owners are finding it difficult to survive at the current high rentals. We need the support of landlords for three months,” said Mr. Banga, who runs ‘Pirates of Grill’ at a shopping mall on Mehrauli-Gurugram Road.He said the government had offered 20% rebate to bar owners in case of upfront payment of licence fee for two quarters and was also considering waiver of fee for the ongoing month.
04 September 2020||Lucknow,||2 policemen suspended after clash in U.P.’s Ballia||A senior police officer and his gunner were among those injured after villagers, angered by the alleged custodial beating of a local in Ballia district, clashed with the police on Thursday. A police outpost in-charge and a head constable were suspended for negligence in connection with the incident of assault, said Ballia police. Visuals from the Rasra area of Ballia showed angry villagers chase police personnel and pelt them with stones. The protesters also indulged in vandalism and held up traffic. Fifteen persons were detained in connection with the violence, said Ballia police. Devendra Nath, SP, Ballia, said that a woman, Ramdulari, had submitted an application asking for the eviction of her brother-in-law’s son Pannalal Rajbhar from a room she had given out to him. Both sides came to the local outpost and were questioned. Pannalal Rajbhar alleged that the outpost in-charge “misbehaved” with him and “thrashed” him in custody, said SP Ballia.
04 September 2020||New Delhi,||BJP indulging in corruption in garb of landfill work: AAP||The AAP on Thursday alleged that the BJP-ruled civic body is indulging in corruption in the name of reducing the height of Bhalswa landfill and has been lying to people about it. “On August 30, a councillor from Jahangirpuri asked for a report regarding the estimated cost to reduce the height of Bhalswa landfill. The report shows that the BJP has spent Rs. 5 crore per month to reduce the height of the landfill. It also shows that despite this huge expense, the height of the landfill has not come down even by an inch. This means that the North Corporation Mayor lied. The BJP has made these mountains of garbage across Delhi in the last 15 years and they are misleading people now,” AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said. The AAP on Thursday said that its members would join a sit-in protest of civic body workers from Monday at the Civic Centre, in demand of immediate payment of their pending salary
04 September 2020||Guwahati,||May take 2 months to kill Assam well fire: Minister||Assam’s Industry and Commerce Minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said the well-killing operation at the Baghjan blowout site in Tinsukia district may take another two months as Oil India Limited (OIL) has decided to partially divert the natural gas for controlling the fire at the well head. Well No 5 at Baghjan, close to the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, had a blowout, or uncontrolled escape of gas at very high pressure, on May 27. The well caught fire on June 9 and has been burning since despite having been capped on August 17 after two failed attempts. “The operation to kill the blowout well at Baghjan will take another six to eight weeks. A team of experts with a sophisticated machine is expected to arrive soon,” Mr Patowary told the 126-member State Assembly on Wednesday. He added that Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal was constantly reviewing the situation at the blowout site and the State government has instructed officials to ensure no affected family is left out from the list of beneficiaries. “The State government has instructed various departments to survey the affected area and the process of paying compensation has started as directed by the National Green Tribunal. So far, Rs. 2.40 crore has been paid to the families whose houses were destroyed in the fire,” he said. OIL officials said they have decided to partially divert gas from the blowout well and flare the rest of it.  Stoppingg gas release “This will help in dousing the huge fire at the well head, stopping the vertical release of gas coming out from the well head and minimising the present sound at the well head to a large extent,” OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika said from the exploration major’s headquarters at Duliajan in Dibrugarh district. “This will help in reducing well head pressure for the snubbing operation planned,” he added. OIL officials said experts and a machine for diverting the gas were expected within three weeks to control the fire at the blowout site. The operation at the blowout well has been outsourced to a Gujarat-based firm.
04 September 2020||GURUGRAM,||NH-248A concessionaire debarred from NHAI bids||The concessionaire engaged for the widening and strengthening of National Highway-248A here has been debarred from participating in the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) bids for two years. The action comes two weeks after a portion of an under-construction elevated corridor on the highway collapsed, injuring two people. “Further to the collapse of a span of under-construction elevated corridor on six-laning of NH-248-A from Rajiv Chowk to Sohna on August 22, the NHAI has taken strict action against the concessionaire i.e. M/s Rajiv Chowk – Sohna Highway Pvt. Ltd. and its promoters i.e. M/s Oriental Structural Engineers Pvt. Ltd...the concessionaire has been debarred from participating in any NHAI bids [directly or in association] involving major structural works until they demonstrate reliable construction methodologies/designs and adequate safety measures at site; and demonstrate that such type of accidents do not occur in other parts of their works,” said a statement by the NHAI. It also said the concessionaire was issued a show-cause notice to explain on the violation of the obligations under the concession agreement, but the explanation was found to be unsatisfactory.
04 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Probe sought into lynching||The Assam Human Rights Commission (AHRC) has directed the District Magistrate of Karimganj district to probe the mob lynching of three Bangladeshi nationals on July 18. In an order on August 25, AHRC member N.K. Deka sought a magisterial inquiry into the circumstances that led to the death of the three who had allegedly intruded Bogrijan village near the India-Bangladesh border to steal cattle.
