04 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan Congress factions inching towards a truce||Ahead of the crucial Rajasthan Assembly session beginning on August 14, a compromise between the two rival factions in the ruling Congress seems possible, with both the sides softening their stance on the rebellion staged by the former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot. The MLAs loyal to Mr. Pilot are reportedly willing to attend the session. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who had earlier used harsh words against Mr. Pilot, has said that if the Congress high command forgave the 19 rebel MLAs, he would also welcome them back in the party fold. The legislators of the Gehlot camp have since been shifted to a resort near Jaisalmer amid speculations that the votes required for proving the government’s majority on the floor of the House might be dwindling. CM targets BJP However, Mr. Gehlot has reiterated his charge that the BJP had hatched a conspiracy to topple his government and said the offer of money for luring the MLAs had gone up after the Governor announced the date for convening the Assembly session. The political crisis began last month after he accused Mr. Pilot of being directly involved in the conspiracy with the BJP. The recent gestures from the Pilot camp have given indications of a possible compromise within the Congress. Mr. Pilot, who was also removed from the position of the Pradesh Congress Committee president, congratulated his successor, Govind Singh Dotasra, when he took charge on July 29, and hoped that he would give “full respect” to the party workers without any pressure or bias. Gajendra Singh Shaktawat, one of the MLAs loyal to Mr. Pilot, told The Hindu from an undisclosed location in Haryana on Monday that the dissident legislators would come to Jaipur to attend the Assembly session. ‘Still with party’ “We have never said that we have shifted away from the Congress. We will participate in the House proceedings as Congress MLAs,” he said. Mr. Shaktawat, elected to the Assembly from Vallabhnagar , said that the fight of the legislators supporting Mr. Pilot was that of “self-respect”.
04 August 2020||Shiv Sahay Singh Kolkata,||WB Minister flags concerns on NEP||West Bengal Education Minister Partha Chatterjee on Monday expressed “serious reservations” over the new National Education Policy ( NEP) and said it was not possible to implement it in five years. Mr. Chatterjee said the State government has set up a six-member committee to look into NEP, and it will send a report to the Centre by August 15. The State Education Minister said that the committee comprise Lok Sabha MP Saugata Roy, educationist Pabitra Sarkar and Avik Majumdar, indologist Nrisingha Prasad Bhaduri, and vice-chancellors Suranjan Das and Sabyasachi Basu Roychowdhury. The Minister also added that organisations working in the field of education can also send their recommendations to the education department by August 15. The first sign of disapproval of the NEP by the Trinamool Congress government came a couple of days ago when Mr, Chatterjee said that he felt that the policy has been “copied from foreign education systems”. “A detailed discussion will be held with our educationists and student’s bodies. We will be able to tell our views on the NEP once discussions are held,” the Minister had said on August 1. The Union Cabinet approved the new National Education Policy (NEP) on July 29. The Students Federation of India (SFI), the student wing of Communist Party of India ( Marxist), has also taken to the streets in protest over the NEP .
04 August 2020||CAPE CANAVERAL,||SpaceX with NASA crew is back home||Two NASA astronauts returned to Earth on Sunday in a dramatic, retro-style splashdown, their capsule parachuting into the Gulf of Mexico to finish an unprecedented test flight by Elon Musk’s SpaceX company. It was the first splashdown by U.S. astronauts in 45 years, with the first commercially built and operated spacecraft to carry people to and from orbit. The return clears the way for another SpaceX crew launch as early as next month and possible tourist flights next year. Test pilots Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken returned to earth in their SpaceX Dragon capsule named Endeavour, less than a day after departing the International Space Station and two months after blasting off from Florida. The capsule parachuted into the calm gulf waters about 40 miles off the coast of Pensacola. “Welcome back to planet Earth and thanks for flying SpaceX,” said Mission Control from SpaceX headquarters. After medical checkups, the astronauts were flown to Houston. Mr. Musk had rushed to Houston from SpaceX headquarters in Hawthorne, California, to welcome them. He was clearly moved — and relieved — while addressing the group. “I’m not very religious, but I prayed for this one,” he said.  The Coast Guard in Pensacola said it had deployed two vessels to keep the public at least 10 miles away from the capsule. Mr. Trump and Vice-President Mike Pence, who both attended the launch, congratulated the SpaceX and NASA teams. “Great to have NASA Astronauts return to Earth after very successful two month mission. Thank you to all!” U.S. President Donald Trump tweeted. The last time NASA astronauts returned from space to water was on July 24, 1975, in the Pacific, the scene of most splashdowns, to end a joint U.S.-Soviet mission known as Apollo-Soyuz. The Mercury and Gemini crews in the early to mid-1960s parachuted into the Atlantic, while most of the later Apollo capsules hit the Pacific. The lone Russian “splashdown” was in 1976 on a partially frozen lake amid a blizzard following an aborted mission; the harrowing recovery took hours.
04 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Modi, Bhagwat will be on stage at Ayodhya event||Around 175 guests, including 135 seers from across the country and kin of the ‘kar sevaks’ killed in police firing in 1990, have been invited to attend the Ram temple foundation laying ceremony in Ayodhya on August 5, the Trust, which will be building it, said on Monday. Only five persons, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat, will be on stage, said Champat Rai, general secretary of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra (Trust). Senior BJP leader Uma Bharti, however, said on Twitter that she would not be present at the event as she was concerned about Mr. Modi’s health over COVID-19, following some party leaders testing positive, and would only go to the site once he and other dignitaries left. The other persons on the stage would be Mahant Nrityagopal Das, head of the Trust, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel. Iqbal Ansari, who was a litigant in the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi case, and local resident Mohammad Shareef, who was awarded Padma Shri for years of performing the last rites of unclaimed bodies, were also invited, said Mr. Rai. The 135 seers belonged to 36 spiritual traditions and would also include the priest of the Janaki temple in Nepal, he added. The Trust started distributing the invitation cards on Monday.
04 August 2020||BENGALURU,||CM has mild COVID-19 symptoms; may stay in hospital for eight to 10 days||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who was admitted to a private hospital in Bengaluru on Sunday night after he tested positive for COVID-19, has mild symptoms. Manipal Hospital has stated that he was admitted here around 11 p.m. on Sunday with mild symptoms. “At present, he is doing well and is clinically stable. He is being treated and monitored closely by a multidisciplinary team of doctors,” according to a statement from the hospital. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who is in-charge of COVID-19 affairs, told media persons on Monday that “the Chief Minister will have to remain hospitalised for eight to 10 days”. Meanwhile, the 77-year-old Chief Minister released a video message from the hospital stating that there were no complications and that he would get well soon and return home. Seeking to allay fears about administration not being monitored, Mr. Yediyurappa said he had been in touch with officers to ensure that work is not hampered. “There is no need for any panic. I will be cured and will resume work as soon as possible,” he said. Ending speculation on who would lead the administration while he is hospitalised, Mr Yediyurappa indicated that he would monitor the administration from hospital through videoconferencing. Confusion appears to have gripped the Chief Minister’s primary contacts among Ministers and top bureaucrats on the protocols to be followed. While some Ministers opted for self-isolation, several senior bureaucrats chose quick COVID-19 tests instead of isolation to prevent the administration set up from being hit by mass isolation.  Residence, office sealed Meawhile, the test report of six of Mr. Yediyurappa’s his staff members returned positive on Monday leading to the official residence ‘Krishna’ and home office ‘Cauvery’ being sealed for five days. CMO sources said those who tested positive include a driver to an officer on special duty, a gunman, a police personnel deputed at the gate, and three house maintenance staff.
04 August 2020||GUNTUR,||Govt. committed to inclusive growth: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said economic development is possible only by hand-holding the weaker sections. Mr. Jagan told a group of Chief Executive Officers of leading corporate companies that inclusive growth is key to to sustainable development of rural areas. The State government signed an MoU with leading companies such as ITC, Procter and Gamble and Hindustan Unilever Limited to conduct skill-based training programmes for women aged between 45-60 years in rural areas. “Our government has placed emphasis on women empowerment and on August 12, we are starting YSR Cheyutha under which we would be giving financial assistance to women belonging to BC and SC/ ST sections. Every year, women are provided Rs. 18,750 and in four years, they are provided a one-time financial assistance of Rs. 75,000. We hope that this assistance would revive economic activity in rural areas,’’ said Mr. Jagan. The government would launch YSR Cheyutha on August 12 under which Rs. 4,500 crore would be directly credited to the accounts of women . Under YSR Aasara, 90 lakh women would be given loans to the tune of Rs. 6,700 crore. The day also witnessed corporate honchos speaking in one voice on women empowerment. Sanjeev Mehta, Managing Director, Hindustan Unilever Limited, said they are happy to work with the A.P. government on women empowerment and have already started the ‘Shakti’ programme in Chittoor. ‘Bold initiative’ ITC Chairman Sanjeev Puri termed the Chief Minister’s initiative ‘bold.’ CEO and MD of Procter and Gamble, Madhusudan Gopalakrishnan said the company has been imparting skill-based training to 20 lakh students. Later, the CEO SERP and ITC Divisional Chief Executive Rajani Kanth Roy signed a MoU and later a MoU was signed between the State government and Procter and Gamble. Ministers Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, Botcha Satyanarayana and Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney were among those present.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cut gratuity period to one year: panel||The Parliamentary Committee on Labour has, in its latest report, recommended that the eligibility period for gratuity payable to an employee on termination of his employment should be reduced to one year from the present provision of five years. Economic slowdown The Committee made this recommendation in its report on Social Security Code, which has been evolved subsuming nine Central Labour laws. This comes in the wake of extensive retrenchment in all sectors in COVID-19 pandemic-induced economic slowdown. Report submitted The committee, which is headed by Biju Janta Dal MP Bharatruhari Mahtab, submitted the report to Speaker Om Birla on Friday. “Keeping in view the nature of India’s Labour Market where most employees are employed for a short duration period only, making them ineligible for gratuity as per extant norms, the Committee desires that the time limit of five years as provided for in the Code for payment of gratuity be reduced to continuous service of one year,” the report says. It has also recommended that this facility be extended to all kinds of employees, including contract labourers, seasonal workers, piece rate workers, fixed term employees and daily/monthly wage workers. Redressal mechanism The committee has stressed that there should be a robust redressal mechanism in case an employer does not pay up the dues.
04 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Yet another day of high local transmission||Kerala registered 962 new COVID-19 cases and 815 recoveries on Monday. While the cumulative case burden of the State has reached 26,873 cases, with 15,278 recoveries registered so far, the number of persons currently undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in hospitals in the State is 11,484. Two more deaths were confirmed as due to COVID-19 by the health authorities in Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha, taking the toll in the State to 84. The authorities claimed that all the other deaths reported in the State as due to COVID-19 would be reconfirmed by the National Institute of Virology, Alappuzha, before adding them to the State’s tally. Of the 962 cases, 822 cases are locally acquired infections, with the authorities unable to determine the source of infection in 40 cases. On Monday, 15 more health-care workers tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Disease transmission shows no let up in the capital district where 13 major clusters have formed. From the clusters formed in the coastal areas, the disease has spread well into the urban areas, with clusters now developing in resettlement colonies. Of the 205 cases reported in the capital district on Monday, all except two are locally acquired infections with the source of infection remaining unknown in five cases. In Kollam, a cluster has developed inside the district prison, with 43 inmates testing positive.  Briefing media, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here that a cluster detected in a care home, Karunalayam, at Thrikkakkara in Ernakulam last week remained active with more inmates testing positive. COVID-19 spreading to care homes and convents should be viewed very seriously, he said. Till date, 174 clusters have been reported in the State. District-wise figures Ernakulam reported 106 cases, Alappuzha 101, Malappuram 85, Kasaragod 66, Kottayam 35, Kollam 57, Thrissur 85, Kozhikode 33, Idukki 26, Palakkad 51, Pathanamthitta 36, Wayanad 31, and Kannur 37.  The total number of persons in quarantine exceeds 1.45 lakh, of whom 10,779 with mild symptoms have been isolated in hospitals.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. sets out rules for yoga classes, gyms||All yoga institutes and gymnasiums in containment zones will remain closed, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday while issuing revised guidelines for opening these facilities for public use from August 5. The Ministry has specified that visitors here should maintain a minimum distance of 6 feet as far as feasible and while use of face covers/masks is mandatory at all times within the premises, during yoga exercise or exercising in gymnasiums, as far as possible only a visor may be used to avoid any difficulty in breathing. Issuing details of planning and scheduling activities, the Ministry said the “practice of Yogic Kriya(s) may be avoided for the time being and even if it is to be practised essentially, it may be done in open spaces”. “Group fitness rooms and classes are to follow staggered times and allow a minimum of 15-30 minutes between classes to avoid overlap between members arriving and leaving, while offering classes online, wherever possible,” it noted.
04 August 2020||Chennai/New Delhi,||Palaniswami rejects three-language formula||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday categorically stated that the AIADMK government will “never allow the three-language policy [which has been proposed as part of the National Education Policy 2020], and will continue to implement the two-language policy” in the State. As for NEP as a whole, the government would constitute committees to examine the policy before taking a stand on the proposals it entails, he said. Responding to Mr. Palaniswami’s remarks, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank’s office told The Hindu that he would “talk to all stakeholders for effective implementation of [the] policy, which will create global citizens”. Without stepping back on the three-language policy recommendation, it added, “The NEP makes [it] clear that no language will be forced [up]on States and all languages will be promoted.” The CM requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accept the collective sentiment of the people of Tamil Nadu and reconsider the three-language formula. Collective sentiment “The collective sentiment of Tamil Nadu’s people and political parties, including the AIADMK, is for following the two-language policy. It is saddening that the three-language formula is part of the NEP,” he said. “If the interests of the Tamil language or Tamils are affected, the government will take steps [to redress it],” he said, recalling that his government had opposed the three-language policy when the draft NEP was released last year. The people of Tamil Nadu have been firm in following the two-language policy for over 80 years, and have expressed their sentiments on the issue through protests at different points in time. Recalling the agitation against the imposition of Hindi in 1965, the CM underlined a resolution rejecting the three-language policy that was passed by the Madras Legislative Assembly on January 23, 1968, during C.N. Annadurai’s tenure as Chief Minister. On November 13, 1986, when M.G. Ramachandran was the CM, a resolution in support of the two-language policy was passed in the Assembly. Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa too had maintained that Hindi should not be imposed on people in non-Hindi-speaking States, and any such effort would be defeated, Mr. Palaniswami said.
04 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS COVID cases drop below 1,000||For the first time in a little over a month, less than 1,000 COVID cases in a day were reported in Telangana . On August 2 (Sunday), only 983 cases were reported. Till July 1, less than 1,000 cases a day were reported except on June 27 (1087 cases). Thereafter, the daily count has been more than 1,000 cases except on August 2. One of the reasons for the sharp drop in the cases could be that only 9,443 COVID tests were conducted on Sunday. Results of 1,414 samples are awaited. From June 30 to August 1, around 20,000 tests a day were conducted. Of the 983 new cases, 273 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, 73 from Rangareddy, 57 from Warangal Urban, 54 from Karimnagar. On the whole, 67,660 cases were recorded till August 2. Of them, 18,500 are active cases, 48,609 were discharged, and 551 have died including 11 people who died on Sunday. It was mentioned in the media bulletin issued by the State Health department that 46.13% of people died due to COVID-19, and the remaining 53.87% died due to co-morbidities. However, the total deaths considered to draw the percentage distribution was not mentioned. It has been a week that the Health department has been publishing the data. But even the fraction part of the numbers did not change in the seven days. Regarding beds availability, 3,310 oxygen beds, 9,37 ICU beds were available in the 57 State government hospitals. In 94 private hospitals, 818 oxygen beds and 510 ICU beds were available.
04 August 2020||Special Correspondent Chennai/New Delhi,||T.N. rejects three-language formula||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday categorically stated that the AIADMK government will “never allow the three-language policy [which has been proposed as part of the National Education Policy 2020], and will continue to implement the two-language policy” in the State. As for NEP as a whole, the government would constitute committees to examine the policy before taking a stand on the proposals it entails, he said. Responding to Mr. Palaniswami’s remarks, the Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank’s office told The Hindu that he would “talk to all stakeholders for effective implementation of [the] policy, which will create global citizens”.
04 August 2020||Kolkata,||Deaths hit a new high in Bengal, take toll to 1,731||For the first time on Monday, the number of COVID-19 deaths on a single day in West Bengal crossed the 50 mark with 53 deaths, taking the total fatalities to 1,731. As many as 2,716 cases were recorded taking the total tally in the State to 78,232, of which 21,683 were active. The discharge rate in the State stands at 70.07%. Of the 53 deaths, 21 deaths were recorded in Kolkata and 21 in North 24 Parganas district. Kolkata, with 820 deaths, accounted for more than half the deaths across West Bengal. North 24 Parganas is the second most affected district with 389 deaths. The State government on Monday also issued revised dates for the biweekly lockdown which is in place. This, the government said, was in response to “several requests and appeals from people to relax complete lockdown on certain dates coinciding with some festivals”. Meanwhile, the State unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has sought revocation of lockdownon August 5as it coincides with the foundation stone laying event of Ram temple in Ayodhya.
04 August 2020||Jaisalmer,||Women Cong. MLAs tie rakhi on Gehlot||Women Congress MLAs of Rajasthan celebrated the festival of Raksha Bandhan by tying rakhis on the wrist of CM Ashok Gehlot. They also tied rakhis on other legislators staying in a hotel in Jaisalmer. They are expected to be here till the Assembly session begins on August 14.
04 August 2020||Jaipur,||Gehlot seeks CBI raids on Shekhawat||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday attacked Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, saying the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) should raid his premises as the BJP leader’s name has cropped up in the Rs. 900-crore Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society scam.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||The dispute is over, says Iqbal Ansari||Iqbal Ansari, who was a litigant in the Ayodhya land dispute case, has decided to gift a ‘Ram nami’ stole and a copy of the Ramcharitmanas to PM Narendra Modi when he attends the  ceremony on Wednesday. “The dispute is over now after the court’s verdict,” he said.page 9
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||The protector||
04 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||2 tribals killed in landmine blast in Agency||Two tribals were killed early on Monday when they stepped on a landmine allegedly planted by Maoists near Chintalaveedhi village in the Agency area of Visakhapatnam district. The deceased were identified as Mondipali Ajay Kumar, 20, and Mondipali Mohan Kumar, 26, both from Chintalaveedhi village. According to Visakhapatnam Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao, the landmine or IEDs were planted targeting the security forces and it indicates that the villagers were not taken into confidence by the Maoists, which is normally done. As per initial reports, more than one landmine might have exploded and they could have been self-activated IEDs (improvised explosive devices) or pressure activated devices, Mr Rao said. Martyr’s Week, being observed by the Maoists from July 28 to August 3, was peaceful till Monday’s explosion. The week is observed by the left wing extremists to commemorate the death of Charu Majumdar the founder and architect of the Naxalite movement. Majumdar died on July 28, 1972, in a police lock-up in West Bengal.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Digvijaya urges PM to postpone ceremony||Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Monday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to postpone the ceremony in Ayodhya. He asked Mr. Modi: “By laying the foundation of the Ram temple at an inauspicious timing, how many more people do you want to send to hospital?”page 9
04 August 2020||HUBBALLI,||Bagalkot registers 209 new cases, Dharwad 191||Bagalkot district recorded 209 COVID-19 positive cases, while Dharwad district registered 191 such cases on Monday. Meanwhile, Belagavi recorded 10 deaths on Monday, while Dharwad district recorded eight deaths. Gadag, Haveri, Davangere and Vijayapura recorded two deaths each, while Uttara Kannada recorded one COVID-19-related death.
04 August 2020||HUBBALLI,||Superintendent of Police office sealed in Dharwad||The office of the Superintendent of Police in Dharwad has been sealed for two days as two among the staff there tested positive. In a communication here, Superintendent of Police Vartika Katiyar said that her office in Dharwad has been sealed as the staff tested positive for COVID-19.
04 August 2020||Chennai,||T.N. reports 5,609 fresh cases, 109 fatalities||For the second consecutive day, Maharashtra reported higher recoveries, with 10,221 people being discharged on Monday, taking the total number of discharged till date to 2,87,030. On Monday 8,968 new COVID-19 cases were reported taking the tally to 4,50,196. Mumbai reported a relatively low 970 cases to take its total case tally to 1,17,406. With 266 more deaths, the number of fatalities rose to 15,842.
04 August 2020||Chennai,||Distribution of books, bags begins in schools||All shops in Mumbai can remain open on all days, on both sides of the road, irrespective of the odd-even formula which was in place, the BMC announced on Monday. An order issued by Municipal Commissioner I.S. Chahal, said all non-essential markets, market areas and shops would be open from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Liquor shops have been allowed over the counter sales, with strict observance of physical distancing norms. Malls and markets complexes will also open from August 5.
04 August 2020||Chennai,||Give eggs, napkins to schoolchildren: HC||The Madras High Court on Monday said that the government should stop giving excuses for not being able to distribute eggs and sanitary napkins to poor children and instead start working on ways and means to ensure that the benefits reach everyone.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Patients queue up for CCC at BIEC||In the thick of a controversy not long ago, the COVID Care Centre (CCC) at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) on Tumakuru Road is now seeing demand as number of cases is witnessing a steady rise.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 deaths cross 2,500 mark in Karnataka||The number of COVID-19 deaths in the State has crossed the 2,500 mark. As many as 98 new deaths were reported on Monday across the State, taking the total number to 2,594. This is apart from the eight deaths of patients who tested positive and died due to non-COVID-19 causes.
04 August 2020||Mysuru,||Services of re-engaged railway staff terminated||Services of scores of retired but re-engaged employees in the South Western Railways have been terminated as austerity or as a cost-cutting measure. This follows a review of railways’ policy onre-engagement ofretired personnel till new recruits are trained and deployed.
04 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Hooch tragedy: Cong., Akalis exchange barbs||Punjab Cabinet Ministers and Shiromani Akali Dal leaders on Monday engaged in a war of words over the hooch tragedy that has claimed 108 lives in the State so far. The Ministers issued statements hitting out at the Akali leaders for blaming the Amarinder Singh government for the tragedy.
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||Active COVID-19 cases in Delhi dip to nearly 10K||The Capital reported 805 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,38,482, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. As many as 1,24,254 patients have recovered so far and there are 10,207 active cases in the city.
04 August 2020||Srinagar,||Curfew announced in Srinagar for two days||The Srinagar administration on Monday declared a curfew on August 4 and 5, the first anniversary of withdrawal of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, as it “feared protests and violence”. Only medical emergencies would be exempted as the restrictions would come into force with immediate effect.
04 August 2020||Hyderabad,||As tests dip, so do new cases in Telangana||Telangana recorded less than 1,000 COVID-19 cases in a day. On August 2, the State reported 983 cases. The case count till July 1 was less than 1,000 a day except on June 27 (1,087 cases), but the daily count was over 1,000 except on August 2. The drop in cases coincided with a reduction in testing, with only 9,443 tests offered on Sunday. Results of 1,414 samples were awaited. From June 30 to August 1, around 20,000 tests a day were conducted. Of the 983 new cases, 273 were from Greater Hyderabad, 73 from Rangareddy, 57 from Warangal Urban and 54 from Karimnagar. Overall, 67,660 cases were recorded till August 2, of which 18,500 were active cases, 48,609 had been discharged, and 551 people died including 11 on Sunday. While Kerala’s cumulative case burden touched 26,873, with 15,282 recoveries, people under treatment in hospitals stood at 11,482. Two more deaths were confirmed as due to COVID-19 by the Health department in Thiruvananthapuram and Alapuzha, taking the toll to 84. Of the 962 new cases, 822 were locally acquired infections. The capital district recorded 13 major clusters, with clusters developing in resettlement colonies. Of the 205 COVID-19 cases in Thiruvananthapuram district, all except two were locally acquired infections. In Kollam, a cluster developed in the district prison, with 57 inmates infected. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that a cluster in a care home at Thrikkakkara in Ernakulam remained active with more inmates testing positive. COVID-19 deaths in Karnataka stood at 2,594 as 98 new fatalities were reported on Monday. A total of 42% of the total deaths were in Bengaluru. The city also reported 43% of positive cases in the State. On Monday, 4,752 new cases were reported, taking the total to 1.39 lakh. On a day when Tamil Nadu reported 5,609 new COVID-19 cases, the death of 109 persons over the last eight days was also recorded, while people discharged after treatment crossed two lakh. The overall COVID-19 tally climbed to 2,63,222 on Monday, with 56,698 persons under treatment. The State’s toll rose to 4,241. Among the 109 persons who died were an eight-year-old girl and 17-year-old boy from Chennai. The girl, who had Wilson’s disease, acute liver failure and coagulopathy, was admitted to the Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children on July 30 and tested positive for COVID-19. She died on August 1 from causes including refractory seizures, pneumonia and COVID-19. The teenager was admitted to a private hospital with fever for two days and altered sensorium on July 22. He had hepatic encephalopathy and died on July 31 due to sepsis.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai and Bengaluru bureaus)
04 August 2020||Ayodhya,||Laying foundation of a new India, says U.P. CM||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said that the COVID-19 protocol will be strictly followed during the bhoomi pujan ceremony for the Ram temple and only those invited should come. The Chief Minister, who was here to oversee preparations for the August 5 event, said it was a “historic and emotional” moment which will lay the “foundation of a new India”. Slams Congress The Chief Minister also hit out at the Congress, saying that those who are making negative comments on the event had tried to create obstacles in the construction of the temple and the people of the country know about them. “It is not only a historic but also an emotional moment as after 500 years the Ram Temple work will start. It will be the foundation of a new India,” he said. “COVID-19 protocol will be strictly followed at the event. As the Prime Minister will be here representing 135 crore people, I appeal that only those who have been invited should visit Ayodhya. The rest should remain at their respective places,” Mr. Adityanath said, adding no laxity will be allowed.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||MGNREGS running out of funds||One-third of the way through the financial year, government data show that the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme has used up almost half its allocated funds, spending more than Rs. 48,500 crore out of the expanded Rs. 1 lakh crore allocation announced following the COVID-19 outbreak. A new survey of 13 States, published by the Azim Premji Foundation (APF), shows what that statistic means on the ground — a number of gram panchayats in vulnerable areas have already exhausted their funds for the scheme; lower employment rates as the monsoon stops work in several States, and fewer livelihood options for more than four lakh families across the country which have completed their allotted 100 days of work. The APF has recommended that the Centre allocate another Rs. 1 lakh crore to the scheme, and double the permitted work limit to 200 days per household. ‘New projects needed’ “The Gram Panchayats’ shelf of projects will likely end by August 2020. Therefore, a quick process of creating further sets of projects is urgently needed. In several Gram Panchayats, the approved projects have already been exhausted,” said the APF study, based on ground reports from partner organisations. However, it commended the Odisha government for investing the pradhans of its Gram Panchayats with magisterial authorities for efficient decision-making concerning the implementation and making payments under MGNREGA. “The entire process cycle of implementation needs to be eased at this time of distress to respond to the current needs for work and payments,” it said. “Despite kharif operations, the demand for work is still very high; but workers in several States have been given the impression that MGNREGA work is suspended during the monsoon season,” said the report. It named Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat as States where the monsoon has reduced available work, despite high demand. The Jharkhand government, on the other hand, has taken up 20,000 acres of land for fruit plantation work under MGNREGA, which is work that can continue to benefit workers through the monsoon as well. “Ground observations suggest the payments are more or less in time where banking correspondents are in place,” said the report. It added that payments through banks continue to be inefficient as “rural branches of banks have limited capacity and infrastructure, and are often overwhelmed by the overcrowding.” The study noted that wages in the scheme are 25-30% lower than the minimum wages for agricultural workers in most States.
04 August 2020||Bhopal,||PM should postpone event: Digvijaya||Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Monday asked whether COVID-19 quarantine rules were applicable only to the common people and not to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in the wake of BJP leaders and Ministers testing positive for the novel coronavirus. Mr. Singh pointed out on Twitter that while Uttar Pradesh Minister Kamla Rani Varun had died of the infection, Uttar Pradesh BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh and Union Home Minister Amit Shah had contracted the disease. “In such conditions, shouldn’t the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister and the Prime Minister go into quarantine,” asked the former Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh in Hindi. “Is the quarantine condition only for the common people? Not for the Prime Minister and Chief Ministers? The quarantine period is 14 days.” Mr. Singh also appealed to the Prime Minister to postpone the foundation laying ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5, which, according to him, augured an “inauspicious timing”. He added: “After several years of struggle the opportunity for the construction of the Ram temple has arrived. Kindly stop your stubbornness from getting in the way.” ‘Inauspicious timing’ Questioning the timing of the ceremony, Mr. Singh asked Mr. Modi, “By laying the foundation of the Ram temple at an inauspicious timing, how many more people do you want to send to hospital? Mr. Adityanath [Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath] you should explain to Mr. Modi. Despite you, why are all traditions of Sanatana dharma being violated? And what are your compulsions that you are allowing all this to happen?” Mr. Singh claimed that the “inauspicious timing” was picked for the convenience of Mr. Modi, despite Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati of Dwarka Peeth warning about it. “This means Mr. Modi is bigger than thousands of years old established traditions of the Hindu religion! Is this Hindutva?” By ignoring the values of the Sanatana Dharma, Mr. Singh claimed, several leaders had tested positive for the virus. These included priests of the temple, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, State BJP president V.D. Sharma and Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa.
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC notice to Facebook on student’s plea||The Delhi High Court has issued notice to Facebook Inc., which owns photo and video sharing social networking platform Instagram, on a petition seeking the removal of pictures of a college student, which were lifted from Instagram, from porn sites. A Bench of Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani also ordered the Delhi police’s Cyber Prevention Awareness and Detection Unit (CyPAD) to submit a status report on the investigation. The order came on a petition of the student, currently studying in Bengaluru, complaining that pictures that she posted on Instagram and Facebook had mischievously and illegally been lifted and placed on a pornographic website, along with derogatory captions. Advocate Sarthak Maggon, appearing for the victim, said this was causing his client “deep distress, anguish and embarrassment”. Delhi government’s senior standing counsel Rahul Mehra said the complaint had been transferred to the CyPAD. He said immediate steps were taken to remove the photographs from the errant website. Notices under Section 79(3)(b) of the Information Technology Act, 2000, were sent to all 21 Internet Service Providers to block the offending content. He, however, stated that on follow-up, it was found that the content had been re-directed to other websites and platforms. Deputy Commissioner of Police, CyPAD, Anyesh Roy, who joined the hearing through videoconference, said personal content of other students had also been illegally re-posted. He added that investigation was going on in Bengaluru.  Mr. Roy underscored the “technological impediment” in completely effacing offending content from the World Wide Web, as it is easy to change the ‘hash value’ that is the “identifying element” of any content, when it is forwarded or moved from one platform to another. This makes it impossible to identify and remove content from all places. However, Mr. Roy assured the court that efforts to remove the offending content relating to the petitioner, as and where it surfaces, would go on.
04 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Police get more powers to enforce virus norms||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday gave the Kerala police sweeping powers to enforce COVID-19 quarantine norms. They will impose the civic rules and social behaviour code, designed to halt the further spread of the disease. There will be no leniency or dilution of norms, he said. Physical distancing Law enforcement would carry out the mandate to maintain physical distancing. It would implement the directive to compulsory wear face masks in public. The police would patrol public places and residential neighbourhoods to detect violators of the epidemic control Ordinance and slap fines or effect arrests, if necessary. A committee comprising the District Police Chief, District Collector and the District Medical Officer would decide and demarcate containment zones based on the local COVID-19 caseload. The committee would restrict containment zones to compact clusters of houses based on the presence of infected persons instead of locking down an entire municipal or panchayat ward. The police would cut off the mini-containment zones from the rest of the State until the infected persons tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. They would not allow retail trade, travel of people, social gatherings and other outdoor activities in such sectors. Motorcycle squads and foot patrols would consistently cover the hotspots. The police would also use drones for surveillance. Law enforcers, aided by the volunteer force, would ensure containment localities were well supplied. They would care for the locked-in residents. Mr. Vijayan made the police primarily responsible for tracing infected persons based on their contact history. Law enforcement would deploy its digital tools and plainclothes resources for the task. It would expedite the tracing of primary and secondary contacts, Mr. Vijayan said breach of physical-distancing norms on a mass scale would invite prosecution. Flexible strategy He indicated that the government would follow a flexible containment strategy. It entailed minimal relaxation of restrictions, interspersed with strictly enforced periods of curfew in the third phase of the national unlock process scheduled to commence on August 5. Mr. Vijayan said he had noticed an incremental slackening of the vigil against the disease in Kerala. Some people had taken the easing of regulations for granted. They had set a wrong example by organising mass events, the Chief Minister said.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Ayodhya dispute is over, will attend puja: litigant||Iqbal Ansari, who was a litigant in the Ayodhya land dispute case, has decided to gift a ‘Ram nami’ stole and a copy of the Ramcharitmanas to Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he attends the bhoomi pujan ceremony for the Ram temple here on Wednesday. “Yes, I have received the invitation from Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust for the ceremony. I will certainly attend it. The dispute is over now after the court’s verdict,” Mr. Ansari, 69, said. “Our Prime Minister is coming. I will meet him and give him a ‘Ram nami’ stole (with Ram’s name written on it) and the Ramcharitmanas as a present,” Mr. Ansari said. His father Hashim Ansari, the oldest litigant in the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi land dispute case, died at the age of 95 in 2016 after which the son started pursuing the case in court. Fate of Ayodhya Mr. Ansari said, “I belong to Ayodhya. All this (temple’s construction) will change the fate of Ayodhya. We all want our children to get better opportunities.” He added, “I respect sadhus and saints. I am happy to have received the invitation for the ceremony. I think it is Lord Ram’s will that I attend it.” School, hospital When asked what he would have done had the court decided the case in his favour, Mr. Ansari said he had wanted the construction of a school and a hospital on the disputed land. “I feel the city needs development. The future of our children should be safe and secure and they should get employment. Dispute in the name of religion should end now and we should let the city witness a new beginning,” he said. The Supreme Court had in November last year paved the way for the construction of a Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site of the Babri Masjid’s demolition in Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a “prominent” place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh. The State government has allotted five acres of land in Dhannipur village in Sohaval tehsil of Ayodhya for the mosque’s construction.
04 August 2020||Kolkata,||‘Revoke lockdown on Aug. 5’||The West Bengal BJP has urged the State government to revoke the lockdown announced on August 5 as it coincides with the foundation stone laying event of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said if the dates of the lockdown could be changed for four times then it could happen one more time. “I will appeal to the government to revoke the lockdown on August 5 today itself. The State can announce lockdown on any other day instead. The people are ready to obey the lockdown but the State government must respect the feelings of all,” Mr. Ghosh said. The West Bengal government had announced complete lockdown across the State on certain days in a week to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The dates in August have been changed on several occasions, including on Monday. The Trinamool Congress said the BJP was unnecessarily trying to politicise the issue. “We respect all religions but the lockdown is in the interest of people. This is not the time to indulge in politics,” Minister for Urban Development Firhad Hakim said. The Trinamool said that for an event happening in Ayodhya there was no rationale to revoke the lockdown in West Bengal.
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Normal applications working without 4G in J&K’||A year since high-speed Internet was snapped in Jammu and Kashmir, a top government official said though 4G connectivity was barred on mobile phones, all other “normal applications” were able to function properly with the available Net speed. Retired IPS officer R.R Bhatnagar, adviser to the Lieutenant Governor of J&K G.C. Murmu, told The Hindu in an interview that the restrictions imposed after August 5, 2019, were periodically reviewed and many relaxations were given by September the same year. “… and now almost all of them [restrictions] have been removed, except 4G, essentially due to its misuse by Pakistan elements for incitement, radicalisation and terrorism,” he said. Asked why 4G was not kept suspended in the years preceding August 5, 2019, when a high number of terrorism-related incidents occurred, Mr. Bhatnagar said, “4G was restricted on many occasions even then… For the normal applications to function there is no issue, 4G [high-speed Internet] is available on broadband and telephone lines…hospitals, educational institutes etc. all are using the high-speed Internet.” The government’s recruitment process had been initiated and lakhs had applied online. He claimed that security forces had shown considerable restraint and “their observance of human rights has been commendable”. On August 5 last year, Union Home Minister Amit Shah moved two Bills in the Rajya Sabha to revoke the special status of J&K under Article 370 of the Constitution and to downgrade and bifurcate the State into UTs — J&K and Ladakh. The erstwhile State was placed under an unprecedented lockdown from August 5 and 4G connectivity is yet to be restored. Panchayat polls Mr. Bhatnagar said that the atmosphere was conducive to hold elections for the vacant panchayat seats, except for the various restrictions put in place due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Panchayat polls were held in the former State of J&K in 2018 and there are 12,776 vacant sarpanch and panch seats, particularly in south Kashmir, as elections couldn’t be held due to security concerns and nil registration by candidates. A total of 27,281 panches and sarpanches were elected then. Some panches and sarpanches are still living under police protection in Srinagar hotels. Mr. Bhatnagar said a security assessment of the panchayat functionaries had been made and measures put in place. He noted that political activity in J&K had resumed, though the COVID-19 guidelines have to be followed. “Political leaders/activists have nearly all been released. Since March this year, there have been 250 releases of PSA [Public Safety Act] detainees,” the former Director General of the Central Reserve Police Force said. Soz’s charges On the allegations of Congress leader Saifuddin Soz, who has been placed under house arrest without any formal orders, he said, “Whatever detention has been done is as per law. As far as Mr. Soz is concerned, there are certain security protocols to be followed by the protectee and at present COVID-19 restrictions are also in place.” Last week, Mr. Soz, 82, a former Union Minister, scaled a pillar at his Srinagar residence to speak to mediapersons at his gate when policemen kept warning him. Mr. Soz’s wife had moved the Supreme Court against the “illegal” detention but the top court accepted the administration’s statement that he was not under detention and closed the case. Mr. Bhatnagar said the number of local youths joining terrorist ranks post August 5, compared to the previous years, showed a drop of 42% and steps were being taken to counter glorification and idolisation of terrorists. “Of course, any youth joining terrorist ranks is always a matter of concern and so we are addressing all factors which impact recruitment into terrorist ranks… around dozen youths were stopped from joining the terrorists. Stone pelting incidents are down by two-thirds,” he said. “There has been no civilian casualty in police firing [except in terrorist induced encounters and injuries are also down by nearly a half… close watch and legal action has been taken against the separatists who are also not getting public support. Bandh/Hartal calls have had practically no public response.” One hundred and forty-eight terrorists, including top commanders, were killed this year and terrorist initiated incidents were down by 60%. There was decline in the number of security forces killed this year — 40, compared to 117 last year, he said.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. issues draft policy to ramp up defence exports||With the aim of achieving a manufacturing turnover of $25 bn or Rs. 1,75,000 crore, including exports of $5 bn in aerospace and defence goods and services by 2025, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) on Monday put out a draft ‘Defence Production & Export Promotion Policy (DPEPP) 2020’ for public feedback. “The DPEPP 2020 is envisaged as overarching guiding document of MoD to provide a focused, structured and significant thrust to defence production capabilities of the country for self-reliance and exports,” the Ministry said in a statement. Inputs and comments on the draft policy can be sent up to August 17. “The share of domestic procurement in overall defence procurement is about 60%. In order to enhance procurement from domestic industry, it is incumbent that procurement is doubled from the current Rs. 70,000 crore to Rs. 1,40,000 crore by 2025,” the draft document states. On increasing defence exports, the policy states that Defence Attachés have been mandated and are supported to promote export of indigenous defence equipment abroad. This effort would be supplemented by selected Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSU), which would work as export promotion agencies for certain countries with earnings linked to success fee, to promote export of defence products abroad. “Subject to strategic considerations, domestically manufactured defence products will be promoted through Government to Government agreements and Lines of Credit/Funding.” Aerospace industry The opportunities in the aerospace industry have been identified in the following segments — aircraft build work, aircraft Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO), helicopters, engine manufacturing and MRO work, line replaceable units, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles and upgrades and retrofits. A Project Management Unit will be set up for estimation of development and production lead times specifications and technologies involved.
04 August 2020||new delhi,||President celebrates Raksha Bandhan with nurses||President Ram Nath Kovind celebrated Raksha Bandhan with nursing professionals who shared their experiences of dealing with the novel coronavirus pandemic, a statement from the Rashtrapati Bhavan said on Monday. President Kovind, who was given rakhis by members of the nursing community, described them as “front line COVID warriors who are risking their own lives in the line of duty to save others”. “Traditionally, Raksha Bandhan symbolises the love between brothers and sisters and whenever sisters face any difficulty, brothers are supposed to protect her. Today, in times of corona, sisters like you are not seeking protection but the brothers are lending a helping to all of you. I congratulate all of you for the change that has come about in your roles and the way you are performing it,” President Kovind told the nursing professionals. A short video clip of his interaction has been listed on the official Twitter handle of the Rashtrapati Bhavan. The President thanked the nursing fraternity for their dedication during the pandemic, and referred to two members of the Military Nursing Service who tested positive while dealing with patients but resumed duty soon after recovering. While narrating their experiences, each nurse had her own story to tell but all were unanimous that “patients suffer severe mental stress due to wrong impressions about the disease and this needs to be addressed medically and through counselling”. Among those who called on the President were members of the representatives of the Trained Nurses’ Association of India, the Military Nursing Service and the President’s Estate Clinic, the statement said.
04 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Treasury fraud accused to be sacked||M.R. Bijulal, the senior accountant at the Additional Sub-Treasury, Vanchiyoor, who is accused of siphoning off Rs. 2 crore from the Special Treasury Savings Bank (STSB) account of the District Collector, will be summarily dismissed from service, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. Orders in this regard would be issued in a few days after completing the procedures, Mr. Isaac said on Monday. He described the incident as a cyber crime with grave implications. The State government has formed a special team, comprising three officers of the Finance Department and an officer of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) to investigate the case. The team will assist Rajesh Kumar Singh, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance), in his investigation and will file its report in five days. Action, if called for, will be initiated against senior treasury officials on the basis of the report. The team will also examine whether any other officer at the Additional Sub Treasury had played a role in the embezzlement. Mass transfer The government has initiated a mass transfer at the Vanchiyoor Additional Sub-Treasury. All officials, except Sub-Treasury Officer Babu Prasad who uncovered the crime, would be moved out, the Finance Minister said. The decisions were taken at a high-level meeting convened by the Finance Minister. Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) and senior treasury and NIC officials attended. Police officers, who carried out an inspection at the Additional Sub-Treasury, seized the computer and hard disk for forensic examination. The Vanchiyoor police registered cases against Mr. Bijulal and his wife on Saturday. He was placed on suspension pending investigation the same day. Anticipatory bail Mr. Bijulal, who is yet to be taken into custody, has filed a plea for anticipatory bail at the District Principal Sessions Court, Thiruvananthapuram. Meanwhile, Mr. Bijulal’s wife Simi claimed, while speaking to the media, that she was unaware of the illegal cash transfers. She was also not aware of the amount in her accounts, she said.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Clarify on use of Aarogya Setu App for air passengers’||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday asked the State government and other authorities to clarify whether downloading and use of Aarogya Setu App was mandatory for travelling through any of the five airports in Karnataka. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S Kinagi issued the direction during the hearing of a PIL petition, filed by Anivar A. Aravind, a city-based software engineer working for a non-profit organisation to protect people’s rights in the digital space. Though the Union government had already clarified to the court that use of app is an option and passengers can submit a self-declaration form in lieu of the app, it was pointed out on behalf of the petitioner that the Airports Authority of India’s (AAI) guideline indicates that “all passengers must download Aarogya Setu app.” However, it was pointed out on behalf of the Union government that the guidelines dated July 30, uploaded by the AAI on its website as claimed by the petitioner, were merely a compendium of “State-wise quarantine regulations-customer support guide.” Following this, the Bench asked the State government and other authorities to clarify on use of app for air travellers using airports in Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Mysuru, Hubballi, and Belagavi. Private offices Meanwhile, the Union government on Monday clarified that downloading and use of the app is not mandatory but voluntary for the employees of both public and private offices.
04 August 2020||Kozhikode,||Indians stuck in Qatar jail seek help from PM’s Office||Around 200 Indians languishing in Qatar’s central jail for the last five years have sought the intervention of the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) to release them from indefinite detention. Overcrowding and unsanitary conditions have raised the threat of COVID-19 spread among inmates following the outbreak of the disease in the prison. “Many of those in prison for economic offences have been duped by their Qatari investors,” Prajeesh Thiruthiyil, president of Indian-Qatar Entrepreneurs Action Council, told The Hindu . Reminders sent to the Indian Embassy in Qatar have yielded no results. “Now, the intervention of the PMO and the Ministry of External Affairs alone can release them from captivity,” said V. Fairoos, whose father V. Pareed was involved in the construction of labour camps in Qatar. Mr. Faroos said his father, who invested around 35 lakh Qatari riyals on the project was cheated by a Qatari who had obtained advance blank cheques. “The Qatari laws will not entertain the victim to defend in court,” he added. India-Qatar pact The agreement between India and Qatar on reciprocal promotion and protection of investments signed in April 1999 has led to denial of justice to Indians. “The agreement says that any Indian can start business with a Qatari partnership on a 49:51 share basis. Unfortunately, the pact has been treated as law in Qatar since 2001,” he said. The case of K. Arun, a hotel manager who returned to Qatar after his marriage a year ago, is similar. “My husband has no idea as to when some Qatari investors secured a blank cheque for starting a company that failed,” said Anusmrithi, who has appealed to the Department of Non-Resident Keralites Affairs to help him. A majority of those incarcerated are from north Kerala, and some are from Tamil Nadu. The Human Rights Watch of the Middle East and North Africa Division has already asked the Qatar authorities to reduce prison populations, so as to ensure physical distancing and put in place appropriate hygiene and cleaning protocols. Vulnerable prisoners and those held for low-level or non-violent offences should be released to have access to medical care, it said. Mr. Thiruthiyil said the US-backed GCC economic embargo on Qatar had resulted in Qatari investors resorting to unfair practices. Hotels and supermarkets in which Indians had major stakes had to be closed in the past few years. Following the intervention of Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan, more than 50 Pakistani prisoners were released. “We hope the Indian government will take up the issue with its Qatari counterpart, he added.
04 August 2020||Kozhikode,||Air pollution helps COVID transmission, finds study||Air pollution indirectly influences the transmission of COVID-19 and the improvement in air quality during the lockdown may have reduced the chances of infection, a study has found. This finding was part of a research paper titled ‘Potential link between compromised air quality and transmission of the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) in affected areas’ published in Environmental Research journal by M.G. Manoj, M.K. Satheesh Kumar, K.T. Valsaraj, C. Sivan and Soumya K. Vijayan. They belong to the Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research, Cochin University of Science and Technology, Ernakulam; The Department of Atomic and Molecular Physics, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka; Cain Department of Chemical Engineering, Louisiana State University, Los Angeles, U.S.; and College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Government Medical College, Kannur, respectively. Areas under focus The study focussed on the infection rate induced by air quality in central Kerala and other global COVID hotspots, including China, Italy and the U.S. It claims that one of the potential modes of transmission of COVID-19 is through ambient air by droplets which carry the viruses. This means that changes in the environment will affect the transmission of the infection. Air pollution is one of the elements that can change the environment. So it can be said that air pollution can indirectly influence the transmission. The dust particles exposed to humid environment have been contaminated with a water film on it. There is a possibility of the mix of saliva droplets and the dust coated with the water film becoming more airborne and spreading the infection. The hypothesis would help design protocols for the prevention of future pandemics, they added.
04 August 2020||Patna,||Let CBI probe actor’s death: Bihar MLAs||Bihar legislators across party lines on Monday demanded a CBI probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The Bihar legislature session was held at Patna’s Gyan Bhawan for just a day due to the surging COVID-19 numbers in the state. BJP MLA Neeraj Kumar Singh ‘Bablu’, a cousin of the deceased actor, first raised the issue and demanded a probe by the central agency. “It is evident from news reports that Mumbai police is trying to put hurdles in investigation of the case by the Bihar police team who are currently in Mumbai…so the State government should hand over the case to CBI,” Mr Singh said. He cited the fact that an IPS officer from Bihar was “forcibly quarantined” soon after he reached Mumbai for investigation into the case. His wife Nutan Singh, a BJP MLC, also raised the issue in the Legislative Council. Later, Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav said the Rashtriya Janata Dal was first to have demanded a CBI probe. Mr. Yadav requested the State government to name the upcoming film city at Rajgir after the actor. Congress Legislature Party leader Sadanand Singh suggested that a resolution be passed for a CBI inquiry. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar condemned the quarantining of the State police official.
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||SC helps Brazilian accused break language barrier||For Brazilian national Jailson Manoel da Silva, who speaks only Portuguese, language is a barrier to a fair trial. For four years and nearly 90 court hearings, he was unable to follow a single word said in a Chennai court during his trial in a narcotics case. His lawyers in Chennai did not speak Portuguese and were unable to help the man. Brazilian embassy officials who visited da Silva found a distressed man whose mental and physical health were “far from satisfactory”. He will face 20 years in prison if found guilty. The Brazilian, represented by advocates Raghenth Basant, M.F. Philip and Purnima Krishna, finally appealed to the top court. The Supreme Court, in turn, has decided to uphold his fundamental right to a fair trial. Justice Hrishikesh Roy ordered the case to be transferred to Delhi, where the Brazilian embassy has assured da Silva the services of a translator. “I have considered the circumstances of the case and also the fact that the trial has not made much progress in the Chennai court since last four years primarily because of the communication problem. If the case is transferred to the court in Delhi, the Narcotics Control Bureau [NCB], who is the prosecutor in this case, will have no difficulty, as their officers and lawyers are available in Delhi,” Justice Roy observed in a recent order. Mr. Basant and Mr. Philip both argued that their client had been in custody since September 17, 2016. Only one witness has been examined in the past four years of trial. “Shockingly, on some occasions, hearings have been held in the absence of a translator... The Government of Brazil does not have any establishment in Chennai nor is it feasible for them to send a translator to Chennai for each and every hearing,” they had contended in the hearing.
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||CPI’s Bihar secretary dies of COVID-19||The Communist Party of India’s secretary of the Bihar State council Satya Narayan Singh died of COVID-19 on Sunday night. Condoling his death, party general secretary D. Raja said it was a great loss for the Left movement in general and CPI in particular, at a time when the State was heading for Assembly elections. Mr. Singh, a two-time MLA, was born in 1942 at Dewka Kaithi village in Khagaria district of Bihar. He joined the CPI after resigning from Jagjivan Ram College where he was working as lecturer. He was to complete his second term as State secretary of the Bihar party in a few months.
04 August 2020||KOCHI,||Pandemic crisis pushes makers of earthenware into penury||The earthenware makers of Kolathuruthu near Muvattupuzha are in dire straits. The COVID-19 crisis has driven around 50 families of traditional earthenware makers into penury as there is little or no business. There are those who sell products on the wayside. But restrictions on movement of people and fear of the pandemic have combined to deny them any remuneration, said Mohanan Kunduveli, who is a regular feature at festivals, selling earthenware and other products. He said the community of earthenware makers had decided not to make Onathappan this season considering the market conditions. Onathappan represents the festival of Onam, and the season marks a high-point in sales. Onathappan, the pyramid-like clay structure, measuring around a foot, is a major attraction in the run-up to Onam festivities. The cost of raw materials is yet another factor that dissuades young members of the community from the profession, said a social worker from the community of earthenware makers. According to him, the cost of clay, now brought mostly from Karnataka, has spiralled, and as a result, it will be practically impossible to sell products at remunerative prices.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. to review outcome of military talks at LAC||The government is scheduled to review the outcome of Sunday’s fifth round of Corps Commander-level talks between India and China. The high-powered China Study Group is expected to meet on Tuesday to discuss the outcome of the talks that are meant to take forward the stalled process of disengagement on the Line of Actual Control, a defence source said on Monday. The talks which began around 11 a.m. on the Chinese side at Moldo opposite Chushul went on till 9.30 p.m., the source said. Details on its outcome are expected on Tuesday after the government takes stock of the developments, it has been learnt. The disengagement has not moved beyond the incomplete first phase despite four rounds of talks and both sides having worked out the details. India has consistently demanded status quo ante of pre - May positions along the LAC. China has amassed troops along the LAC, which have also moved inside Indian held territory at several places. Under the first phase, only limited disengagement has been undertaken at Patrolling Point 17A in Gogra-Hot springs, and Chinese troops continue to occupy the ridgelines of Finger 4, about 8 km inside from Finger 8, upto which India’s claim extends to.
04 August 2020||Bhopal,||No leave for M.P. police personnel, says DGP||Madhya Pradesh Director General of Police Vivek Johri has asked senior officials to cease approval of leave applications requiring personnel to step outside the headquarters in view of spiralling cases within the service. In a letter to senior police officials, Mr. Johri said the personnel were negligent in following COVID-19 standard operating procedures (SOP) he had forwarded to units on June 12. As a result, he said, until August 1, there had been 255 active cases in the service and around four times that number in quarantine. “Police officials are not strictly following the SOP and taking enough precautions during duty,” he wrote. During leave, the personnel were not taking precautions while travelling and at their place of stay. In addition, after returning to their place of duty from leave, they were not quarantining themselves as required. “COVID-19 infection is also spreading because of this,” he wrote. He said immediate cessation had come into force to approvals of leave applications requiring personnel to leave headquarters. “It must be ensured that the leaves are approved only in case of family and health-related emergencies,” he wrote.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Plasma taken from Bengaluru to Chennai via green corridor||An inter-State green corridor was created to transport convalescent plasma from HealthCare Global Cancer Hospital in Bengaluru to a private hospital in Chennai on Monday. In a press release, HCG Enterprises Ltd said the green corridor was created over a 348-km stretch for 4.5 hours. The blood plasma was for a COVID-19 positive elderly woman. Plasma was extracted from a donor, who had recovered from the disease, at 3 p.m. on Monday at HGC hospital in Bengaluru. An ambulance carrying the plasma left the hospital at 5 p.m. via the green corridor created with the help of Bengaluru City Police. Dr. Vishal Rao, Associate Dean, Centre for Academics and Research, HCG Cancer Hospital, in a press release said, “Green corridors to facilitate transportation of organs is a common phenomenon, but an inter-State transfer of plasma was a first. Within two hours of extraction, we were all set to transfer the plasma. The police officials created a special green corridor so that the plasma could reach the hospital from Bengaluru to Chennai in a timely manner.” Dr. Rao also said with each passing day, plasma requirements for patients are increasing and in the absence of a bank, it becomes difficult to cater to them. The HCG team carried the plasma till Hosur, from where it was transferred to the team from the private hospital. The plasma reached Chennai at 9.30 p.m.
04 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hospital loses COVID licence in Hyderabad||Permission for COVID-19 treatment granted to Deccan Hospital at Somajiguda has been revoked by Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao on Monday for “inappropriate and surplus” billing. In spite of clear ceiling guidelines, it was observed that the hospital charged exorbitant rates, and did not adhere to rates for COVID-19 treatment fixed by the State government, Dr Rao said. Deccan landed in a controversy after Anreddy Radhesh (21) alleged that the hospital demanded Rs. 17.5 lakh bill to be cleared as a prerequisite to release the body of his father, who died on July 28. The hospital’s management denied the allegation. Though Mr Radhesh alleged the overall bill was Rs. 17.5 lakh, the management said the bill came up to Rs. 12.04 lakh of which Rs. 2 lakh was waived off. There were also a few other complaints against the hospital over a range of issues. The State government on June 15 issued an order announcing the maximum rates chargeable by private hospitals for various services provided by them for COVID-19 treatment. The charges range between Rs. 4,000 and Rs. 9,000 per day depending on the ward and extension of ventilator support. Some services were excluded such as charges for high-end medicines like immunoglobulins. Strangely, the rates are not applicable to patients who have insurance cover. Based on a complaint against the private hospital, Hyderabad District Medical and Health Officer J. Venkat conducted an inquiry and found that the private hospital has flouted ceiling rates fixed by the State government. Dr Rao said it was found that they charged inappropriate and surplus bills. Considering the circumstances, Dr Rao has revoked the permission given to Deccan Hospital, Somajiguda, for providing COVID-19 treatment. The action was taken according to provisions of Telangana Allopathic Private Medical Care Establishments (Registrations and Regulations ) Act-2002, and Epidemics Diseases Act-1987. “No new COVID patient shall be admitted by the said hospital. And no inconvenience should be caused to already admitted patients and they have to be treated as per ceilings fixed by the government. If it is found that the said hospital is not following these orders, then the government will be compelled to cancel the license issued to the hospital,” Dr Rao said. The Director of Public Health said that investigation into complaints against other private hospitals is under way. More complaints Many private hospitals in Hyderabad are said to have flouted the capped prices for COVID-19 treatment. People have complained that they were forced to shell out Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 70,000 for treatment in ICU. Besides, some were asked to pay Rs. 3 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh as advance to admit patients for treatment. Insurance woes There are also allegations that some private hospitals did not accept insurance policies to offer treatment. A few families had to sell their properties and borrow money to pay the bills which pushed them into financial distress. After the Health department in mid-July announced a WhatsApp number (9154170960) to express grievances related to private hospital treatment, hundreds of complaints were received. However, Deccan Hospital is the first such against which action has been taken. On Saturday, Health Minister Eatala Rajender issued orders to form a committee comprising senior officials to investigate into complaints against private hospitals which have allegedly charged exorbitant bills for COVID tsreatment.
04 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||CPI(M) seeks Union Minister’s resignation||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has demanded the resignation of Union Minister of State for External Affairs V.Muraleedharan for violating the oath and tenets of collective responsibility. Mr.Balakrishnan said in a statement here on Monday that by staging a fast at his official residence in Delhi and making public statements, the Minister was trying to derail the probe into the gold smuggling case. A Union Minister launching a public protest when two Central agencies are probing a case is unheard of, he said. Since the National Investigating Agency and the Customs are probing the case, Mr.Muraleedharan by staging the protest has expressed lack of confidence in the Union Home and Finance Ministers. While the NIA said that gold was smuggled in diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE Consulate, Mr.Muraleedharan had been saying that it was not diplomatic baggage. A Customs officer who said that none had called from the office of the Chief Minister’s office to release the baggage was transferred as it went against BJP State president K.Surendran’s statement. It remains to be seen whether the NIA which contradicted Mr.Muraleedharan may be relieved of the inquiry.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. sets out rules for yoga classes, gyms||It was essential to restrict the number of those allowed per group fitness class based on the size of the room and nature of the fitness activity and ensuring six feet distance between personal trainer and clients during personal training sessions, wherever feasible, it said. “Ensure sessions are tailored to include only exercises that do not require physical contact between the trainer and the clients, including set-up and use of equipment, limit the number of clients per session and ensure adequate spacing amongst all clients while utilising outdoor spaces at the yoga institutes/gymnasiums where available,” stated the guidelines. Persons above 65 years of age, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 are advised not to use gyms in closed spaces, the guidelines said.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Congress factions inch towards a truce||Asked about a possible floor test in the Assembly, Mr. Shaktawat said any decision on voting in favour of the Gehlot government would be taken by Mr. Pilot. Mr. Shaktawat rejected the Chief Minister’s charge that the MLAs supporting Mr. Pilot were in touch with the BJP. “None of us has met with any BJP leader, neither has anyone from the BJP come to meet us. We are staying in Haryana because the COVID-19 epidemic is spreading fast in Delhi,” he said. The MLA said Mr. Pilot and others were still talking to the Congress leadership and were hopeful for finding a solution. He asked why the MLAs supporting Mr. Gehlot were shifted to Jaisalmer if the government was secure. Mr. Shaktawat also took exception to Mr. Pilot’s “unceremonious removal”, saying it was only within the power of the Governor to sack a Minister. The dissident legislators run the risk of being disqualified if they defy the party whip to attend the House proceedings. They had earlier twice skipped the Congress Legislature Party meetings held in Jaipur, after which the party filed a complaint with the Assembly Speaker. When the Speaker issued them notices, they went to the High Court which has since ordered a status quo on the disqualification proceedings.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Modi, Bhagwat will be on stage in Ayodhya||It emphasised that the cards came with security codes that allowed entry only once and were non-transferable. On Wednesday, Mr. Modi will first offer prayers at the Hanumangarhi temple and follow it up with puja at the present makeshift temple site where the idol of infant Lord Ram is kept and then attend the bhoomi pujan and stage event, the Trust said. The idol of Lord Ram will be clothed in green during the ceremony. Mr. Rai criticised those questioning the choice of colour. He said the dress worn daily by infant Lord Ram idol was picked the head priest, who did not make changes under anyone’s influence. “All trees around us are green, do you see Islam in it? Green is the symbol of prosperity of India and the colour of nature,” Mr. Rai said at a press conference. It was not a matter pertaining to the PMO, the CMO or the Trust, he noted. Design to be retained Mr. Rai also said that the “original drawing” of the temple would remain “as it is” and only certain portions would be added as the Trust has now got almost 70 acres in possession. When the Ram Janmabhoomi movement started in 1985, they had only 14,000 sq feet of land in mind. “In 1986, we didn't even think in our dreams that we would get 70 acres”, he said. While the design of the main parts of the temple would be retained, two additional domes would be added on the sides while the height of one of the domes and one floor would be increased, he said. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, invites were sent to a limited number of people, the Trust said, adding that those unable to attend were offered personal apologies through telephone after they explained their reasons. Due to age factor and religious constraints of Chaturmas, some people would not be unable to attend, Mr. Rai said. “How can a person over 90 years of age attend? How can [K] Parasaran ji come from Chennai”, he asked. On Wednesday, Mr. Modi would also launch a Rs. 5 stamp with the image of the Ram temple.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Cut gratuity period to one year: panel||The Labour Ministry had informed the committee that the employee can then approach the Competent Authority. “The Committee is of the considered opinion that such a provision is against the interest of the affected employees/workers who may have to run from pillar to post to get their legitimate dues,” the report notes. Instead, the panel has recommended that the Social Security Code should have provisions to hold the employer liable for payment of gratuity to the employees within a stipulated time frame. “There should not be any leniency, as strong deterrent provisions would reduce wilful default and delinquent negligence on the part of employers in timely payment of gratuity to the needy and deserving employees,” the report stated. On similar lines, the Committee also flagged the concern that the threshold limit of 20 or more employees for EPFO registration can be used by the employers to exclude themselves from EPFO coverage. “The Committee desires that possibilities be explored to make the EPF Act applicable to all the workers, including self-employed,” the report has said. The panel has recommended that the social security code should empower the Central government to reduce the employee’s contribution to EPF in exceptional circumstances like disasters in terms of the Disaster Management Act, including pandemics, because this would enable the Government to provide relief to the affected persons in COVID-19 like pandemics.
04 August 2020||Srinagar,||Militants abduct soldier||An off-duty Army jawan remained untraced for more than 24 hours on Monday after suspected militants kidnapped him and set his car on fire in south Kashmir’s Kulgam. “The security forces are on the job to find him,” Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar told The Hindu . An official identified the kidnapped soldier as rifleman Shakir Manzoor of 162 Battalion of the Territorial Army.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Earlier verdicts caution against ‘easy irritability’||Past judgments of the Supreme Court on contempt by “scandalising the court” caution judges from falling prey to “easy irritability”. The Supreme Court has held that contempt arises only when an attack is calculated to obstruct or destroy the judicial process. These judicial precedents gain significance in light of the Supreme Court initiating suo motu contempt against advocate Prashant Bhushan for his tweet on a photograph of Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde astride a heavy bike. The court observed that the tweet undermined the dignity and authority of the Supreme Court and the office of the Chief Justice of India. A seven-judge Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in a suo motu contempt case against former Madras High Court judge, C.S. Karnan, said contempt does not exist to protect individual judges. Judges are supposed to be men of fortitude, able to thrive in a hardy climate. Another verdict, half-a-century older, says ordinary rules of slander and libel apply for a personal attack upon a judge, which is unconnected with his or her office. “The dogs may bark, the caravan will pass. The court will not be prompted to act as a result of an easy irritability,” the court advised in its Mulgaokar judgment reported in 1978. Frequent or indiscriminate use of contempt power by judges adversely affect rather than sustain their dignity or status, Chief Justice P.B. Gajendragadkar wrote in his 1964 judgment in a Special Reference.
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul takes a dig at Modi over rising virus cases||As the COVID-19 cases crossed the 18-lakh mark, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi by reminding him of his earlier statement of India being better off than other nations because of timely action. Mr. Gandhi, on twitter, shared a graph that showed India at the top among 10 countries that saw the highest number of infections in the past 24 hours. India has surpassed the U.S. and Brazil, according to the graph. “The right decisions at the right time means India is better off than other countries, PM,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted to highlight Mr. Modi’s earlier comment and the rate of infection. Chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked if the Central government has left the citizens to be ‘atmanirbhar’ [self reliant]. “18,00,000 cases, 53,000 daily infections, 38,000 deaths, public health is failing. CMs admitted in pvt hospitals, Union Ministers in pvt hospitals, but where is Modi govt.? Have left India to be ‘Atamnirbhar’?” he asked.
04 August 2020||Pune,||Mumbai police know their job well: NCP leader||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and MLA Rohit Pawar on Monday said the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput was being “heavily politicised” and that the Mumbai police were more than competent in handling the case. Mr. Pawar, who is the grand-nephew of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, attributed the reason for the politics over the actor’s death to the coming Bihar Assembly elections, scheduled in October this year. The BJP, which is in opposition in the State, had put a question mark on the Mumbai police’s investigation into the actor’s death and demanded a CBI probe into the case. “Sushant Singh Rajput, who came from an ordinary family and rose to cinematic stardom, represented the hopes and aspirations of many youths like him. Since his unfortunate death a month back, the social media rumour mills have been working overtime. A number of big names are being questioned in connection with the actor’s death. While it is certain that the investigation into this affair must be comprehensive, there must not be any politics over the probe,” said Mr. Rohit Pawar, in response to the demand for a CBI probe.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED records CA’s statement||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday recorded the statement of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s chartered accountant in connection with the money laundering probe initiated on the basis of a criminal case lodged by his father. “The statement of Sandeep Sridhar, who was Sushant’s chartered accountant, is being recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,” said a senior ED official, adding that other persons related to the case would also be summoned soon. The ED is scrutinising the financial transactions made through the bank accounts of Sushant.
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||Punjab MPs seek inquiry into illegal distilleries||Congress Rajya Sabha members from Punjab, Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo, on Monday wrote to the Governor asking for an inquiry by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) into the production of illegal liquor in the State. The MPs said there were “illegal distilleries” in Patiala, home district of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and the Lok Sabha constituency of his wife Preneet Kaur. The MPs said, “It speaks volumes of lawlessness and administrative failure of the government.” They also accused the Chief Minister of ignoring them when they raised the issues of “spurious liquor and smuggling”. The letter follows the recent Hooch tragedy in Punjab.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Posts on Shah: Cong. worker arrested||The Cubbon Park police have arrested an office-bearer of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) for allegedly putting up derogatory posts on Union Home Minister Amit Shah after he tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. The accused has been identified as Anand Prasad, secretary of IT Cell, KPCC. He is from Ramamurthy Nagar, Bengaluru. According to sources, a few miscreants had put up derogatory and defamatory posts after Mr. Shah tested positive and the accused had allegedly replied to such posts in a derogatory manner. He has been booked under Section 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups) of the IPC. Meanwhile, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar has appealed on Twitter to the Congress cadre not to post defamatory comments against political leaders. “I appeal to Congress workers not to make defamatory statements against any political leader, on matters of health and other issues on social media platforms. It is not in our culture to wish bad for others. Congress is a party that exemplifies brotherhood and humanity,” his tweet read.
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||SC verdict is being violated, says CPI (M)||The CPI (M) on Monday questioned the take over of the bhoomi pujan ceremony of the Ram temple by the U.P. administration along with the Central government’s involvement, saying that it goes against the Supreme Court verdict and provides retrospective legitimisation for the destruction of the Babri Masjid  “This construction was directed to be undertaken by a Trust. The take over of the bhoomi pujan ceremony at Ayodhya by the U.P. administration along with the Central government involvement at the highest level of the Prime Minister goes against both the Supreme Court verdict and the letter and spirit of the Constitution of India,” the CPI (M) Polit Bureau said in a statement.
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||Left parties slam Centre on Kashmir||Ahead of the first anniversary of abrogation of Article 370 that revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, five Left parties have in a joint statement demanded that all those detained since August 2019 be released, full communications facilities restored and free movement of people allowed in the Union Territory. The Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist)-Liberation, All-India Forward Bloc and Revolutionary Socialist Party said this was essential both for effectively combating the COVID-19 pandemic and upholding Constitutional guarantees on democratic rights and civil liberties. “Last year, the Modi Government made many tall promises about what this move would accomplish and how it would benefit India and the people of J&K. “A year later, the Government’s promises stand exposed, betraying the people of J&K who continue to be caged and silenced,” the statement said.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chit fund scam: 6 more cases filed||The Central Bureau of Investigation has registered six more cases in the chit fund scam in West Bengal, involving 38 accused persons who collected money from a large number of small-time investors on the pretext of huge returns. The companies mentioned in the FIRs include R.S.S. Traders, Swarnatori Project Infra Limited, Purusattam Infotech Industries Limited, Ratdin Marketing Private Limited, Maharani Gayatri Devi Parva Project Private Limited and Real Bhumi Agro Development International Limited. The promoters and directors of these companies have been accused of collecting investments on the promise of huge returns. However, they did not repay the investors. Several accused persons have vanished from the scene. The CBI has registered more than 1,000 cases against the accused persons for allegedly cheating the investors in West Bengal, Odisha and other States.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Prasad in quarantine at home||Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday said he has gone into self-isolation as per protocol after Home Minister Amit Shah tested positive for COVID-19. Mr. Prasad, who holds the portfolio of Law, IT and Telecom, met Mr. Shah on Saturday. “Friends! I’m absolutely fine. To follow protocol I hv isolated myself at home for few days as I had met Amit Shah Ji on Saturday evening for n official meeting. I’m working from home & following daily routine including Yoga & exercise. Also reading books & enjoying classical music,” Mr. Prasad tweeted
04 August 2020||Bhopal,||Give gifts to ‘sister’: HC tells accused man||The Indore Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court has granted bail to a man accused of sexual harassment on the condition that he will request the complainant to tie a ‘rakhi’ on him on Monday with a promise to protect her “to the best of his ability for all times to come”. Further, Justice Rohit Arya on July 30 ordered the man to pay Rs. 11,000 to the complainant as a “customary ritual usually offered by brothers to sisters” on Raksha Bandhan and seek her blessings while visiting her with his wife and a box of sweets. “The applicant shall also tender Rs. 5,000 to the son of the complainant for purchase of clothes and sweets,” the order said. The court directed the accused to take photographs and receipts of payment made to the complainant and her son, which should be filed through his lawyer for placing on record of the case before the Registry. The complainant, a resident of Ujjain district, had alleged that her neighbour, Vikram Bagri, entered her house and sexually harassed her on April 20. The lawyer for the accused has contended that his client was being falsely implicated as he had asked the husband of the complainant to pay back a loan.
04 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Curb menace of fake drugs: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy called for stringent action against those manufacturing and marketing fake drugs and ordered that steps be taken for strengthening the Drug Control Authority (DCA). In a review meeting on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that laboratories should be fully equipped and a vigilance and intelligence wing be set up. He instructed officials to come up with an action plan for curbing the menace of fake drugs and stressed the need to increase testing capacity at labs in Vijayawada, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Expression of opinion is not contempt’||Expressing opinion or bona fide anguish, however outspoken, disagreeable or unpalatable, cannot constitute contempt amounting to scandalising the court, noted civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan has said in a reply to a contempt notice issued to him by the Supreme Court. Mr. Bhushan was responding to suo motu contempt action initiated against him on his tweets — one concerning a photograph of Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on a motorcycle and the other about the functioning of the Supreme Court in the past six years under four Chief Justices. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra issued the contempt notice on July 22, saying the tweets undermined the dignity and authority of the court and the office of the CJI. “Chief Justice is not the court, and raising issues of concern regarding the manner in which a CJI conducts himself during ‘court vacations’, or raising issues of grave concern regarding the manner in which four CJIs have used, or failed to use, their powers as ‘Master of the Roster’ to allow the spread of authoritarianism, majoritarianism, stifling of dissent, widespread political incarceration, and so on, cannot and does not amount to ‘scandalising or lowering the authority of the court,’ ” Mr. Bhushan contended. ‘Ultimate guardian’ The senior lawyer highlighted the very words of a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in the contempt case against former Madras High Court judge C.S. Karnan, namely that the “law of contempt is not made for the protection of judges who may be sensitive to the winds of public opinion. Judges are supposed to be men of fortitude, able to thrive in a hardy climate”. Freedom of speech and expression was the “ultimate guardian” of values upheld in the Constitution. The exercise of contempt powers by the Supreme Court must necessarily not be of a nature that went beyond ‘reasonable restrictions’. The power of contempt under Article 129 was to be utilised to aid in administration of justice. Contempt could not be pressed into service to stifle bona fide criticism from citizens who were well-informed about the omissions and commissions of the Supreme Court, he said. A separate writ plea has been filed jointly by veteran journalists N. Ram and Arun Shourie and Mr. Bhushan challenging the constitutionality of contempt by “scandalising of the court” as “incurably vague”. Mr. Bhushan said his tweet on June 29 regarding the CJI on a bike was made “primarily to underline my anguish at the non-physical functioning of the Supreme Court for the last more than three months, as a result of which fundamental rights of citizens, such as those in detention, those destitute and poor, and others facing serious and urgent grievances were not being addressed or taken up for redressal”. The July 27 tweet about the functioning of the court and the role of four CJIs was an expression of “ bona fide anguish”, he said. “The first part of the tweet contains my considered opinion that democracy has been substantially destroyed in India during the last six years. The second part is my opinion that the Supreme Court has played a substantial role in allowing the destruction of our democracy and the third part is my opinion regarding the role of the last four Chief Justices in particular in allowing it,” Mr. Bhushan replied. “I submit that my criticism has been outspoken yet it has been carefully weighed and made with the highest sense of responsibility,” he responded to the notice.
04 August 2020||Kanpur,||Couple found murdered in UP||A couple was found murdered at their home in Rail Bazar area here on Monday and the police are trying to find out if there was an attempt to sexually assault the woman, an official said. Vishnu Nishad (23) was reportedly battered to death while his wife was strangled, Superintendent of Police (East) Raj Kumar Agarwal said.PTI
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||RS member Amar Singh cremated; political leaders, relatives pay last tributes||Rajya Sabha member Amar Singh was cremated at the Chhatarpur crematorium here in the presence of family members and relatives on Monday. His two daughters consigned his mortal remains to flames. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia and Jaya Prada paid floral tributes to the former SP leader.PTI
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Governor tests negative for COVID-19||Governor Vajubhai Vala on Monday underwent a COVID-19 test and the report came back negative. On July 31, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai had met the Governor at Raj Bhavan and held discussions on various matters related to the administration. “After knowing that the Chief Minister tested positive, the Governor, myself and ADG to the Governor underwent Corona Ag test and tested negativeon August 3 at 12.30 p.m,” said a release issued by Tejas Bhatti, personal secretary the Governor.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,||(Page-4 lead) CM to monitor administration from hospital through video conferencing||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who has been hospitalised after testing positive for COVID-19, is set to monitor the State’s administration from the hospital bed through a videoconferencing link to be established at the suite room at Manipal Hospitals, where he is put up. The 77-year-old is mildly symptomatic and is “clinically stable” and said tobe doing well. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who is in charge of COVID-19 affairs, told reporters on Monday that the Chief Minister would have to remain hospitalised for eight to 10 days. Putting an end to speculation on who would lead the administration while he was hospitalised, Mr. Yediyurappa, in a video message on Monday, clearly indicated that he would monitor it from the hospital. “I have been in touch with all the senior officials from yesterday [Sunday] night itself, to ensure that the administration is in no way hampered. I spoke to the officials today [Monday] morning as well.” Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar told The Hindu , “We will strive to minimise its impact on the administration. Bureaucrats and other Ministers will carry on with their administrative duties, keeping in touch with the Chief Minister through a videoconference link.” A senior Minister close to Mr. Yediyurappa said, “The Chief Minister is anyway asymptomatic and is doing well. He has been hospitalised only to ensure he is under medical supervision as he is vulnerable, given his old age and co-morbidities of diabetes and hypertension. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan, who has also tested positive for COVID-19 and has been hospitalised, is overseeing the administration of that State from the hospital. It will work out fine here too.” No policy decisions With guidelines for Unlock 3.0 that will be in effect till August 31 also notified, there are no major policy decisions lined up in the coming week as well, sources said. Multiple sources in the government said there had been no discussions about handing over administrative responsibilities to another Minister in the absence of the Chief Minister. “The three Deputy Chief Ministers and other Ministers in charge of various aspects of COVID-19 management will work as before,” a senior Minister said. This gains significance as there has been speculation and intense lobbying for a leadership change within the party in the past few months. The Chief Minister is reportedly not keen to make anyone else take charge in his absence. “It might trigger unnecessary political speculation and heartburn,” a senior party strategist close to him said. Three Cabinet Ministers — Tourism Minister C.T. Ravi, Forest Minister Anand Singh, and Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil — have till date tested positive for COVID-19. While the first two have recovered, Mr. Patil is in home quarantine. At least six legislators have also tested positive till date.
04 August 2020||Belagavi,||Astrologer given security after threat calls||The Belagavi police provided security to astrologer Vijayendra Sharma who is said to have fixed August 5 as an auspicious time for the foundation stone-laying ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. A police constable was deputed at the house of Mr. Sharma after he complained that he had received threat calls from unidentified persons. The astrologer submitted a written complaint to Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan stating that some people were calling him complaining about his work. “They are asking me why I fixed the auspicious time for the ceremony and that I withdraw it,” he told the police. Some people had shared his picture on social media with messages stating that he had fixed the auspicious date and time for the ceremony. However, Mr. Sharma told The Hindu that he was among a panel of astrologers consulted by the Ram Mandir Committee. He also clarified that he was among the panel of astrologers that had suggested August 5 as the auspicious date. Another astrologer from Varanasi had suggested the time, he said.
04 August 2020||Kolkata,||Many ATMs in West Bengal running short of cash due to COVID-19 restrictions||Several ATMs in West Bengal are running short of currency as private entities entrusted with the cash-filling task are operating with skeletal staff, sources said on Monday. West Bengal convenor of All India Bank Officers Confederation (AIBOC) Sanjay Das said these private companies generally withdraw money from chests every Friday, since banks in the state are shut on Saturday and Sunday.PTI
04 August 2020||Guwahati,||Curfew clamped in Assam town after clash||The administration in southern Assam’s Cachar district imposed curfew in the Malugram area of Silchar after a clash between people from two communities. Trouble broke out on Sunday when some men were putting up posters on the upcoming ceremony for laying the foundation stone of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya.
04 August 2020||Lucknow,||Police officer’s post on Id triggers controversy||A police officer in Chandauli district of eastern Uttar Pradesh triggered a controversy after she allegedly posted derogatory messages on Id-ul-Azha. The post was made from the Facebook account of SHO Sakaldeeha Vandana Singh on August 2. However, the Chandauli police on Monday said Ms. Singh had claimed her account had been hacked when the post was made. The matter is being investigated.
04 August 2020||Jaipur,||Gehlot seeks PM’s help on locust attacks, COVID-19 management||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in tackling the locust attacks. In a letter to the Prime Minister, Mr. Gehlot sought the declaration of locust attacks as a national disaster in view of the losses caused to kharif crops earlier this year and the threat to the rabi crops.
04 August 2020||Kolkata,||Not possible to implement new education policy in five years: Bengal Minister||West Bengal Education Minister Partha Chatterjee on Monday expressed “serious reservations” against the new National Education Policy (NEP) and said it was not possible to implement it in five years. Mr. Chatterjee said the State had set up a six-member committee to look into the recommendations made in the policy. The committee would send a report to the Centre by August 15.
04 August 2020||Bodi,TAMIL NADU||Engaging tribal students during lockdown||At a time when parents are finding it tough to handle their children during the pandemic-induced extended holidays, a government-aided middle school in a remote pocket of Theni district has found a novel way to engage students. Pitchandi Middle School, established in 1937, has 122 students studying from classes 1 to 8. With Tamil as the medium of education, the school has nine teachers including the headmaster, R. Jayakumar. Some 20 tribal students are from Siraikadu, about 10 km from here. To ensure that the tribal children attend classes without hindrance, the school teachers and some parents contribute money and arrange for their transport to the school in two auto rickshaws, says the headmaster. With schools closing down in March, students in urban areas may not face problems in attending online classes. But it is not the case for those living in remote hamlets, where many still have only ordinary phones. Further, most of the parents are either illiterate or school dropouts engaged in farming activities. Very few among them have exposure to higher education and understand the nuances of literacy, the teachers told The Hindu . Hence, it was decided to organise classes in open places in the tribal habitations, says the headmaster. “The syllabus is sent to a parent in the village and students are made to sit in open space and learn. The blackboard rests on a two-wheeler and physical distancing is ensured.” The children are being taught calligraphy since last week, says a teacher, who rides to the tribal village once a week on her two-wheeler to conduct classes. “The idea is to engage them in a useful manner and teach them about dos and don’ts during the pandemic,” A. Dhanalakshmi, a teacher, adds. Prior to the lockdown, the school had a unique routine. Following the morning prayer, a senior student reads headlines from newspapers. Once a week, a parent is invited to hoist the national flag at the prayer. Recently, school authorities roped in a chartered accountant to arranged PAN cards for 24 students after one of them raised a query about it. The objective is to turn students into well-educated and responsible citizens. Also, the school never forgets to celebrate the birth anniversaries of late leaders. On July 15, for instance, Kamaraj’s birth anniversary was celebrated and senior students were told to speak about the contribution of the late leader. Nagaraj of Sirakadu, a class 4 student, says he has learnt calligraphy and listens to stories about historical figures like Socrates.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports 5,609 fresh cases, 109 deaths||Tamil Nadu reported 5,609 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday. The deaths of 109 persons, who succumbed to the infection in the last eight days, were recorded in Monday’s bulletin, while the total number of persons discharged after treatment crossed the two-lakh mark. Tamil Nadu’s overall case tally rose to 2,63,222, including 56,698 persons currently undergoing treatment. The discharge of 5,800 patients took the overall figure to 2,02,283. The death toll stood at 4,241. Among the 109 deceased were an eight-year-old girl and a 17-year-old teen from Chennai. The girl, who had Wilson’s disease, acute liver failure and coagulopathy, was admitted to the Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children on July 30. Her swab returned positive for COVID-19. She died on August 1 due to factors including refractory seizures, pneumonia and COVID-19. The teenager was admitted to a private hospital on July 22 with complaints of fever for two days and altered sensorium. He had hepatic encephalopathy, and died on July 31 due to sepsis, multi-organ dysfunction syndrome, intracranial hypertension and COVID-19. Chennai’s daily case count stood at 1,021, while six districts had 300-plus cases — Ranipet (382), Virudhunagar (348), Tiruvallur (332), Chengalpattu (331), Kancheepuram (322) and Theni (303). Coimbatore reported 227 cases, while Kanniyakumari had 215 infections. Thoothukudi and Tiruvannamalai had 214 and 210 cases. Five districts reported 100-plus cases — Cuddalore (167), Madurai (106), Thanjavur (146), Tiruchi (101) and Vellore (132). Kancheepuram became the fifth district in the State to surpass 10,000 cases. Overall, there was a marginal dip in fresh cases in many districts. Thirty-two returnees tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. For the first time, the Health Department’s bulletin recorded the deaths of over 100 persons. Of the 109 fatalities (86 in government hospitals and 23 in private ones), 20 occurred in Chennai and 9 in Virudhunagar. Seven persons died in Coimbatore, while Kancheepuram, Sivaganga, Tenkasi and Tirunelveli accounted for five deaths each. Forty-two persons died on August 2, 40 on August 1, 11 on July 31, 9 on July 30, three on July 29, two on July 28 and one each on July 27 and August 3. Chennai accounts for 2,176 deaths, followed by Chengalpattu (262), Tiruvallur (258), Madurai (257), Kancheepuram (122) and Virudhunagar (105). The number of samples tested in a 24-hour period came down to 58,211 after topping 60,000 for several days. The total number of samples tested so far is 28,37,273.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City registers a decline in cases||The number of residents testing positive for COVID-19 every day has reduced from 2,393 in June to 1,095 in August in the city because of micro-level planning, said Fisheries and Administrative Reforms Minister D. Jayakumar. Speaking to reporters following a review meeting held by Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on Monday, Mr. Jayakumar said the number of cases increased from five in March to 2,393 in June and has started declining in the past three weeks. Team effort “The decline in cases has been achieved by team effort. We have focused on all neighbourhoods, deploying 39,000 workers for containment measures,” the Minister said. Mr. Jayakumar said 13 frontline workers lost their lives in the line of duty. “The government will provide compensation to all workers who died of COVID-19.” Mr. Jayakumar said over 10% of the residents in the city had been tested for COVID-19. “Over 7.5 lakh residents have been tested,” he said. Mr. Velumani said the number of streets with active cases had reduced and the strategy adopted would be followed in other parts of the State. “A total of 5,549 streets have active cases. Of the 39,537 streets in Chennai, 33,988 streets do not have any cases,” he said. “A total of 89,604 patients have recovered. The city has 12,190 active cases,” Mr. Velumani said. Chennai has registered 87,000 tests per million and over 7.5 lakh tests, the highest for any city in the world. E-pass relaxations The Minister said the Chief Minister ordered relaxation of norms pertaining to issuance of e-pass on Monday. “We have issued 1.89 lakh e-passes in Chennai. But we have to be vigilant,” Mr. Velumani said. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the doubling time of cases in Chennai was 65 days. “In some wards, the doubling time is 100 days. Chennai’s model of containment has to be replicated in other cities. Over 80% beds in COVID-19 Care Centres in the city are vacant and over 40% of hospital beds are vacant,” he said. A total of 30,000 beds in care centres in the city have been readied. Currently, most positive cases have been reported in zones such as Anna Nagar, Ambattur and Valasaravakkam, while 12 zones have registered a decline in cases. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the government was planning to start pooled testing to reduce the time taken for release of results. Residents will get test results in 24 hours. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the civic body would permit labourers to return to Chennai from other parts of the country. “We will issue e-passes for labourers to return. But industries and construction sites should provide facilities for their 14-day isolation,” he said. “Containment activities will be continued for at least three more months in the city,” Mr. Prakash said.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nainar Nagendran unhappy over lack of importance in BJP||At a time when prominent functionaries are quitting the State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and rejoining their parent parties, senior leader Nainar Nagendran on Monday expressed disillusionment over the “lack of importance” given to him in the national party. Mr. Nagendran, a former Minister and prominent leader, who had quit the ruling AIADMK after Jayalalithaa’s death and joined the BJP, told The Hindu: “It is disappointing that many capable people are leaving the party. The leadership should recognise their abilities and give them proper posts.” Referring to the recent exits of S.K. Vedarathinam and Arcot R. Srinivasan, who rejoined the DMK and AIADMK respectively, he said the BJP leadership should recognise the abilities of capable people. “Vedarathinam and Srinivasan were given dummy posts and they left,” he lamented. Mr. Nagendran, who was among those touted as successor to Tamilisai Soundararajan as State BJP president, rued that he had been made just one of the 10 party vice-presidents in Tamil Nadu. “They could have at least given the post of a general secretary. I was not aspiring for the party president’s post,” he said. He denied that he was in talks with the DMK. “I am not leaving the BJP. I joined the BJP as Amma (Jayalalithaa) is not there anymore and Mr. Modi was doing well. I did get a seat to contest Parliament election and polled 3.5 lakh votes and lost by the least margin in the BJP,” he said. Mr. Nagendran said he now had doubts if he was not being given due respect or whether something was lacking in him. “I joined the BJP from the ruling party. So there is no question of hankering for power. I hope the party leadership recognises their cadres properly and ensure that the deserving ones don’t leave. Even now many are ready to join the BJP but people here are not accommodative enough,” he charged. When asked about the concerns raised by Mr. Nagendran, State BJP president L. Murugan said the party has been inducting so many people since he took over. “I have been in touch with Mr. Nagendran. I will not allow the existing leaders to be sidelined. Everything is going on smoothly and everyone will be taken care of,” he said.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to constitute expert panels to study NEP||The Tamil Nadu government would soon constitute two expert committees that would examine the provisions of the National Educational Policy (NEP 2020) approved by the Union Cabinet last week, and look into the implications on the State’s education system. During a meeting of Ministers and senior officials chaired by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, at the Secretariat, on Monday various aspects of the NEP were discussed.  First meeting “The meeting on Monday was the first to discuss the NEP. It has been decided to constitute two committees — one for Higher Education and another for School Education Departments to examine the various aspects of the new policy,” a senior official told The Hindu . Another official said that no decision was taken on various aspects of the NEP during the meeting. “The policy is comprehensive and there is a need to look into each and every aspect of the NEP to analyse which of those are favourable for Tamil Nadu and our government’s stand and which are against.” Since the three-language formula proposed by the NEP was a politically-sensitive topic, the Chief Minister chose to issue a statement opposing it, while other aspects would be examined by the expert committees. In his three-page statement, Mr. Palaniswami rejected the three-language formula proposed by the Centre and said the Tamil Nadu government would “never” implement it but would continue with only the two-language policy. He also recalled having opposed the three-language policy even when the draft NEP was released. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Forests Minister Dindigul C. Sreenivasan, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan, Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Minister V.M. Rajalakshmi, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and senior officials participated.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M, healthcare start-up develop device to monitor patients||A device to remotely monitor the vital signs of patients, including those infected by COVID-19, has been deployed in some hospitals in Chennai. The device, developed by the Healthcare Innovation Centre of the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras and Helyxon, a healthcare start-up in the institute’s research park, can monitor temperature, oxygen saturation, respiratory rate and heart rate. According to the institute, the device is being used on 2,000 patients in public and private hospitals and homes too. Around 5,000 more are in the pipeline. The start-up is scaling up to meet the demand for the device, which costs between Rs. 2,500 and Rs. 10,000, depending on the configuration and parameters. The self-contained portable wireless device can be clipped on to a patient’s finger, and data streamed to a mobile phone or central monitoring system. The temperature is measured at the armpit and blood oxygen level and other parameters at the finger tip. The reusable device can be used for over a year for patient management for other conditions as well. Institute faculty and head of Healthcare Technology Innovation Centre (HTIC) Mohanasankar Sivaprakasam said it was a learning experience for the team. “The key technical challenge is to engineer a device that meets the standards of a medical patient monitor and yet costs one-tenth and can easily be fitted and used without training,” he said. Technology validated The core technology was validated by a year-long multi-centric study at various Chennai-based medical institutions for accuracy and performance with reference to current standards. Hospitals found it advantageous to use the device specifically during COVID-19 as it reduced close contact with patients for doctors and nurses, and saved significantly the expense on PPE and monitoring equipment. Helyxon founder Vijai Shankar Raja said the device was developed based on feedback from doctors and hospital managements. Non-governmental organisations have approached the start-up to procure the device for Stanley Medical College Hospital, the Institute of Child Health and the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Give eggs, sanitary napkins to students: HC||The Madras High Court on Monday said the government should stop giving excuses for not being able to distribute eggs and sanitary napkins to needy children, and instead start working on ways and means to ensure that the benefits reach everyone. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha said the court would not compromise on issues related to the nutritional and hygiene requirements of schoolchildren, who were missing many benefits due to the closure of schools since March 17 because of the COVID-19 lockdown. Although the judges even dictated an order to that effect on a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate R. Sudha, they later kept it in abeyance for a day at the instance of law officer G.K. Muthukumar who sought time to get instructions from the Social Welfare Department. When the case was taken up for hearing, the Special Government Pleader told the court that 71.59 lakh sanitary napkins had been distributed to 23.86 lakh girls and postnatal mothers through primary health centre (PHC) nurses between April and July. Dry rations Similarly, dry rations, in lieu of boiled eggs and other nutritional food provided to children during working days, were being handed over once a month to the children or their parents by asking them to visit the schools. The distribution was supervised by headmasters, he said. However, he said that eggs could not be distributed because of practical difficulties in transportation and distribution. He said that eggs had a shelf life of only seven to 10 days and hence, it would be difficult to distribute them periodically. Not impressed by such submissions, the senior judge said the government could distribute a box of seven to 10 raw eggs at a time to every beneficiary since malnutrition was a major concern, and it was the bounden duty of the State to take care of the marginalised. Distribution of eggs should not be a problem since the lockdown had been relaxed, he said. Services of teachers The Division Bench found force in the submission of petitioner’s counsel Vasudha Thiagarajan that not all needy adolescent girls had been provided with sanitary napkins, which they otherwise get for free through vending machines in government schools. The court suggested that the services of schoolteachers, who were drawing salary but had no work to do during the lockdown, could be used to identify the children who were in need of eggs and sanitary napkins. It hoped the teachers would rise to the occasion.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Report sought on assistance to mentally challenged destitutes||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the Commissionerate for the Welfare of the Differently Abled to ascertain the difficulties faced by the mentally challenged abandoned on the roads and file a report on the assistance provided to them during the pandemic. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha issued the direction on a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate M. Karpagam through her counsel R. Prabhakaran. The judges asked Additional Advocate General Narmadha Sampath to make sure the report was filed by August 14. The petitioner claimed that scores of mentally challenged destitutes were roaming around in public places without proper food, clothing and shelter. Her counsel said that even on Monday, there was a news report of 50 such people roaming in Palani, Dindigul district. Govt. help Arguing another case seeking financial assistance for the physically challenged, the petitioner’s counsel, B. Ramasamy, claimed that the government had given only Rs. 1,000 to them so far, as against Rs. 2,000 paid to hairdressers and as much as Rs. 4,000 to a few others. He said the physically challenged were the most affected due to COVID-19 since their mobility had been crippled. They could not move about without the assistance of others because it ultimately ended up compromising the need to maintain physical distancing. However, the AAG told the court that a government order was issued on June 26 for providing cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 to 13.35 lakh National Identity and Disability Certificate holders in the State and the distribution at their doorstep had begun.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of textbooks, bags begins in schools||The distribution of free textbooks and bags in government and government-aided schools among students of Classes 2-8 began across Tamil Nadu on Monday. All norms, including physical distancing and use of masks and sanitisers, were followed as per the COVID-19-related standard operating procedure issued by the Directorate of School Education, sources said. As per guidelines, students from Classes 7 and 8 were called on Monday. The distribution for other classes will happen over the next few days. A. Felsia Sumangaladevi, headmistress, Chennai Middle School, said contrary to expectations, all students came and received the textbooks and bags. “We were doubtful whether all students would show up due to the prevailing situation. However, all of them came with their parents,” she said, adding that all safety measures were undertaken. P.K. Ilamaran of the Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association said they had reached out to the students over phone, in advance, and specific timings were given. “We ensured that the students came in batches of 20 to avoid crowding,” he said. L. Chockalingam, headmaster, Chairman Manickavasagam Middle School, Sivaganga district, said the students were happy to be on the school campus after several months. “A set of books and a bag for each student was kept ready so that they did not have to wait for long on campus,” he said. The distribution of books and schoolbags among students of Classes 10 and 12 has already been done.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Largest area under kuruvai cultivation in 30 years’||This year’s coverage of 3.87 lakh acres of land during the short-term kuruvai cultivation season is the “largest” in 30 years, according to the State government. This is about one lakh acres more than what was achieved last year. On the corresponding day (August 3) in 2019, the crop was raised on 2.803 lakh acres of land, Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Principal Secretary (Agriculture) and V. Dakshinamoorthy, Agriculture Director, said in a release on Monday. Similarly, 270 more revenue villages in the districts of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Tiruchi had been brought under the Prime Minister’s crop insurance scheme this time. The total area covered in the region under the insurance scheme was 1.68 lakh acres, about 1.03 lakh acres more than what was achieved last year. About 6.5 lakh tonnes of rice was expected to be the output in the delta districts during the current kuruvai cultivation season, the release added.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nainar Nagendran unhappy over lack of importance in BJP||At a time when prominent functionaries are quitting the BJP and rejoining their parent parties, senior leader Nainar Nagendran on Monday expressed his disillusionment with the national party over the “lack of importance” being given to him. Mr. Nagendran, a former Minister and prominent leader who quit the ruling AIADMK after Jayalalithaa’s death and joined the BJP, told The Hindu, “It is disappointing that many capable people are leaving the party. The leadership should recognise their abilities and give them proper posts.” Referring to the recent exits of S.K. Vedarathinam and Arcot R. Srinivasan, who rejoined the DMK and the AIADMK, he said, “Mr. Vedarathinam and Mr. Srinivasan were given dummy posts, and hence, they left.”  ‘Just one among 10 VPs’ Mr. Nagendran, among those touted as successor to Tamilisai Soundararajan as the State BJP president, rued that he had been made just one among the 10 party vice-presidents in Tamil Nadu. “They could have at least given [me] the post of general secretary. I was not aspiring for the party president’s post,” he said. He denied that he was in talks with the DMK. “I am not leaving the BJP. I joined the BJP as Amma (Jayalalithaa) is not there anymore, and Mr. Modi was doing well. I did get a seat to contest the Parliamentary election, and I polled 3.5 lakh votes and lost by the lowest margin in the BJP,” he said. Mr. Nagendran said he now had doubts whether he was not being given due respect or if something was lacking in him. “I joined the BJP from the ruling party. So there is no question of hankering for power. I hope the party leadership gives proper recognition to the cadre and ensures that the deserving ones don’t leave. Even now, many are ready to join the BJP. But people here are not accommodative enough,” he said. When asked about the concerns raised by Mr. Nagendran, State unit president L. Murugan said the party had inducted a large number of people since he took charge. “I have been in touch with Mr. Nagendran. I will not allow the existing leaders to be sidelined. Everything is going on smoothly, and everyone would be taken care of,” he added.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Draw lots to assign alternative shops, say Koyambedu vendors||With plans under way to allot alternative space for vegetable retailers in the city, members of various Koyambedu traders’ associations want the shops to be assigned through a draw of lots. In a representation to the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, members of the Koyambedu Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers Merchants’ Welfare Association said alternative shops were planned for those small traders who have 150 sq ft to 300 sq ft shops in Koyambedu. Such merchants must apply through the Market Management Committee and provide sufficient documents. The association’s president, M. Thyagarajan, said there were nearly 1,985 retail shops in Koyambedu. These merchants engaged in vegetable trade on a kilogram basis rather than tonnage. They would be allotted about 200 shops in Mogappair East. Instead of assigning shops at random, the authorities concerned should conduct a drawing lots to choose the beneficiaries. CMDA officials said they would consider the request. He also suggested that a similar measure be adopted in the Koyambedu Wholesale Market, which has remained shut since May. They could allow 200 shops to operate on a daily rotation. Wholesale merchants also noted that a minimum of 10% of the about 4,000 tonnes of produce brought daily to the Thirumazhisai vegetable market goes waste after a spell of rain. On Monday, several tonnes of vegetables were wasted as produce was damaged after overnight showers. Traders sold vegetables for a lower price to avoid wastage. For instance, tomatoes which were procured for Rs. 40 a kg were sold for Rs. 30 a kg. D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of All Traders Associations of KWMC Periyar market, said there was no space for unloading the purchased produce. Each shop, spread over 200 sq ft, deals with 50-100 tonnes of vegetables and practising physical distancing norms was posing a challenge during rain. “Several people gather inside the small space to avoid the rain. We cannot store unsold stock in the shops as they get damaged due to the wet surfaces. Farmers are also severely affected,” he added.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Why language has been a sensitive matter?||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s reiteration that the State government would stick to the two-language formula is expected to bring to an end the raging controversy over the National Education Policy but a perusal of the State’s history reveals that the language question has always been a sensitive subject. The Chief Minister’s observation has come in the context of the public discourse that the policy would facilitate “indirect entry” of Hindi or Sanskrit as a third language into the State. The argument of proponents of the two-language formula centres around two points — the possibility of the importance of Tamil, which has the oldest literature among living languages, getting diminished and the absence of the need for learning a third language as English serves very well the purpose of communication with the world. The State’s political journey on the issue of language can be traced to the decision of the Congress regime, led by C. Rajagopalachari or Rajaji, to make Hindi a compulsory subject in the first, second and third forms (equivalent to the present standards VI to VIII), in August 1937. However, the decision was met with agitations spearheaded by E.V. Ramasamy. But there was no change in the policy till the Congress Ministry remained in office till October 1939. Then, the British government made Hindi optional. During the 1950s, the language issue continued to be a major subject of discussion, both in the Assembly and outside. The flashpoint was the eruption of the “anti-Hindi” agitation in January 1965, in the light of the proposed move to make Hindi the sole official language. Though college students had taken part in the agitation, it became one of the reasons for the DMK to capture power for the first time in the State two years later. By this time, Rajaji had become a critic of “imposition” of Hindi. In deference to the sentiments of the people, the Centre decided that English would remain an associate official language. It was left to the DMK government, led by C. N. Annadurai, to do away with the three-language formula and adopt the two language formula – teaching Tamil and English. To this day, the two-language formula has been the policy of the State government, regardless of the party in power. Even though the frequency of stirs by political parties against the “Hindi imposition” have considerably gone down in nearly 20 years, the BJP’s return to power at the Centre in 2014 revived in a big way the public discourse on the language issue. Durai Murugan, senior leader of the DMK, says, “The genuine apprehension amongst us is that attempts of the Central government would eventually lead to extinction of the Tamil language.” Former School Education Minister Thangam Thennarasu feels that the history of opposition to the three-language formula only demonstrates “strong concerns” of the people over the Central government’s approach that steps were on to effect “clandestine introduction of Hindi or Sanskrit. ” A senior leader of the AIADMK, speaking on the condition of anonymity, says that the State’s stand should not be viewed as a mark of blind resistance but as one that is aimed at defending the State’s autonomy. What the two principal parties indicate is that the two-language formula will remain a permanent feature of the education policy in the State government, no matter which party is in power.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Body on push cart: SHRC calls for report||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Monday called for a report from the authorities over an incident in Theni district in which the body of a woman was taken to the burial ground on a pushcart, after an ambulance failed to turn up. SHRC member A. Chittaranjan Mohandoss took suo motu cognisance of a report published in Hindu Tamil Thisai and called for a report from Theni Collector and the Commissioner of Municipal Administration within four weeks. According to the report in Hindu    Tamil    Thisai , a 45-year old woman in Alagupillai Street in Gudalur died after testing positive for COVID-19. However, even after being alerted, no ambulance turned up even after 12 hours. Since the ambulance did not turn up, the woman’s son hired a push cart and took her body to the burial ground.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New body formed for ‘active film producers’||In a bid to represent the interests of ‘active producers’ in the Tamil Film Producers Council (TFPC), veteran filmmaker Bharathirajaa and other ‘active’ producers have announced that they have formed the Tamil Film Active Producers Association and asked other producers to join the new association. In 2019, the State government appointed a Special Officer to administer TFPC, which was previously led by actor Vishal Krishna, after the Inspector General of Registration found that the association’s office-bearers had violated certain provisions of the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act. Sources backing Mr. Bharathirajaa admitted that they had to form a new association as TFPC was being impeded by members who had joined it a long time ago but were no longer actively producing films. The filmmaker, in a statement, reiterated that the new association was not in conflict with the existing one, which would remain as the parent body and they would continue to be its members. “The new Association has been formed to protect the interest of active film producers, whose requirement for producing, marketing, distributing and managing their film business requires a higher focus and attention. This is not new and has already been implemented in the Hindi and Telugu film industries; a separate active film producers’ association exists and operates successfully with only limited active producers while a regular film producers’ council also operates there smoothly,” Mr. Bharathirajaa said. He said there was a need to get back into active film business in the post COVID-19 scenario and safeguard the interests of active producers. “The management team shall be formed only after we enroll active film producers,” he said.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police constable’s neck slit by manja thread on Padi flyover||Though police claim to be cracking down on manja and kite flying, the menace seems to be continuing unchecked. The latest to be injured due to this was traffic police constable Jayakumar, 42. The constable and his wife fell from their bike after the thread slit his neck on the Padi flyover on Sunday. Following the incident, City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal transferred Villivakkam inspector S. Rajeesh Babu to the control room for failing to crack down on the use of manja thread in his jurisdiction. Police said Mr. Jayakumar and his wife Maheshwari, a head constable with the Central Crime Branch, were on their way home when the incident happened. “A car driver came to our aid and removed the thread and took us both to the ICF hospital,” Ms. Maheshwari said. Though the police claim to be taking action against those selling kites and manja thread, many continue using them. M. Raju, whose 4-year-old son R. Ajay died after a manja thread slit his throat in 2015, said he still saw people flying kites.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||River Nagari in Tiruvallur starts getting inflow from A.P.||Nagari river in Tiruvallur district limits is getting inflow from a dam upstream in Andhra Pradesh. However, water must be released consistently for the flow to reach Poondi reservoir, one of the city’s main sources of drinking water, according to the Water Resources Department. It may be recalled that a minimal quantity of surplus water was initially released into the river on Saturday from Ammapalli dam, Krishnapuram village, located in Andhra Pradesh. WRD officials said about 600 cusecs (cubic feet per second) was again released between 10 p.m. on Sunday and 4 a.m. on Monday and was later stopped. The water had travelled for 12 km up to the Pallipet bridge on Monday and was expected to reach Nallatur check dam near Tiruttani by Monday night. Flood warning for surrounding villages was issued by the Tiruvallur Collectorate as a precautionary measure. Surplus water from Nagari needs to travel another 15 km and may take a few more days to reach Poondi. The reservoir mainly gets inflow from the Nagari and Nandi rivers. From downstream of Poondi reservoir, the waterway flows as Kosasthalaiyar. Of the Nagari’s total depth of nearly 1.8 m, water is currently flowing at 0.3 m. The portion of the river near Pallipet can carry up to 30,000 cusecs. “Water needs to be released regularly for the flow to reach Poondi reservoir. There was an inflow of 160 cusecs into the lake after overnight rainfall on Monday. This added 11 million cubic feet of water,” the official added.  Forecast of rain The Meteorological Department has forecast that many parts of the State would get light to moderate rainfall for two days. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said there was a shear zone of easterlies and westerlies in the mid-atmosphere over Tamil Nadu. An upper air circulation already exists and may develop into a low pressure area over the north Bay of Bengal by Tuesday. This may also strengthen westerly winds and bring thunderstorms over the State. Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Tiruppur, Vellore and Tiruvannamalai will receive rainfall. A few places in districts along the Western Ghats such as Coimbatore and the Nilgiris are likely to receive heavy rain. Chennai may experience light rain till Wednesday.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||President, PM wish Governor good health||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Governor Banwarilal Purohit, who tested positive for COVID-19, and wished him speedy recovery. “The President and the Prime Minister spoke to the Governor over phone and wished him a speedy recovery,” an official from the Raj Bhavan said. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had on Sunday spoken to the Governor over phone and wished him good health. The Governor is stable, the Raj Bhavan said on Monday evening. Doctors from the Kauvery Hospital carried out a health checkup and have found him stable, an official release stated. “They are monitoring his health 24X7,” it added. Mr. Purohit is asymptomatic and clinically stable, a statement from the hospital had said earlier. Since Mr. Purohit’s infection is mild, he has been advised home isolation. In view of the pandemic, the Governor has decided not to host an ‘at-home’ reception at the Raj Bhavan, usually held on the occasion of the Independence Day.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras HC refuses to restrict online classes to just two hours a day||The Madras High Court on Monday refused to direct private schools in the State to restrict the conduct of online classes to just two hours a day until it disposes of a batch of cases filed regarding the restrictions to be imposed on such classes. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha rejected a plea for an interim direction and decided to hear all stakeholders, including associations representing private schools as well as parents and others, before taking a final call on the issue. The court ordered the issuance of a notice in two newspapers — one in English and another in Tamil — with wide circulation, regarding the cases pending before it and to invite stakeholders to get impleaded and present their arguments on August 19. Earlier, Additional Advocate General Narmadha Sampath told the court that a government order was issued on July 29 with elaborate guidelines to be followed by schools, parents, teachers and students during online classes. She said the timings had also been regulated and that the government had made it clear that every online session of curricular activity could be conducted for 30-45 minutes and that there should be 10-15 minutes of break between each session. However, advocate J. Ravindran, representing one of the petitioners, contended that the guidelines were only advisory and not mandatory. He said that the government should come up with a firm resolve since it involves the health of schoolchildren. Agreeing that it was an important issue, the senior judge on the Bench said that the court would look into all aspects, including health, access to technology, availability of gadgets and disparity created between privileged children and the marginalised ones because of online classes. Since such an exercise cannot not be carried out without hearing the stakeholders concerned, the Bench decided to give a patient hearing to all after the publication of the notice.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Reject NEP 2020 in toto’||CPI (M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan on Monday welcomed Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s stand opposing the three-language formula advocated in the National Education Policy. He urged Mr. Palaniswami to totally reject the NEP, contending that it was against the rights of the State, social justice and education for the oppressed sections in society. “The State government should not give up its responsibility by merely opposing the three-language formula. It should urge the Centre to give up the NEP in toto,” Mr. Balakrishnan said in a letter to the Chief Minister. ‘Far-reaching impact’ According to him, the NEP would centralise power, commercialise and saffronise education, deny reservation and impose Sanskrit, which he said, was no longer in currency. “The changes in the field of education would have a far-reaching impact on the socio-economic and cultural aspects of the country. All parties, barring the BJP, are opposing the NEP in Tamil Nadu,” he said.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM’s stand on 2-language policy hailed||The PMK, Makkal Needhi Maiam and the Manithaneya Makkal Katchi on Monday welcomed Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s statement that the three-language formula proposed by the National Education Policy (NEP) will not be implemented and that the two-language policy will continue in the State. In a social media post, PMK leader Ramadoss said the arguments being advanced against the three-language formula would also apply to the proposed public examinations for the Standard V and Standard VIII students. ‘No detention’ He also urged the government to immediately announce that the ‘no detention policy’ until Standard VIII would continue. MNM founder Kamal Haasan said: “I welcome the Chief Minister’s statement. At the same time, the State should oppose the Centre denying the State’s right through organisations, such as National Assessment Centre, PARAKH, National Testing Agency and National Curricular Framework.” MMK leader Prof. M.H. Jawahirullah said it was disappointing that the Chief Minister did not oppose the NEP in total. “The State passed a resolution against NEET and the government clearly understands how it shattered the dreams of poor students studying in State board schools. Now, the NEP wants to bring NEET for all degree courses. The NEP will further affect the Gross Enrolment Ratio,” he said.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Baby treated for rare birth defect at city hospital||A baby born with a rare condition was successfully treated at a city hospital recently. A pregnant woman from Andhra Pradesh was referred to the Rainbow Children’s Hospital. An antenatal scan revealed that some of the baby’s internal organs were outside the body in a large sac, a condition called omphalocele. Normally, such a pregnancy would be terminated since the associated cardiac, lung and genetic problems would lower the child’s survival rate. But since the parents decided against it, the woman was shifted to Rainbow Children’s Hospital as her term was about to end. The baby was delivered through a Caesarean section by a team of doctors and then shifted to the neonatal intensive care unit. The baby was stabilised for a day and then taken into surgery. Surgeons opened the sac containing the liver and intestine and pushed the organs back into the abdominal cavity. 10-day procedure The liver was kept in a temporary artificial (silo) bag and over a period of 10 days the organ was pushed into the abdominal cavity slowly. When the liver was fully inside, the abdominal cavity was surgically closed. The infant was on ventilator support throughout the procedure. The expert team was led by paediatric and neonatal surgeon G. Moorthy, along with urologist and paediatric surgeon Senthil Ganesh, surgeon M. Raghul, lead consultant neonatology Rahul Yadav and senior consultant of obstetrics and gynaecology Vidhya Moorthy. The baby was discharged after 40 days and was doing well, hospital authorities said.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK, allies write to CM||Leaders of constituent parties in the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance on Monday wrote to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami urging him to adopt a resolution in the State Cabinet against the National Education Policy (NEP 2020). The parties urged the ruling AIADMK to uphold the two-language formula and the Tamil Nadu Tamil Learning Act, 2006. In a letter to the Chief Minister, the leaders contended that the NEP would turn students towards saffronised-education and against the pluralist nature of the country. “In every aspect, the NEP is at odds with the education policy already existing in the State. It seeks to replace Tamil with Sanskrit,” the leaders alleged. Citing the proviso, “Sanskrit will thus be offered at all levels of school and higher education as an important and enriching option for students, including as an option in the three-language formula,” the leaders said the NEP would totally ignore the two-language policy and impose Sanskrit on Tamil Nadu.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC: gun culture is slowly raising its head in T.N.||Observing that “gun culture is slowly and steadily raising its ugly head” in Tamil Nadu, the Madras High Court on Monday called for a report from the State government and the Director General of Police on steps taken to curtail the menace. Justices N. Kirubakaran and V.M. Velumani issued the direction on a habeas corpus petition challenging the preventive detention of a 20-year-old Bihar youth Navalsah on charges of indulging in robbery using an illegal gun in Tiruppur district last year. The judges said the country was facing threats not only from outside but also from inside with naxalites and organisations, such as United Liberation Front of Assam and the Islamic State waging wars within the country. “Apart from the above forces, individuals, criminals and politicians, too started using unlawful firearms and it is reported in newspapers. In 2016, nearly 230 people were arrested in Tamil Nadu for possessing illegal firearms.”
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MPs, MLA test positive||Two more MPs and an MLA tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. Congress MP Karti Chidambaram said he had tested positive for the infection and was under home quarantine. In a tweet, the Sivaganga MP said he had mild symptoms of the disease. DMK MP from Mayiladuthurai S. Ramalingam also tested positive for COVID-19, a day after Nagapattinam MP M. Selvaraj tested positive. Both had taken part in two public hearings on July 30. Mr. Ramalingam reportedly left for Chennai after his results returned positive on Monday. Orathanadu MLA M. Ramachandran, 75, of the DMK, tested positive on Sunday. He was visiting his son in Chennai. BJP Tamil Nadu vice-president Nainar Nagendran said he seemed to have mild symptoms and was going under self-isolation.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Painting contest held for students||The Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services recently organised a painting competition in schools across the State to create awareness of COVID-19.  C. Sylendra Babu, Director, TNFRS, gave away the awards. M.S. Pranav from Velammal Matriculation, Mogappair, won the first prize and M. Poorvisha of SBOA, Anna Nagar, won the second prize.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. colleges begin online classes||The first day of online classes on Monday for second and third year students of undergraduate programmes in government colleges was one of its kind. The students listened to their teachers on their mobile phones and laptops. For the teachers too it was a unique experience. “It was the first day of online interaction [due to COVID-19 pandemic] and we had three hours of orientation for the new semester,” said a government college teacher.
04 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||T.N. committed to development of skills for aerospace and defence sectors: Minister||The Tamil Nadu Government is committed to the development of human resources for the aerospace and defence sectors, Minister for Industries M.C. Sampath said on Monday. In a message delivered at the valedictory function of one-year ‘Aerospace Tool Design and Manufacturing’ training programme, the Minister said that the Tamil Nadu Aerospace and Defence Industrial Policy 2019 gave importance to development of human resources with relevant talent and skills for the sector. The State Government would facilitate augmentation of the quality and quantity of talent required for the sector by partnering with global and national original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and education and research institutes on a public-private partnership mode, he said. Development of skills to manufacture for aerospace sector and, thus, improving job opportunities in the State was an objective of the government, he added. Foundation laid The Minister said though COVID-19 spread affected industrial functioning in the State, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had laid the foundation for eight projects last week that would bring in an investment of Rs. 2,368 crore to the State. He also inaugurated 11 projects worth Rs. 3,185 crore. In this event, foundation was laid for Aerohub- Advanced Computing and Design Engineering Centre for Aerospace and Defence Industries at the upcoming Aerospace Park at Sriperumpudur. It would be set up at an investment of Rs. 250 crore by Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO) and TIDEL. The aim was to demonstrate the commitment of the State Government to the TN Aerospace and Defence Industrial Policy 2019. B. Elangovan, Senior General Manager, TIDCO, said that skill training was an important component of the State’s Aerospace and Defence Policy. Several colleges in the State offered courses in aerospace engineering. “The real demand is for technicians,” he said. Ashwani Bhargava, Director, Supply Chain Management of Boeing India, said placement of the trainees of the programme had started and one had secured a job overseas too. Chairman and managing director of Lakshmi Machine Works Sanjay Jayavarthanavelu pointed out that private companies in India had started taking part in aerospace and defence sectors only in the last 10 years and hence, this was a relatively new area. Chairperson of Learning Links Foundation Anjlee Prakash also spoke. According to a press release, as many as 28 candidates passed out of the “Learn and Earn” programme. It was sponsored by Boeing and the programme was offered in association with Learning Links Foundation, GKD Institute for Technological Resources and Lakshmi Machine Works. The training focused on imparting skills in design and manufacturing of tools for aerospace sector. The students underwent six months classroom training at GKD Institute and six months on the job training at LMW Advanced Technology Centre here.
04 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID takes over probe||The Crime Branch CID (CB-CID) on Monday took over the investigation into the death of suspected Sri Lankan gangster Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera alias Angoda Lokka in Coimbatore. The agency will probe his alleged fabrication of documents and impersonation. Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy transferred the investigation to CB-CID after reviewing reports of Coimbatore city police and 'Q' Branch, said sources. K. Shankar, Inspector General of Police, CB-CID, said that a case has been registered to begin the investigation. The CB-CID team received case documents from the city police.
04 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID takes over probe into death of Sri Lankan gangster Angoda Lokka||The Crime Branch CID (CB-CID) of Tamil Nadu police on Monday took over the investigation into the recent death of suspected Sri Lankan fugitive gangster Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera alias Angoda Lokka in Coimbatore. The agency will probe his illegal stay in the country, alleged fabrication of documents, impersonation and helps he got during exile. Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy transferred the investigation to CB-CID after reviewing reports of Coimbatore city police and 'Q' Branch, said sources. K. Shankar, Inspector General of Police, CB-CID, said that a case has been registered to begin the investigation. The CB-CID team received case documents from the city police. The local police and ‘Q’ branch suspect that the fugitive had help from sympathisers of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) during his stay here for about two years. A senior police officer, who is part of the investigation, said that the father of D. Sivakamasundari, a native of Madurai, who was arrested by the police on Sunday for helping Lokka, was an LTTE sympathiser. The police found that Lokka managed to obtain fake Aadhaar cards in the name of Pradeep Singh in two addresses – one from West Bengal and another one from Madurai. “Details emerged in the investigation indicated possible roles of LTTE sympathisers,” said the officer. Amani Thanji (27), a woman from Colombo who had visited Lokka at least three times in Coimbatore, had come to the city last on March 5 and she could not go back to Sri Lanka due to COVID-19 lockdown. Her husband was killed in Sri Lanka in 2017 and Lokka’s role is suspected behind the murder, according to the police. After her arrest on Sunday, Thanji was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) as she developed health complications. “The woman told us that she was two months pregnant and had consumed pills to terminate the pregnancy after the death of Lokka,” the officer said. Sivakamasundari’s friend S. Dyaneswaran (32) of Erode, who was also arrested on Sunday, helped Lokka in finding houses in Coimbatore and other arrangements, according to the police. Lokka stayed in an apartment at Saravanampatti in Coimbatore before moving to Cheran Ma Nagar in the city early this year. The illegal stay of Lokka in Coimbatore came to light when the police verified an Aadhaar card copy that Sivakamasundari submitted at the Peelamedu police station in Coimbatore on July 4, a day after Lokka’s death to complete post-mortem formalities. As per the First Information Report, Thanji took Lokka to a private hospital around 9.30 p.m. on July 3 where he was declared brought dead. The body was later shifted to CMCH for postmortem. The FIR said that Sivakamasundari came to Coimbatore on Thanji's request and managed to take the body to Madurai for cremation, by submitting fake documents to the police. G. Stalin, Deputy Commissioner of Police (law and order), Coimbatore city, said that Lokka was not doing any specific work in Coimbatore. “He had enough money with him. No weapon was found in his house,” he said.
04 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Help pours in for migrant families||The 22 families from Rajasthan, who were living in makeshift structures at Solar here and whose children turned alm-seekers due to lockdown, received groceries and essential commodities in adequate quantities on Monday. They were living in makeshift structures without basic amenities for over three years now. A report on “Migrant children turn alm-seekers as lockdown hits parents’ livelihood” was published in The Hindu dated July 30 after which Selva Charitable Trust and Humanity During COVID-19, an organisation to help the needy during the lockdown, decided to extend helping hand to the families. On Monday, R. Sivakumar, Superintendent of Police, Prohibition Enforcement Wing, Salem Zone, distributed groceries and essential commodities to each family in the presence of J.J. Bharathi, founder, Selva Charitable Trust, S. Rozario, its president and Naim Khan and his wife Mahathaj Parveen, founders of Humanity During COVID-19. Milk packets, milk powder, fruits and bread packets were also given to 75 persons. “We get work for one or two days a week and we earn less than Rs. 200 a week,” said Ajay and added that the dry rations would feed his family for two to three weeks. Essentials were also distributed by an NGO, Rights Education and Development Centre, to the families. S. Lakshmi, secretary, Erode District Legal Services Authority, distributed the essentials in the presence of E.M. Ashok Kumar, chairman, District Child Welfare Committee, V. David Raja, District Child Protection Officer, R. Karuppasamy, Director, READ, its project manager Maheswaran, and D. Jeyaraj, Coordinator, Erode Railway Childline 1098. Officials told The Hindu that there were 19 children below 18 years and a proposal had been made to start a Special Training Centre to train and admit them in regular school.
04 August 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Waterbodies brimming, thanks to rain||It is unusual to see tanks filled with water in K. Paramathi block, a region lying in the rain shadow area of the district, in July or August. Thanks to the timely desilting of waterbodies and recent rain, several waterbodies are brimming up with water. According to sources in the District Rural Development Agency, about 400 check dams, 350 village ponds and 110 minor irrigation tanks were desilted recently. Of them, 35 check dams, 72 ponds and 40 inlet and outlet channels were in K. Paramathi block. Out of eight blocks including K. Paramathi, Krishnarayapuram, Kulithalai and Karur, K. Paramathi is said to be the driest blocks as it receive less rain even during the North East monsoon between October and December. Officials expected the desilted waterbodies in K. Paramathi would receive water during the monsoon period. But, to their surprise, several waterbodies have filled up due to the unseasonal rain received in July. “We are elated to see water in ponds and check dams. More than 70% of the waterbodies have water between 50% to 80% of their capacities, says S. Kavitha, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency. She said that it would enable the recharge of groundwater in the block. Water in ponds would help the local residents to feed water to their livestock and draw water for daily use. Ms. Kavitha said that most of the check dams in Kadavur and Thogamalai blocks were also filled with water.
04 August 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||New shutters in place at KRP reservoir||The new shutters of KRP Dam were downed here on Monday to enable the reservoir fill to capacity during monsoon. The shutters were closed for the first time in three years, as one of the eight shutters breached due to corrosion in 2017, and it had to be replaced along with the others that were also found to be weak. While the first shutter was replaced at Rs. 3 crore in a year since the breach, the works to replace the others began last year. The works were carried out at Rs. 20.43 crore, with funds from the World Bank under its Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project. The breach in the first shutter had led to 1 tmc of water draining out. The storage level was reduced from the full reservoir level of 52 feet to 30 ft in order to facilitate the works. Superintending Engineer of the Public Works Department Asokan and his team inspected the completed works on Monday.
04 August 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Youth shot dead||A youth was shot dead at Ilavampadi reserve forest in Uthangarai on Monday.  The incident occurred when the victim, Kamalakannan (21), had gone for illegal hunting into the forest along with his friend Siva. Kamalakannan was hit by bullets in the dark allegedly by other possible lurkers in the forest. Siva fled the spot and alerted Kamalakannan’s family. Singapettai police are investigating.
04 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Traders smarting over delay in completion of road work||The ongoing ‘smart road’ work on the four Masi streets around Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple is causing much inconvenience to road users and shopkeepers. They are demanding that this project must be speeded up and completed fast to end their hardships. The Corporation is renovating the four Masi streets under the Centre’s Smart Cities Mission programme. All these roads fall under the Area Based Development Zone of the Corporation. Under the project, these roads will have three underground ducts which are separated by concrete. The first duct will have electrical cables, the second will have communication cables and the last one will be used as storm water drains. Finally, the whole road will be completely laid with concrete. Ashraf Yusuf, secretary of Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association, who had recently written a letter to the authorities regarding the issue, said hundreds of traders and shopkeepers were affected due to the dust pollution caused by the road work. A large number of people descend on the four Masi streets to buy their every day provisions. “For the past six months, the roads have been dug up with iron rods protruding out, which are very dangerous for pedestrians and other road users. When there were heavy rains in the last week of May, few vehicles fell inside the deep trenches that were dug up for the project,” he added. G. Mohan, a street vendor, said pedestrians suffered the most as there were no alternative arrangements. “Apart from the four Masi streets, road repair work is also under way in the adjoining streets. Hence, it becomes very difficult for vehicle users to travel on any of these roads,” he said. Traffic snarls had become a common sight on the already congested Masi streets, said a traffic police personnel. “Sometimes, it becomes extremely difficult to regulate the traffic when the carriageway remains drastically reduced due to the ongoing project,” he said. No phased manner The police personnel suggested that work could be carried out in a phased manner. “Once they finish work on a particular portion of road, then they can move on to the next portion,” he said. A Corporation official said 30% of the work had been completed. “Continuous movement of vehicles throughout day and night is causing delay in completion of the project,” he added. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said laying ‘smart roads’ was highly complicated. “Still we are executing the project in a fast manner. The public must cooperate with us as the project is meant for their benefit only,” he said.
04 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Reopen inter-district borders: van operators||A section of tourist van operators from across the district petitioned Collector T.G. Vinay here on Monday seeking reopening of inter-district borders or easy access to e-passes to travel within Tamil Nadu so that they could resume work by taking adequate precautions. A. Selvam, their representative who spoke to the press, said tourist van operators were without work ever since COVID-19 related lockdown started more than four months back because of the strict restrictions imposed by the Central and State governments in terms of vehicle movement. He said, with no income, many tourist van operators and drivers like him had borrowed heavily and accumulated huge debts. Since banks refused to provide them loans, many were forced to borrow from unconventional sources. “The moneylenders and financial companies from whom some of us availed loans, are demanding Rs. 1.20 lakh as interest alone. Only if we start driving will we even attempt to repay them,” he said. If inter-district travel was allowed, many drivers will be able to resume making regular income instead of accumalating more and more debts. “We will, of course, sanitise our vehicles and disallow crowding inside our vehicles. Because we also want to be safe,” he said. Mr. Selvam added that it would be helpful for drivers if tourist van insurance (renewed in January) could be extended till the end of the year. “We have barely made use of the insurance in these last four months,” he said.
04 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sarabanga lift irrigation project will not affect Delta region: Govt.||The State government on Monday submitted before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that the Sarabanga lift irrigation project, which will see excess water from the Mettur reservoir diverted to the dry tanks in the Sarabanga basin in Salem district, will not have any adverse effect on Delta irrigation. The Public Works Department, in its counter affidavit, submitted to the court said that the State government was considering the proposal to provide water to the region as early as 2012. The scheme on completion and operation will benefit farmers and people in Edappadi, Sankagiri, Omalur and Mettur and will meet their agricultural and drinking water needs. The State government has constructed the Kattalai Barrage across the Cauvery at Mayanur in Karur district in 2014 for the benefit of Delta irrigation. Also, work on a new barrage across the Kollidam river between Adhanur and Kumaramangalam is under way, where surplus water can be saved and utilised for the benefit of the farmers of the region. Apart from this, a project named ‘Climate change adaptation program in Cauvery Delta’, assisted by the Asian Development Bank at a cost of Rs. 1,560 crore is under implementation for improving the irrigation in tail end areas of the Delta region. Therefore, by diverting 0.555 TMC water from Mettur reservoir that too when it is surplus, will not have an effect on the Delta region, the counter affidavit said. Further, the State government submitted that since the diversion scheme was not for developing a new ayacut, instead to fill 100 dry tanks to sustain agricultural operations and drinking water issues in the Sarabanga basin, the question of consulting the Cauvery Water Management Authority does not arise. Also, the contention that there has never been excess water in Mettur reservoir in the last few decades is not true. As per data available from 1936 to 2019, Mettur reservoir has had surplus water more than 555 mcft in 43 years out of the 84 years, at the dependability of 51%. All norms and procedures were followed by the government towards the implementation of the project, the counter said. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam adjourned the hearing in the public interest litigation petition filed by a group of Delta farmers, who challenged the implementation of the Rs. 565 crore Sarabanga project stating that it will affect the Delta region. They said that the Delta region was already suffering due to the lack of adequate water.
04 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||SHGs, micro-finance firms arm-twisting women to pay interest on loans: AIDWA||Members of All India Democratic Women's Association (AIDWA) has alleged that self-help groups and micro-finance companies were pressurising poor women to pay interest on loans in these hard times of hard times of COVID-19 lockdown. Speaking to the press at the Collectorate here on Monday, its district secretary-urban R. Sasikala said several women doing menial jobs had availed loans from micro-finance companies and SHGs. They were unable to pay any interest for the last four months as most have had no work or income. “The Reserve Bank of India has issued a directive that interest on loans need not be paid till August 31. Why target, harass and force women from poor socio-economic backgrounds to pay up when they are penniless,” she said. Many women had lodged complaints with different police stations regarding this issue but there was no intervention from the district administration to sort out the issue. “The Collector must appoint a special officer to look into the matter and find out how many families have been targeted by these firms,” she said.
04 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Aadi brahmotsavam, a quiet affair this year||Unlike the previous years when hundreds would gather, the aadi brahmotsavam festival at Alagarkoil’s Lord Sundararaja Perumal Temple this year was a quiet affair. The large decorated temple car, which is usually drawn by hundreds of devotees, was stationed inside the temple premises and the idol of Perumal in rich silk was placed atop it. The event was streamed live on various social media platforms including YouTube and Facebook. Although the State government had instructed to prevent large gatherings, a minimum of 100 people were present inside the temple during the evening pujas. A source said donors, staff members, their families and families of officials took part. Deputy Commissioner (in charge) T. Anitha said that only around 30 staff members and their family members who reside in the quarters of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department were present. “Everyone maintained distance from one another,” she said.
04 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Sarabanga project will not affect Delta region, govt. tells HC Bench||The State government on Monday submitted before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that Sarabanga Lift Irrigation Project, which would see excess water from Mettur reservoir diverted to dry tanks in Sarabanga basin in Salem district, would not have any adverse effect on Delta irrigation. The Public Works Department, in its counter affidavit, said that the government was considering the proposal to provide water to the region as early as 2012. The scheme on completion would benefit farmers and people in Edappadi, Sankagiri, Omalur and Mettur, and meet their agricultural and drinking water needs. The government constructed Kattalai Barrage across the Cauvery at Mayanur in Karur district in 2014 for the benefit of Delta irrigation. Also, work on a new barrage across the Kollidam between Adhanur and Kumaramangalam was under way. Surplus water could be saved there and utilised for the farmers of the region. Apart from this, a project named ‘Climate change adaptation programme in Cauvery Delta’, assisted by Asian Development Bank at a cost of Rs. 1,560 crore, was under implementation for improving irrigation in tail-end areas of the Delta region. Therefore, diverting 0.555 TMC water from Mettur reservoir, that too when it was surplus, would not have an effect on the Delta region, the counter affidavit said. Further, the State government submitted that since the diversion scheme was not for developing a new ayacut, and it was only for filling 100 dry tanks to sustain agricultural operations and address drinking water issues in Sarabanga basin, the question of consulting Cauvery Water Management Authority did not arise. Also, the contention that there had never been excess water in Mettur reservoir in the last few decades was not true. As per data available from 1936 to 2019, Mettur reservoir had had surplus water of more than 555 mcft in 43 years out of the 84 years, at the dependability of 51%. All norms and procedures were followed by the government towards the implementation of the project, the counter said. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam adjourned the hearing in the public interest litigation petition filed by a group of Delta farmers who challenged the implementation of the Rs. 565-crore Sarabanga project. The petitioners said the Delta region was already suffering due to the lack of adequate water.
04 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Take steps to construct compound wall: High Court||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Thoothukudi district administration to take steps to construct a compound wall around a Government Adi Dravidar Elementary School in Tiruchendur that was started in 1950. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the Thoothukudi Collector to consider the proposal made to construct a compound wall for the government school and pass appropriate orders within eight weeks. On receipt of a decision from the Collector, the authorities should take steps to construct the compound wall to protect the property and lives of students and teachers. Kalaiselvam filed the public interest litigation petition. Additional Government Pleader Aayiram K. Selvakumar submitted that the District Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Officer had sent a letter to the Collector, enclosing an estimate and proposal.
04 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directs CBI to file counter||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to file a counter affidavit on the bail petition filed by Murugan, an accused in the case of Sattankulam custodial deaths of traders P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks. Justice V. Bharathidasan granted two weeks’ time to the CBI to file the counter affidavit. In his petition, suspended head constable Murugan said that he was compelled by his higher officers to sign in the complaint against the traders.
04 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman robbed of her chain||A woman, S. Pandiammal, 30, was robbed of her 15-sovereign chain in Nagamalai Pudukottai on Monday afternoon. A man had knocked at the door of her house on Kumarasamy Nagar, claiming that he had come to deliver a courier parcel. When the woman opened the door, the man suddenly threw chilly powder on her face. Even before the woman could realise what was happening, the man yanked her chain. The woman raised an alarm which brought the neighbours but the man vanished from the scene. Her husband Selvam is working in a gold pledging company. Nagamalai Pudukottai police are investigating.
04 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry notifies Act to regulate street vending||The Puducherry government has finally notified the amended Rules and Scheme to the Street Vendors’ (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014, a long-pending proposal aimed at safeguarding the livelihood of street vendors. The amended Puducherry Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood, Regulation of Street Vending and Licensing) Scheme, 2020, mandates that the respective ‘Town Vending Committees’, will now be responsible for enforcement of the policy and act as a decision-making body. According to an official, a survey of street vendors would be carried out by the Town Vending Committees (TVC) and completed within six months. No street vendor would be evicted and relocated till the survey was completed and certificate of vending issued to them. “The government will constitute a TVC for each of the municipalities to regulate the functioning of the hawkers. The committees, with representatives of vendors on board, will issue certificates to eligible hawkers. The validity of a hawker’s certificate will be for three years from the period of issue after which they will have to submit fresh applications to the TVCs for renewal,” he said. After the survey and identification of street vendors, they are required to pay fees based on the category of street vending. The TVCs will designate vending zones as primary, secondary and tertiary considering the commercial potential, facilities and other such factors. The fees would be in the range of Rs. 750 to Rs. 3,000 per annum based on the guideline value for stationary and mobile vendors.
04 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||4 persons die; 178 new cases reported in U.T.||Four persons died of COVID-19 on Monday even as 178 new cases were reported in the Union Territory in the last 24 hours. The deaths rose to 56, active cases to 1,515 and the cumulative total to 3,982 cases. While three patients passed away at the IGMCRI, one succumbed in JIPMER, S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, said. The infection rate was 22.8% — 178 testing positive out of 782 samples — and the fatality rate 1.4%. Puducherry accounted for 125 new admissions, Karaikal nine, Yanam 42 and Mahe two. Currently, there are 1,032 active cases in Puducherry (331 at IGMCRI, 341 at JIPMER, 294 in COVID care centres and 66 to be shifted), 57 in Karaikal GH, 151 in Yanam GH and two in Mahe. A total of 273 patients are in home isolation — 256 in Puducherry and 17 in Yanam.  Mobile teams formed The Health Department has formed mobile teams, comprising doctors and paramedical staff, to visit people under home isolation for COVID-19, starting Tuesday. After a meeting to review COVID-19 preparedness on Monday, Minister for Health and Family Welfare Malladi Krishna Rao told The Hindu that the government had decided to form six teams and provide them with ambulances to visit those quarantined at home. More than 250 people are under home quarantine after they came into contact with virus infected patients, he said.
04 August 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Grassroots-level panels for safety of girl children||As two minor girls were murdered in the district recently, the administration has accorded a thrust to ensuring safety and protection of children especially girls by involving local body representatives at the grassroot level. The district police have created a separate Whatsapp group for all stakeholders involved in child protection and rehabilitation with the objective of ensuring better coordination while dealing with issues concerning minors. The committees being formed in all village panchayats in the district involving the village panchayat president concerned would look into issues relating to child safety, protection and problems faced by the minors for effective and timely action. The 10-member panel would also have a teacher, representatives from a non-governmental organisation, District Child Protection Unit and self help groups. The committees would flag issues concerning children and any offence committed against them to the district administration immediately for timely action, said District Collector P. Uma Maheswari. The committee members would be sensitised to programmes and schemes being implemented by the State government and Centre aimed at the welfare of children to increase awareness among them.
04 August 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Head post office closed||After a 56-year-old employee tested positive, authorities on Monday ordered closure of the head post office for two days. The employee, who showed symptoms of infection over the week, was directed to undergo a swab test. When the test result was positive, civic authorities carried out disinfection of the post office premises. As a precaution, the office would remain closed on Tuesday, offcials said.
04 August 2020||Ranipet,TAMIL NADU||Villagers obstruct burial of nurse who died of COVID-19||Tension prevailed in Navalpur, Ranipet district, on Monday evening after some villagers tried to obstruct the burial of a 34-year-old nurse who died of COVID-19 during the early hours of Sunday, at a cemetery in the village. The burial was finally conducted after intervention from the Ranipet district administration. N. Archana, wife of B. Reuben Rajkumar and who was working as a nurse at the Arcot Government Hospital, died of COVID-19 on August 2. The couple have a son studying in Class 3. “The burial was supposed to be conducted at a cemetery in Navalpur. District administration officials inspected the spot and said that the burial site should be 12 feet deep. Everything was done as per norms. However, when we went there, the former chairman of Ranipet, along with a few others, obstructed the officials and volunteers from the Manithaneya Makkal Katchi from doing so,” said Vinobha Jayakumar, the victim’s father-in-law. He said he was saddened to see some police officers too taking the side of the chairman and the others. “Finally , some officials from the local administration reached the spot. The burial was held in the evening following their intervention,” added Mr. Jayakumar. Speaking to The Hindu , Ranipet District Collector S. Divyadarshini said a few people did not want the burial to be held there. “We are taking legal action against the persons who created the issue. Till date, 40 COVID-19-related deaths have taken place in the district and there has been no problem during their burial,” she said. Ms. Archana was working at the Arcot Government hospital for the last four years. “She used to accompany doctors for carrying out funerals of COVID-19 patients. She did not have any symptoms. On Saturday morning, she said she was feeling unwell and we took her to the Christian Medical College. She passed away early on Sunday. Only after her death did we know that she was suffering from COVID-19,” added Mr. Jayakumar.
04 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Siddha-based COVID-19 care centre opened in Salem||District Collector S.A. Raman on Monday inaugurated a Siddha-based COVID-19 care centre near Uthamasolapuram here. According to authorities, the 100-bed facility will treat asymptomatic patients from August 5. Mr. Raman reviewed the arrangements on the premises. District Siddha Medicine Officer K. Selvamoorthi said both external and internal medicinal approach would be practised at the centre. This was the 19th Siddha-based COVID-19 care centre set up in the State, he added. There were 70 Siddha clinics in the district and doctors would be posted at the care centre on rotation basis. All precautionary measures were taken to avoid healthcare workers from contracting the disease, he said. Dr. Selvamoorthi said the patients would be offered Thirumular yoga techniques and pranayama as part of the treatment and there would be counselling sessions for patients to reduce stress.
04 August 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Shops to remain open till 7 p.m. in Salem||Shops in Salem will remain open till 7 p.m., District Collector S.A. Raman said in a release here on Monday. Mr. Raman said groceries, vegetable stores in the district can operate from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m and other businesses from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Hotels and tea shops can serve customers from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. and only takeaway services would be allowed between from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. Action would be taken against business spaces found violating the norms, he said.
04 August 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||DMK protest||Protesting against the removal of a few functionaries from their party posts, DMK cadre in Kalayarkoil near staged a demonstration and attempted to burn the effigy of party district secretary and former minister K.R. Periakaruppan here on Monday.
04 August 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Retain railway stations in rural areas, says CPI||The Ammapettai Union Committee of the Communist Party of India has reiterated the need to retain Ammapettai and other railway stations in rural areas for the benefit of commuters. The committee which had earlier submitted a memorandum in this regard to the Divisional Railway Manager, Southern Railway, Tiruchi, has sought the support of S. Ramalingam, Mayiladuthurai MP who is also member of the Consultative Committee, Rural Development Ministry. In the memorandum submitted to the Rural Development Ministry Consultative Committee member, the petitioners have pointed out that local passenger services operated on the Thanjavur-Tiruvarur-Nagapattinam and Thanjavur-Kumbakonam-Mayiladuthurai sections was an affordable public transport facility for the very common people. Citing some reports appearing in a section of the media that poor income-generating railway stations in rural areas were to be closed, the CPI claimed that the passenger services were utilised by a sizeable number of regular passengers to commute between major and small towns in these sections such as Ammapettai, Ayyampettai, Pasupathikovil, Dharasuram and others to Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai and Karaikal in these two sections. Receiving the memorandum, Mr. Ramalingam assured the petitioners that he would take up the issue with the authorities concerned , said M. A. Bharathi, district secretary, CPI, Thanjavur district.
04 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Appeal to reject New Education Policy||The Tamizh Desiya Periyakkam has called upon the State Government to reject the New Education Policy announced by the Union Government. In a statement issued here on Monday, P.Maniarasan, president, TDP, said that though it was pleasing to note that the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had declared that the State Government would not concede the triple-language formula and imposition of Hindi, it was regrettable that the Chief Minister preferred not to comment on the main issue of ‘destroying the education system’ by indirectly exposing the children to hereditary education and making the Union Government as the sole authority to decide on education starting from pre-school to higher education. As several Tamil nationalists’ associations and a majority of Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu were opposing the NEP and it was useless to seek modifications in the NEP announced by the Modi Government, the State governments should come forward to form a committee of educationalists and psychologists for formulating a new education policy.
04 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Scrap e-pass system for travel: cab drivers||Urging the State government to scrap the e-pass system in vogue in Tamil Nadu for inter-district or inter-State travel in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, cab drivers submitted a petition to Additional Collector (Revenue) Vishnu Chandran here on Monday, saying it had decimated the industry. In their petition, the cab drivers led by K. Ravikumar, Thoothukudi district president of All India Cab Drivers’ Welfare Association, said the e-pass system, which was introduced after the pandemic outbreak to curb unnecessary movement of the public, had sounded the death knell for cab drivers. While they had to repay loans availed for buying vehicles and other purposes, they were forced to keep their vehicles idle as the public could not hire them even for genuine purposes as their plea for e-pass was getting rejected. Hence, the State government should scrap the e-pass system and give monthly assistance of Rs. 5,000 until the lockdown was completely lifted, they said. Fishermen plea A group of country boat fishermen, led by president of Thoothukudi District Country Boat and Catamaran Fishermen Welfare Association S.J. Gayes, submitted a petition against the National Marine Fisheries Regulation and Management Bill 2019. The petitioner said the proposed Bill, being pushed by the Union Government even as the entire nation was reeling under the pandemic-induced lockdown, would strip the fishing rights of the country boat fishermen while enabling the bigger players to poach the entire ocean in uncontrollable fashion. Hence, the Bill should be withdrawn. A 77-year-old old Velammal of Pasuvanthanai village submitted a petition against a private finance firm that cheated her to the tune of Rs. 8.30 lakh. The elderly woman said she invested the huge sum of money in the company in 2013 after it promised attractive returns. “Since the company is refusing to return the investment with interest for the past seven years, I am starving. Hence, the Collector should initiate action against the finance company to return my investment with interest promised by it,” Ms. Velammal said.  Siddha hospital The joint coordinator of Aam Aadmi Party V. Gunaseelan submitted a petition urging the district administration to establish a full-fledged siddha hospital for treating positive patients as the viral infection was on the rise in Thoothukudi district.
04 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Truck parking on service lanes poses threat to vehicle users||Unchecked parking of trucks along the service lanes of the Tiruchi-Chennai Bypass Road near Senthaneerpuram in the city has been posing hardship to road users, especially after the recent closure of an intersection on the highway at the spot. The traffic police have recently erected permanent steel barricades to prevent vehicles taking a U-turn or crossing the highway at the intersection near the Senthaneerpuram bus stop, situated immediately after the Golden Rock road overbridge. Vehicles now have to necessarily go via the service lanes and the underpass near Senthaneerpuram bus terminus or take a detour up to the Ariyamangalam junction to take the U-turn to go towards Senthaneerpuram or Golden Rock. While the police move is ostensibly aimed at preventing accidents at the Senthaneerpuram Bus Stop intersection on the highway, motorists who now have to use the service lanes between the bus stop and Senthaneerpuram underpass are often faced with obstructions on the services, mostly by way of parked trucks. The service lanes now cater to heavy two-way traffic on both sides. With the National Highways Authority if India set to complete the construction of a minor overbridge across the nearby Uyyakondan river, providing a vital link along the service lanes, traffic is likely to increase manifold and aggravate the problem, residents fear. A number of commercial establishments including a weigh bridge, godowns, garages, tea shops and eateries are located along the short stretch of the service lanes between the Senthaneerpuram bus stop and the underpass. While some trucks are seen parked in front of a weigh bridge along the service lane on one side, others line up in front of the shops on the service lane on the opposite side. Local residents complain that police have not found an effective way to overcome the problem. “It has become very difficult to negotiate the short but narrow service lanes as the vehicles are parked almost right through the day. Accidents have become frequent with two-wheeler riders suffering the most. We have made representations. But except for putting up a no parking sign board, there has been no sustained action. Some say that it is for the Highway patrol to take action on the matter,” said V. Baskaran, State vice president, United People’s Welfare Organisation and a resident of Sangiliandapuram. He and other residents point out that commercial establishments, especially the weigh bridge, should provide their own space for parking of trucks and not allow them to use the public roads. Residents also complain that it has become a nightmarish experience to negotiate the poorly-lit underpass which connects the service lanes on the two sides. “It is very difficult to make the acute turn. For two wheelers and other smaller vehicles, it’s almost a blind spot as they cannot see the oncoming vehicles. Most motorists do not have the habit of honking to warn the vehicles coming on the other side. Often trucks with heavy loads get stuck on the turn and they have to go back and forth several times to take the turn. The police should take effective steps to streamline the traffic flow on the service lanes before any major untoward incident happens,” said Ravi, another resident of the locality.
04 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Go for COVID-19 test, grocers and vegetable traders told||In a significant move to check the spread of COVID-19 virus, the Tiruchi Corporation has made it mandatory for all grocery and vegetable traders in the city to test themselves for COVID- 19. The move comes in the wake of at least 30 vegetable, fruits and grocery traders of the city having tested positive for the virus during the last one month. Though there was no exponential spread of the virus from them, there were instances of their contacts/customers getting infected. The timely efforts of testing their primary and secondary contacts had contained the spread of the virus to an extent, S. Sivasubramanian, Corporation Commissioner, told The Hindu . In Tiruchi, nearly 20% of the population step out of their homes, according to a rough estimate, mainly to buy vegetables and groceries for their day-to-day use. . There were apprehensions that employees in grocery and vegetable stores could get infected as they often visited wholesale markets to purchase grocery items and vegetables. Hence, it has been made mandatory for all grocery and vegetable traders in the city to undergo COVID-19 testing immediately. Assistant Commissioners of the Corporation have been asked to list out grocery and vegetable traders in their respective zones. They would be informed of the Corporation’s decision. The Commissioner said that traders would be given specific time frame to undergo testing. They should complete the process within the specified time and furnish the details to the Corporation. Action would be taken against those failing to complete the process, he said.
04 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees a slight dip in cases||The central region on Monday reported a slight drop in COVID-19 cases with 441 patients testing positive for the viral infection. However, there was an increase in death count - four in Pudukottai, two each in Thanjavur and Perambalur, and one each in Karur and Nagapattinam – as per the Health Department bulletin. Four men in the age group of 55 to 70 died at the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital. All four had co-morbid conditions. In Thanjavur, a 59-year-old man died of respiratory failure while a 40-year-old man died of alcohol-related seizure disorder, while in Perambalur, an 80-year-old woman and a 66-year-old man both died of respiratory failure. A 70-year-old in Karur and a 70-year-old man from Nagapattinam died with a history of coronary artery disease. Meanwhile, Thanjavur continued to record a large number of fresh positive cases with 146 patients testing positive on Monday. The total number of positive cases in the district has now gone up to 3154, of which 976 were active cases. On Monday, 141 patients were discharged. In Tiruchi, residents of Chinna Sowrashtra Street and Vathukara Street, both in Woraiyur were among the 101 patients who tested positive. Both streets were barricaded and sealed by officials of the civic body on Monday, to prevent further spread of the virus. A total of 86 patients tested positive in Pudukottai while 18 tested positive in Tiruvarur. Nagapattinam recorded 32 new COVID-19 cases including seven local cases with Influenza-Like Illnesses, seven travellers from other districts and 11 were primary contacts. In Ariyalur, 20 patients tested positive and many among them hailed from Ariyalur town, four from Sendhurai, and two from Jayankondam and one from Thirumanur. Throat swabs have been collected from 304 contacts of patients who tested positive, people from containment areas and those with COVID-19 symptoms and sent for tests. Of the 19 who tested positive in Perambalur, seven were patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses, one was an inter-district traveller, three were employees of a private company while the remaining were primary contacts. Fourteen of the patients have been admitted to Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital while three have been admitted to the Tiruchi MGMGH for treatment. In Karur, 19 patients, including a day-old male baby hailing from Vengamedu and a six-month-old girl from Gandhigramam tested positive. The patients have been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital. Meanwhile, 11 patients were discharged from the hospital.
04 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||College, school heads concur on ideal subject combinations||A section of principals of arts and science colleges are of the opinion that the subject combinations in the existing form at higher secondary level limits the choice of students for higher education, and expect the State Government to involve representatives of universities also in deciding the core subject groupings in future. Referring to the recent attempt to reduce the number of core subjects to three and restoring status quo ante within days, school heads say that though the move was well-conceived, the subject combinations advocated under the new system did not provide the solution to the prevailing confusion at the time of joining undergraduation. The present streams are Biology, Physics, Chemistry, Maths; Computer Science, Physics, Chemistry, Maths; Commerce, Accountancy, Economics, Computer Science or Business Maths. The subject combinations in the science group are known to have been devised keeping in mind only the options of medicine and engineering. "The existing subject combinations need to be changed as students are currently unable to take informed decisions for undegraduate education in the arts and science domains," S. Ismail Mohideen, Principal of Jamal Mohamed College, said. For instance, for admission into B.Sc. Physics course, the students should have studied Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics. Students who had opted for the pure science group: Physics, Chemistry, Botany and Zoology, are not aware that they are ineligible for B.Sc. Physics, as they had not studied Mathematics at higher secondary level. Likewise, students who had studied Physics, Chemistry, Biology and Computer science at higher secondary also feel stranded, as they are ineligible for both B.Sc. Physics and B.Sc. Computer Science as they had not studied Mathematics at higher secondary level. For both the UG programmes, Mathematics is vital, Prof. Ismail explained. Students planning to pursue BBA for undergraduation also need to be aware that they must have studied Mathematics at higher secondary level, along with Commerce, Economics and Accountancy. Those who choose Computer Applications over Mathematics are not eligible for BBA, he explained. According to school heads, the School Education Department had, after announcing the decision to have only three core subjects with two language papers for higher secondary level, purportedly to reduce the burden on the students, backtracked within days to restore the status quo ante after objections were raised by parents and the academic community. "The idea to have three core subjects at higher secondary level cannot be faulted. Students appearing for NEET do not have to study Mathematics and for JEE, Biology is immaterial. Hence, the students must be permitted to choose only one of the two combinations of three core subjects: Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry or Physics, Chemistry and Biology," Anbarasu, former head of a government higher secondary school, said, adding that such a subject combination was offered in the earlier PUC (Pre-University Course) system.
04 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Many residents lodge police complaint over WhatsApp||The lockdown has prompted many residents to lodge complaints to the police and seek remedial action over the dedicated WhatsApp number. Necessary action had been initiated on such complaints with First Information Reports (FIRs) having been filed in some of them. Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan said the city police had received 70 complaints through WhatsApp in July. Action had been taken on nearly 40 complaints till now and FIRs have been registered on some of them. The complaints were of diverse nature. There was also a complaint wherein a woman resident who was in a containment zone sought help from the police to permit her to go for periodic medical examination. The police conveyed the information to the corporation authorities and arrangements were made for the woman to undergo a medical examination. In some cases, the complaints were settled by prompt intervention. He said the response was encouraging. The complaints are forwarded to the WhatsApp group to the officer concerned to take note of the same. The police have made efforts to improve its functioning by ascertaining feedback from complainants on whose petitions CSRs (Community Service Register) have been issued. Mr. Loganathan said the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) had been asked to review the petitions in which CSRs had been issued. The DC would randomly pick up some CSRs and speak to the petitioners to get their feedback with respect to the inquiry conducted by the police officer concerned and whether they were satisfied with it. He said instructions had been given to all police stations to install boards in the station premises mentioning his mobile and land line numbers as well as that of senior police officers for the petitioners to contact them in case they were not satisfied with the action taken by the respective police station. This would enable us to assess the performance of the officers attached to the station concerned, he said. The board contains the WhatsApp number 9626273399 for the public to send their complaints.
04 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Gold business as usual despite soaring price||While the soaring price of gold has not dampened the spirit of the affluent buyers, the poorer sections are keeping their fingers crossed as the yellow metal is seemingly going beyond their reach. A gram of 22 carat gold (standard) was sold at Rs. 5,188 in bullion market in Tiruchi on Monday. It was Rs. 4,904 per gram on July 25 and has gone up by Rs. 284 within 10 days. Although it was widely felt that the steep hike in prices of gold would keep away the customers from buying the yellow metal, particularly when the people of all walks of life have been severely hit by the lockdown and its cascading impact, industry sources however, said the business has not been affected. There were about 180 to 200 jewellery showrooms in Tiruchi city and about 50 showrooms in Ariyalur. Nearly 10 showrooms in Tiruchi have been classified as large scale in terms of business volume. Almost all of them have branches in leading cities of the State as well. While some traders say that business is as usual, there are traders, who say that the number of customers has gone up between 20 % and 30 %. “The number of customers has gone up by 30% over the past few weeks. Most of them view gold as a best investment option. Constant increase in gold rate has motivated them to buy as much as possible,” says S. Mathan, proprietor, Pranav Jewellery, Tiruchi. A General Manager of a leading jewellery mart in Tiruchi says that his showroom would receive an average of 300 to 320 potential buyers daily. The same trend continued. “Wedding collections are moving well. The customers, who have arranged marriage for their wards in 2021, show immense interest in buying ornaments before the gold rate goes up further,” he said. While echoing the views of bullion traders in Tiruchi, N.K.B. Senthil, a gold trader in Ariyalur, said that the business was good. But, the steep increase had kept the poor and downtrodden gasping. The surging rate of gold and the impact of lockdown had made the task difficult for those arranged marriages for their wards to buy gold jewellery, he said.
04 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Residents stage road roko||A group of residents on Monday staged a road roko on Gandhi Road in Srirangam, demanding action against a hospital for its alleged callous handling of COVID-19 patients. Alleging that the private hospital had not been following standard safety virus spread control procedure while transporting the bodies of patients who died of COVID-19, the agitators said that bodies were loaded into ambulances on the middle of the road, thereby creating a scare among the local residents. Moreover, attendants of COVID-19 patients had been casually visiting the shops without following safety procedure. On information, the police rushed to the spot and held negotiation with the agitators. They later gave up the protest after an assurance from the police that the issue would be taken to the notice of the officials concerned.
04 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Power supply will be suspended from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Wednesday in view of maintenance works to be taken up by Tangedco at its Siruganur Sub-Station: Siruganur, C.R.Palayam, Thirupattur, M.R.Palayam, Valaiyur, Sanamangalam, Maniyankurichi, Reddimangudi, P.K.Agaram, Neikulam, Nedungur, Nambukurichi,Oothathur, GK Park, Avaravalli, Seedevimangalam and Koothanur.
04 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Grievance redress meet goes online in Tirunelveli||After a gap of four months, grievance redress meeting resumed in Tirunelveli on Monday with Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish receiving petitions online. In normal times, the Collector received hard copies of petitions from the aggrieved public directly and forward them to the department concerned for speedy action. Senior officials from all government departments would be present. Since the outbreak of COVID-19 in March, the face-to-face interaction stopped and the public were asked to leave their petitions in a drop-box kept at the Collectorate. As the pandemic and consequent lockdown became unpredictable with the steady rise in the number of daily cases, Ms. Shilpa dedicated two telephone numbers: 0462 – 2500611 for submission of petitions relating to rural and urban local bodies and 0462 – 2500191 for petitions on grievances relating to revenue department. Taking the procedure to the next level, she asked the National Informatics Centre to create a platform for online submission of petitions by the public. And petitioners were asked to submit their grievances through District Collector’s Public Grievance Meeting through Videoconference on the first page of http://tirunelveli.nic.in either from their home or by visiting the nearby e-seva centers or taluk offices wearing the protective mask. After successfully conducting trials, the online grievances redressal meet took off on Monday with Ms. Shilpa receiving petitions from the public. Even as the Collector and other officials were seated in the NIC videoconference hall, the petitioners were asked to present their grievances orally to the Collector one by one based on their petition registration seniority. “Online submission of petitions by the public will continue until the pandemic threat subsides completely,” Ms. Shilpa said.   How it works To register: Visit http://tirunelveli.nic.in.  Click ‘District Collector’s Public Grievance Meeting through Videoconference’ on first page  Go to ‘Petition Register’   To participate: Visit http://tirunelveli.nic.in.  Click ‘District Collector’s Public Grievance Meeting through Videoconference’ on first page  Register your name and address to enter videoconference window  Await your turn  When your turn comes, you may crisply explain your grievance to the Collector/official concerned
04 August 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||District panchayat council opposes EIA notification||The Tiruvarur District Panchayat Council (DPC) has formally opposed the Environmental Impact Assessment 2020 draft notification. In a resolution passed at the DPC meeting on July 29 under the chairmanship of G.Balasubramanian, District Panchayat Chairman, the council contended that the present draft notification would not only harm the environment but also the people. It would only help corporate companies and industries to thrive, it alleged and urged the Union Government to withdraw the draft notification. The DMK has a majority representation in the Tiruvarur DPC. The council also passed a resolution seeking an inquiry into the implementation of individual household toilets scheme in the district alleging that malpractices had taken place in all the 430 village panchayats. In another resolution, the Council demanded financial assistance for all blocks in the district through the State Balanced Growth Fund since just two blocks – Koradachery and Kottur — were only receiving SBGF assistance.
04 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Fire and rescue services personnel gear up to tackle rain in the Nilgiris||With heavy rain in parts of the Nilgiris since Sunday, the district administration as well as the Fire and Rescue Services department are in a state of preparedness and high alert to deal with any emergency arising from the weather. The district administration stated that an average of 30.93 mm rainfall was recorded in the Nilgiris on Sunday, with Devala recording the highest amount of rainfall at 145mm till Monday morning. Due to the rain, a section of the retaining walls built along a stream running through Devala Hatty was damaged. Fire service personnel said there had not been any emergency calls yet, except to clear a tree along the Ooty-Gudalur Road on Monday morning. However, with rain expected to intensify over the coming days, District Fire Officer T. Immanuel said that the 60 Fire and Rescue Services personnel in the district were on high alert. “Additional personnel from Coimbatore, Tirupur and Erode will arrive in the district shortly. This will mean that an additional strength of 45 people will be available to deal with emergencies,” said Mr. Immanuel. There are also plans to establish standby teams in Kundah and Pandalur. “Each of these areas is between 40 and 60 km from Udhagamandalam, so it makes sense to keep teams on standby in these areas, where heavy rains could have a massive impact and timely availability of rescue personnel will be of paramount importance,” said Mr. Immanuel. The Gudalur and Pandalur regions also received heavy rain on Sunday, with many places reporting power outages.
04 August 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. govt staff denied cashless treatment under new scheme’||The Tamil Nadu Government Employees’ Association has complained that the G.O. on inclusion of COVID-19 treatment under New Insurance Scheme for Employees and Pensioners has not been fully implemented . Its Virudhunagar unit functionary, C.E. Kannan, said that a private hospital in Madurai on July 31 had raised a bill of Rs. 4.25 lakh for the COVID-19 treatment provided to a teacher from Virudhunagar. However, the United India Insurance Company sanctioned only Rs. 1.73 lakh insurance for him. “Coordinator of United India Insurance Company has said that the company cannot provide cashless treatment, but only provide a package for treatment under Government Order 290,” Mr. Kannan said. The insurance company was denying cashless treatment and thereby bringing a bad name for the Tamil Nadu government, he charged. As an interim measure, the State government had, through G.O. 280, said the government employees should bear the COVID-19 treatment cost and later make claims for reimbursement as per the package through Commissioner of Treasuries. The G.O. said that this was applicable to those who took treatment between March 1 and June 24.  However, the previous G.O. 279 that had included COVID-19 treatment among the approved treatments in the New Insurance Scheme and extended the insurance scheme due for expiry on June 30,2020 by one year from July 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021. “The G.O. 279 said that the extension of the New Health Insurance Scheme would continue till June 30, 2021 with same terms and conditions of agreement. It meant that the cashless treatment would continue,” he added. However, the insurance company was not implementing it inconveniencing government employees and teachers. Mr. Kannan said that Tamil Nadu Government All Department Association’s Coordination Committee has sought the Chief Minister’s intervention to clarify this issue.
04 August 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR/THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar district reports single-day toll of nine, yet again||Virudhunagar on Monday reported nine COVID-19 deaths, equalling its highest single-day toll recorded on July 25. Now, the district’s overall toll stands at 105 – the sixth highest in the State. The district has been recording at least five deaths each day since July 24. The new deaths were reported between July 28 and August 2. The total number of positive cases in the district touched 8,843, with 348 fresh cases. With 238 persons having been discharged on Monday, there are 2,402 active cases. Meanwhile, Virudhunagar Uzhavar Sandhai was closed after three traders tested positive. Collector R. Kannan on Monday handed over a mobile X-ray unit, procured under the National Health Mission, to the Health Department. This unit would be used on patients admitted to COVID care centres with no or mild symptoms. Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts recorded 215 new cases each. Now, Thoothukudi’s tally rose to 7,846, with 2,137 active cases. The district which witnessed four deaths on Monday has so far lost 58 lives to the viral infection. Kanniyakumari’s tally rose to 5,307 and the number of active cases to 2,075. The district’s overall toll touched 52 with three deaths reported on Monday. Tirunelveli had 85 fresh cases, which took the district’s tally to 5,641. The district, which now has 2,297 active cases, recorded five more deaths, with which its toll rose to 55. Tenkasi has 1,129 active cases with the addition of 75 cases which took its tally to 2,397. Tenkasi too registered five deaths, which pushed its toll to 32. A total of 663 patients were discharged from hospitals in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and Tenkasi districts. Theni reported 305 fresh cases, which took its tally to 5,969. A total of 143 patients were discharged from hospitals. Seventy-six new cases were recorded in Dindigul, which has a tally of 3,066. There were 111 discharges. Ramanathapuram registered 62 fresh cases, which pushed its tally to 3,400. Seventy people were discharged on Monday. Sivaganga had 63 new cases and its tally rose to 2,534. A total of 41 people were discharged from hospitals. Madurai reported 106 cases – all indigenous. The district’s overall case count is 11,455. A total of 42 persons were discharged. With four deaths recorded on Monday, the district’s toll rose to 257. There are 2,411 active cases in the district.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Western region sees 489 new cases, Coimbatore alone has 227||Eight districts of the western region recorded 489 new COVID-19 positive cases on Monday, with Coimbatore district alone accounting for 227 cases, which took the district’s overall tally to 5,458. As many as 216 persons were discharged from various hospitals in Coimbatore on Monday, and 1,695 patients are under treatment in the district. After seven police personnel attached to Annur station tested positive on Monday, swab samples of all police personnel and their family members were collected for COVID-19 test. According to the Health Department, Monday’s cases were from places including Annur (10), Sidhapudur (8), R.S. Puram (6), Peelamedu (7), Kurichi (6), Ukkadam (5) and Thomas Street (4). Salem district saw 66 cases, of which 63 were indigenous including 44 from the Corporation limits. Two patients returned from Erode and Coimbatore and one from Kerala. In Namakkal, 43 cases were reported including a driver at a primary health centre. According to health officials, 10 patients returned from Kerala and Karnataka and four from Erode, Chennai and Tiruvannamalai. While four persons tested positive in Dharmapuri, including a 3-year-old girl, Krishnagiri district saw 69 new cases. In the Nilgiris, 37 persons tested positive, raising the district’s tally to 849. The district administration stated that 700 persons recovered and 147 were under treatment. A section of the Udhagamandalam Municipal Market was closed for a week after a trader tested positive on Sunday. Municipal Commissioner R. Saraswati said the trader, who was a representative of the merchants’ association, assisted the municipality in fighting COVID-19 and travelled to a few villages and was well acquainted with people in the market. Tracing of his contacts was under way, she said Municipal staff began disinfecting the market on Monday and more than 70 shops would remain closed for a week, officials said. Health officials said tracing the primary contacts of the trader was proving an uphill task as he could have contracted the infection more than a week ago and had been working in a crowded area of the market since then. All shopkeepers in the market would be tested for COVID-19, the officials added. Tiruppur district reported 30 fresh cases, of which two were doctors aged 56 and 53 from Rayapuram. A 57-year-old police officer from Udumalpet, who was staying in the police quarters in Dharapuram, also tested positive, Health Department sources said. According to the COVID-19 media bulletin, Tiruppur district’s overall tally stood at 994 cases on Monday, of which 617 recovered and 363 were active cases. Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said the media bulletin reported 45 cases on Monday for Tiruppur district instead of 30 due to “double entry,” which would be rectified by Tuesday. With 13 persons testing positive, Erode district’s tally increased to 767. Nine of the new cases were reported in the Corporation limits, two in Ammapettai and one case each at Bhavani and Nambiyur. A total of 14 persons were discharged on Monday and 160 persons were under treatment.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||17 die of COVID-19 in five districts||As many as 17 persons died of COVID-19 in five districts of western region in the last couple of days. In Coimbatore, the Health Department confirmed the death of seven more patients on Saturday and Sunday. Three patients aged 75, 73 and 55 died at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Saturday. The Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) witnessed the deaths of three patients aged 58, 87 and 61 on Saturday and another patient aged 75 on Sunday. With this, the official death toll of the district increased to 78. In Erode, a 70-year-old man of Krishnampalayam died at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai on Sunday. With this, the total number of deaths reported in the district is 10. Five patients died of the disease in Salem. According to officials, a 63-year-old woman from Jagiramapalayam, a 60-year-old man from Shevapet, 77-year-old man from Veeranam and a 72-year-old man from Dharmapuri died at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital on Monday. A 50-year-old man from Nangavalli died on Saturday. In Namakkal, three patients - 47-year-old man from E.B.Colony, 70-year-old woman from Sendamangalam and 60-year-old man from Pallipalayam - died at the Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital on Monday. In Tiruppur, a 62-year-old man with co-morbidities including asthma and diabetes died at the CMCH on Sunday, Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Customs officials, agent booked for cheating Chennai Port Trust||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against two Customs officials and a Customs House Agent for a private hospital in Chennai for causing wrongful loss to the tune of Rs. 21.85 lakh to the Chennai Port Trust in the import of medical equipment. The offence was committed unbeknownst to the hospital, the CBI said in its FIR. After conducting a preliminary inquiry, the agency’s Anti-Corruption Branch registered a case under Sections 120(B) (Criminal conspiracy), 420 (Cheating), 468 (Forgery) and 471 (Using forged document as genuine), besides invoking the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, against Ranjit Kumar Kundu, Assistant Commissioner, Customs, Chennai; Rohitash Serawat, Customs Appraiser, Chennai; and M/s NSK Clearing & Forwarding, CHA. The allegation is that the accused colluded with each other and created false documents for claiming a refund that was not due to them. The case pertains to the import of medical equipment worth Rs. 191.08 crore from Belgium on February 27, 2017. The FIR said the materials were imported in 28 wooden cases and 22 containers through Chennai Port. The Customs clearance was handled by NSK Clearing & Forwarding (Customs House Agent) on behalf of the importer, i.e., the hospital. The Chennai Port authorities levied Rs. 59.23 lakh in wharfage charges as per Section 3 of Scale of Rates, 2016, by treating the import as single machinery and equipment purchased through a single invoice, though transported in separate packages in a single consignment. However, two officials of the CHA allegedly colluded with Customs officials and filed for a refund of wharfage charges from Chennai Port. They submitted fake documents to make the claim that the bulk break and containerised goods were billed separately. The Customs officials created a new file to process the refund, in violation of the norms and procedures of the department. In furtherance of the conspiracy and on the basis of forged documents, the two officials of the CHA cheated the Chennai Port Trust and got a refund of wharfage charges to the tune of Rs. 21,85,082 from the Chennai Port Trust without the knowledge of the hospital, the FIR said.  The accused allegedly colluded with each other and created false documents for claiming a refund that was not due to them
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two held for placing gravel on railway track||Two persons who placed gravel on the railway track near Rangampalayam were arrested by the police here. On Saturday night, a goods train was on its way from Erode Railway Junction to Coimbatore. At 10 p.m. when the train was crossing Rangampalayam, the train hit gravel placed on the track and the pilot stopped the train. He alerted railway officials and continued the journey. Erode Government Railway Police began inquiries and found that two persons in an inebriated condition were roaming near the tracks. They were identified as Sasikumar (21) of Chennimalai Road, who works as an online shopping delivery man, and Vijaykumar (22) of Jeeva Nagar, who works at the vegetable market. The two were arrested by the police.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three dead, seven injured in accident||Three persons died and seven suffered injuries after a car hit two motorcycles at Pollikalipalayam on the outskirts of Tiruppur on Monday.  Police said that the car driver lost control of the vehicle after one of its tyres burst on the Tiruppur – Dharapuram Road at 2.45 p.m. The car first hit a motorcycle going in front of it near Pollikalipalayam Government High School, leading to the death of rider Saminathan( 65), and his wife Rathinam (55). The car then hit another two-wheeler on which a couple and their 13-year-old daughter were travelling. However, the three escaped with minor injuries. Five persons -- two men and three women -- who were travelling in the car were injured and rushed to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. One of them, Subash (22), died during treatment at the hospital.  District Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal visited the accident spot. Avinashipalayam police registered a case.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of textbooks begins||Distribution of textbooks to Classes 7 and 8 began at the government and government-aided schools in the district here on Monday. Twenty students were allowed inside the premises to collect the books in an hour after which another batch of 20 students were allowed. Teachers said prior information was given to students and their parents to wear masks and enter the premises. Since video lessons were telecast on 10 television channels from Monday, books would help the students learn easily, they said. In many schools, parents or relatives accompanied the students and teachers requested parents to maintain personal distancing. They said distribution of books to other classes would begin soon.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bid to sacrifice child to retrieve treasure||Kalakkad police have nabbed three persons, including a tantrik (black magician), for allegedly attempting to offer human sacrifice to retrieve buried treasure. Krana Rajan, 55, of Dohnavur near Kalakkad approached Parvathi, 70, of Sadaiyamaankulam and told her that she would get treasure worth several crores of rupees buried under her house if she sacrificed a rooster and a black cat after performing special puja in her house. She agreed and Krana Rajan reportedly took Rs. 2 lakh from her in installments to perform the puja. When Parvathi passed on the information to her foster son Kumaresan, he too was lured by the promise of the tantrik . After Kumaresan handed over the sacrificial bird and animal to Krana Rajan, the puja started on Sunday night in Parvathi’s house. A pit was dug in the bedroom and the rooster was sacrificed. Krana Rajan then took the cat from a gunny bag, but it escaped. The tantrik told Kumaresan to bring one of his two sons to be sacrificed to get the treasure. Since Kumaresan, who was under the influence of alcohol, was unable to take a decision, Krana Rajan tried to snatch the two-year-old boy from Kumaresan’s wife, who managed to run out of the house with both children. As she screamed for help, neighbours rushed to the spot. They handed Krana Rajan to Kalakkad police, who also picked up Kumaresan and Parvathi for interrogation.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamirabharani water, sand sent to Ayodhya||Water and sand from the Tamirabharani has been dispatched from here for a special puja to be performed during the ground-breaking ceremony for construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya on August 5. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad collected the sand and water from Kurukkuthurai theerthakattam in the Tamirabharani on Monday. Representatives from various Hindu outfits, including Bajrang Dal, BJP and Hindu Munnani, participated in the event.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Villagers allege dumping of medical waste||Residents of Panayapuram have alleged that some private hospitals in the city dump garbage in their village during night time. Villagers say that they have spotted men taking the garbage from loaded vans and throwing them into a pit along the main road. Panayapuram, a village in Andhanallur block in Tiruchi lies between Cauvery and Kollidam rivers and has large agricultural lands. “Along the Panayapuram main road, medical waste tied in green and blue plastic bags are being dumped since March”, said D. Muthukumaran, panchayat president. Residents living near the main road had alerted the panchayat authorities after they noticed garbage being dumped at night. “Initially we thought the men were from private companies or apartments, but when we examined the waste, we found syringes, gloves and medicine wrappers,” said Mr. Muthukumaran. Since those employed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme usually work in these parts, the panchayat president has suspended their work for 15 days. While there were only two or three bags in March, the pit is now filled with at least 40 bags, he said. The panchayat authorities alerted the Block Development Office and the local police who inspected the dumpsite and have promised to take it up with higher authorities, Mr. Muthukumaran said.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Couple killed in accident||A man and his wife were killed after they were fatally knocked down by a tipper lorry near Ikuntam on Monday.  The victims Krishnan (52) and his wife Chitra (40), residents of Vethalai Thottam, were heading to see their daughter in Oddanur, near Ikuntham, on Krishnan’s motorcycle. The couple were crossing Ikuntam, when a tipper lorry from the opposite direction hit the two-wheeler. The couple were thrown off the vehicle and caught under the wheels of the lorry and died on the spot. The lorry driver fled the spot. Bargur police recovered the bodies and sent them Krishnagiri government hospital.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Grievances redress meet held over phone||The grievance redress meet was held over the phone on Monday at the Collectorate to avoid crowding. Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan along with District Revenue Officer G. Saravanamurthy and a team of officials opened the phone line at 11 a.m. in the conference hall. Public across the district contacted 0421 – 2969999 to communicate their grievances between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. A total of 95 calls were received in two hours, a release said. “The response was very good. In the first hour, I had attended around 40 calls,” Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan told The Hindu . Over 40 officials from various departments were also present during the telephonic meet, he said. “We are noting down the grievances along with the phone numbers and names of the complainants like we do regularly,” he said. Since two hours might not be adequate for all the petitioners, an official will be deputed exclusively to attend the calls from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. from next week, the Collector said.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman hacked to death, three others injured in attack||A 21-year-old woman, mother of two children, was hacked to death by her husband while three of her family members sustained serious injuries in an incident that took place at Bhavani Sagar here on late Sunday. The police said that M. Pavithra of Akkarai Thathapalli was married to S. Veera Manikandan (29) of Annai Indira Nagar and has two children. Due to dispute, both were living separately for eight months and the children were living with Pavithra. The police said that Veera Manikandan, in an inebriated condition, used to demand custody of the children and had frequent altercation with her family. At 11.30 p.m. on Sunday, he along with his friend Ram Kumar (23) barged into the house and hacked her parents Sastha Moorthy (48) and Amudha (42), grandmother Sithammal (70) and Pavithra and fled the house. Neighbours admitted the four to the Government Hospital at Sathyamangalam where doctors declared Pavithra as brought dead. Other three were shifted to Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. Bhavani Sagar police registered a case and arrested the two.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till August 3     Persons tested +ve so far: 5,458 Indigenous cases: 5,420 Imported cases: 38 Active cases: 1,695 Persons recovered: 3,685 Death: 78    Persons tested positive so far: 994 Persons recovered: 617 Active cases: 363 Death: 14
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Extend permission to sell loose oil by one year’||Madurai Oil and Oilseeds Association has urged the Chief Minister to extend permission to sell loose cooking oil till August 31, 2021. In a press release, V. Krishnamoorthy, former secretary of the association,said the government had granted permission to sell loose cooking oil until September 1, 2020. It must be extended by one year as many small-scale vendors were financially affected due to COVID-19 pandemic. Only 30% of sales was happening during the lockdown period. Officials must convene a meeting with the association to discuss various issues and arrive at a best possible solution, he said.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Coimbatore  In view of the proposed maintenance works to be carried out at the Ukkadam sub-station on August 5 (Wednesday), power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the following areas: Variety Hall Road, Town Hall, Oppanakkara Street area, TK Market area, Selvapuram, Kempatty Colony area, Karumbukkadai, Athuppalam area, Ukkadam, Sungam by-ass road, Shanmuga Nagar, Alwin Nagar, Indira Naga, Pari Nagar, Dr. Munusamy Nagar and surrounding areas, State Bank Road, Collector office, CMC Hospital, Railway station and lorry pet areas.  Udhagamandalam  Due to monthly maintenance works to be carried out at Kotagiri, Kattabettu, Honnatty and Keradamattam sub-stations sub-stations on August 4 (Tuesday), electricity supply will be disconnected to the following places between 9 a.m and 4 p.m.: Kotagiri sub-station: Kotagiri, Sundatty, Kappatty, Ullatty, Kairben, Gundada, Horasolai, Naragiri, Kair Combai, Kannerimukku, Thattapallam, Kunjapannai, Konavakkarai, Denad, Thimbatty, Aravenu, Beraganai, Kair Betta and Milidane. Kattabettu sub-station: Orasolai, West Brook, Bakkiya Nagar, Kodumudi, Kagguchi, Kattabettu, Naduhatty, Ebbanadu, Thummatty, Kenthorai, Kookal, Kookalthorai, Thoraihatty, Kadanadu, Thuneri, Iduhatty, Chinnacoonoor, Anikorai, T Manihatty, Billicombai, Byanagi, Ajoor, Masanakkal. Honnatty sub-station: Bangalapadi, Kadinamala, Kengarai, Kootada, Kil Kotagiri, Thalamukkai, Sholur Mattam, Denadu, Kaikatty, Kodanadu, Nattakal, Honnatty, Thuneri, Nedugula, Elada, Karikiyoor, Koilmattam, Kullangarai, Semmanarai, Manjamalai Colony. Keradamattam sub-station: Keradamattam, Kodanad, Elada, Anna Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Nedugula, Karson. Jagathala and Sandynallah sub-stations: August 8 (Saturday- 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.): Jagathala sub-station: Aravankadu, Coonoor, Burliar, Bandishola, Singara, Wellington, Yeddapalli, Brookelands, Adderlie, Bedford, Ottupattarai, Currency, Mount Pleasant, Beratty, Sims Park, Elithorai, Hossatty and Hubathalai. Sandynallah sub-station: Sandynallah, Lovedale, Kuruthukulli, Parsons Valley, Thalaikundah, Naduvattam, Dhavani, HPF, Glenmorgan, Porthimund and Sterling Biotech.
04 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Savadi says he does not need to be in quarantine||A day after Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa tested positive for COVID-19 and asked his Cabinet colleagues and officers to quarantine themselves, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi has said that he does not need to be quarantined as he had maintained a safe distance while meeting the Chief Minister. “I don’t need to undergo quarantine as I maintained a safe distance during my meeting with the Chief Minister,” he said in Athani on Monday. He was speaking to journalists after inaugurating an office of the Assistant Regional Transport Officer there. “It is true that I met the Chief Minister after I returned from Delhi. But the distance between us was around 10 feet-15 feet. I don’t need to be quarantined,” he added. He wished that the Chief Minister and his family members got well soon. Earlier, he said that the ARTO office would serve the local people and save them the trouble of travelling to Belagavi. He said that all vacancies in the department would be filled soon.  “I don’t need to undergo quarantine as I maintained a safe distance during my meeting wit the Chief Minister,” he says in Athani on Monday.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 deaths cross 2,500 mark in State||The number of COVID-19 deaths in the State has crossed the 2,500 mark. As many as 98 new COVID-19 deaths were reported on Monday across the State, taking the total number to 2,594. This is apart from the eight deaths of patients who tested positive for COVID-19 and died due to non-COVID-19 causes. A total of 42% of the total 2,594 deaths in the State have been reported from Bengaluru. The city also has reported 43% of the total COVID-19 positive cases in the State. For the first time in the past few weeks, the number of recoveries were more than new COVID-19 cases reported in the State. On Monday, 4,752 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the State, taking the total number to 1.39 lakh. The number of discharges continues to remain high with 4,776 patients being discharged on Monday. With this, the total number of discharges stands at 62,500. Of the 4,752 new COVID-19 cases reported in the State on Monday, 1,497 are Bengaluru Urban. With this, the number of positive cases in the State capital has crossed the 60,000 mark. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar also spoke about the improvement in the recovery rate in the last few days. He said that the overall recovery rate of the State as of Sunday evening was 42.81% and stood at 35.14% in Bengaluru. Dr. Sudhakar said that there was an increase in COVID-19 recovery rate by 5.67% in the last week. Tests conducted According to the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, 629 patients of the total 74,469 active cases were admitted in intensive care units in different hospitals across the State. The number of tests conducted on Monday stood at 27,989.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Patients queue up for CCC at BIEC||In the thick of a controversy not long ago, the COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) on Tumakuru Road is now seeing demand as the number of cases is witnessing a steady rise. According to the dash board on the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) website, as on 5 p.m. on August 3, a total of 589 beds were occupied. A total of 1,500 beds are available at BIEC. Quality of facilities According to Rajender Kumar Kataria, who heads the task force formed to set up CCCs, the demand is because people think it has better facilities. “Though the facility is ready, we have only opened up one hall with 1,500 beds, and another hall with 900 beds for doctors and nurses,” he said and added that if numbers increase, more halls would be opened up. Currently, around 6,500 beds are ready. Mr. Kataria said top of the line facilities were being provided at the centre, which are superior to those in similar facilities in other cities. “I was anxious after testing positive. But after coming here, I am happy with the facilities here,” says Mamatha (name changed), who is in the CCC at the BIEC. Another person expressed happiness about the facilities at the centre, especially the standard of cleanliness. “We get good food thrice a day. We are not confined to a room. We are able to walk around in the corridor, play carrom and other games, and mingle with others,” said Vasudev (name changed). BBMP’s Joint Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) Sarfaraz Khan said that compared to other CCCs, the BIEC centre was a large facility, with separate arrangements for women and men, an entertainment centre, dining area and other facilities. “Unlike other centres at GKVK or Haj Bhavan where those who have tested positive are in rooms, BIEC is open. It is this openness that gives the centre a positive atmosphere, which people seem to like,” he said. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said CCCs were only for people who have tested positive, and are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. “The care at these centres is provided free of cost. We want to create a positive environment where people are not stressed,” he added. The CCC was in the news recently as the renting of cots and mattresses at the centre, touted as being the largest such facility, had led to allegations of corruption. It was later that the government directed the BBMP to purchase the cots, mattresses and other items from contractors, putting an end to the controversy.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Air Asia offers biometric based boarding facility||Passengers of Air Asia can now use biometric based self-boarding facility at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). The airport had rolled out the Digi Yatra project in July 2019 for Vistara flights. In a release, the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) said that passengers, before entering the terminal, need to enrol their facial biometric and ID card validation at one of the 11 kiosks on the kerb, combined with their flight details. They will be authenticated and verified at every touch point by biometric technology. “This process offers the highest degree of safety and security while ensuring stringent standards of privacy. The biometric data is used only for authentication and verification of passengers to assist the boarding process, and not for recognition,” states the release. The facility will be optional for passengers. They can also use the existing manual process to board the flight. The BIAL maintains that Digi Yatra biometric platform technology offers highest data protection as passenger info is temporarily stored in secure systems in dedicated data centres. “The biometric data is used only for authentication and verification of passengers to assist the boarding process, and not for recognition. The passenger data is deleted within a few hours of flight completion,” states the release.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Funds to compensate drivers released||Over a lakh autorickshaw and taxi drivers, who have been waiting to get the Rs. 5,000 compensation announced by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, may finally receive the amount. Transport Commissioner N. Shivkumar told The Hindu that the State government has released Rs. 57 crore towards the payment of compensation and the money will be deposited in the accounts of drivers in a few days. “The department has received 2.45 lakh applications from the drivers on the Seva Sindhu portal, out of which compensation was paid to 1.2 lakh applicants when the State government had released funds last time. Fresh funds will help pay compensation to 1.15 lakh people. For the remaining drivers, we will write to the State government to release more funds.” He said that applications were received till July 31, and there is no proposal to extend the date. Delay in paying compensation has caused much anger among the drivers. Unions had criticised the government for not releasing the compensation for drivers who continue to face financial distress after the outbreak of COVID-19. President of Namma Chalakara Trade Union K. Somshekar said, “The CM had announced compensation in the first week of May. Due to several riders fixed by the State government, a majority of the drivers could not apply for the compensation, and those who have applied are waiting for months.”
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Migrant workers come forward to donate blood||As many as 75 migrant workers residing in Thubarahalli came forward to donate blood on Sunday. Many of them were once branded illegal immigrants and had faced the threat of eviction earlier this year. Forty-year-old Jahangir Sheikh, who was a waste picker residing in the migrant settlement in Thubarahalli said the residents, who were from West Bengal, had lost their jobs as domestic workers or janitors working in homes and private establishments. “During the lockdown, several non-governmental organisations helped us get three square meals a day. Even now, we do not have jobs. So we decided that we wanted to be of help to people. We cannot donate money, but we thought it would ideal if we could donate our blood and save lives,” he said. The blood that was donated went to Lions Blood Bank and Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health. The blood donation drive was organised by several volunteers, Lions Club, Sanjaynagar, as well as Swaraj Abhiyan and many other non-governmental organisations. Many of the migrant workers were donating blood for the first time. Those donating blood wore masks and maintained physical distance. All the units were tested for various parameters and cleared for blood donation. Vinay Kumar, a civic activist, who was involved in the blood donations, stated that many patients, particularly those who have thalassemia, are facing testing times as there was shortage of blood for transfusions during the pandemic.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) meeting on protest plan put on hold||The Janata Dal (Secular), which had convened a meeting of party leaders on Tuesday to discuss the modalities of an intended protest against the government’s alleged anti-farmer and anti-labour policies, has deferred the meeting indefinitely on account of COVID-19. “In the light of the pandemic and in the interest of the health of all, the party has decided to defer Tuesday’s meeting,” JD(S) supremo and former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda said in a statement. Party sources said that though Mr. Gowda was keen to meet party leaders and legislators, he finally decided to put off the meeting after his aides suggested that it would be difficult for party leaders to get to Bengaluru from faraway places at this point in time. “Already, four of the party legislators are undergoing treatment after testing positive [for COVID-19]. The list of leaders who were scheduled to be present had also grown. We did not want to take any chances,” a source said. The party is firm on demanding the withdrawal of ordinances pertaining to the dilution of Karnataka Land Reforms Act and APMC Act, besides a host of labour laws, sources said, adding that the JD (S) would take up these issues at a later time.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||19 people at IISc. test positive||As many as 19 people living on the Indian Institute of Science campus have tested positive for COVID-19 as of July 31. According to a press release on Monday, 12 of 15 COVID-19 positive students in hostels tested negative. Most of them were asymptomatic and treated in the COVID-19 Care Centre managed by the campus health care doctors. That apart, 34 pensioners and employees who live off-campus have also tested positive. The release said IISc had taken several proactive measures to tackle COVID-19, such as setting up a dedicated committee to monitor the situation. The institute has also obtained approval from BBMP to start a sample collection facility for COVID-19 and testing samples at IISC’s test centre to obtain results quickly. The institute was in the process of contacting hospitals to manage the dedicated COVID-19 Care Centre on campus for mild and asymptomatic patients, as well as for more serious cases being treated at hospitals. While reiterating that Unlock 3.0 guidelines, along with those issued by State government, were being followed, the release noted that all safety norms of reopening and working in labs were being followed, and that entry into IISc was strictly monitored. At the hostels, strict physical distancing measures are implemented, while dining at the mess is restricted. Common areas are cleaned and sanitised regularly as well, the release added. A spokesperson for the IIMB said a member of the agency that handles the outdoor horticulture work on campus tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. The person is being given all help and support. All 50 primary contacts of the affected person have been traced and are in home quarantine.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Did taking part in four public events in a week prove too risky for Yediyurappa?||Health Department officials are grappling with the question of how Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa contracted COVID-19. Given that the Chief Minister, who had desisted from attending any public event since March, suddenly seemed to return to normality and attended four events in the past week, contact tracing may be an impossible task, a senior official said. “He most likely contracted the infection from one of these events,” the official said. “In hindsight, the public engagements over the past one week were definitely ill-advised.But given we had unlocked the economy, he was keen to be seen in public to give out a message of confidence to the people of the State to resume work by taking all precautions. That seems to have backfired,” said one of Mr. Yediyurappa’s close associates. Ever since he imposed a lockdown in the State in mid-March, the Chief Minister had limited his public interactions to holding review meetings and meeting the press at his home office Krishna. He first ventured out on an inspection on July 10 of the COVID Care Centre at Bangalore International Exhibition Centre and immediately went into home quarantine the next day, as three of his staff members tested positive. He resumed work after four days when he tested negative. “Given his exposure and vulnerability, the Chief Minister was being tested every Sunday. He had tested negative last Sunday, but tested positive on August 2, clearly narrowing the window of when he contracted the infection,” a source close to his family said. The intervening week saw an unusually “outgoing” Chief Minister who attended four public events, even as the number of COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru city rose. He performed bhoomi puja for a life sciences park and inaugurated metro tunnelling work and a Keonics building, apart from presiding over a function marking one year of his government, all in a matter of four days. All these programmes were attended by a large number ofpeople, raising red flags. He also met Governor Vajubhai Vala and felicitated scientist K. Kasturirangan on Friday for the successful adoption of the National Education Policy by the Union government.All of them are considered his contacts now. Daughter tests positive Mr. Yediyurappa’s daughter B.Y. Padmavati has also tested positive for COVID-19.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM criticised for getting admitted to private hospital||The decision of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to get himself admitted to a private hospital after he tested positive for COVID-19, has drawn the criticism of public health experts and doctors. They stated that this showed the State-run hospitals in a poor light. The hospital has said that the 77-year-old CM has mild symptoms. While several people online have also questioned why he was admitted to a hospital even though he had very mild symptoms, many batted for him and said that given his age, he needed to be treated in the hospital. Sylvia Karpagam, a public health doctor, said that this was reinforcing the deeply-ingrained concerns of people about the poor quality of government hospitals. “Only when elected representatives use them will they be improved and upgraded. That is why we need to insist that they use it,” she said. She said that if the Chief Minister had been admitted in a government hospital, it would have validated the efforts of doctors who are working overtime at State-run facilities. Another doctor at a government hospital said that it was time that the State government increases investments on health infrastructure in government hospitals. “The most reputed doctors work in government hospitals. Yet they do not trust the government hospitals because of the inadequate infrastructure. It would have boosted our morale if the CM had been admitted to one of our government hospitals,” the doctor said. Meanwhile, Manipal Hospital said that he was admitted at around 11 p.m. on Sunday. “At present, he is doing well and is clinically stable. Appropriate treatment has been initiated as per current protocol. He is being treated and monitored closely by a multidisciplinary team of doctors,” the statement from the hospital read.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||H.K. Patil appeals to human rights panel to approach HC||Former Congress Minister and Public Accounts Committee Chairman H.K. Patil on Monday appeared before the Karnataka State Human Rights Commission and appealed to it to approach the High Court of Karnataka to issue directions to the government to provide timely and quality treatment to COVID-19 patients. Highlighting 10 major problems faced by COVID-19 patients in Karnataka, particularly Bengalaru, Mr. Patil appealed to the commission to file a writ petition in the court to give directions to the government for ensuring ambulances for COVID-19 patients within an hour after the confirmation of positive cases, and admission to a hospital or care centre within three hours for better treatment. Mr. Patil highlighted instances of negligence in dealing with patients of COVID-19 and demanded compensation for families whose members died owing to poor treatment and lack of facilities. He also sought directions to the government for conducting cremation of those who died of COVID-19 within 36 hours with honour and dignity. Earlier, Mr. Patil in a letter to the commission complained about the alleged ‘inhuman’ manner in which those who died of COVID -19 were treated in various districts “causing gross violation of human rights of the people of the State”. The Congress leader urged the commission to approach the High Court since it was empowered to make only recommendations to the government.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cabinet expansion put off for now||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa was keen on making a trip to Delhi to consult the party high command on Cabinet expansion and reshuffle, and if things had gone well, he wanted it to be done before Independence Day. But with the Chief Minister and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the key decision-maker on party affairs, being hospitalised for COVID-19, the exercise has effectively been put off indefinitely, sources in the party said. Mr. Yediyurappa appointing 20 MLAs to boards and corporations was seen as a precursor to the Cabinet reshuffle and expansion. “The message was clear that these MLAs were out of the race for ministerial berths in the upcoming reshuffle. Of the 24 MLAs initially nominated, four were withdrawn as these MLAs refused to accept their nominations for the same reason,” a senior leader said. A proposal to drop a few Ministers and induct more had triggered intense lobbying among the MLAs to make the cut, while several Ministers, who were said to be on the list of those likely to be dropped, had also been lobbying hard to retain their berths in the Cabinet. Three Ministers from Belagavi — Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, Ramesh Jarkiholi, and Shashikala Jolle — recently made trips to Delhi, meeting Centralparty leaders. While the Chief Minister has been keen on a reshuffle and expansion at the earliest, the position of the high command was not clear. His trip to Delhi, if it had come through, would have given a clearer picture. But with both key decision-makers hospitalised, the exercise has been put off for now.
04 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Opposition leaders wish CM a speedy recovery||As Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced his admission to hospital following a positive COVID-19 test, senior Opposition leaders in the State wished him a speedy recovery. Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah took to Twitter soon after Mr. Yediyurappa informed the public about his health status. “I wish Mr. B.S. Yediyurappa a speedy recovery and to return with good health to continue his work for the people,” he wrote. Another former Chief Minister, H.D. Kumaraswamy of the JD(S), also took to Twitter to wish the Chief Minister a speedy recovery. “I am anxious to hear that Chief Minister has tested positive. I pray to Almighty for his speedy recovery. I also appeal to the representatives ofthe people involved in public work to be cautious and to take precautions,” he said. Mr. Kumaraswamy also wished Union Home Minister Amit Shah a speedy recovery.
04 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Top tier of administration confused about protocols||Confusion has gripped the top tier of the State administration, who were contacts of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, on the protocols to be followed now. Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, Ministers Basavaraj Bommai,R. Ashok, and Byrati Basavaraj have announced that they would be self-isolating. However, another Deputy Chief Minister, Laxman Savadi, who met Mr. Yediyurappa on Saturday, inaugurated an ARTO office at Athani on Monday and claimed that he need not undergo quarantine as he had metthe Chief Minister “from a safe distance”. However, senior bureaucrats in the government have batted for tweaking the self-isolation protocols and for going for immediate testing of all the contacts, considering this as an exceptional case. “If all the contacts of the Chief Minister were to be quarantined, almost the entire top tier of the State’s administration will have to go into quarantine, which will hit the smooth functioning of the administration,” a senior official said. Mr. Yediyurappa’s Cabinet colleagues and senior bureaucrats, including the Chief Secretary, are now lining up for COVID-19 tests — both rapid antigen and RT-PCR. These samples will be tested on a priority basis and he results declared in a 24-hour window. Those who test negative will continue working by taking all precautions, while those who test positive will follow the appropriate medical treatment protocol, sources said. “I got myself a rapid antigen test this morning and I tested negative,” Mr. Vijay Bhaskar told The Hindu . Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan also underwent a rapid antigen test, tested negative, and carried on with his work as usual. “This is the only feasible way to prevent a big impact on the State’s administration,” a senior official in the Chief Minister’s Office said.
04 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘I shall get well soon’||In a confidence-building measure, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday released a video message addressing the people of the State from Manipal Hospitals, where he has been admitted after he tested positive for COVID-19. “Doctors conducted various tests yesterday night [Sunday] and today morning and told me that there are no complications and I shall get well soon and return home,” he said in the one-minute-36-second video message. Painting a picture of everything being under control, he said he was in touch with officers to ensure the administration was not hampered. “There is no need for any panic. I will be cured and [will] return to resume my work as soon as possible.” He appealed for the blessings and support of the 6.5 crore people of the State to win the battle against COVID-19, and also thanked BJP national president J.P. Nadda, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, and Opposition leaders H.D. Deve Gowda, Siddara-maiah, and H.D. Kumara-swamy for their wishes, apart from the blessings of several seers. He also appealed to people to maintain social distan-cing and wear masks.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Government transfers 20 IPS officers||In a major reshuffle, the State government has transferred 20 IPS officers and given them new postings. The order was issued on Monday, two days after the appointment of Kamal Pant as the Bengaluru City Police Commissioner. Umesh Kumar has been appointed ADGP, CID, Economic Offences, Bengaluru. Roopa D. has been appointed as the IGP and Secretary to Home Department, Bengaluru.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sexual assault in Victoria hospital||A doctor working in the Trauma Care Centre at Victoria hospital, whose identity is not yet known, allegedly sexually harassed a COVID-19 patient on July 25. According to an FIR registered at the Vishveshwarapuram police station on July 30, the alleged incident took place around 10 p.m. on July 25. The victim reported the incident to Asima Banu, nodal officer of the Trauma Care Centre, through WhatsApp. A complaint was filed by a special officer of the centre.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister helps woman||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar intervened and helped a woman who was struggling to get her father’s body from St. Johns hospital Madivala. In a statement, the Minister’s office stated that the hospital was charging money to hand over the body and the Minister has directed the officials to resolve the issue. “It is inhuman on part of the hospital to refuse to hand over the body,” Dr. Sudhakar said in his tweet.
04 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Allow final year students to clear backlog’||All universities should allow final year/semester students to clear backlog subjects by conducting those examinations, C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Deputy Chief Minister, has said. He said on Monday that universities should allow the students to complete their graduate courses. The State government recently decided to only conduct final year/semester examinations. However, following this, many universities had decided to not conduct examinations for the backlog subjects. This, he said was wrong. “The intention is to allow students to complete their courses. If only final year/ semester examinations are held, students will not be able to clear the backlog and hence, won’t qualify for completing the course,” he noted. Meanwhile, he acknowledged the efforts of all government officials in ensuring that the Common Entrance Test was conducted across the State without a hitch. He claimed that SOPs and guidelines that were in place for CET had become a model. “Now, Arunachal Pradesh is going to conduct public service commission. Same with Karnataka Public Service Commission as well,” he said.
04 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Minister helps accident victim reach hospital||Minister for Tourism C.T. Ravi helped a woman who had met with an accident reach hospital on Monday. The woman had fallen off a two-wheeler she was riding pillion on near Udduur on Hassan-Belur Road. Local people gathered at the spot waiting for a vehicle to shift her to hospital, when Mr. Ravi, who was on his way to Bengaluru from Chikkamagaluru, reached the spot. He got off his vehicle and, with the help of his staff members, brought her to the Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences.
04 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Five more die||Five more people died of COVID-19 infection in Hassan on Monday, taking the total number of deaths to 70. District Health Officer K.M. Sathish Kumar said that the total number of confirmed cases also increased to 2,548 with 131 new cases reported. Of these, 1,057 have been discharged so far, and 1,421 are undergoing treatment. Of those under treatment, 43 are in ICU.
04 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Railway Museum to be thrown open tomorrow||The Railway Museum in Hubballi, set up to preserve and portray the glorious heritage of Indian Railways and its gradual evolution, is all set for public viewing, and it will be thrown open to the public on Wednesday. The railway museum here is the first of its kind in North Karnataka and second in South Western Railway limits after the one in Mysuru. The museum was formally commissioned on July 31 this year. Located next to the second entry of the Hubballi Railway Station on Gadag Road just opposite the Central Railway Hospital, the museum has exhibits and installations that portray the railway heritage and how the railways has evolved over the years. The museum has three sections, one outdoor section and two cottages named Malaprabha and Ghataprabha. A toy train, model train run, theatre coach, children’s activity room are part of the museum. The South Western Railway has converted two beautiful cottages constructed in 1907 into two parts of the museum, Malaprabha and Ghataprabha, names of two prominent rivers of the region. The Ghataprabha cottage has a collection of indoor artefacts and it features a model room with a running train, signal instruments and others and provides glimpses into the medical and security wings of the Railways. There is a memorabilia corner where visitors can buy souvenirs. And, for the history buffs, there is a history corner too. One can see a series of beautiful charcoal sketches in the art gallery set up in the Malaprabha Cottage. A replica of a station master’s room and a parcel office are all set to become special attractions in the cottage. A toy train manufactured by the Rail Carriage Workshop of Hubballi is all set to become another special attraction. According to a press release from South Western Railway, General Manager Ajay Kumar Singh, Additional General Manager P.K. Mishra took keen interest in setting up the museum. Chief Heritage Officer of South Western Railway Ravi Kumar and Divisional Railway Manager Arvind Malkhede teamed up with others to execute the plan. While heritage consultant Roopa Srinivasan gave inputs for setting up the museum, Neeraj Jain chipped in with restoration of heritage material for display. Restricted entry Considering the pandemic, the authorities have decided to restrict the entry to only 30 persons at a time and will follow all precautionary measures. For the time being, the theatre coach will remain closed. The South Western Railway has decided to allow free entry for the public for the first five days (August 5 to 9) between 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. From August 11, the museum will have regular working hours. On weekdays, it will be open from noon to 7 p.m. and on weekends and public holidays, it will be open from noon to 8 p.m. The museum will remain closed on Mondays. The authorities have fixed Rs. 20 for adults (aged above 12) and Rs. 10 for children in the five to 12 age group. For children aged less than five, there is no fee.
04 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Five more deaths||Kalaburagi district reported five more deaths and 170 new COVID-19 positive cases on Monday, taking the total number of deaths to 111 and the total number of positive cases to 5,937 in the district. Ballari reported 305 new cases taking the total number of infected persons to 7,354. There were 157 new such cases in Koppal district.
04 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||To take charge||Simi Mariam George is all set to take over as the Superintendent of Police of Kalaburagi district. Ms. George, who was Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Crime, Bengaluru, is succeeding Iada Martin Marbaniang.
04 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Revoor assumes charge as KKRDB chairman||Kalaburagi South MLA Dattatreya Patil Revoor on Monday assumed charge as chairman of the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB). Addressing presspersons, Mr. Revoor said that his first priority will be to tackle COVID-19 in the region. He said that the board will take steps to tackle the pandemic in the six districts of the Kalyana Karnataka region on priority. Member of Parliament Umesh Jadhav and Kalaburagi Division Regional Commissioner N.V. Prasad were present.
04 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Announce national resting period between 8 p.m. and 4 a.m.: seer||Seer of Puttige Mutt in Udupi Sugunendra Tirtha, who recovered from COVID-19 a few days ago, has urged the Union government to declare the period between 8 p.m. and 4 a.m. as national resting period. All television and other entertainment programmes and night travel should be banned during this period, he said in a statement in Udupi late on Sunday. The government should take the required steps to ensure that the ban had legal back-up. It is because, during his treatment for COVID-19 at a hospital in Manipal, he experienced that if one slept well during the period, it would help in boosting one’s immunity. An initiative for declaring national resting period is needed for promoting the health of all people, the seer said and added that one should stop the habit of sleeping during the day. The seer said that COVID-19 symptoms in him started with cough beginning at 4 a.m. every day. When he asked the experts about the reasons for this, he was told that he slept late in the night and that it [coughing] was the result. In hospital, he tried going to bed before 9 p.m. intentionally. When he practised this, there was improvement in his health and coughing reduced. He realised that there was a direct link between sleeping habit and immunity. Earlier, he did not go to bed before 11 p.m. or midnight due to his activities and travelling. He had ignored proper sleeping and eating habits. “Taking timely food and sleeping at the right time are the key to maintaining immunity,” he said and added that Sri Krishna has in the Bhagavad Gita laid stress on timely sleep and food. He said that the need of the hour is for all to have strong immunity to face any type of infection or disease such as COVID-19. Balancing eating and sleeping habits mattered a lot in boosting one’s immunity. The seer said that like the new National Education Policy, the time is ripe to re-frame the national health policy to protect the health of all people. While re-framing the policy, thrust should be given to yoga, pranayama and Ayurveda. He said that there is a need to change people’s lifestyle. The government should bring in necessary legislation in this connection. The seer was discharged from hospital recently after recovering from COVID-19. He tested positive after returning from Bengaluru
04 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Woman injured as part of her house collapses in Mulky||While heavy and widespread rain, accompanied by squally winds, continued to lash Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts on Monday, an elderly woman suffered injury after a part of her house on K.S. Road Nagar in Mulky in Dakshina Kannada collapsed on Sunday. The injured, Sulochana Nayak (59), was in a room in her house along with her son, Suraj, daughter-in-law, Jayalakshmi, and their two children when a portion of the tiled roof of their house collapsed. Ms. Nayak suffered serious injuries, while her son and the others suffered simple injuries. Residents rushed to the house and arranged to send the injured to a nearby hospital. Special Tahsildar Manikya visited the spot. The damage to the house has been estimated at Rs. 10 lakh, officials said. According to India Meteorological Department, Dakshina Kannada district recorded an average rainfall of 60.9 mm in the last 24 hours ended at 8 a.m. on Monday. The highest rainfall of 110 mm was recorded in Mani, followed by 80 mm in Kukke Subrahmanya, 70 mm in Mangaluru Airport, 60 mm in Moodbidri, Uppinangady, Panambur and Sullia, 50 mm in Dharmasthala, 40 mm in Mangaluru, 30 mm in Puttur and 20 mm in Mulky. Udupi district recorded an average rainfall of 43.8 mm. Siddapura near Udupi recorded 70 mm rainfall, followed Kundapur with 60 mm, Kollur 50 mm and Kota, Karkala and Udupi with 40 mm. Uttara Kannada district recorded an average rainfall of 36.8 mm. Manki received 90 mm of rainfall, followed by Gokarna in 80 mm, Bhatkal, Kumta, Ankola and Honnavar 50 mm, Kadra 40 mm, Karwar, Jagalbet and Manchikere 30 mm, Yellapura 20 mm and Banavasi with 10 mm. Rain and thundershowers are likely to continue to lash the coastal districts till Wednesday. With squally weather and wind speed likely to reach 50 kmph in and along the coastal areas, the department has advised fishermen against venturing into the sea.  With squally weather and wind speed likely to reach 50 kmph in and along the coastal areas, the department has advised fishermen against venturing into the sea
04 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Compulsory rapid antigen test for some categories in Udupi||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha has issued an order directing shopping malls, shops, hotels and online food delivery platforms to get their staff compulsorily tested for COVID-19 through rapid antigen test. Meanwhile, some people have termed it controversial. In his magisterial order issued under the Disaster Management Act and COVID-19 Regulations on Saturday, Mr. Jagadeesha warned that penal action will be taken against establishments if they failed to get the test done for their staff. Quoting a Government Order on June 1 and the order of the District Health Officer on June 30, the Deputy Commissioner said that the government had directed that random tests be carried out for sections of society on priority. Except for a few, none has got rapid antigen test conducted for their staff. The administration has set a target of getting more COVID-19 tests done, he said and added that the direction for compulsory tests was in that connection. He asked the target group to contact jurisdictional taluk health officers to get the rapid antigen test conducted. More cases? Entrepreneur B. Sreepathy Rao, who hails from the coastal region and based in Bengaluru, has said that the order appeared to have been issued with an aim at reporting more positive cases. A businessman from Byndoor Kunjal Venkatesh Kini said that it was prudent to test symptomatic people. ‘Contain the spread’ Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat told The Hindu that the administration had decided to test everyone to prevent community spread of COVID-19. He was not aware that such an order had been issued, the MLA said and added that more tests would help the administration to contain the spread. Karkala MLA V. Sunil Kumar too said that he had not seen the order. He added that it was the responsibility of the government as well as individuals to contain the spread of COVID-19.
04 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘I dare BJP to initiate defamation cases against Congress leaders’||Congress leader Dinesh Gundu Rao on Monday dared the Bharatiya Janata Party to initiate defamation cases against Congress leaders and reiterated his party’s charges that the State government has procured COVID-19 equipment at a higher cost. Speaking to reporters in Udupi, Mr. Rao said that the government instead of answering questions posed by the Congress on equipment procurement at double and triple the original cost, gets legal notices issued threatening to initiate defamation proceedings. The government has not responded to KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar’s corruption charge even after 25 days, he said and reiterated the demand for a judicial probe into the issue. Mr. Rao said that neither the Prime Minister nor Ministers at the Centre and in the State have bothered to address issues being faced by the common man in the backdrop of exponential increase in COVID-19 positive cases across the country. District in-charge Ministers are not working as a team in all the districts, including Udupi, he said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had urged the governments to consider COVID-19 seriously much earlier. However, they did not bother. The Congress has, on the other hand, been helping people during the lockdown and it would continue to help through the Arogya Hastha programme. Mr. Rao said that the party welcomes Ram Mandir construction at Ayodhya; nobody opposes the construction of a grand temple there. However, everyone should understand that the construction of temple would not help do away with the COVID-19 situation. The BJP leaders should stop making baseless statements, he said. Meanwhile, Mr. Rao said that the party would raise the issue of illegal sand extraction in the district during the legislature session. Officials as well as politicians have colluded in illegal extraction, he said. On the occasion, he wished speedy recovery for Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and his party colleague Ivan D’Souza from COVID-19.
04 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Services of re-engaged railway staff terminated||The services of scores of retired but re-engaged employees in the South Western Railways have been terminated as austerity or as a cost-cutting measure arising out of the COVID-19 situation. This follows a review of the Railways’ policy on re-engagement of retired personnel till new recruits are trained and deployed. But with COVID-19 leading to suspension of regular passenger services and volume of freight transportation being low, the Indian Railways is riding into a financial crisis. Hence, it has been decided to prune staff strength. Sources in the South Western Railways told The Hindu that a majority of the staff re-engaged were in the Group C category across different departments. As many as 428 retired railway employees were re-engaged across South Western Railway including 89 in the Mysuru Railway division. “Only the medical and para-medical staff engaged in COVID-19 duty and those deployed in critical areas have been spared,” sources added. When contacted, E. Vijaya, Chief PRO, SWR, said the services of the re-engaged staff will be continued or retained on a need basis as an austerity measure. ‘Inevitable move’ Other officials stated that the move was inevitable, given rising expenditure amidst declining revenue. For instance, there were nearly 30 staff for issuing passenger tickets in the Mysuru railway station alone and they used to work in three shifts in pre-COVID-19 times. This was justified when the outbound passenger traffic used to hover around 30,000 per day. With suspension of passenger services there were no tickets to be issued, but the employees had to be paid. As part of the graded unlocking 1 passenger train operates between Mysuru and Bengaluru which is used at the most by about 150 passengers and hence the commercial staff on duty have little work. However, they cannot be terminated as they are regular employees and hence the axe has fallen on re-engaged employees, said the sources. Originally, the re-engagement was to end on November 30, 2019, but it was extended by an year due to delay in filling up the vacancies.
04 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rains intensify in Kodagu||The South-West Monsoon, which played truant in Kodagu in July, has gained fresh vigour here. The district received 50.92 mm of rainfall during the 24-hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on Monday. However, it is too early to say whether the rainfall deficit can be bridged. Kodagu has received 866 mm of rainfall as against the normal of 1,468 mm for the period of June 1 to August 3, which is 41% below normal. July was the worst in recent past and rainfall was 47% below normal, with the district having received 454 mm of rains against the July average of 859 mm. Though the South-West Monsoon made timely landfall in the first week of June, it dissipated and rainfall was 36% below normal during the month, at 342 mm against a normal of 534 mm, according to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). The district has been witnessing below average rains during June and July for the last few years which tends to be bridged owing to heavy showers causing widespread damage in August. As monsoon showed signs of gaining fresh vigour and there was moderate to heavy rain on Monday, it has raised concern of flash floods in the region besides rekindling memories of the natural calamity that struck Kodagu in August 2018 and last year too. The rainfall was uniform and widespread across the district through Sunday and a similar weather pattern prevailed on Monday as well. Madikeri taluk recorded 52.3 mm of rainfall, Virajpet received 46.2 mm and Somwarpet received 54.25 mm during the 24-hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on Monday. The data for Monday from 8.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. indicated that there was moderate rainfall in the district varying from 15 mm to 64 mm, according to KSNDMC. A report from the district administration stated that Shanthalli in the district received the highest amount during the period, recording 108 mm. Other areas of significant rains included Bhagamandala (55 mm), Hudikeri (59 mm), Srimangala (68 mm), Sampaje (56.20 mm) and Shanivarasanthe (54 mm). Consequent to the heavy rain during the last 24 hours, the inflow into Harangi reservoir has increased and the reservoir level was 2,857.5 ft. against the full level of 2,859 ft.
04 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Our land is not for sale, say banners outside villages||Farmers began putting up banners outside their villages in the district proclaiming that their land was not for sale, as part of an agitation launched by Federation of Karnataka State Farmers’ Organisations against the amendment to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961. ‘The land in our village is for us. Not for others’, said the banners. Leading a protest at Deve Gowda Circle in Mysuru on Monday, federation president Kurubur Shanthakumar said such banners had been put up in more than 180 villages in Mysuru and adjoining Chamarajanagar districts on Monday. Similar banners had been put up outside hundreds of other villages across the length and breadth of the State to oppose the amendment, he claimed. “We will not allow real estate companies and corporates to enter our village”, he said. The amendment not only permits non-agriculturists to purchase agricultural land, but also removes the ceiling on its ownership. Apart from putting up banners, farmers also sent postcards addressed to the Chief Minister urging the State government to withdraw the ordinance issued to amend the Karnataka Land Reforms Act. More than 150 farmers' organisations were part of the banner and postcard agitation, said Mr. Shanthakumar. More banners are expected to come up across the State, he said before adding that the agitation will be intensified with protests in district headquarters on August 8. If the government does not rescind the ordinance, the farmers will observe August 15 as a ‘black day’ with a protest in front of the DC’s office.
04 August 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Mantralayam seer sends wishes for Bhoomi Puja in Ayodhya||Peethadhipathi of Sri Raghavendra Swamy Mutt, Mantralayam in Andhra Pradesh, Sri Subudhendra Tirtha Swami, has sent his wishes for the Bhoomi Puja [ground-breaking ceremony] for the Ram temple at Ayodhya on Wednesday. In a video release from the mutt on Monday, Sri Subudhendra Tirtha said that the Ram temple should not only be considered as a religious centre but also as a spiritual centre. Expressing his inability to take part in the programme, the seer said that due to COVID-19 “we are not participating in the ceremony”. All devotees of the mutt from across the country and also abroad have been asked to extend their cooperation and coordination from the places where they are staying, he said.
04 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||MLA, son test positive||Gurmitakl JD(S) MLA Naganagouda Kandkur and his son Mallikarjun Reddy Kandkur have been admitted to hospital after they tested positive for COVID-19. Mr. Kandkur’s another son, Sharanagouda Kandkur, is already under home quarantine.
04 August 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Four more pvt. hospitals to give treatment||Raichur Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has said that four more private hospitals in the district have come forward to provide treatment to COVID-19 patients and they will be allowed to collect fees as fixed by the government. He was addressing a meeting in Raichur on Monday. Mr. Venkatesh Kumar said that Navodaya and Neo Fortune Nursing Home have already been providing treatment to COVID-19 patients. Two hospitals, Bhandari Hospital and Lakshminarayan Hospital, in Raichur and two, one each in Sindhanur and Lingsugur, will soon start providing treatment to those infected, he said.
04 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||ZP chief pays surprise visit to govt. offices||Yadgir Zilla Panchayat president Basanagouda Patil Yadiyapur paid surprise visits to different government offices and inspected attendance registers and also the ones meant to record applications received from the general public on grievances and disposals on Monday. He was shocked after employees in the Forest Department and Akshara Dasoha office and also the office of the Joint Director of Agriculture had not signed in the attendance registers. Inward and outward registers had not been updated with acceptance and disposal of applications submitted by the general public for several months. Mr. Yadiyapur warned the officials to update the inward and outward registers after promptly attending to the grievances of the public. He also advised Joint Director of Agriculture Department R. Devika to store required fertilizers to meet the demands of farmers.
04 August 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Transferred||Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy has been transferred as Superintendent of Police, Intelligence, Bengaluru, and Nikkam Prakash Amrit, who was Superintendent of Police, CID, Bengaluru, posted as Superintendent of Police in Raichur.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Coming up: Dedicated pop-up cycle lane on Outer Ring Road||A cycle lane – a long-pending dream of cycling enthusiasts – may finally be a reality. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will take up the work of creating a dedicated pop-up cycle lane between Silk Board junction and Lowry Memorial College near K.R. Puram along the dedicated bus lane on Outer Ring Road (ORR). The pop-up cycle lane will be over 16-km-long on either side. A BBMP official said that the pop-up cycle lane would mainly come up adjoining the median towards the right side of the service roads, which are on the left side of the dedicated bus lane. “The cycle lane will be of two-metre width. Bollards will be installed at every metre to demarcate the lane. In addition, 30-mm asphalting over the existing road will be laid specially for the cycle lane,” the official said, adding that the design of the pop-up cycle lane was prepared by the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT). Another BBMP official said that along with cycle lane, improvement of footpaths would be done, and the tenure of the tender was six months. V. Manjula, Commissioner, DULT, said that DULT had to redesign a few aspects of the dedicated bus lane in tune with the cycle lane, especially at the entry and exit points and at places where traffic merged. “We have designed dedicated cycle lane stretches wherever possible. At some points, there will be a shared lane,” she said. She added that the BWSSB had dug up roads in between, and there were stretches where metro work might commence. “We have taken all such issues into consideration while designing the cycle lane,” she said. “We have provided a detour plan for the cycle lane at Marathahalli bridge and Salem railway bridge as the cycle lane is not viable there,” Ms. Manjula added. Speaking to The Hindu , Bengaluru’s bicycle mayor Sathya Sankaran said that the agencies concerned should ensure that the project is on track, and that more corridors in the city should have such dedicated safe cycle lanes. ‘Over 10,000 potential users’ “With the existing plan of width of two metres for the lane, over 10,000 people can use the cycle lane. There are hundreds of companies on the ORR stretch. The pop-up cycle lane will definitely benefit thousands of people working there,” he said adding that the future of mobility needs to be defined now. He also said that even if 10% to 20% of the employees working in hundreds of companies on ORR use the cycle lane, it would have a great impact and bring a positive change.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Progress on Bus Priority Lane||The work on the Bus Priority Lane (BPL), the dedicated bus lane on ORR between Silk Board junction and Lowry Memorial College, is gaining pace. The civic body is hoping to complete work by the end of August. A senior BBMP official said that installation of bollards was almost complete on both the sides – around 16 km on either side – while work on installing signage at entry, exit and merging points was under way. “Lockdown was announced when we started installing bollards in March. Later due to reduced work force, work was delayed. Now that the important works are complete, we will finish the rest by the end of August,” the official said. The bus priority lane was initially planned on the 42-km (on both sides) stretch between Silk Board junction and S.V. Road metro station on Old Madras Road. The plan was changed to Silk Board to Lowry Memorial College due to the ongoing metro work between Baiyappanahalli and Whitefield.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Sibling bonding||
04 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha gears up to meet rain threat||The Alappuzha district administration has decided to shift bedridden patients in Kuttanad taluk to government hospitals in view of the flood threat. A meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority chaired by District Collector A. Alexander here on Monday reviewed measures in place to tackle an emergency situation. Mr. Alexander directed local bodies in the district to prepare and hand over the list of bedridden patients, the differently abled, and people with serious medical conditions. “Apart from Kuttanad, bedridden patients in coastal areas facing the threat of sea erosion will also be shifted. The patients are likely to be shifted from Tuesday taking into account the weather conditions,” said an official. COVID-19 patients The weather agency has declared a yellow alert in Alappuzha till August 7. Officials said that buildings had been identified in all six taluks to be used as relief camps if needed. “In the case of flooding, people in quarantine and those showing symptoms of COVID-19 will be shifted to COVID-19 care centres. Managing committees will be formed to run relief camps. Chemical e-toilets will be installed in Kuttanad. Fire and Rescue Services personnel, police, Kerala State Electricity Board, Health Department, volunteers among others will be part of rescue and relief operations during an emergency,” said an official. Intense showers The district on Monday witnessed intermittent intense showers. Trees were uprooted in different parts of Alappuzha in heavy downpour and strong winds. Waterlogging was reported from the northern parts of Kuttanad taluk following an increased inflow of water from the eastern side. Officials said they were closely monitoring water levels in various rivers in Kuttanad. “So far one relief camp has been opened in the Kavalam grama panchayat and shifted we have shifted five members of a family there. More camps will be opened if needed,” said an official. Control rooms Control rooms have been opened at collectorate and taluk headquarters. Following are the contact numbers: 0477 2236831 (Alappuzha collectorate), 0477 2702221 (Kuttanad), 0479 2412797 (Karthikappally), 0477 2253771 (Ambalappuzha), 0479 2452334 (Chengannur), 0478 2813103 (Cherthala) and 0479 2302216 (Mavelikara).
04 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||A sudden spike in Alappuzha||In a major jump in COVID-19 cases in recent days, 101 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. The new cases include 85 who contracted the disease through local transmission, 10 people who came from abroad, and six from other States. The district reported one more COVID-19 related death, taking the official tally to six. The deceased was identified as a 52-year-old man from Nooranad. The Chettikkad and Kadakarappally COVID-19 clusters widened further with 21 and 14 cases respectively. All the 35 contracted the disease through contact. Another nine contact cases were reported from Nelemperoor. Rest of the contact cases were from Alappuzha (7), Perumbalam (6), Pattanakkad (6), Punnapra (5), Cherthala (4), Pallippuram (3), Ambalappuzha (3), Vavakkad (2) and one case each from Varanam, Panavally, Muhamma, Thanneermukkom and Kanichukulangara. Sixteen patients who had returned from abroad and other States are natives of Punnapra (2), Venmony (2), Chingoli (2) and one each from Mulakuzha, Cherthala, Chunakkara, Pulinkunnu, Eravukadu, Alappuzha, Nooranad, Ala, Thakazhi and Arookutty. Wards 12 and 15 in Ambalappuzha South, ward 8 in Kanjikuzhy, ward 2 in Aroor, ward 1 in Cherthala South and wards 2 and 3 in Chettikulangara grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.
04 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||The wheel of power is in Munnar’s safe custody||A Pelton wheel kept at the KDHP (Kanan Deven Hills Plantation Ltd) Tea Museum at Munnar may not immediately catch the attention of visitors. However, it carries one back to an era when hydroelectric power was first generated at Pallivasal under the initiative of the British. Records say the “company constructed its first hydroelectric powerhouse at Pallivasal in 1900. By 1910, several factories generated their own electricity.” The mini-powerhouse at Pallivasal then had an installed capacity of 200 kW and it was used to work machines inside the tea factory in addition to light up the building. Though there is lack of evidence over the exact location the wheel was installed, Pallivasal at Chithirapuram had the distinction of hosting the first power station in the State. In 1933, C.P. Ramaswamy Iyer, Dewan of the erstwhile Travancore, while visiting the tea plantations, took notice of the power generated from the mini-powerhouse and wanted one under the State. It resulted in the realisation of the Pallivasal Hydroelectric Project, said to be the first in the country under State control. The project was completed in 1940. At Chithirapuram, there is a building with a board ‘Pallivasal Generating Station under the Travancore Electricity Department’. The foundation stone with the mark of conch, the symbol of the royal family of erstwhile Travancore, is also there. The installed capacity of the Pallivasal power project was 9,000 kW. Electricity was generated by diverting water through a tunnel with a check-dam (headworks dam) across the Muthirapuzha. With the increase in power generation at Pallivasal, Mattupetty and Kundala dams were built to store water. Erstwhile Travancore was a pioneer in generating power from water. The journey began with this Pelton wheel.
04 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Pambla, Kallarkutty dam shutters opened||The shutters of the Pambla (Lower Periyar) and Kallarkutty dams were opened on Monday following heavy rain. While one shutter of the Pambla dam was raised 30 cm to release 45 cumecs of water at 2.45 p.m., a shutter of the Kallarkutty dam was opened to release 30 cumecs of water at 5 p.m. The District Collector has directed tahsildars to shift people from landslip-prone areas to safe places. The local administration has already identified 310 buildings for opening relief camps in the district. The camps will function in accordance with the COVID-19 protocol, said a release here. Power generation The water level in the Idukki reservoir was 2,337.5 ft on Monday. However, the power generation at the Moolamattom power house has remained below 3 million units for three days. There was 52.96% of water at the reservoir, said an official at the Dam Monitoring and Research Station, Vazhathoppe. The water level on the same day last year was 2,315.9 ft. The dam’s catchment area received a rainfall of 84.2 mm on Monday.
04 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||26 new cases in Idukki||Twenty-six persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Idukki on Monday. Eight of them, two each from Edavetty and Elappara and one each from Konnathadi, Vandiperiyar, Peerumade, and Karimkunnam, contracted the disease through local transmission. Sixteen of the newly infected persons had returned from other States and two from Gulf countries. On Monday, 51 persons recovered. Electricity Minister M.M. Mani, in charge of Idukki’s COVID-19 control measures, said people exercise extreme caution.
04 August 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||KSRTC staff at Kasaragod depot terminated from service||The Kerala State Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has ordered clerical staff working at its various depots in Kasaragod district to stop reporting for duty, effective from Monday. Apparently, most of these employees, including 10 from Kasaragod depot, eight from Kanhangad, and three from Payyanur, had been in service for over 10 years. No notices were served, and the orders were verbally communicated to them. Incidentally, it comes at a time when the government has promised that no employee will be terminated. “The orders have come at a time when the pandemic has peaked,” said D.K. Sini, a clerical staff at the Kasaragod depot who has been terminated. Most of them were appointed through employment exchange, she claimed. Another staffer, C. Karthyayani, who too has been terminated said she had to support her family comprising three children and husband, who is an autorickshaw driver. “Since the COVID-19 outbreak, my husband has been left jobless, and if I am thrown out of the job, how will we survive”? she asked. Meanwhile, the KSRTC board meeting on Tuesday is expected to arrive at an amicable solution. For K. Ravi, who has served the corporation for 11 years and was on deputation at the Payyanur depot, the message came as a rude shock. District Transport Officer Manoj Kumar was unavailable for comments.
04 August 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Man murders 4 relatives||In a shocking incident, a youth hacked to death four of his relatives, at Upala Bayar in Kasaragod on Monday evening. According to the police, the accused, Udaya, killed his uncles Sathasiva, 55, Vittala, 75, Babu, 78, and his aunt Devaki, 60, who were residents of Uppala Bayar Kanyala. The accused was arrested after the locals caught and handed him over to the police. He is suspected to be mentally ill. However, a dispute over a pass-way might have led to the crime, the local residents said.
04 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Over 100 cases for second day in a row||For the second day in a row, the district recorded over a 100 COVID-19 cases with 106 persons testing positive on Monday. Ten persons have tested positive from Nellikuzhi, taking the total number of cases in the panchayat to 27 so far. Panchayat president Ranjini Revi said that most of the people who had tested positive had visited a house in the panchayat to get a marriage fixed. From Fort Kochi, Mattancherry and Palluruthy, a total of 14 persons have tested positive. Eleven persons from Choornikkara and three from Chellanam have tested positive. Two personnel from the Navy and a 51-year-old police officer have been infected. Other positive cases were from Edathala, Vengola, Kumbalangi and Kumarapuram. Three health workers have tested positive — a worker at a private hospital in North Paravur, a 33-year-old health-worker at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, and a 46-year-old worker at a private hospital in Aluva. Seventeen persons who arrived from outside the State have tested positive. Eight patients at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, remain critical. A total of 38 persons tested negative. WISK set up The Women and Children’s Hospital at Mattancherry will begin antigen testing of symptomatic patients soon with a Walk-in Sample Kiosk (WISK) which was set up at the hospital on Monday. The conversion of the government facility into a COVID hospital, though announced earlier, has not taken off yet. A doctor at the hospital said that infrastructural additions would have to be made to facilitate the treatment of COVID positive patients. The hospital has only one operation theatre which cannot take in COVID patients without an upgrade. For this, Rs. 1 crore was sanctioned by MLA K.J. Maxi from the area development fund, but was awaiting financial sanction from the State government, the doctor said.
04 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Curbs to be eased gradually, says Collector||District Collector S. Suhas said in an online briefing that a gradual withdrawal of restrictions would begin in Chellanam, Aluva, Kadungalloor, Karumaloor and Chengamanad, with some wards being released from containment zone status. Four large clusters persist in the district – Chellanam, Aluva market, Keezhmad and West Kochi. Chellanam had been the biggest cluster in the district with a total of 259 cases, but the situation there had mostly stabilised, he said. Wards one to six in the panchayat would be released from containment zone status. The Aluva market cluster, which had recorded 95 cases, was a big challenge, he said. But with the situation easing to some extent, only divisions 11 to 15, and 24, 25 and 26 of the Aluva municipality will remain containment zones. In the Kadungalloor panchayat, only wards 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 12, 14, 15 and 18 will remain containment zones. In Karumaloor, only ward 11, and in Chengamanad, wards 7 and 18 will be containment zones. In the Keezhmad cluster, which recorded 134 cases totally, restrictions will continue. The Collector said that the situation in West Kochi remained challenging due to the density of the population. Four spreaders had been identified. Divisions 1 to 28 of the Kochi Corporation will remain containment zones with strict restrictions on movement, since all divisions either had reported positive cases or had primary contacts of positive patients. The maximum number of cases, 38, was reported from Kalvathy. While orders were issued to close the BOT bridge at Thoppumpady from Sunday midnight onwards, the bridge was open on Monday, allowing only absolutely essential movement of vehicles, the Thoppumpady police said. Transport between West Kochi and the mainland via the bridge would be allowed only in cases of medical emergencies, supply of essentials or in the case of Navy personnel, the police said. The closure of the bridge had raised some hackles in the Thoppumpady area on Monday. Kunjachan K.K., councillor representing Thoppumpady, said that division 11 (Thoppumpady) had registered no COVID cases recently and that the closure of the bridge was an unnecessary move. FLTCs Around 8,544 beds are ready at first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) in the district. With FLTCs now having to admit category B patients as well according to State guidelines, 300 beds at the Adlux convention centre would be upgraded with additional facilities to accommodate patients with more severe symptoms. At PVS Hospital, 140 beds would be available for category C patients, who might be in critical condition. Private hospitals would also take in category B and C patients, the Collector said.
04 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Death of child may not be due to swallowed coins||A post-mortem examination conducted on a three-year-old child who died at Aluvae on Sunday revealed that the death might not have been due to the coins the boy had swallowed. Sunil V.A., Circle Inspector, Binanipuram police, who took the statement of the forensic team that performed the post-mortem examination, said that the doctors had found that it might not be possible to attribute the death to the swallowing of the coins. The examination revealed that the boy had swallowed two coins and were found towards the end of his large intestine. It would be possible to ascertain the exact cause of death and prepare an autopsy report only after laboratory results of the child’s blood and viscera samples were obtained. For testing The samples were sent for testing on Monday and the child’s body was released to the family. The post-mortem examination was conducted at the Forensic Department, Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam (at Kalamassery). The child’s family alleged that despite visiting three hospitals, the child died. The District Hospital at Aluva referred them to the Ernakulam General Hospital. From there, they were referred to the Alappuzha Government Medical College Hospital where they were informed that the coin would pass through faeces.
04 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Protests banned till Aug. 31||The Kerala High Court has extended its on ban on demonstrations, processions, and agitations in the State in the wake of COVID-19 till August 31. Last month, a Division Bench of the court comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali had issued the ban order which was in force till July 30. It was on some writ petitions that the court passed the order. The petitioner had sought to declare illegal and unconstitutional all public gatherings and protests organised by political parties following the pandemic situation. The petitioners had submitted that the general public should follow the health advisories issued by the Central and State governments from time to time. In its earlier order, the High Court had instructed the State government and the police to take steps to curb processions and agitations in violation of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) guidelines. The court had then directed the State government and the police to ensure that no political parties violated the guidelines and the court order. The court had also observed that the NDMA guidelines would prevail over the regulations brought in by the State government allowing social gatherings, including get-togethers, processions, and sit-in strikes. Called off Opposition parties had called off their public protests following the court order and resorted to agitations by observing physical-distancing norms.
04 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Eviction not the solution, say Chellanam residents||As an indefinite protest action continues in Chellanam demanding the protection of the seashore, one of the protesters, V.T. Sebastian, stood on his head on Monday to demand an explanation from the authorities as to why they wanted people from the coastal areas to be relocated. Though there was a solution to the problem of sea erosion, the government was trying to evict people from coastal areas, said a press release. It said that eviction of people could not be accepted as a solution.
04 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Demand to exclude NH stretch from toll gets louder||The demand to exclude the 30-km-long Edappally-Angamaly NH stretch from the amount of toll being collected by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) at Paliyekkara in Thrissur is getting louder, with critics saying that NHAI has not invested anything substantial to develop the stretch, except for constructing an ‘unscientific’ flyover at Aluva. The demand comes even as the NHAI is receiving flak from different quarters after videos of a pair of flyovers in Thrissur getting inundated up to the level of their crash barrier in last week’s rain, went viral. The agency had to depute workers to drill holes on the structures to drain away the water since its drains got clogged, reportedly due to slack pre-monsoon maintenance. Among social activists who have been pursuing the issue is Khalid Mundapilly, who is also active on the human rights front. “The NHAI has permitted a firm to collect toll for the entire Edappally-Thrissur stretch, although only the Angamaly-Thrissur NH stretch was widened from two lane to four lane and opened for traffic in 2012. The 30-km-long Edappally-Angamaly NH was already four lane and no widening took place here. But toll is being calculated for the 70-km-long Edappally-Thrissur stretch, including for the Edappally-Angamaly stretch where a Rs. 25-crore flyover was unnecessarily built. This will result in the private firm getting approximately Rs. 2,500 crore at the end of the 18-year toll period, which is many times the amount spent for four-laning the Angamaly-Thrissur NH,” he said. “After receiving no satisfactory reply or action, despite petitioning the then Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), the vigilance wing of NHAI, Chief Vigilance Commissioner, CBI and the State government, I petitioned the LokPal of India in February 2020. Subsequently, I filed an RTI query with the Lokpal in May 2020, for which I received a reply in June saying that the anti-corruption ombudsmam has not received any such complaint,” Mr Mundapilly said. In his complaint, he alleged that the contract amount was increased to Rs. 630 crore in 2011 and the Edappally-Angamaly stretch added, in order to enable collection of toll for the 70-km stretch, instead of the freshly-widened 40 km.
04 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Sing, dance and drive away COVID blues||Schools under the General Education Department in Ernakulam have started using videoconferencing platforms to ease the anxieties and lack of companionship being experienced by students amidst the COVID-19 crisis. The efforts have gained value at a time when schools are found competing with each other by increasing the learning modules and activities online. The videoconferencing platforms have been used innovatively to showcase the literary and artistic talents of the students. Sunday is the day “We provide students a platform on Google Meet every Sunday to display their innate talents such as singing, dancing and storytelling. Such get-together online sessions have helped the students to relax and meet each other online on a regular basis,” says Manoj M., Headmaster of VDS Lower Primary School, Cheruvype. The students can choose a performance of their choice. They are given up to five minutes to present it before the rest of the students who meet on the videoconferencing platforms on Sundays. Teachers too join “As connectivity remains an issue at night hours, we hold such get-togethers during daytime. An average of 15 students get an opportunity to present their talents on a Sunday. Teachers also join the meet to encourage the students,” says Mr. Manoj. Most of the children prefer singing popular film songs. Some of them come up with dance numbers. There are also equal takers for storytelling. Officials say that confining the online learning sessions to academics alone might not help as many children continue to miss the excitement of the traditional classroom model. “Schools are now using videoconferencing sessions to organise discussions on literature and arts. They could also use the online platforms to carry out extracurricular activities,” says Usha Manatt, district project coordinator, Samagra Shiksha Kerala. Videoconferences are being held for children in lower classes in the first phase. A preliminary assessment has revealed that it will be difficult to hold such sessions for students in Plus One and Two classes in view of the unwieldy number of aspirants in each batch.
04 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Critical omissions: expert||The Director of Indian Institute of Road Safety, Upendra Narayanan, who was associated with road-safety management in the Edappally-Thrissur NH for a year, said that the NHAI is turning a blind eye to critical omissions that have a direct bearing on safety of motorists and pedestrians who use the stretch. “By now, it is clear that failure to clean drains as part of pre-monsoon preparedness led to the flyovers getting inundated in last week’s rain. This incident is hitherto unheard of in Kerala. The DMRC widened the 12-km Edappally-Aluva NH stretch from four lane to six lane in most areas and resurfaced it as per international standards. The NHAI is not at all justified in collecting toll for the said stretch and beyond up to Angamaly. The agency is also not enforcing mandatory norms like deploying multiple patrol teams on the Edappally-Thrissur stretch, to ensure safety of road users,” he said.
04 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Court order to produce gold smuggling case accused||The Principal Sessions Court, Ernakulam, has directed the investigating officers to produce the main accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, including Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair, and P.S. Sarith, before it on Wednesday. The order was issued on Monday in response to the custody application of the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The ED has initiated a money laundering probe in the gold smuggling case. It will pursue the financial trail in the case, while the National Investigation Agency has been already probing the criminal aspect of the conspiracy to smuggle gold into the country in large quantities from the UAE. The agency suspects that the proceeds might have been used to finance terror activities. Those involved in the case are suspected to have smuggled in about 250 kg of gold since July 2019. Meanwhile, the ED has appointed T.A Unnikrishnan as its counsel for the case replacing lawyer Shyjan C. George.
04 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC extends validity of interim orders||Interim orders passed by various courts and tribunals in the State will remain valid until further orders from the Kerala High Court. A Full Bench of the Kerala High Court issued the order on Monday. The court had earlier extended the validity of the interim orders twice. The State government had also approached the court highlighting its inability to produce various accused before the courts and housing them in jails considering the COVID-19 situation and lockdown.
04 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||43 prisoners infected in Kollam||The district reported 57 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 40 recoveries on Monday. It includes 56 contact cases and a Perayam resident who had travelled from Kuwait. Among the new patients are 43 inmates of Kollam District Jail and the secretary of a local body. The district currently has 9,012 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 29,802. While 499 persons completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 7,219 primary and 1,988 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. The Health Department has strengthened containment measures after 57 inmates and an assistant prison officer tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Jail office and cells were disinfected with the help of Fire and Rescue personnel. “All mandatory tests including thermal scanning of all inmates have been conducted. Instruction has been given to conduct the antigen test of 30 more prisoners,” said District Medical Officer Dr.R.Sreelatha. Among the inmates who tested positive, five with severe symptoms have been shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam. All others have been moved to the COVID-19 first-line treatment centre (CFTC) at Government ITI, Chandanathope. Reportedly, the source of the infection is an officer from Thiruvananthapuram.
04 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||27 of 35 new cases via local contact in Kottayam||As many as 35 persons, including two health-care workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday. Of these, 27 persons contracted the virus through local contact while three persons came from abroad. The remaining five cases were persons who returned from other States. Kumarakom reported the highest number of cases with seven persons, including four employees of a resort, testing positive. Changanassery reported two more cases while in Ettumanur, two nuns were diagnosed with the disease. Further, two health care workers at Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, including a woman house surgeon, tested positive. Woman’s death A 94-year-old woman who died in Kottayam two days ago was confirmed COVID-19-positive on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Rosamma Pyli, a native of Kankkari near here. The woman, who had been suffering from age-related ailments, was found dead at her residence on Saturday. Two of her family members had been confirmed positive earlier. Officials said the death was yet to be added to the official COVID-19 figures of the State government. The number of active cases in Kottayam stands at 571 while 8,997 persons remain in quarantine.
04 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Baby’s body found in lake||The Vaikom police on Monday recovered a partially decomposed body of a baby girl from Vembanad Lake. The body of the nearly one-month-old girl was found on the lake side near Kattappally in Chembu. A case of unnatural death has been registered and a probe focusing on the hospitals along the border regions of Kottayam, Alappuzha and Ernakulam is on, the police said.
04 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Implement panel proposals, demands NSS||The Nair Service Society (NSS) here on Monday lashed out at the State for denying the financial benefits guaranteed by the Kumara Pillai Commission report to a section of students. NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair said the State had unreasonably denied such benefits to students receiving higher secondary and college admissions through management or community quota from last year on. He said there was no logic in denying benefits to students since the seats were created as per an understanding between the State and the managements of institutions.
04 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||MCH continues to bear the brunt of COVID-19 fight||The Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode, a major centre of healthcare in the Malabar region, continues to bear the brunt of the fight against COVID-19, and efforts to ease its burden are reportedly going at a slow pace. According to sources, the implementation of the plan to have more COVID-19 hospitals in the district is yet to fully take shape. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao in an order dated July 25 had proposed to convert the Government General Hospital, Kozhikode, into a COVID hospital. Another building attached to the MCH and four more facilities at private hospitals too were identified. They were supposed to have between 100 and 400 beds, intensive care units with 10 to 30 beds, along with systems to provide oxygen supply. Doctors from the MCH were supposed to supervise their functioning. The hospital was asked to handle only people with severe symptoms and those with other health issues. Though the work on the new facilities was supposed to finish by July 31, it is not even halfway through, the sources said. Spiralling cases With the number of new cases going up every day, this is apparently straining the healthcare staff there, who have been putting up a brave fight against the pandemic. Over 20 healthcare workers at the hospital have already been tested positive, and around 100 have gone into quarantine too. Treatment and surgeries for non-COVID patients have been hit for the past few months. Against this backdrop, a section of doctors has now sought decentralisation of the current treatment and testing methods to help the MCH relieve some stress. One of them said on condition of anonymity that a majority of SARS-CoV-2-infected patients at the MCH now were either asymptomatic or those with mild symptoms. Some others have less severe symptoms and very few are in critical condition. The first category can be treated at home and the second can be admitted even at primary health centres, family health centres, or taluk hospitals. The staff at these facilities should be trained for the purpose. This will help the MCH staff breathe easy, he added. The Calicut chapter of the Kerala Medical Postgraduates Association too has sought similar steps. In a memorandum to the college principal, the association said lab testing for COVID-19 could be done from outside instead of the MCH. COVID suspected patients need to be isolated from those with non-COVID illnesses. There should be separate isolation facility for residents and other healthcare staff at the MCH, the memorandum added.  COVID suspected patients need to be isolated from those with non-COVID illnesses. There should be separate isolation facility for residents and other healthcare staff at the MCH Kerala Medical Postgraduates Association
04 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||33 fresh cases reported in Kozhikode||Twenty-nine of the total 33 fresh COVID-19 cases reported from Kozhikode on Monday were through local transmission. One death was reported from the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH). The deceased is a 80-year-old native of Kakkattil in the district. However, the death has not been included in the State’s tally pending reconfirmation by the National Institute of Virology, Alappuzha. According to sources, he had sought treatment for fever twice at a private clinic at Kakkattil in the last week of July. He later approached another private hospital at Thottilppalam from where he was referred to their bigger branch in the city. He was tested positive for the virus there and died on Monday morning. MCH authorities said the patient was brought dead there. Meanwhile, all the staff at the private clinic, and those who had been in contact with him at the private hospital at Thottilppalam have been asked go in quarantine. Varsity offices closed Offices on the Calicut University campus have been closed until further notice in view of the declaration of Kondotty taluk as a COVID-19 containment zone. A release said on Monday that only essential services would function. All events have been postponed. Employees can work from home.
04 August 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Malappuram, Thrissur record 85 cases each||Eighty-five persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Monday, and 73 of them were found to have been infected through local contact. As many as 38 recoveries were reported on Monday. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said 10 of the cases had returned from abroad and two from other States. The number of infected persons currently under treatment in Malappuram rose to 951 on Monday. So far, 14 people have died of the infection in the district. Five of the 73 persons infected through local contacts are above 60 years of age. As many as 32,563 people are in quarantine. In Palakkad Fifty-nine persons tested positive for the virus in Palakkad district on Monday. District Collector D. Balamurali said 18 of the new cases had returned from abroad and 16 from other States. Seventeen persons were infected through local contact. The source of infection in nine of them could not be traced. There were 67 recoveries in Palakkad on Monday. The total number of infected persons currently under treatment in Palakkad stood at 410 on Monday. In Thrissur As many as 85 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Monday. With this, the number of active cases in the district has become 517. So far, 1,676 people have tested positive. Of the cases reported in the district on Monday, 68 were through contact. The source of infection for two cases is not known. In all, 12,358 people are under observation. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 66 persons tested positive for the virus. Of them, 57 contracted the disease through contact. They also include five cases whose source of contact is yet to be identified. In Wayanad The number of COVID-19 cases continued to soar in Wayanad, as 31 persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. All the patients contracted the infection through local transmission, District Medical Officer R. Renuka said. With this, the total number of cases in the district has reached 720, of which 345 have been cured, she added. As many as 2,869 persons are in quarantine. Meanwhile, District Collector Adeela Abdulla on Monday invoked Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC) in Mananthavady taluk from 9 p.m. on Monday to August 10 in view of the rising number of cases. The District Police Chief has been directed to take criminal action against those violating the health protocol. In Kannur Thirty-seven persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur district on Monday. Of them, 19 contracted the disease through contact, while two are from abroad, 12 came from other States, and four are health workers. With this, the number of patients in the district rose to 1,439.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kasaragod, Wayanad and Kannur bureaus)
04 August 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Mangalam, Kanhirapuzha dam shutters opened as rain intensifies||Monsoon rain intensified in Palakkad district on Monday, and an orange alert was declared for Tuesday. The district got 211.4 mm rain in 24 hours till Monday morning. Heavy rain has been forecast widely across Palakkad and neighbouring districts in the next few days. Three shutters of Mangalam and Kanhirapuha dams were raised on Monday. While Thrithala got 43 mm rain, Ottapalam got 38.4 mm, Kollangode 34.8 mm, Alathur 32.2 mm, Pattambi 27.4 mm, Palakkad 25.6 mm, and Parambikulam 10 mm. The catchment areas of major dams in the district got heavy rain, raising the water level by one metre. While the Malampuzha dam recorded a water level of 106.09 metres, Chulliyar dam recorded 143.18 metres, Kanhirapuzha dam 93.02 metres, Pothundi dam 97.94 metres, Mangalam dam 76.77 metres, Walayar dam 196.65 metres, and Meenkara dam 153.04 metres.
04 August 2020||Pathanamthitta,KERALA||36 test positive in Pathanamthitta||As many as 36 persons in Pathanamthitta, including a police officer and four Excise officers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday. Among them, 29 persons contracted the virus through local contact, three persons came from abroad, and four from other States. The source of contact for at least seven persons, including the four Excise officials at Adoor station, was yet to be ascertained. The 26-year-old police officer, who tested positive on Monday, was among the contacts of the police officer at Malayalappuzha station, who tested positive earlier. Of the 1,591 COVID-19 cases reported in Pathanamthitta so far, as many as 720 contracted the virus through local contact. Meanwhile, three more wards—one each from the Eraviperoor, Pallikkal and Niranam panchayats—were on Monday declared as containment zones. At the same time, ward 11 in Vechoochira and ward 13 in Elamkulam were exempted from the containment restrictions.  Source of contact of seven patients yet to be ascertained Three wards declared containment zones
04 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Youths go missing in Manimala river||Two youths went missing in the Manimala river after they had gone for a swim in the waterbody on Sunday night. The youths, identified as Jithin, 26, and Joyal, 21, were part of a five-member team that ventured into the waterbody at a location near the railway bridge in Kuttoor. They, however, were pulled away by strong currents. Upon being alerted, the police and the Fire and Rescue Services personnel rushed to the spot and launched a search operation, though to no avail. The heavy rain and strong currents in the river during the day severely affected the progress of the search operation. The police have registered a case.
04 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Two forest officials suspended||Close on the heels of a police investigation unearthed serious lapses from the part of the officials at the Chittar forest station in the death of 41-year-old P.P. Mathai, two forest officials were on Monday placed under suspension pending further inquiry. According to officials, deputy range officer R. Rajesh Kumar and section forest officer A.K. Pradeep Kumar were placed under suspension based on a departmental inquiry by the Chief Conservator of Forests (Southern Circle). “The committee has sought more time to complete the inquiry. But in view of the prima facie possibility that precautionary measures had not been taken by the staff concerned, these officers have been suspended,” stated an order from the State government. The action came a day after the police unearthed lapses by the forest officials in connection with the case. The probe, led by a Deputy Police superintendent-ranked officer, found that while the victim was taken into custody on July 28, a case was registered against him only a day later. It also pointed to attempts to manipulate the entries in the General Diary and the mahassar. The findings, submitted to the District Police Chief K.G. Simon, also recommended invocation of criminal charges against the officers. When contacted, Mr. Simon said a decision on criminal charges would be made only later. Meanwhile, the Kerala State Commission for Minorities has registered a suo moto case on the incident based on media reports.
04 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||With 205 cases, capital still in tight spot||The capital district continued to remain in heightened alert as the COVID-19 caseload showed no signs of weakening. Among 205 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday, as many as 192 people are known to have contracted the infection through local transmission. The sources of infection were unknown in five cases. During his daily briefing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the high rate of transmission was an indicator of the highly critical situation that prevailed in the district. The clusters He added that the local spread of infection paved the way for creation of 13 large clusters in the district, viz., Poonthura, Pulluvila, Puthukurichy, Anjuthengu, Beemapally, Vizhinjam, Adimalathura, Pozhiyoor, Parassala, Perumathura, Poovar, Kulathoor (in Neyyattinkara), and Karode. Kattakada and its nearby regions appeared to show early signs of becoming yet another cluster with many people being diagnosed with the infection. Close on the heels of a trader testing positive near Kattakada a few days ago, around 43 people were subjected to antigen tests in Poovachal with 16 among them being diagnosed with COVID-19. The Kattakada and Poovachal grama panchayats reported close to 100 COVID-19 cases within a week. Besides, the president and several other office-bearers of the nearby Kallikkad grama panchayat went into quarantine with an employee testing positive. The death of a Perubazhuthoor-native, who died on July 31, was officially listed as the 15th person in the district who died due to COVID-19. The deceased, who had been hospitalised for chest pain, was cremated at Shanti Kavadam on Sunday. While no new cases were reported among police officials, the Kerala Police partially closed down its headquarters until further notice on account of some of its officers testing positive. The Chief Minister assured that the move would not affect the functioning of the police force in any manner. While the control room and wireless systems would continue to function, all other officers would work from their homes. The headquarters would resume functioning in full swing after completing a thorough disinfection of the premises. While 253 people recovered from the disease on the day, the total number of COVID-19 patients in the district stood at 3,423 cases. Meanwhile, the district administration declared new containment zones in Jagathy ward in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, Eettimoodu ward in Vamanapurm grama panchayat, Vattapparambu ward in Ottasekharamangalam grama panchayat, Pauthi ward in Mudakkal grama panchayat, Punnakkadu ward in Neyyattinkara Municipality, and Plavoor, Chandramangalam, Amachel, Chembanacode and Parachel wards in Kattakada grama panchayat.
04 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||An action-packed river package||The Karamana River Action Plan prepared by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) as per the orders of the National Green Tribunal puts forward a mix of measures for various pollution control and mitigation activities to ensure the flow and quality of water. The Corporation, which has to implement the plan, has already started on some of the activities, but finds a few proposals impractical. One of the instructions as part of the plan is to acquire 58 acres of land and rehabilitate 8,150 families from the banks of the river before March 2022. Tall order According to officials, this requirement is quite a tall order for the civic body. The other actions required to be completed before March 2021 include a slaughterhouse and poultry waste treatment facility in Pangode and Kumarichantha markets. The Corporation has already issued tender for a modern slaughterhouse at Kunnukuzhy. It has also been asked to provide facilities for treatment of sewage and garbage generated in the Poonthura area between the Karamana river and the sea. The discharge of waste water from the houses to the water near Jagathy also has to be stopped. Septic treatment facilities are to be provided for 155 houses in Kannettumukku and Kurukkuvilakom. Entry of storm water and solid waste into sewer lines also should be prevented. The plan requires the Kerala Water Authority to connect pumping lines from the terminal pumping stations at Kuriyathi, Pattoor, Kannammoola and Enchakkal directly to the Sewage Treatment Plant at Muttathara. A 50-million litres per day (mld) sewage treatment plant at Government Medical College is to be commissioned. Pump houses have to be installed in the Mudavanmughal and Enchakkal pumping stations. Outflow of sewage at the Amayizhanjan canal has to be stopped. Stormwater entry into the sewer has to be controlled. The Irrigation Department is required to take up development measures in the Parvathy Puthanar, Amayizhanjan canal, Thekkenemkara canal, and Karimadom tank.  Corporation finds the plan to acquire 58 acres adjoining the banks by rehabilitating 8,150 families a tall order
04 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Elderly care homes face high risk||Local transmission of COVID-19 in the State has been spilling over into the general community and it is care homes for the elderly and infirm which are at the highest risk of facing huge outbreaks. Serious or uncontrolled outbreaks in these institutions could result in high mortality as the elderly and those with chronic conditions are the most vulnerable to the pandemic. Now that some care homes have started experiencing the outbreak, the Department of Social Justice has issued clear instructions on how the elderly residents should be protected from outsiders and the staff who go outside. However, the State may need to devise a set of clear guidelines on infection prevention, undertake regular testing of the residents and care home staff and train the staff on infection control protocols. A care home at Kochuthura in Pulluvila in the capital had 35 residents testing positive on Friday. Testing done at two convents and a care home at Thrikkakkara in Ernakulam, following the death of a resident, had detected 95 positive cases. The Department of Social Justice said it was the violation of government directives which had led to the outbreaks. Other institutions Not just care homes, all children’s homes, orphanages and homes for the differently abled and all such institutions where people live in close proximity might be at increased risks of becoming infective zones, should one of the staff members contract infection. “Care home staff should be told about the importance of avoiding movement of the staff outside and in between sister institutions, sharing of staff or temporary employees to prevent the spread of the virus. Arrangements should be made with a local hospital so that the residents are not required to be taken outside for medical care,” a senior health official said.
04 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF seeks CM’s resignation||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Monday staged a day-long sit-in at his official residence here to press for the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Leaders of the United Democratic Front (UDF) joined the agitation, titled Speak Up Kerala, from their homes and offices across the State at 9.30 a.m. The Opposition is accusing the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) of having fronted for international gold smugglers and anti-national elements. Mr. Chennithala said the probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case had come embarrassingly close to the CMO. The NIA and the Customs had repeatedly questioned Mr. Vijayan’s former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar. A committee headed by the Chief Secretary had found that Mr. Sivasankar had recommended Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the case, for a job in the Space Park project. Charge against Jaleel Mr. Chennithala said the government was neck-deep in the case. Its Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel had received gifts from the UAE consulate mission without the sanction of the Ministry of External Affairs. Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan had “lowered the esteem of the Assembly” by attending a function hosted by an accused. Congress State chief Mullappally Ramachandran, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and others took part.
04 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police turn saviours for tribal students||The Kerala Police and a group of Student Police Cadets (SPC) have turned saviours for a bunch of tribal students in Vithura who do not have access to online learning. Ten students of the Government Vocational Higher Secondary School in Vithura stared at an uncertain future when the government decided to commence the new academic year through online classes. The children who hailed from the Kallupara tribal settlement colony remained helpless even as their schoolmates warmed up to the new mode of learning. A visit made by officials of the Vithura police station, led by sub-inspector S.L. Sudheesh, proved to be a life-changer for the 19 economically disadvantaged families of the settlement who shared their woes. The journey also gave the officers a first-hand experience of the hardships faced by the students who tread a difficult path on foot to reach their school six kilometres away. Through its E-vidyarambham scheme, the police procured educational tools including a television and tablet for the tribal students. While State Police Chief Loknath Behera directly handed over one of the items to a student at the police headquarters, the rest were transported to the settlement by police officers and SPCs. A projector, chairs, whiteboard, tablets, books, television and other tools, many of which were bought using contributions from various sources, were all taken to the colony. Taken by surprise, the residents of the settlement joined hands to construct a makeshift 300-sq.ft classroom using reeds and bamboo. The students are also being imparted lessons by their teachers and police officials. The SPCs have also expressed willingness to clear doubts over phone.  Residents of the settlement have made a makeshift classroom where lessons are imparted to students.
04 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Uralungal society gets beach roadwork||The State government is to seek the advice of Navy and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to throw a protective layer to the upcoming 240-m diaphragm wall along the damaged road running parallel to Shanghumughom beach. The new sea-facing layer is to ensure the protection of the Rs. 4.29 crore RCC diaphragm wall that will run eight metre down the road level. “We will write to the Chief Engineer, Navy, and to the Chairman, NHAI and Regional Officer, Kerala, NHAI, to get suggestions,” Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran, said after meeting with Station Commander Major Kiran Thakur. The roadwork has been awarded to Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society.
04 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Desist from stop cuts, Railways urged||Kerala has opposed the move of Railways to withdraw stops sanctioned for long-distance trains at railway stations where the number of daily reserved passengers is fewer than 50. Expressing anguish over the Railway Ministry’s move and Railway Board Chairman’s announcement in this regard, Minister for Public Works and Railways G. Sudhakaran has said 31 railway stations in the State might lose stoppages through this unilateral decision. In a letter to Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, the Minister said stoppages for long-distance trains in Kerala were comparatively more than in other States. Most of the cities and activity centres were located along a linear line extending north to south over 580 km. Heavy commuter traffic was seen on trains from cities and towns located close to main commercial cities such as Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kozhikode and Kannur. The population and developments in the State were evenly and linearly distributed, he said. He urged the Union Railway Minister to intervene and direct the railway authorities to refrain from the withdrawal of stoppages.
04 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rail ticket booking, refund||Refunds for cancelled train tickets and facility for ticket reservations for special trains are available at the Passenger Reservation System (PRS) centres in Thrissur, Aluva, Ernakulam Town, Ernakulam Junction, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Thiruvalla, Chengannur, Kayamkulam, Kollam, Thiruvananthapuram Central and Nagercoil. The PRS centres at Ernakulam Junction and Thiruvananthapuram Central operate in two shifts from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. All the other PRS centres are open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m, according to a Railways release.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||On an emergency||
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Livelihood matters||
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In seaworthy condition||
04 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Hospital under construction not a super-speciality facility’||“Is there a super-speciality hospital sanctioned for Anantapur? Does it exist somewhere?” asks Organisation for Protection of Democratic Rights (OPDR) State general secretary Ramkumar. He feels the people of Anantapur have been hoodwinked by politicians. Referring to a statement of Telugu Desam Party leader and former Anantapur Urban MLA Vaikuntam Prabhakar Chowdary, published in these columns on Monday, the OPDR leader said this project was not secured by any TDP leader, but was sanctioned during the UPA government reign in 2013. The current project is not part of the provisions under the A.P. Reorganisation Act, but an extension of the existing Government General Hospital for the strengthening of its infrastructure and no separate manpower allocation was made, he said. “It is wrong to call this a super-speciality hospital,” he observed. As per the A.P. Reorganisation Act, the Central government undertook the burden of progress and sustainable development by taking necessary measures to establish institutions of national importance as enumerated in the 13th Schedule. In the schedule under the head ‘Education’ item No. 2 “is AIIMS-type super-speciality hospital cum teaching institution in successor State of Andhra Pradesh.” ‘AIIMS shifted’ “This provision clearly establishes that there is no provision for a super-specility hospital at Anantapur. The AIIMS provided in the AP Reorganisation Act 2014 was to be established at Anantapur as announced by the then Chief Minister in the Assembly, but it later was shifted to Mangalagiri in Guntur district,” he said. “None of the Rayalaseema leaders either in the TDP or the YSRCP opposed this shifting of AIIMS to Mangalagiri despite the entire region not having any super-speciality hospital run by the government,” he said. MLA’s version Asked about this, Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy confirmed to The Hindu that the project coming up was not a super-speciality hospital. He said that though he had got one sanctioned by the Centre while he was an MP in 2013 in a tough fight with the then Visakhapatnam MP, that project could not be implemented as the State got divided and a similar one as the AIIMS was made part of the AP Reorganisation Act, but Mr. Naidu took it to Mangalagiri. Mr. Ramkumar felt that if the YSRCP MLAs and MPs brought pressure on the State government, even now AIIMS could be brought back to Anantapur to fulfil the dearth of such an institution. There was no separate sanction for specialised doctors, paramedics or other staff or emoluments and no G.O. had been issued for the super-speciality hospital, he added.
04 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Official transferred after woman complains of sexual harassment||Anantapur Joint Director of Agriculture Sk. Habib Basha has been transferred out of the district with immediate effect and an inquiry has been ordered into the allegations of sexual harassment by a woman employee of the Agriculture Department from Kalyandurg. Confirming this, Agriculture Minister Kurasal Kannababu on Monday said that action would be initiated after getting the report. The woman employee represented the matter in a written complaint to Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu on Monday. The employee, posted as a junior assistant in Kalyandug, said that Mr. Basha allegedly misbehaved with her when she used to visit the JD’s office on official work. She also said that when she sought deputation to Anantapur city due to her personal family requirements, he had allegedly demanded sexual favours in return. She added in the letter that it was when two months ago videos of his misbehaviour with other employees in his previous posting in Guntur surfaced on YouTube that she got the courage to speak up. When asked about this, Mr. Basha rejected the allegations as baseless and said that it was a ploy to get him out of the place as a staff had held a grudge against him. “I will come out unscathed,” he told The Hindu .
04 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmer dies in roof collapse in Anantapur||A 70-year-old farmer identified as Kullainaidu died at Krishtipadu village of Peddavaduguru mandal died when the roof of a small shed he had built in his banana plantation collapsed under the impact of rain, on Sunday night. Kullainaidu had gone to the plantation in the evening and he was forced to shelter in the shed due to sudden rain.
04 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sparks fly at review meet||There is no coordination among health, revenue, sanitation and other wings of district administration with regard to managing COVID-19 operations in Anantapur. This was the outcome of the review meeting of State Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas with all stakeholders in the open on Zilla Parishad Complex in the city on Monday. “Human touch is lacking in managing the patients at the Government General Hospital,” alleged Anantapur Urabn MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy, and asked the Health Minister to counsel the doctors and paramedical staff to be more humane in their approach.
04 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension at GD Nellore as salon operator tests positive||Tension prevailed at Gangadhara Nellore (GD Nellore) mandal headquarters on Monday after a 60-year-old man, who operates a hair salon at the local commercial complex, tested positive for COVID-19 and rushed to the Christian Medical College at Vellore in Tamil Nadu. Revenue, medical and police officials at the mandal swung into action and turned the commercial complex into a red zone, and started disinfecting the nearby areas. All those who had visited the salon during the last two weeks were sought to undergo test voluntarily. The COVID-19 task force officials said testing facilities would be created at the local primary health centre for the convenience of the local people. The officials said that field staff were asked to trace those who visited the salon.
04 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Official takes stock of COVID-19 situation||B. Rajasekhar, Special Officer and Principal Secretary, School Education, has said that evidence-based monitoring of all suspect cases should be done at field level. Reviewing the COVID-19 medical management with senior officers, hospital superintendents and municipal commissioners, Mr. Rajasekhar said that last minute hospitalisation of suspected patients has emerged as the leading cause of death. "In our analysis of mortality rate, we have found that last-minute hospitalisation of suspected patients is the leading cause of death. Hence, we have decided to ramp up monitoring at containment zones and non- containment zones and identify all those in the high-risk category. Apart from survey, we will also test them for preliminary evidence using oxymetre, CI scan and at every village/ward secretariat, two pulse oxymetres would be placed,’’ said Mr. Rajasekar. District Collector and Incident Commander I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said: "An ethics committee is being constituted to finalise guidelines for plasma therapy and steps will be taken to intimate death of any one to their family within 24 hours." He also said that an analysis of every death would be made and reports would be filed. Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar, Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha and special officer Babu Rao were present.
04 August 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Single-use plastic carry bags resurface in Vizag||At a time when the district administration has been focussing on controlling COVID-19 outbreak in the city, the menace of single-use plastic has made a come back. A number of shopkeepers, especially street vendors, have been using the banned single-use plastic under 50 microns of thickness in their shops. Officials from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) had banned the single-use plastic last year and strictly implemented the decision. Not just the shopkeepers, even the citizens had stopped using the single-use plastic, and started to use paper bags and other alternatives. However, officials being busy in combating COVID-19 since the last four months, several shopkeepers have started to use the banned products again. Raids being conducted Based on the information, teams of GVMC staff have been conducting raids on various commercial establishments, shops in all the zones and are imposing fines. Huge quantities of banned material are being seized. According to Assistant Medical and Officer of Health Jayaram, apart from daily inspections, special drives are also being organised by the civic body to put an end to the practice. Fines collected During the special drives, in Zone I, fine to the tune of about Rs. 40,000 was collected from various shopkeepers found violating the norms. About 60 kg stock was seized. Similarly, in Zone II, nearly Rs. 55,000 fine was imposed and another 60 kg banned plastic was seized from the shops, he said. “Most of the commercial establishments have stopped using the banned product, but most of the street vendors are still using it. We have been also counselling them,” the A.M.O.H said. Apart from strictly enforcing the rule of ‘No to single-use plastic,’ another area which the civic body has focussing is to identify and stop manufacturers from bringing out this product. According to a senior GMC official, there are no manufacturers in the district, but dealers are bringing them from other States and supplying single-use plastic bags. “When we are asking the shopkeepers, they say that they were just using old stock. However we suspect the stock is being supplied to them by some merchants from Telangana or Odisha,” said a senior official.
04 August 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies after consuming sanitiser in Kadapa||After the recent incident in Prakasam district, the urge to get a high took one more life in Kadapa district on Sunday night. Obulesu, hailing from Pendlimarri town in the district, consumed sanitiser late on Saturday by diluting it with water. He died after he was rushed to the Rajiv Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for treatment. The exorbitant cost of liquor in government-run retail outlets and the easy availability of hand sanitisers in the wake of COVID-19 spread are learnt to be the reasons for the guzzlers looking for a cheaper alternative. Though news initially made the rounds that 10 persons had consumed sanitiser and three of them died, police brushed aside the reports as ‘baseless’ and pegged the number at one. Chenna Reddy alias Bheemaiah was also believed to have consumed sanitiser and died, but police attributed his death to some other reasons. Another unidentified person died three days back due to a disease and his body was immediately buried by his relatives, but this death was also cited to be due to consuming sanitiser. “Only Obulesu died after consuming sanitiser,” DSP (Kadapa) U. Suryanarayana confirmed to The Hindu . Meanwhile, police rushed five liquor addicts to the deaddiction centre at RIMS where their condition was said to be stable.
04 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||276 police personnel infected in E. Godavari||As many as 276 police personnel have been infected with COVID-19 and three, including a sub-inspector, have succumbed to the virus across East Godavari district till Monday. Four police officials, including Kakinada DSP (Crime) V. Bhima Rao, who recovered from COVID-19, were welcomed by Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi. 167 recovered In a release, Mr. Asmi said that at least 92 among the 276 had recovered and 167 personnel were undergoing treatment in home isolation. “We are in touch with every patient, offering timely support for their speedy recovery,” he said.
04 August 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||602 new cases take Kurnool tally closer to 20,000-mark||The coronavirus count in Kurnool district is inching closer to the 20,000-mark as 602 new cases emerged on Monday. While 8,750 are getting treatment at the hospitals, 10,719 persons have got discharged so far and 210 deaths have been recorded in the district. The Kurnool District Administration has come up with the stringent implementation of the strategy of ‘early hospitalisation of the symptomatic’ and accordingly, District Collector G. Veerapandian asked the ASHA workers, volunteers, VRAs to visit door to door and identify the persons with high fever and breathlessness or other serious illnesses. The number of new positive cases in Anantapur meanwhile, was 953 on Monday and cumulative tally went up to 17,476 and of them 7,879 are getting treated while 9,473 got discharged. There were 124 deaths so far in the district. The Collector said as per the COVID Instant Order-73 of the State government, patients need to be sent to nearby triaging centre by arranging one vehicle before 12 noon everyday. The village secretariat and ward secretariat staff must ensure that all health staff identify symptomatic persons and send them to triaging centre, he said.
04 August 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Treat asymptomatic cases at home’||Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy on Monday asked health officials to arrange for providing medical treatment to all asymptomatic patients at home. The Minister, who held a video conference to review the progress of ongoing welfare and development schemes at Marripudi in his home constituency of Atamakur, said that the officials should expect to see a spike in cases this month. He wanted the officials to improve the facilities in the COVID-19 Care Centres and ensure that there were no complaints. Mr. Goutham Reddy, in this context, directed the officials to see to it that tobacco farmers at D.C.Palli were not affected or the movement of their produce to the auction centres was not halted owing to the containment action plan. Looking into the progress of works taken up under the Nadu Nedu programme in government schools, he directed the officials to ensure completion of work on toilets, power supply, compound walls and get done with all repairs by month-end. Noting that only 216 tenant farmers had been provided with Crop Cultivator Rights Cards(CCRCs) so far, he said all eligible tenant farmers should be provided with the cards well before the beginning of rabi, the main cropping season in the district. Not a single eligible person should be left without a house, he asserted, adding that 20 to 25% of the sites should be kept aside for future use in the areas selected for the purpose in Marripudi mandal. He opined that the Village Secretariat, Rythu Bharosa Kendra and public health centre should be located in one place for the convenience of people.
04 August 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Despite high recovery rate, plasma donation yet to pick up||The death toll due to coronavirus in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh rose to 134 with 15 more patients-- eight in Prakasam(total 77) and seven in Nellore district(total 57)--succumbing to the pandemic in the last 24 hours. The number of confirmed cases rose to 15,425--9,342 in Nellore district and 6,083 in Prakasam-- as 316 and 384 fresh cases were reported in the two districts respectively. Meanwhile, Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu exhorted the recovered persons to come forward to donate plasma to save the lives of critical patients. Though the recovery rate was high, plasma donation had not picked up yet to the desired level, the Collector said. As many as 305 patients were discharged from the hospitals in Nellore district. With this, the number of active cases came down to 5,638. Collector allays fears People need not fear as a majority of the patients recover and return home safely, he said after congratulating a private doctor, A.K. Chakravarti, who donated plasma at the Indian Red Cross Society unit here. Incentive for donators “All that we have to do is to take the advised precautionary steps like wearing a mask and frequently washing hands with hand sanitiser. The State government is providing an incentive of Rs. 5,000 to those who volunteered to donate plasma,” he said. While the critical cases were being treated at the designated hospitals, patients aged below 40 were treated in COVID Care Centres. Asymptomatic cases opting for home isolation were allowed to take treatment at home.
04 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco growers urge board to defer call on production||Ahead of a Tobacco Board meeting on August 5 (Wednesday) to finalise the crop size for the 2020-21 cropping season, farmers in the traditional tobacco-growing areas in Prakasam district on Monday urged the Tobacco Board to defer a decision on crop production until a full assessment is made of the damage inflicted on the sector by the COVID-19 pandemic. Lockdown-hit farmers from Ongole, Vellampalli and Kondepi auction platforms, who took stock of the market conditions here, feared that the demand for flue-cured tobacco might come down significantly during the next cropping season. The Tobacco Board should defer a decision on crop production at least by three weeks to study international demand, former Tobacco Board member Ch. Ranga Rao told reporters. “There is no need for haste in fixing the crop size two months in advance,” they said. The farmers opined that the Tobacco Board could opt for a crop holiday during the coming rabi season in a worst-case scenario. However, if things fall in place, the crop size should not be more than 100 million kg so as not to burden Markfed which had entered the market at the the bidding of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, as those who had given an indent at the time of fixation of crop size did not turn up at the auction centres in strength during marketing, said another former Tobacco Board member M. Bangara Babu. Cultivation of the labour-intensive crop in Karnataka had been severely affected and some of their counterparts in the neighbouring State could not take up curing operations in time due to acute labour shortage, explained Vellampalli Tobacco Farmers Association president A. Seshagiri Rao. The farmers were badly affected because of the lockdown as they were unable to market the crop produced in 100 days even after 200 days, said Kondepi Tobacco Farmers Association president R. Venkateswara Rao. Poor farmers had lost over Rs. 4,000 per quintal for bright grade in the early phase of auctions due to lack of competition then. With exporters entering late, the price went over Rs. 180 per kg, said Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangam Prakasam district president P. Hanumantha Rao. They thanked Chief Minister and TTD Board Chairman and former Ongole MP Y.V. Subba Reddy for coming to their rescue. Only after market intervention by Markfed, were farmers able to liquidate low grade varieties hitherto rejected by traders, they said.
04 August 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prisoner escapes from COVID ward||A 40-year-old remand prisoner reportedly escaped from the COVID care ward of GSL Hospital in the early hours of Sunday, but the incident came to light only on Monday. The prisoner, who was lodged at the central prison, tested positive on July 30 and was admitted in the hospital the same day. RCP superintendent S. Raja Rao told The Hindu that the man escaped by breaking the windowpane. Before fleeing he stole the mobile phone of a fellow patient. The guard assigned to keep an eye on the prisoner had to wait outside the hospital ward as per COVID protocol. He belongs to Nidadavolu in West Godavari district and was sent to the central prison in February in a domestic violence case. “We have alerted the West Godavari police,” Mr. Raja Rao said. In-charge District Medical and Health Officer B. Subramanyeswari said that the support of the Rajanagaram police had been sought to trace the prisoner.
04 August 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||A fatal attraction for tipplers||Are there any restrictions on selling hand sanitiser in the market? The answer is no as hand cleaners (sanitiser), floor and glass cleaners and some gels are available at very less price. They are much in demand due to the panic triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic. Nowadays, sanitisers of different brands are sold on the pavement, at supermarkets, medical shops, provision stores, fancy shops, pan shops and other establishments. The prices range from Rs. 30 to Rs. 500 and they come in flavours such as lime and neem. With doctors asking people to sanitise their hands and their houses and belongings frequently to prevent the spread of the virus, sanitisers, toilet and floor cleaners, detergents and soaps are flying off the shelves. ‘Curbs need of the hour’ With wine shops closed during the lockdown and sanitisers available at less prices, many alcoholics are consuming sanitiser. More than 15 persons have died in different incidents across the State in the last four months after consuming them. “Only the Kurichedu and Pendlimarri incidents in Prakasam and Kadapa districts hogged the headlines, but similar incidents occurred in West Godavari and other districts in the State,” a police officer said. “Due to restrictions on sale of liquor many addicts have started consuming sanitiser,” said P. Venkanna of Gannavaram in Krishna district. An officer of the Medical and Health department felt that the government should impose some restrictions on sale of sanitiser and they should be sold in registered drug stores only. “As there are no restrictions on sale of sanitiser, I have been selling them on the pavement for the last two months. I have a range of products,” said a vendor preferring anonymity. “Some traders are taking undue advantage of the situation. There should be some restrictions on sale of sanitiser to prevent recurrence of tragedies,” said a medico G. Sai Bhargavi.
04 August 2020||SIRIVADA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Family sells infant twice, but changes mind||A tribal family allegedly sold a female infant for Rs. 10,000 to an ayah in a private hospital. However, they took the baby back after two days. The parents, natives of Sirivada village, Bapulapadu mandal in Krishna district, reportedly sold the baby again to a couple through a mediator. Unable to bear the separation they approached the police and brought the baby back. On knowing about the infant sale incident, district Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Assistant Project Director (APD) M. Prameela Rani, Gannavaram Child Development Project Officer (CDPO) P. Venkata Lakshmi, and District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) Ch. Vijay Kumar visited Sirivada village on Monday and enquired about the sale of the infant. The team questioned the baby’s mother, Jarapala Rupa, father Ravi and grandmother J. Chittemma, on why they sold the baby twice. The DCPO questioned the couple on the reason for selling the infant.  Surviving on meagre income According to an anganwadi worker, A. Ravathi Kumari, and a social worker, V. Sarada, the couple had two daughters and Rupa gave birth to a female baby on July 18 in a private hospital, located at Hanuman Junction in the district. “We eke out livelihood by doing labour work. Unable to bring up the third girl child, my husband and aunt thought of giving the baby to somebody and sold the baby to an ayah (working in the private hospital) for Rs. 10,000,” Ms. Rupa of Sugali (Lambada) community said. “The couple repented and asked Durga to give the baby back. She handed over the baby on July 20. Again Chittemma’s brother, Ajmeera Srinu, gave the baby to a couple on July 23. When asked about the details of the couple, he did not answer and switched off his mobile phone. Suspecting foul play, Ravi approached anganwadi supervisor K. Krishna Kumari, who alerted the Veeravalli police,” said Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS) Protection Officer Y. Johnson. No case registered Speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Prameela Rani said the CDPO and ICPS staff would question Durga and mediator Srinu in the racket. The police, who counselled the parents, did not register any case, she said. Mr. Vijay Kumar said the WD&CW Department would take the baby for relinquishment, if they do not want the infant. The anganwadi staff were asked to track the case to prevent sale of the baby again, he said. “We suspect the role of the ayah and the mediator, who took the baby. An empty bond paper and the hospital prescription and other documents have been seized from the biological parents,” said Ms. Venkata Lakshmi.
04 August 2020||Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM launches ‘E-Rakshabandhan’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy launched ‘E-Rakshabandhan’, aimed at creating awareness among the public on cybercrime across the State, through a video link on Monday. The Andhra Pradesh Police, Crime Investigation Department (CID), FM Radio, Cyber Crime Prevention Against Women and Children (CCPWC), Cyber Peace Foundation and other organisations are organising the month-long online awareness drive. Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharitha, A.P. Women's Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma, Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang, Additional DG (CID) P.V. Sunil Kumar and other officials attended the programme. As many as one lakh women, girls and the general public would be trained through ‘E-Rakshabandhan’ up to August 31. Webinars, workshops, debates, essay-writing, quiz and slogan writing competitions will be conducted every day on different topics from 11 a.m. to 12 noon, according to the DGP. Speaking on the occasion, the Chief Minister listed the steps being taken by the government to prevent crime against women. He said the Disha Police Stations were doing a good job and investigation of 167 cases relating to crime against women were completed and chargesheets have been filed in courts. He asked the victims to complain through Disha App and in Disha Police Stations on harassment and cybercrimes.  Live streaming Live streaming of the programmes would be available every day at 11 a.m. on Youtube, said Mr. Sunil Kumar.
04 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu, Pawan have lost trust of people’||APIIC chairman and Nagari MLA R.K. Roja on Monday lambasted TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu and Jana Sena president Pawan Kalyan for opposing the three-capital concept. “While Mr. Naidu is hell-bent on safeguarding his benami properties in Amavarati, Pawan Kalyan seems to have developed a hostility towards Visakhapatnam after his agonising defeat in Gajuwaka,” Ms. Roja alleged, adding that they have lost the trust of the people. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has been working hard for the empowerment of women in the State, and has introduced several measures for their protection. The launch of ‘e- Rakshabandhan’ is another initiative aimed at creating awareness on the cyber crimes across the State. He has not only provided 50% reservation to women in all nominated posts but has also given them ministries like Deputy Chief Minister and Home,” she said.
04 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Decentralisation move has full public support’||Legislator and TTD board adviser Bhumana Karunakar Reddy claimed that the government’s decision to decentralise administration by establishing three capitals has the full support of the public. Participating in a torchlight demonstration here on Monday to hail the decision, he said the decision was welcomed by all residents of the State barring a few political sections which he said were neither able to accept the reality nor digest the rising popularity of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “The backward regions of Rayalaseema and North Andhra will soon witness development in the real sense. Not only Kurnool and Kadapa, but districts of Srikakulam and Vizianagaram will witness the fastest growth in the coming days,” he said. Many YSRCP leaders took part in the demonstration aimed at mobilising support for the decision.
04 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen zone set up at COVID hospital||The ‘oxygen zone’ established at Sri Padmavathi Nilayam District COVID Hospital is all set to provide the much-needed breather to hospitals and quarantine centres, besides ensuring uninterrupted supply of oxygen to hospitals in and around Tirupati. Funded by Tirupati Urban Development Authority (TUDA), the facility is set up to help patients with breathing issues by ensuring immediate supply of oxygen. “There are positive persons who are not affected by other disorders but succumb due to lack of oxygen,” sai TUDA chairman Ch. Bhaskar Reddy. Appealing to the patients to stay confident and face the battle with courage, Dr. Reddy said the number of beds with oxygen support facility would be steadily enhanced in tune with the rising requirement. TUDA Vice-Chairman S. Harikrishna, Secretary S. Lakshmi, SETVEN Chief Executive Officer Muralikrishna Reddy, Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Covid coordination team comprising doctors D. Sreehari Rao, P. Krishna Prasanthi and Ravi Raju took part.
04 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily count comes down to 7,822, but death toll stays high||Sixty-three deaths and 7,822 new positive cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in the State to 1,66,586 and the overall death toll to 1,537. Andhra Pradesh has the third highest case load in the country, and accounts for nearly 9% of the country’s tally. The State’s death toll is at eighth position nationwide, officials said. On the bright side, the number of daily recoveries is rising with each day. In the past week, nearly 40,000 patients have been discharged, and 5,786 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours alone. The total number of recoveries now stands at 88,672 which puts the recovery rate at 53.23%. There are 76,377 persons currently undergoing treatment. Deaths and new cases East Godavari reported 1,113 new cases — the highest daily count among the districts — while West Godavari reported 11 deaths, the highest death toll among the districts. The single-day tallies of the districts are as follows: East Godavari (1,113 cases, 2 deaths), Visakhapatnam (1049 cases, 9 deaths), Anantapur (953 cases, 2 deaths), Vizianagaram (677 cases, 4 deaths), Kurnool (602 cases, 3 deaths), Kadapa (576 cases, 2 deaths), Guntur (573 cases, 2 deaths), Nellore (500 cases, 7 deaths), Srikakulam (495 cases, 7 deaths), West Godavari (440 cases, 11 deaths), Prakasam (354 cases, 8 deaths), Chittoor (240 cases, 3 deaths) and Krishna (240 cases, 3 deaths). The district-wise case-loads are as follows: East Godavari (23,314), Kurnool (19,679), Anantapur (17,476), Guntur (16,881), Visakhapatnam (14,196), West Godavari (13,794), Chittoor (12,348), Kadapa (9,395), Nellore (8,823), Srikakulam (8,012), Krishna (7,819), Prakasam (6,317) and Vizianagaram (5,637). So far, 21.10 lakh samples have been tested overall in the State, with 45,516 samples being tested in the last 24 hours. The tests per million ratio has gone up to 39,530 while the positivity rate of the tests increased to 7.89%. The mortality rate of COVID is at 0.92%.
04 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Finance Dept. staff rue long promotion wait||It is a long wait for the employees working in the Finance Department at Secretariat. They would have completed two years of service as deputy secretary had the promotion rules were implemented properly. The 'higher-ups have reportedly thrown the orders to winds' causing 'great injustice' to the eligible employees. According to information, three out of four deputy secretary posts are lying vacant in the Finance Department. The government has to fill up three deputy secretary and two additional secretary posts. The government has been following the rules regarding promotions in all other departments except the Finance Department. As many as 15 employees would get promotions if the problem was solved, sources say. The Chief Minister has directed the officials concerned to decide seniority by allotting the roster points as per the laid down procedures. But, there is an Inordinate delay. The employees, who got promotions as assistant secretary and section officers are waiting for the orders to be implemented. The higher-ups, who worked in the Finance Department, have set aside the seniors to give promotion to a junior employee, who was on the verge of retirement. It is the root cause of the problem, says an employee, who did not want to be quoted. The eligible employees brought the issue to the notice of N. Chandrababu Naidu when he was the Chief Minister. His instructions too were ‘conveniently ignored’. Since then, they have been running from pillar to post with a hope that their plea would be addressed. They met Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy soon after he assumed the office to pour out their woes. Mr. Jagan sought the clarifications and suggestions through ‘e File No 914711’ from the General Admission Department (GAD) and Chief Secretary. Jagan’s directive Subsequently, the CM directed Principal Secretary (Finance) on August 16, 2019 to prepare the seniority list. Government Advisor Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy and the Chief Secretary also issued ‘lucid instructions’ as there is a delay in the implementation of the CM’s orders.
04 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramesh Kumar takes over as State Election Commissioner||N. Ramesh Kumar took charge as State Election Commissioner (SEC) at his office here on Monday upon his reappointment by the Governor recently. In a brief chat with reporters, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said he communicated his assuming charge to the Commission Secretary G. Vani Mohan, district Collectors and other officials concerned. He observed that the Commission was an autonomous body which has its powers conferred by the Constitution, and one that functions impartially. He expressed hope that the government would extend cooperation for the smooth discharge of the Commission’s duties. It may be noted that the government had issued a G.O. last week for Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s appointment as the SEC following an intense battle that started with him challenging the A.P. Panchayat Raj (Second Amendment) Ordinance. The ordinance was for reducing the tenure of SEC from five to three years, which resulted in the sudden termination of his services in the wake of Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s decision to postpone the local body elections. The deferment of elections was strongly objected to by the government, with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy himself making serious allegations against Mr. Ramesh Kumar.
04 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||32 e-vehicles donated by T.N. firm flagged off in Vijayawada||Ministers Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy and Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao flagged off a fleet of 32 battery-powered electric vehicles that were donated to the State by Tamil Nadu-based VSL Industries here on Monday. The vehicles are worth Rs. 1 crore. Twelve vehicles each would be handed over to the departments of Panchayat Raj and Municipal Administration and Urban Development and four each would be handed over to the Medical, Health and Family Welfare and Civil Supplies departments. According to the officials, at present 15 vehicles would be used for garbage collection from households and four would be used for spraying disinfectants for containing the COVID-19 pandemic. Four other vehicles would be used as mobile sample collection vehicles for COVID-19 tests while four vehicles will be used to distribute food to the houses in red zones. The vehicles were designed as per the requirements. Ministers felicitated VSL Industries chairman Harikrishna for coming forward to help the State in the fight against COVID.  Speaking on the occasion Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said that the vehicles would be useful in the containment of pollution as they are battery operated. Principal Secretary (Panchayat Raj and Rural Development) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi, Municipal Administration Department Commissioner G. Vijaya Kumar, and VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh were among those present.
04 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leaders all praise for police dept.||BJP State in-charge Sunil Deodhar, State president Somu Veerraju and MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao met Commissioner of Police B. Sreenivasulu at the Suryaraopet police station here on Monday to express their appreciation for the role being played by the police department in the fight against COVID-19. “After doctors, it is the police who are playing a frontline role in the fight against COVID-19,” the leaders said. Mr. Veerraju tied rakhis to the police at the station as a gesture of appreciation for their efforts.
04 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||110 tonnes PDS rice seized||The Krishna district police conducted a raid and seized 110 tonnes of rice meant for Public Distribution System (PDS) near Kanchikacherla village on Monday. Tip-off On a tip-off, the special team led by SI Murali Krishna intercepted a truck proceeding to Gandepalli village from Nandigama and seized the rice stocks. The seized rice bags were handed over to Kanchikacherla police for further action. The PDS rice was being transported to a private rice mill in Gandepalli village, said Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu.
04 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||KRMB asks Telangana to stop water releases||The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) has asked Telangana State to stop water releases through the Left Power House at Srisailam project. In a letter to Telangana Engineer in Chief (Irrigation) dated Monday, the KRMB Member Secretary Harikesh Meena said that the cumulative inflows at Srisailam were 54.98 tmc from July 21 to 30. TS Genco has drawn 32.27 tmc. It is detrimental to drinking water requirements of Rayalaseema and Nellore, and fluoride-affected areas of Prakasam and Guntur districts, he said. The Member Secretary said instructions may be issued to concerned officials to stop the water releases through the Left Power House. He also wanted Telangana State to inform KRMB on action taken.
04 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With three more deaths, toll crosses the 100-mark in Vizag||The death count in the district due to COVID-19 crossed the 100, here on Monday. The district recorded three deaths, taking the total to 101. The death toll increased rapidly in July, as over 95 deaths were recorded, mostly from VIMS (Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences), and those who had co-morbid conditions. The district recorded 1,049 new cases on Monday, taking the total to 14,608 cases, so far. With the new cases, the total number of active cases in the district now stands at 9,098. On the brighter side, the number of discharges on Monday were 878, taking the total number of discharges to 5,409. According to District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, 25 new clusters were added on Monday. As on date, the number of very active clusters stands at 320, active clusters 111, dormant 416 and denotified 39. Visiting VIMS, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Monday said that the State government was prepared to spend Rs. 1,000 crore for control of COVID-19. “We are recruiting staff on a large scale to meet the shortage. We have also ordered deputation of some more doctors from the KGH to VIMS. A COVID-19 bulletin will be released to the media at 5 p.m. everyday,” he said. The Minister, also directed the officials at VIMS to ensure proper sanitisation of the wards and maintenance of proper hygiene and safe disposal of bodies. He said that the relatives of some patients were not coming forward to claim the bodies due to fear of the pandemic. Meanwhile, Information Commissioner T. Vijay Kumar Reddy in a video conference with the officials of the Information and Public Relations (I & PR) Departments of all districts, directed the officials concerned to give proper publicity on the preventive measures and the steps being taken by the government to control the virus. He directed them to get screening tests done for journalists, who have symptoms, and shift them to quarantine, isolation hospitals or home quarantine, based on the need. Deputy Director V. Maniram, PRO Venkata Raju Goud, DYE Indravathi, Divisional PRO Saibaba and PRO Raju were among those who attended from the district.
04 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister: panel will look into ‘lapses’ at VIMS||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that a committee will be appointed to inquire into the allegations of lapse at the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS). The Minister visited VIMS on Monday and went round the hospital and later held a meeting with the doctors, officials and staff at the hospital. He said that proper information about the patients were not being given to their relatives, which was leading to apprehensions among the latter. He said that an inquiry would be conducted in this regard under the auspices of the District Collector. He advised the doctors and officials to take the phone numbers of the relatives, so that they could be informed, in times of need. He said that the phone numbers of patients were being registered at the hospital and in the uneventful case of death of the patient, the staff were calling on that number. This was preventing the message from reaching the relatives. Orders were issued to take the numbers of relatives apart from that of the patient to prevent such a situation in future.  ‘Severe staff shortage’ A total of 180 patients died at VIMS, so far, and another 595 were undergoing treatment. There were only 80 doctors as against the requirement of 300 doctors, and the number nurses was only 120 against the requirement of 300. Similarly, there was a shortage of staff at various levels. The existing staff were working for a week at the hospital followed by home quarantine for a week. Some of them were infected by COVID-19. He underlined the need for the public to observe restraint to prevent the morale of doctors and frontline workers from going down. Earlier, some patients questioned the Minister on the lapses at the hospital. A woman tried to stop him at the hospital, seeking a reply, according to sources.
04 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourism activities to resume tomorrow||Tourism operations in Visakhapatnam district, which were earlier planned to be resumed from August 1, have now been postponed by five days to August 5 in the wake of a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases. Officials of the Tourism Department in the district have now been asked to be ready to resume operations from August 5, it is learnt. A few weeks ago, after holding a review meet with officials, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao had instructed officials to resume tourism activities in the State from August 1. However, with more than 20,000 COVID-19 cases being reported in the last two days, officials have decided to push back the reopening by a few more days. The Minister conducted a meet with officials of the Tourism Department on Friday, where a decision was taken to allow tourists from next week. The Minister said that boating operations will also resume under the strict monitoring of Boating Control Rooms, in adherence to a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the State Government. “We were asked to be ready to resume all tourism operations from August 5. In the meantime, we have also been instructed to carry out pending works,” said a senior official from the district.  Grinding halt Tourism operations had come to a grinding halt since early March after the COVID-19 pandemic broke out. Shortly thereafter, a nationwide lockdown was imposed, thus bringing the entire industry to a standstill. The tourism department in the district has suffered losses of up to Rs. 15 crore due to the pandemic. “We have finished all activities related to COVID-19 protocols at tourism spots. A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) given by the government is already being implemented at hotels and restaurants. APTDC will also strictly implement COVID-19 norms at the tourist spots also,” said Divisional Manager, APTDC, Visakhapatnam, T.G Prasada Reddy. He said that APTDC hotels and restaurants have been opened to the public following instructions from the Central government from June 8.
04 August 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Botcha ridicules Naidu’s demand for fresh elections||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana on Monday ridiculed Telugu Desam Party chief and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu’s demand that elections be held to gauge public support for the government’s three-capitals decision. “Mr. Naidu seems to have lost his mental balance. Elections were held only 16 months ago. Voters of Mangalagiri and Thadikonda constituencies, which fall in the capital region, have given their verdict on the ‘capital design’ of Mr. Naidu,” Mr. Satyanarayana said. The Minister wondered whether Mr. Naidu was aware that the voters of the capital region had voted against the “irregularities committed in the name of Amaravati capital and land pooling”. His son had also had to suffer a crushing defeat in the election, he said, challenging Mr. Naidu to ask MLAs, MLCs and MPs of the TDP to resign and seek a fresh electoral verdict if he indeed wanted elections again. Mr. Satyanarayana said he dared Mr. Naidu to accept his challenge and give a reply within 48 hours if he had faith in himself. ‘Credibility lost’ He said that Mr. Naidu had lost his credibility by opposing decentralisation and his moral right to step into Visakhapatnam and north Andhra. He alleged that by opposing the ‘judicial capital’ in Rayalaseema, Mr. Naidu had not only backstabbed his own father-in-law N.T. Rama Rao but also his native place. The Minister further said that the TDP president, who was opposing the move to establish three capitals in the State, should also remember that one of the three capitals was Amaravati.
04 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HSL tragedy: CITU seeks inquiry by SC judge||The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) has demanded an inquiry by a sitting Judge of the Supreme Court into the collapse of the heavy duty crane at the Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL), leading to the death of 10 workers on the spot, even as the trial run was on. Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has ordered a departmental inquiry. Describing the accident as unusual, CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao told the media here on Monday that the departmental probe would serve no purpose. In 2013, Anupam Industries of Mumbai, left the job halfway through the project, after taking 90% of the bill. The crane, which was kept idle for eight years and now it was taken up for erection, without undertaking any safety measures. This was for the first time in the 79-year-history of the shipyard, that a crane had collapsed. He demanded arrest of the HSL management and also the management of Greenfields Corporation under Section 304 B of IPC. The CITU leader attributed the increase in industrial accidents in and around Visakhapatnam to the non-insistence on conduct of safety audits and the State government allowing self-certification letters from the managements in place of safety audits. Huge amounts of ex gratia after an accident would not bring back lost lives and regular safety audits must be conducted in all the industries every year, he said. Referring to the announcement of Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao announcing an ex gratia of Rs. 15 lakh on behalf of the government and Rs. 35 lakh from HSL, the CITU leader said that it was far from adequate. The families of the workers, who died in the accident, should be paid Rs. 1 crore each, as was paid to the dependent of those who died in the LG Polymers tragedy. The compensation must be paid by Greenfields Corporation, he said.
04 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held on charge of misbehaving with women||Personnel from the Disha police station on Monday arrested a person who has been allegedly misbehaving with women walking alone in isolated areas of the city. The arrested has been identified as D. Ram Babu, working as an accountant in a shipping company. Addressing a press conference hereon Monday, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Disha Police Station, Prem Kajal, said that on July 31, the city police received a complaint from a woman who claimed that a person came on a bike covering his face with helmet and touched her inappropriately while she was walking alone near Novotel Hotel Junction. The case was transferred to Disha Police Station. The police also checked CCTV footage based on the complaint and traced the bike registration number As part of the investigation, four police teams were formed for surveillance on Beach Road, RTC Complex, Railway Station, Jagadamba Junction and a few other areas. On Monday, acting on a tip-off, the police teams trapped the accused with the support of a victim as well as her friends near Novotel Hotel Junction. Explaining the modus operandi, the ACP said that the accused targets women walking alone on the road and touches them inappropriately. In further investigation, the accused allegedly confessed to have committed such acts near RTC Complex area also and derives a pleasure by seeing the reaction of the victims. Ms. Prem Kajal also appealed to women to install Disha app or contact police in case of any emergency. Cases have been booked under IPC Sections 354 and 354 (A) and other relevant sections.
04 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga classes from August 6||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness, Andhra University, will be conducting offline classes from August 6. The classes for general yoga, therapy yoga and for weight reduction will be held from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. Yoga for women will be from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. Interested can contact: 0891 2566640
04 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online meet at AU law college today||Dr. B.R. Ambedkar College of Law, Andhra University, has completed 75 years of its establishment and on the occasion Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu will address an online meeting on Tuesday. The meeting will start by 10 a.m. and the participants are requested to log in by 9.30 a.m. through the link:https://youtu.be/ ijqr12L6hpg For any technical assistance one may contact: Mr. Surendra 8886888785 or Mr. Vamsi - 9440194603 or Mr. Chaitanya – 8099715161. This was disclosed at a press meet organised here on Monday. According to S. Sumitra, Principal, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar College of Law, Andhra University, the Vice-President was an alumnus of the college.
04 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||West Bengal lockdown: some trains cancelled||Some trains will be cancelled and some will be partially cancelled due to complete lockdown in West Bengal on August 5, 8, 16, 17, 23, 24 and 31. The train services to be affected are: Train No. 02245 Howrah-Yesvantpur Duronto Special, leaving Howrah on August 5, 8, 16 and 23 will remain cancelled. Train No. 02246 Yesvantpur-Howrah Duronto Special, leaving Yesvantpur on August 7, 10, 16, 18, 23, 25 and 30 will remain cancelled. The partially cancelled trains are: 02704 Secunderabad-Howrah Falaknuma Special Express, leaving from Secunderabad on August 4, 7, 15, 16, 22, 23 and 30 will be terminated at Bhubaneswar and will not go up to Howrah. Train No. 02703 Howrah-Secunerabad Falaknuma Special Express, will start from Bhubaneswar instead of Howrah on August 5, 8, 16, 17, 23, 24 and 31 and will be cancelled from Howrah to Bhubaneswar on the same day.
04 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid||Scholars and students of Department of Psychology and Parapsychology, Andhra University, organised an online remembrance meet on Sunday to meet tributes to K. Madhu, a former professor from the department. Prof. Madhu had died on July 26.
04 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retired doctor offers his services to administration||B. Govindarajulu, a radiologist and retired doctor, met District Collector V. Vinay Chand on Monday and offered his services in view of the increasing COVID-19 cases. Dr. Govindarajulu, who is coordinator of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), came forward to serve as a coordinator for the district administration. He hoped that some more retired doctors would join him in serving the patients and assist the district administration in meeting the shortage of doctors. K. Phani Kumar, IMA district secretary and P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College, were present.
04 August 2020||VIZIAINAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shifting of COVID patients in garbage vehicle triggers outrage||Activists of the Jana Sena Party staged a protest at the Collector’s office here on Monday demanding a probe into the shifting of three COVID-19 patients to hospital in a garbage vehicle on Sunday. JSP leader Tyada Rama Krishna Rao said that Nellimarla Municipal Commissioner J.R. Appala Naidu should be suspended for the incident at Jarajapupeta village. “The district administration is least bothered about human rights which is evident from the Jarajapupeta incident,” he said. TDP leaders have also taken up the issue as party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu responded to the incident seriously. Former MLC Dwarapureddy Jagadish, former MLA Meesala Geeta and others condemned the incident. Lok Satta Party State executive president Bhisetti Babji said such incidents would further reduce the confidence levels of patients. Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal reportedly directed the officials concerned to submit a report on the incident.
04 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MIMS founder Alluri dead||Alluri Trust chairman and founder of the Maharaja Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) at Nellimarla in the district Alluri Murthy Raju, 89, died of heart attack in a private hospital on Monday. He was treated for COVID-19 and while being discharged from the hospital, he collapsed and died.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Perfect setting||
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plying their trade||
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bonding with nature||
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Novel protest||
04 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Fall in demand for coal sees SCCL output dip by half||As the demand for coal drastically declined due to the coronavirus crisis, the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL)’s coal dispatches fell by little over 50% in the past four months in the current financial year (2020-2021). The SCCL recorded considerably low coal dispatches to the tune of 113.75 lakh tonnes during this period ending July 31 in the present fiscal, over 219.59 lakh tonnes of coal dispatches registered in the corresponding period last year, SCCL sources said. The SCCL’s coal dispatches were hit due to shutdown of several of its coal consuming units, including cement factories and scaled down power generation in various coal-based power plants in south India due to coronavirus crisis. The slump in demand for electricity due to the suspension of train services and closure of shopping malls, cinema theatres and other business establishments has led to sharp fall in demand for coal, sources added. The coal output also took a beating by over 45% in the SCCL’s Kothagudem coal mining area predominantly due to the coronavirus crisis and to some extent owing to the 72-hour strike by various Central trade unions against the Centre’s move to auction coal blocks for commercial mining last month. The Kothagudem Area comprising two each underground coal mines and OCPs achieved 22.5 lakh tonnes coal production as against the set target of 46 lakh tonnes in the past four months, sources added. The coronavirus scare continues to cast its shadow on the attendance of the workforce in the underground coal mines in the Kothagudem region, which recorded a couple of COVID-19 cases in recent weeks. However, the SCCL officials are hopeful that the production will be back on track once the coal consuming units restore their full operations in the next couple of weeks.
04 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hospitals asked to follow uniform treatment protocol||Uniform treatment protocol for COVID-19 has to be followed in all hospitals across Telangana, said Health Minister Eatala Rajender who held a video conference with infectious diseases specialists and superintendents of hospitals, on Monday. Apart from superintendents, doctors who have been attending COVID-19 patients also took part in the meeting where views related to treatment, medicines and other crucial aspects were discussed. Mr Rajender directed officials not to turn away patients, and to shift them to tertiary care hospitals after their health condition is stabilised. Infectious Diseases specialists Vijay V. Yeldandi, M.V. Rao, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and COVID Expert Committee member B. Karunakar Reddy were among those who attended the meeting. Gandhi review Meanwhile, Mr Rajender held a review meeting at Gandhi Hospital on Monday. He has issued orders to appoint volunteers to inform condition of patients undergoing treatment to their family members, twice a day.  The Minister also interacted with the heads of departments to find out about issues at the hospital. Healthcare professionals there have been requesting to appoint more patient care providers, doctors and nurses to be able to attend critically-ill patients undergoing treatment in ICUs. Besides, they have complained that some of their colleagues are getting away by doing less work and refraining from attending COVID patients in wards. Plasma therapy success The doctors there informed Mr Rajender that 11 out of 13 COVID patients who participated in the Convalescent Plasma Therapy clinical trials at the Gandhi Hospital have recovered.  Mr Rajender said that every employee of Gandhi Hospital should put in 100% efforts and directed officials to appoint a department head for each ward. 200 more beds The workload on existing doctors and others at the hospital has increased as critically ill-patients are rushed from other hospitals. As the cases are set to increase in the coming days, orders were issued to make more appointments to bolster the workforce. The Health Minister has inspected works under way to place 200 more beds at a new academic block.
04 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jawaharnagar capping works nearing closure||The legacy dump in the Jawaharnagar solid waste management facility could finally cease to be an issue, thanks to near completion of capping works. The concessionaire agency is working on development of green cover which is the outermost layer of the capping, officials informed. More than half of the green cover too is complete, and dibbling is going on to ensure the grass kicks the roots inside. Once it is done, rain water seepage into the trash hillock will stop altogether. Soil cover of 300 millimetres thickness on the enormous trash pile has been followed by a geosynthetic clay liner, a flexible HDPE membrane layer and a geo-drainage layer. Final topping was of restoration soil on which vegetation is being grown. “The project is in its end stage, with 95% of the work finished. Lines have been formed on the surface for drainage of rain water, which will join the main garland drain. It will carry the water away from the site,” informed Rahul Raj, Additional Commissioner (Sanitation), GHMC. Leachate will however, continue to be a problem till such a time that it is completely treated and disposed of. As of now, over 600 million litres of leachate exist in nine artificially created ponds, which, when mixed with rain water, increase in quantity and poses a challenge to the authorities, by flowing into the lakes nearby. Two treatment plants each of two million liters capacity per day exist at the site, to treat the leachate presently. Earlier, the leachate sludge after treatment would be redirected into the ponds. Mixed with rain water and the fresh leachate oozing from the dump, it would increase in quantity. “We have now ensured that fresh ponds with lining are created to deposit the sludge after treatment. With rainwater collected and carried away, the ponds will have no addition except the direct rain received by them. We are also calling for global tenders to treat the leachate within definitive period of time. They will have to create Multi Effect Evaporator Plants to convert the sludge into powdery form,” Mr. Rahul Raj said. Capping of the legacy dump—the 70-80 metre high hillock of 12 million tonnes of trash profiled into a hillock by the concessionaire agency-- has been going on for painfully long period. The Rs. 140 crore project was taken up after several complaints and vociferous protests by the people of 30 villages and colonies surrounding the location, who had been enduring unbearable stench and polluted ground and surface water for years. Officials have informed that the Malkaram Lake water has been treated, and no more leachate is being left into the lake. Meanwhile, the GHMC is filing a review petition in the National Green Tribunal, which had directed the government to reduce the legacy dump through bio-mining. Government is contending that bio-mining at this stage is not an option as it would release intolerable stench, which would be objected by local residents.
04 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pangolin skin racket busted||Telangana Forest Department officials have busted an inter-State smuggling racket of pangolin scales and nabbed 12 persons involved in the illegal trade, on Monday. The racket began to be unravelled when a team led by the Forest Divisional Officer Damodar Reddy from Wild Life Management wing of Kinnerasani Forest Reserve, began enquiry based on a reliable piece of information. Initially 10 pangolin skins wrapped in a polythene cover were recovered from a suspicious person, Badavath Ravi in Kothagudem, who revealed that he purchased them from a person in Bhadrachalam. Based on the information provided by him, more persons -- Shaik Ravi from Guntur, Ramchandar Karmakar and Soma Mani Prasad of Hyderabad were nabbed with five more pangolin skins, with help from Vigilance wing. Further enquiries revealed one more person, Bujji, from Lambasingi of Andhra Pradesh, sold the scales to Shaik Rafi for Rs. 3 lakh. Two more persons Sunil from Mothugudem mandal of Khammam district and Payam Narasimha of Oddugudem village in Kothagudem too were apprehended upon information that they had 1.7 kilograms of pangolin scales for sale in Bhadrachalam. They confessed to have killed the pangolin by a trap one year ago. Based on the trail of leads, the officials nabbed more persons from Hyderabad, Khammam and Bhadrachalam, and confiscated 1.4 kilograms more of pangolin scales. The arrested 12 have been remanded to Khammam sub-jail and further investigation is in progress, a statement from the department informed.  Accused remanded to Khammam sub-jail and further investigation is in progress. Forest Department
04 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR urges citizens to help govt. fight pandemic||Minister for Industries, IT and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao has asked people to join hands with the government in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic by following norms to stop the spread of the virus. Speaking after visiting the COVID-19 ward in the Government District Hospital at Sircilla and Isolation Centre at Sardapur Agricultural College, he said on Monday that the government was sparing no effort to control the pandemic and the government hospitals were providing better healthcare services and treatment to coronavirus-affected persons. He termed the government doctors, nurses, other staff in hospitals, police and sanitation staff as frontline warriors. Stating that those frontline warriors need moral support from the entire society, the Minister, who also represents Sircilla constituency in the Legislative Assembly, appealed to people, particularly the political parties not to demoralise them with their uncalled-for criticism. After flagging-off special ambulances for COVID services, Mr. Rama Rao interacted with the doctors and nurses there and advised them to handle COVID patients with humane approach. He stated that the district hospital was being given Rs. 2.28 crore under Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) support and Rs. 20 lakh from his personal funds for the hospital development. He assured COVID tests would be increased to 1,000 per day from the current 300 in Sircilla district. Home isolation kits were being given to all who tested positive and in home isolation. He instructed authorities to utilise the double-bedroom houses yet to be handed over to beneficiaries and other government buildings there as isolation centres. Later, the Minister laid the foundation stone for construction of Panchayat Raj divisional offices.
04 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Governor hails plasma donors as saviours||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan celebrated Raksha Bandhan festival with plasma donors at the Raj Bhavan. In a departure from the traditional way, she felicitated the plasma donors with rakhis, sweets and shawls, hailing them as saviours of lives. Thirteen plasma donors participated in the celebrations at Darbar Hall in Raj Bhavan. They shared their experiences of fighting COVID-19 and how they were motivated to donate plasma to save other patients. Dr. Tamilisai praised them for their noble gesture in plasma donation not only once, but multiple times to save lives of other patients and lauded their efforts in motivating and coordinating others too in donating plasma. The Governor appreciated B. Nitin Kumar, an IITian from Mumbai, who donated plasma four times and other donors S. Siva Pratap, Syed Mustaf Irfan, Umer Farooque, Ennamsetty Akhil and Dr. Roopa Darshini, who all have donated the plasma twice. She said the donors set example for others to emulate. “People without hesitation can approach the nearest available government hospital to get treated, as they have treated all the COVID-19 patients successfully. I appreciate the services of the government hospitals and doctors for their exemplary and humanitarian services. I salute all the frontline warriors like doctors, nurses, medical staff, police, sanitation workers and journalists for their commitment and selfless services during these challenging times,” the Governor said. She also appealed to private hospitals to treat those patients, who are approaching them, at reasonable and affordable rates with humanitarian approach. Dr. Tamilisai called for intensified efforts in setting up plasma bank to effectively coordinate between the needy and the donors and save more lives.
04 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||In-house tech to scale up Indian Railways||Real-time monitoring of various systems, reducing human interface and digital initiatives to provide better amenities to passengers and speeding up maintenance works to ensure higher safety standards are being given a big push by the Railway Board. About 20 ‘in house’ technologies developed by the railway engineers themselves have found official favour and zonal managers have been asked to do ‘mass scale’ implementation. The Railway Board in its directive has informed the general managers concerned that a total of 2,645 ‘good works’ done in various divisions to improve safety and efficiency were received between August and September last year. For instance, German designed LHB passenger coaches need periodic checks for springs when dissembling and assembling happens. It usually takes 53 days to get a single coach back into running shape. However, thanks to the South Eastern Central Railway (SCER) developed special gadget which in tandem with hydraulic jacks, the time has been cut to just seven days reducing ‘sickness’ time. Western Railways has, in turn, developed an innovative technique to take up repairs of locomotive’s support arms without needing to lift the heavy machine and this has helped in reducing the maintenance time from 120 hours in all to just 10 hours, pointed out senior railway officials. A ‘hot box - hot axle detector system’ developed by North Central Railway (NCR) provides precise information about lubrication and any mechanical flaws in the axles during any high temperatures to maintenance engineers and helps avoid any possible derailment. “It has non-human interface, totally automated and self-maintained giving round the clock signals to any train passing by,” they informed. Yet, some ideas are as simple as an alarm bell which automatically goes off two minutes before the scheduled departure of an express train from the platform preventing passengers from rushing to get in the last minute causing unnecessary tension all round. This has been tried in Allahabad railway station and has come in for appreciation from passengers, informed senior railway officers. Another is maintenance free and no power requiring ‘Natural water cooler’ on platforms developed by Western Railway where water is passed through copper coils for a natural evaporation system to give cool drinking water. It is under implementation in few suburban stations of Mumbai and other places. Real time monitoring of CCTV cameras inside coaches has already been initiated and a pilot exercise began in Humsafar coaches where all cameras are interlinked and the guard at the end of the train has a viewing screen to monitor the activities inside. Other locally developed technologies approved are: Rail rod equipment laser based technique for installing or repairing overhead electric traction equipment within few hours accurately without too much disruption in rail movement, Railway vendor guidance system mobile app; Robotic welding, Ultrasonic flaw detection of rails and welds on vehicular system; Line temperature monitoring system for passing and terminating trains as well as locomotives to detect defects automatically, etc.
04 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||e-Office started in more departments||e-Office, the software aimed at providing seamless movement of files and other administrative documents online, has been extended to eight more departments. The government has decided to implement the software developed by the National Informatics Centre to ensure that paper work is avoided to the extent possible by uploading the files online. This will help in minimising person-to-person contact thereby reducing the scope for spreading of viruses like the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar launched e-Office in Health & Family Welfare, Planning, Labour, Employment, Training and Factories, BC Welfare, SC Development Department, Minority Welfare, Tribal Welfare and Home departments in Secretariat besides the Pollution Control Board and Agriculture Commissioner’s office. With eight departments added on Monday, the total number of departments where the software is being used has gone up to 15. The Chief Secretary directed the officials concerned to ensure that the software was deployed in the remaining departments within a week. He said the government had decided to introduce e-Office on the instructions of Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao to improve efficiency, consistency and effectiveness of the government responses. He said the software would help in enhancing transparency, accountability and reduce delays in the transactions. It would help in enabling officials concerned to work from anywhere and in turn, improves the efficiency of the administration.
04 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||COVID patients allege poor hygiene and care at RIMS||COVID-19 patients with co-morbidities, including diabetes and hypertension, admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Adilabad, run the risk of grave health complications. They allege neither doctors nor nurses conduct regular checks on their vitals, which is crucial. Besides, condition-specific diet is not served to them at the government hospital. Senior officials and experts have, on multiple occasions, said that COVID patients with co-morbidities are at greater threat of losing their lives. As COVID patient count is surging in the district, more are expected to get admitted at RIMS, which obviously calls for a total revamp of the facility which serves people from the town and adjoining mandals, including those living in tribal hamlets. ‘Inedible food’ Several patients who spoke to The Hindu over phone narrated the agony due to the poor standard of facilities and ‘inedible’ food served to them thrice a day, apart from senior doctors not visiting the patients to monitor the their blood pressure, blood sugar level or even pulse rate, unless theirs condition is very serious. “It has been over a week now, and I haven’t seen a senior doctor attending any patient. The administration is running the show with staff nurses and junior doctors, who check their condition only once in two days,” lamented a middle-aged man from Adilabad town undergoing treatment at RIMS. The main issues raised by patients are poor hygiene in bathrooms and wards, insufficient patient care providers, delays in providing basic services to patients in ICU and proper treatment. “My family members are taking the risk of delivering home-cooked food near the isolation ward. One cannot eat the food served here. The quality is really bad and there is no one to address our grievances,” he said. Even the elderly patients are not provided with basic facilities under COVID-19 protocol. “Government is advising people to get admitted in State-run hospitals, but here the situation is deplorable. I am waiting to get out of this place and go home. The entire premises stinks,” an elderly woman said. “We cannot afford treatment at private hospitals, but that doesn’t mean treatment in the government hospital is appreciable,” said a young COVID survivor recalling his experience at RIMS. Practical issues Responding to the allegations levelled by the patients, RIMS director Balaram Naik said that the administration is doing its best to provide quality treatment and food to patients, though there are some practical issues. “The staff has to change their attitude towards patients. We are motivating them,” Dr. Naik said. He said a committee was formed to check the quality of food served and they are trying to meet the ‘expectations’ of patients. “We are managing meticulously. Staff nurses are doing a great job,” he added.
04 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC intervenes after hospital refuses to release victim’s body||Justice T. Vinod Kumar of Telangana High Court on Monday directed Hyderabad police to ensure the body of an ex-army man Ram Kumar Sharma, who died at Sunshine Hospital while undergoing treatment for COVID-19, was handed over to his family members immediately. The ex-army man’s family members moved the High Court stating that hospital management raised a bill of Rs. 8.68 lakh for his treatment and was refusing to give them the body even after they paid nearly Rs. 4 lakh. The bereaved ffiamily led a writ petition in the HC on Monday by moving a house motion, since it was a holiday for the court on account of Raksha Bandhan. The petition was heard by Justice T. Vinod Kumar around 1 p.m. A team of lawyers comprising Pratap Narayan Sanghi, Avadesh Narayan Sanghi, Anusha Sanghi and Himangini Sanghi presented arguments before the judge. They informed the court that Mr. Sharma was admitted to hospital on July 24 and he died of the novel coronavirus while undergoing treatment around 4.40 p.m. on Sunday. According to the petitioners, the hospital management declined to give them the body unless the balance amount of Rs. 4 lakh from the total bill was paid. After hearing the matter, the judge instructed Ramagopalpet police station inspector to immediately take steps for the release of the body from the hospital. The body should be handed over to Mr. Sharma’s son Naveen Kumar for performing last rites, the court said. The HC impleaded suo moto the Central government in the petition. It directed the Central government and the Director of Medical and Health Services of State government to examine the bills raised by the hospital in the case. If the bills were found to be in excess, the governments should take serious action against the hospital, the judge said. The matter was posted to hearing on September 11.  Case file Ex-army man admitted to Sunshine Hospital on July 24 dies on Sunday while undergoing treatment for coronavirus Hospital raises bill of Rs. 8.68 lakh, victim’s family pays Rs. 4 lakh Hospital refuses to hand over body seeking payment of remaining amount Bereaved family moves house motion in High Court Judge orders police to ensure body is given to family for last rites
04 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Overburden slopes causing 10% of mining accidents’||About one-tenth of accidents in the mining activity in the country are taking place due to unstable overburden dumps, Deputy Director General (South Central Zone) Malay Tikedar has said and stressed the need for higher importance to safety in mining at a time when the role of private sector is increasing in the mining sector. Speaking at the inaugural session of a week-long virtual (online) faculty training on “Stabilisation and Strengthening of Steep Slope Overburden Dumps in Opencast Mines — Problems & Solutions” organised by the Mining Engineering Department of Mallareddy Engineering College here on Monday, Mr. Tikedar asked the engineers participating in the programme, from different parts of the country, to find out solutions to accidents due to sloping overburden dumps. Increased safety in the mining activity would not only increase in the production but would ensure better safety to miners, he said. Director (Operations) of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd S. Chandrasekhar explained the practices in Singareni in managing the overburden slopes and dumps. He stated that overburden slopes and dumps are formed during the quarrying in opencast mines. He said Singareni was the first mining company in the country to use LiDAR (Light Detection and Ranging) for accurate information on managing the overburden slopes and dumps. Experts in the mining sector from selected organisations and mining colleges such as SCCL, CIA Global Venture, MidWest Granite, IITISM Dhanbad, NIT Rourkela, NIT Suratkal, JNTU(H), Osmania University and a few other colleges participated in the online event.
04 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Anurag University has formal launch||Anurag University, the second private university to have come into existence in Telangana after the government permitted private universities, was launched by Sabitha Indra Reddy, Minister for Education in the presence of Chitra Ramachandran, Principal Secretary, Education; B.V.R Mohan Reddy, Executive Chairman, Cyient; U.B. Desai, Chancellor; S. Ramachandram, Vice-Chancellor, Syeda Sameen Fatima, Registrar; Chairman of Anurag group and MLC, Palla Rajeshwar Reddy and Neelima, CEO. Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao, who sent a message, said that the long cherished dreams and aspirations of the people of Telangana can turn into a reality only with quality education and hoped that Anurag University would evolve into one of the best universities in the country. IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao said that focus should be on new courses to meet the industry requirements apart from stress on the core subjects. Ms. Sabitha Indra Reddy said that the Chief Minister has a vision of making education in Telangana qualitative and accessible to all. Dr. Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, Chairman, in his address said that the university has got flexibility in starting new courses in emerging areas, in designing the syllabi and to introduce multi-disciplinary education system. Ms. Chitra Ramachandran said the university should offer world-class education to ignite young minds and contribute to nation building. Dr. B.V.R. Mohan Reddy stressed on the need for multidisciplinary courses, quality faculty and digital transformation in education.
04 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Qutb Shahi Tombs seen from space||The transformation of the Qutb Shahi Tombs Complex in Hyderabad can now be seen from space as the outer contours of the interpretation centre become evident in satellite imagery. But the transformation is not limited to the outer part of the complex. “This will work as an entrance to both the Qutb Shahi Heritage Park and the Golconda Fort. It is partially buried so that the views of the site remain unimpeded,” says Ratish Nanda of Aga Khan Trust for Culture. The interpretation centre designed by Lotus Studio is a partially buried structure sprawled over 6000 square metres in an area where the Deccan Park currently exists. It is expected to integrate the Deccan Park area with the Qutb Shahi tombs complex where a wall divides the two sites. A simple museum with objects excavated at the site used to exist before the restoration/conservation work was begun by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture and the Telangana Department of Archaeology and Museums. The new centre is expected to have a gallery of artefacts from the site, the restoration timeline as well as an immersive experience centre for the visitors. “It will be a holistic experience for the visitors and not piecemeal as it is now,” says Yoshowant Purohit, Project Manager, Qutb Shahi Heritage Park. On Monday, a few photographs showing earth work being carried out on the Deccan Park site became viral. “How can they carry out such an excavation in a heritage site?” asked Muhammad Habeebuddin, who lives inside the Golconda fort area. “The interpretation centre is coming up in a plot where Deccan Park exists now. There was a function hall and a swimming pool and most of the work is happening in that place,” said Mr. Nanda, who promised an unimpeded view of the tombs from the main road. The Qutb Shahi Tombs complex has been overrun by encroachments on the northern side as well as southern side.
04 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rakhi fest ends in tragedy||Rakhi festival ended in tragedy for a family in Wanaparthy district after two of their young members were crushed to death under a RTC bus on Monday afternoon. Bankala Damodar (16) and his 14-year-old cousin Bankala Nandini from Thumkunta village died on the spot, Pothiganti Lakshmi (24) from Peddadagada village escaped with minor injuries. Wanaparthy police said that the trio were going to Chinnadagada from Peddadagada on a bike to celebrate Raksha Bandhan when an RTC bus hit the bike they were travelling on.
04 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||10 held on cow slaughter charge||A gang of 10 persons accused of slaughtering cows and selling cow meat was busted by Hasanparthi police of Warangal police commissionerate on Monday. Knives used for slaughtering cows, two trucks and two bikes were seized from the arrested persons. Warangal Police Commissioner P. Pramod Kumar said members of the gang -- Shaik Chinnalal, Shaik Kareem, Shaik Pedda Rasool, Shaik Gore Miya and Syed Bade Saab -- hatched a plot to make money by slaughtering cows and selling the meat in Warangal, Hanamkonda and Kazipet during Bakrid festival. They joined hands with Bhadraiah, Uppu Rajender, Syed Maslehuddin and Syed to execute the plan. The gang purchased six cows and six oxen through Bhadraiah from Jangalapally market in Mulugu district on July 15. They managed to secretly transport the animals to Aarvapalli village in Hasanparthy. They slaughtered the cows and oxen at a secluded place on the outskirts of the village and made money by selling the meat in different places in Warangal city. On a tip-off, a team led by ACP Jitender Reddy and Inspector G. Srinivas tracked the movement of the gang members and nabbed them. During interrogation, the accused admitted to the offence, the Commissioner said.
04 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Ryots cheated in Yasangi paddy procurement’||Telangana Kisan Congress, the farmers’ wing of TPCC, chairman Anvesh Reddy Sunketa has alleged that there were large-scale irregularities in the paddy procurement done by the State government during the recent Yasangi season and demanded that the government order a probe into the corruption in procurement centre at rice mills. In a statement issued on Monday, Mr. Anvesh Reddy said the farmers were exploited in the paddy procurement exercise as the number of bags (quantity) purchased from farmers were reduced without their knowledge in the track sheets and money was deducted beyond the agreed percentage of chaff and wastage. He alleged that chaff and wastage was deducted both at the procurement centre and after the stock was moved to rice mills. Giving an example, Mr. Reddy said one farmer in Nizamabad district was paid Rs. 74,868 against the due amount of Rs. 82,281 after he agreed for wastage of 5 kg per quintal for his paddy produce of 44.84 quintals. Similarly, another farmer of Thimmapur in Jagtial district was paid for only 560 bags of paddy against 616 bags sold by him. In the first instance the farmer suffered a loss of Rs. 7,413 while in the second instance Rs. 18,000 was lost by the farmer. The Kisan Congress chairman sought as to where did the money go for as the farmers concerned were supposed get the money for the recorded quantity of paddy sale. He demanded that the government order a probe into the corruption, take action against those responsible and pay the amount actually due to the farmers.
04 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Valuables worth Rs. 2 crore stolen in Sainikpuri||A businessman and his family, who returned to their Sainikpuri home after hosting a reception of their son’s marriage at Taj Falaknuma Palace on Sunday night, had found to their shock valuables worth Rs. 2 crore, including gold and diamond studded jewellery, and luxury watches, missing. They suspect the role of their watchman Bheem Gatha and his wife, who are currently at large, Malkajgiri DCP Rakshitha K. Murthy said. She said that around 5 p.m. on Sunday, the family members of businessman A Narasimha Reddy left for the palace hotel in Old City for hosting their son’s wedding reception. “After returning home they noticed that the main door was open and when they went inside the bedroom, the cupboard in which 1.73 kg of diamond and gold jewellery, Rs. 2 lakh cash, a few luxury watches and premium electronic gadgets were kept, was broke open and the valuables worth Rs. 2 crore were missing,” the officer said, adding that the offence took place between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. on Sunday.
04 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IndiGo pilot killed in car crash on ORR, driver injured||A pilot with IndiGo airlines was killed and the driver seriously injured when the car they were travelling in rammed a ‘slow moving’ container truck on the Nehru Outer Ring Road at Himayatsagar on Monday. Rajendranagar police of Cyberabad Commissionerate, who rushed to the crash scene said that the accident took place around 5 a.m. and death was instant for pilot Preet Mahender Singh, a resident of IT Corridor. Mr. Singh was on his way to the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad from Gachibowli in a taxi to attend duty. “The taxi driver, Shiva Shanker, could not estimate the speed of the container truck moving in the same direction and crashed into it,” Rajendra Nagar Inspector G. Suresh said. Mr. Singh, who was sitting beside the driver, suffered grievous injuries and died on the spot. Shiva Shanker is battling for life.
04 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||100 startups selected for mentoring programme||As many as 100 startups have been selected to be part of the Rejig.HydStartups mentoring programme. A Telangana State Innovation Cell initiative involving T-Incubators and Enablers, the programme received more than 300 applications from startups in diverse sectors and different stages. Rejig.HydStartups seeks to support startups in re-imagining and repositioning their business model post-pandemic. The three-weeks of mentoring is to help startups connect with investors or gain corporate market access. A three-pronged approach — understanding the concerns of the startup with a completion of leg work assigned by the mentor; understanding the hange of strategy; and a revised pitch — will be adopted. Of the 300 applications, 100 startups have been selected to be part of the mentoring programme which will culminate in an event where startups will pitch for equity funding, collateral-free debt funding, or corporate market access, a release said.
04 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||2 found dead in separate incidents||Maloth Vital (55), a painter, was found dead near an overhead tank at Dundigal here on Monday. Police said that the victim died by jumping from the top of the Mission Bhagiratha water tank at Church Gagillapur , as he was suffering from prolonged illness. The incident took place around 2 p.m. At Pahadi Shareef, a 40-year-old man was found hanging in his house late on Sunday. The victim, Raju from Sriram Colony in Balapur was facing financial problems, police said.  There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni.
04 August 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Medak man ends life over ‘stigma’||A 35-year-old man, who had tested positive for COVID-19, was found hanging at his home in Kuchanpally of Havelighanapur mandal in Medak district. He was working as sanitation supervisor at the government hospital at Narsapur mandal headquarters while his wife was a nurse there, said sources. Four days ago, he developed some symptoms and got tested at the government hospital at Kamareddy. He tested positive while his wife’s result turned up negative.Both were asked to quarantine at home. On Monday morning, he was pacing around his house and told his wifethat he didn’t get good sleep the night before His wife asked him to do yoga to de-stress himself. He went inside the room and closed the door, said sources, adding that his wife later found him hanging. “He was stressed due to the behaviour of his neighbours who questioned his return to the village. They even forced him to go to the hospital at Medak where doctors advised home quarantine,” said a source, adding that ostracism by neighbours forced him to take the extreme step. “Knowing about the suicide, I rushed to his house. His family members had brought down the body despite knowing that he was infected with virus. We asked them not to touch anyone. I informed the police and revenue officers who reached there and shifted the body to the burial ground and performed last rites as per COVID-19 norms. A huge pit was dug with earth mover and the body was buried,” village sarpanch J. Deva Goud told The Hindu .  (There is always someone to listen at 040-66202000 or 66661117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni.)   They [neighbours] even forced him to go to the hospital at Medak where doctors advised home quarantine. A source
04 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Murder accused, brother found in pool of blood||Two brothers, one of them accused in a murder and recently released on bail, were found in a pool of blood outside their house at Hajarigudem village in Anumula mandal here on Monday. Both had visible injuries made by a sharp-weapon all over the body, while one lay dead on a cot and the body of the other brother was found nearby, outside the house. Their third sibling, Hari, who was reportedly sleeping indoors, escaped the attack. Halia police identified the victims as Janapati Satyanarayana, a local businessman, and Anji, an accused in a murder near the same village that occurred last year. According to information, on February 5 last year, one Sirasagandla Revanth Kumar, a dairy businessman who left home for milk collection from nearby villages in the wee hours, was found hacked to death. He was found in a pool of blood near Hajarigudem village limits.
04 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Farmers’ hopes soar with good rainfall||With the commencement of rainy season two months back, the district received considerably good rainfall. Munipally mandal received 18 mm rainfall on Sunday. On August 1, four mandals – Hatnoora recoreded 28.4 mm, Kangti - 26.2 mm, Sirgapur and Kalher - 24.8 mm each. At several places, tanks and lakes were overflowing. Farm activity reached its peak with ryots busy in their fields. Fourteen out of 26 mandals have reported excess rainfall, while 10 mandals registering normal rainfall. Only two mandals - Kondapur and Hatnoora - have recorded deficit rainfall. Nallavagu at Narayanakhed was overflowing a couple of days back. Sangareddy district recorded 423.7 mm rainfall during June and July. In Siddipet district, all the mandals registered good rainfall with no deficit at all in any mandal. While 20 mandals have registered excess rainfall, three mandals received normal rain. In Medak district, only one mandal witnessed deficit rainfall while seven mandals received normal rainfall, followed 11 mandals receiving excess rainfall. “We are lucky that after two years we have received good rain during the season -- and in time. This will help us in farming activity,” said Mr. K. Ramachandraiah, a farmer from Pulkal mandal. Slowly groundwater levels are also increasing with bores yielding more water.
04 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Corn husk to produce carbon electrode for super capacitors||Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad (IIT-H) researchers have developed a simple and cost-effective method to derive ‘activated carbon electrode’ material from corn husk for high-voltage super capacitors. Their electrode showed better electrochemical performance (high-energy density and high-power density) when compared with conventional super capacitors. This development is important for India, especially for States such as Uttar Pradesh and the combined Andhra Pradesh-Telangana States, which are the first and second largest producers of corn in the country respectively. They produce a large amount of corn husk waste, much of which is currently burnt as its potential to be converted to a valuable electrode material is not harnessed owing to lack of awareness, expertise and technology. This research by IIT-H on affordable and efficient methods can enable this conversion, providing additional earning opportunity for the corn farmer and provision of a sustainable energy source. The research was led by Atul Suresh Deshpande, Associate Professor, Department of Materials Science and Metallurgical Engineering, IITH, in collaboration with T. N. Rao, Associate Director, International Advanced Research Centre for Powder Metallurgy and New Materials (ARCI), Hyderabad, along with their research students M. Usha Rani and K. Nanaji (Project Scientist). Their research paper detailing the synthesis procedure and the electrochemical performance of the material produced has been recently published in the reputed peer-reviewed Journal of Power Sources . In the global sector, rapid advancements in adopting new technology and fast evolving green energy systems are trending in the super capacitor’s market. It is projected to share USD 720 million by 2025 market value, which is expected to grow at a CAGR of 12 per cent from 2020 to 2025. Carbon-based electrodes are playing a crucial role in the development of energy storage devices. Carbon-based electrodes are typically derived from expensive, high purity precursors such as polymers, organic precursors, high purity gases using various methods. The production of carbon electrodes from biomass is a simpler straightforward process. In collaboration with ARCI (Hyderabad), the IIT-H team has developed activated carbon electrode using simple materials – corn husk and KOH. Explaining his research, Mr. Deshpande said, “Due to the low-cost precursors and simple processing method, this process of producing activated carbon can be easily adapted for large-scale commercial production.”
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Tough time for ‘maskless’||
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Allow us to accept bodies not infected by COVID-19’||Priests and helpers at Punjabi Bagh cremation ground have requested the municipal corporation to make the COVID-19-only facility to non-COVID-19 also and allow them to start accepting non-COVID-19 bodies as they are facing financial crisis as the number of virus-related deaths started to decrease in the Capital. The priests and helpers — working at the wood-based funeral space — said that they’re “thankful to God” that few people are dying of COVID-19, but request the authorities to let them accept non-COVID-19 bodies so they’re able to run their household expenses. The letter addressed to the Deputy Health Officer dated July 8, stated, “In the Punjabi Bagh Cremation Ground, 5-10 bodies have been coming every day for the last 15 days because of which we are unable to take care our families. Sixteen families are dependent. We request you to either increase the number of COVID-19 bodies coming in here or allow us to accept non-COVID bodies”. In debt A helper identified as Sonu Kumar Sharma, 29-year-old resident of Sudarshan Park, said that he is in debt because of the current situation. “I haven’t been able to pay our landlord and our grocery store owner. I have to pay Rs. 4,000 house rent and about Rs. 2,000 for groceries. My child fell ill this month and I had to borrow Rs. 1,500 from one of the priests,” he said. Mr Sonu claims to be earning around Rs. 50 every day these days making it tough for him to manage finances. Priest Kamal Kant Sharma, who has been working at the cremation ground for the last 25 years, said that there are eight priests and helpers each who are dependent on the money generated from cremations. “We take Rs. 5,000 from the family which includes Rs. 2,800 for wood, Rs. 1,200 for material required for last rites and Rs. 1,000 for completion of last rites,” he said, adding that the amount generated from cremations is divided among the 16 persons (priests and helpers). Number of bodies The data shared by Mr. Sharma showed that starting July 17, the number of bodies coming in ranged between seven and two with an exception of eight bodies on July 20. However, on a usual day, about 35-40 bodies were being cremated at the ground till June. Mr. Sharma said that they have spoken about the issue with their committee called Punjabi Bagh Shamshan Bhumi Sudhar Samiti (PBSBSS) which manages the cremation ground. PBSBSS’ president S.K. Sachdeva said, “I have spoken to officials verbally. They assured that it is in process, However, I will take up the matter formally with the authorities in a day or two”. First COVID crematorium Punjabi Bagh became the first COVID-19-only crematorium in early June as number of deaths increased in the Capital. When contacted, an SDMC official said, “While the NGO managing the facility had made representations to the SDMC, no decision has been taken in the matter as of yet”.  In the Punjabi Bagh cremation ground, 5-10 bodies have been coming every day for the last 15 days because of which we are unable to take care our families Letter addressed to Deputy Health Officer
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Another instance of relentless hounding of civil rights advocates’||Staffers of Miranda House on Monday expressed solidarity with colleague Jenny Rowena, wife of Delhi University Professor Hany Babu who was arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case. They called for an end to Ms. Rowena’s ‘harassment’. “We are deeply distressed by the arrest of Prof. Hany Babu by the NIA,” the college’s staff association said in a statement. The arrest of Mr. Babu, a respected academic and Bhaujan rights activists, was another instance of the “relentless and incremental hounding of civil rights’ advocates and critics of the present regime”, the group said. ‘Continued harassment’ It also expressed concern over the “harassment” faced by Ms. Rowena, whose house was searched on Sunday “when she was alone with her school-going daughter”, the group said. This was just the latest incident of continued harassment of Mr. Babu, it noted. The group condemned the “witch-hunt of progressive voices across the country”, and demanded the release of all those arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case and of the activists against CAA-NRC who were being “falsely” implicated in the Delhi riots. The People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) also expressed it outrage and condemned Mr. Babu’s arrest. “ It shows once again the Indian State’s desperate and diabolic endeavour to continuously silence intellectuals and criminalise those questioning its actions and holding different views, by resorting to fabricated prosecutions using the UAPA,” the PUCL said.  We are deeply distressed by the arrest of DU Professor Hany Babu by the NIA Staffers of Miranda House
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||Man arrested for killing financier to avoid paying loan interest||A 33-year-old man was arrested along with his two accomplices for allegedly killing a financier and later dumping his body in north-east Delhi’s Kodhi Colony area, the police said on Monday. The accused were identified as Waseem (33), Shaqeel (24) and Inderjeet Panday (28), they said. The incident took place on July 30. The body of 27-year-old Sumit Thakur with head injuries and ligature mark was found lying on the ground. His face was covered with tape and polythene while hands and legs were also tied with plastic tape, they said. A case was registered in this regard at Nand Nagri police station, they said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-East) Ved Prakash Surya said that analysis of more than 100 CCTV footages was done and in one ot the footage, Thakur was last seen entering Waseem’s house in Dilshad Colony. Call details also raised suspicion on Waseem’s involvement. “Waseem confessed that Thakur was in a business of micro-financing and used to lend money on interest. He had requested Thakur to lend Rs. 46,000 to his friend Anees and assured him that Anees will pay interest of Rs. 4,000 on a monthly basis,” he said. Lockdown issue Owing to the lockdown, Anees was unable to pay the interest. So, Thakur started pressuring Waseem to pay Rs. 4,000 monthly interest, being mediator of the deal. Feeling tortured and humiliated due to his constant demand, Waseem decided to kill him, the DCP said. Waseem along with his brother-in-law Shaqeel hatched the plan and executed the killing. Waseem called Thakur to his house around 8.30 p.m. on the pretext of paying the monthly interest. When Thakur visited his house, heated arguments took place between them. While Waseem hit him with a piece of wooden plank on the head, Shaqeel also hit him with another wooden plank. When Thakur fell unconscious, they strangulated him to death, the officer said. As per plan, Waseem called his friend, Inderjeet Panday and lured him to help in disposing the body for Rs. 10, 000 through his car and dumped it at the Tahirpur, Kodhi Colony, he said. Waseem and Shaqeel took the scooty of the deceased to Apsara Border and burnt it. They also threw his mobile and purse in a drain nearby, the police said.
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects plea against IP University reserving seats for its own students||The Delhi High Court has rejected a plea against Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (GGSIPU) decision to reserve 50% State quota of PG medical seats to MBBS graduates from its own colleges. The High Court said GGSIPU is following the decision of the Supreme Court in which it has approved ‘institutional reservation’ up to 50% of the postgraduate seats. Several MBBS graduates and students from Jamia Hamdard University had challenged GGSIPU’s policy of allocating the entire 50% State quota of postgraduate medical college seats to MBBS graduates from colleges affiliated only to itself by way of ‘Institutional Preference’. ‘Institutional Preference’ The petition had sought direction to the university to amend its admissions guidelines for academic year 2020-21 without reserving entire 50% State quota only for graduates of colleges affiliated to itself by way of ‘Institutional Preference’, as was done in previous academic years and to allow Hamdard institute of Medical Sciences and Research (HIMSR) MBBS graduates in the statewise merit list. The plea raised the question whether ‘Institutional Preference’, namely the right of an institution offering postgraduate courses to reserve such seats for undergraduate students from colleges affiliated to itself, can be permitted to be exercised while deciding the manner of allocation of 50% of State quota. The High Court noted that in view of the legal position, this is clearly permissible.
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||55% of students not using any form of renewable energy: CSE survey||An online survey done by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) among 47,000 students showed that 55% of them did not use any form of renewable energy. The survey was done in 28 States and covered both urban and rural areas. The highest number of participants — from government as well as private schools — were from Delhi, close to 8,000. “The survey results pointed towards some promising aspects: 96% of the students had energy-efficient lighting in their homes; 67% repurpose or give away food leftovers; and 51% use sustainable modes of transport like walking and cycling for their every day activities. The survey results also flagged areas where intervention may be required: for instance, 55% of the participants do not use renewable energy in any form,” CSE said in a statement. Tushita Rawat, programme officer (environmental education) of CSE said, “It is a good start as people have started exploring renewable energy as an option. But there is a long way to go.” The survey was done as part of CSE’s Green Schools Programme (GSP) to ensure environmental learning does not stop while students remain in their homes under full or partial lockdown due to COVID-19. Ranjita Menon, programme director, (environment education) of CSE, said, “The survey helped students gain insights into the practices followed in their households regarding waste management, food consumption, water and energy usage, etc. Becoming aware of these practices is an essential milestone and it is only after becoming aware that one can transform their ways to use as little and save as many resources as possible.” The survey was open to students of classes 5 to 12.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Recover compensation from offending factories’||Following allegations of noise pollution in a residential area in Dwarka, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to direct units to not operate and recover compensation from the violators. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed authorities to ensure that environmental norms are followed before the units are permitted to operate. Environmental norms In a report furnished by the DPCC, the pollution committee said that closure notices had been issued to the violating units. “A report has been filed by the DPCC to the effect that violation of environmental norms was established and closure order was passed. Electricity supply has been disconnected and the unit has been closed,” the Bench observed. Noting that a compensation of Rs. 4.37 lakh had been assessed, the Bench said, “No further order is necessary except to direct that the units be not allowed to operate again unless necessary compensation is paid and environmental norms are followed.” The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner Sapna Mamtani and others who alleged that noise pollution was being created by Dwarka Gardens and Shanti Gardens, which were hired for marriage functions.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man finds dead lizard in bowl of sambar||A man who went to South Indian restaurant Saravana Bhavan in Connaught Place for dinner on Sunday evening allegedly found a dead lizard in the sambar that was served to him. Complainant Pankaj Agarwal, a resident of Fatehpuri, visited the restaurant in P Block with his friends. Mr. Agarwal recorded the incident on his phone and raised the issue with restaurant staff. Manager response In a video uploaded on social media, he said the manager had reached out to them with the response that it would not happen in the future. In a separate video, Mr. Agarwal showed the dead lizard in the sambar as well as the reaction of the restaurant employees. A senior police officer said that an FIR has been registered at the Connaught Place police station based on the complaint by Mr. Agarwal. DCP (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said the FIR mentions the name of Saravana Bhavan. “We have lodged an FIR against the restaurant under IPC Sections 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 336 (Doing any act which endangers human life or the personal safety of others). The case is under investigation,” Mr. Singhal added. The officer said they have asked for CCTV footage from the restaurant as well as details of the cook, ingredients used to make sambar, and food licence information.
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||Two held for cheating over 100 people at ATMs||With the arrest of two men, the police on Monday claimed to have busted a gang of ATM cloners. The accused — Anil Kumar (26) and Vinod Kumar (39) — have duped over 100 people so far, the police said. On Sunday, when Howrah Rajdhani Express arrived at New Delhi Railway Station at 10.25 a.m., three men on seeing the police started to walk fast. After this, two of them were apprehended while their accomplice Ravi managed to flee. Items recovered On checking their bags, 41 ATM cards of different banks and two ATM cloning machines and Rs. 20,000 were recovered, they said. During interrogation, the accused disclosed that Ravi is the kingpin of the gang.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Slowly returning to normal||
04 August 2020||Mumbai,||Sushant death probe: Bihar Police officer quarantined as per guidelines, says BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday said that the Bihar Police officer, who was sent to Mumbai to probe the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, was kept in home quarantine as per the State government guidelines for domestic travellers. The BMC, in a press release, however, said that the officer has been asked to apply to competent authorities in case he wants exemption from home quarantine. The civic body’s response came hours after Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar voiced disapproval of him being quarantined after landing in Mumbai. Patna Central Superintendent of Police Vinay Tiwari was sent by the Bihar government on Sunday to lead a Bihar Police team in its investigation into the death of Rajput in Mumbai. Mr. Tiwari was quarantined by the BMC authorities late in the night for 14 days at the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) guest house in Goregaon, a police official said. His hand was also stamped showing the quarantine period till August 15. Bihar Director General of Police Gupteshwar Pandey on Sunday alleged that Mr. Tiwari was “forcibly quarantined” by civic authorities in Mumbai. The statement from the BMC said, “The P/South administration received information that the said officer arrived in SRPF group 8 guest house, Goregaon (East). Being a domestic air traveller, he needs to be guided for home quarantine as per the State government guidelines. Accordingly, a P/South ward team approached him at the guest house on Sunday evening.” It further said that the team explained to him the whole procedure for domestic air travellers, which includes home quarantine, which is fixed by a State government notification dated May 25. “He has also been guided to apply to the competent authority of MCGM for exemption in the home quarantine period as per the State government notification,” it added. By Monday evening, Maharashtra Director General of Police (DGP) said on Twitter that the State police have arranged a vehicle for Mr. Tiwari for investigation purpose. “Upon the request of SSP Patna Upendra Kumar Sharma, IPS, SP Central City Patna Vinay Tiwari has been provided accommodation at SRPF Goregaon since Worli Police Mess is closed due to COVID situation. A vehicle has also been arranged for SP Tiwari who is in Mumbai for investigation,” he tweeted. Both Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh have repeatedly said that the State police are competent enough to investigate the actor’s death.
04 August 2020||Mumbai,||All shops in Mumbai to open from tomorrow||All shops in Mumbai can remain open on all days, on both sides of the road, irrespective of the odd-even formula which was in place, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced on Monday. An order issued by Municipal Commissioner I.S. Chahal, said all non-essential markets, market areas and shops would be open from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Liquor shops have been allowed over the counter sales, with strict observance of physical distancing norms. Malls and markets complexes will also open from August 5 without theatres, food courts, restaurants. Other permitted activities include e-commerce, operations of all industrial units, all public and private construction sites, activities related to self-employment like plumbers, electricians, pest-control, technicians, garages to mend vehicles, and inter-district movement of persons within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region for essential activities. While swimming pools will stay closed, outdoor non-team sports like golf, outdoor firing range, outdoor gymnastics, tennis, malkhamb and outdoor badminton is permitted. Taxis, four-wheelers can carry three passengers, while autorickshaws can have two passengers. Two people can ride two-wheelers, with helmet and mask. Meanwhile, the State government told Bombay High Court that it does not intend to allow street vendors and hawkers as they fall under the unorganised sector and it was difficult to regulate them. (With PTI inputs)
04 August 2020||Mumbai,||No complaint received from actor’s family: police||Even as the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) continues to demand a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, the Mumbai Police on Monday clarified that they had received no written complaint from any member of the actor’s family in February. Reacting to the claim made by Rajput’s father, who had said that the ‘family had made a written complaint to the Bandra police on February 25,’ the Mumbai Police issued a statement, saying ‘no such written complaint had been addressed to Bandra police station on that date.’ “However, one O.P. Singh, IPS, brother-in-law of late Rajput, had sent some WhatsApp messages to the then DCP of Zone IX regarding this matter. The DCP had called Mr. Singh and requested him that a written complaint was mandatory for any inquiry or action. However, Mr. Singh wanted this to be resolved informally, to which the DCP clearly told him that it was not possible,” stated the statement issued by Shahaji Umap, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations). Political slugfest Meanwhile, a delegation of Mumbai BJP leaders on Monday met with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and complained to him about the non-cooperation from the Mumbai Police with their Bihar counterparts. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said, “It is really very strange as to why the Maharashtra government is coming under unnecessary suspicion by not allowing the Bihar Police to perform their duties. The movement of officers doing official public service can’t be stopped by putting them in quarantine in these testing times.” Joining the chorus was his wife Amruta. She tweeted, “The manner in which #SushantSinghRajputDeathCase is being handled- I feel #Mumbai has lost humanity & is no more safe to live - for innocent, self respecting citizens.” The ruling Shiv Sena was quick to attack Ms. Fadnavis, reminding her that she was insulting the same Mumbai Police in front of whom she had performed her songs. Sena Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chutervedi tweeted, “I challenge these state BJP leaders&their political aspiration bearing family accusing @MumbaiPolice I challenge these state BJP leaders&their political aspiration bearing family accusing.” Yuva Sena secretary Varun Sardesai said that they were the same Mumbai Police who had organised cultural event ‘Umang’ where Ms. Fadnavis sang and danced. “How can she be so ungrateful?” he asked.
04 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘No party at Sushant’s home’||Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh on Monday said no party was held at the home of actor Sushant Singh Rajput on June 13, a day before he was found dead at his Bandra apartment. Mr. Singh also said no politician’s name has come up during the investigation by the Mumbai Police.
04 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Two months after Nisarga, all Raigad villages get power back||Two months after Cyclone Nisarga wreaked havoc in 1,976 villages of Raigad district, the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has finally restored power supply for 10.73 lakh affected consumers. The cyclone had made a landfall at Murud on June 3. Chief engineer Pushpa Chavan, Bhandup zone, said within the first week of the cyclone, they managed to repair the incoming lines at switching substations and restored the power for 50% consumers. “But the challenge was to work on the hilly terrains, where transportation was not possible. Our staff had to carry electric poles on their shoulders. Then came heavy rain which posed another challenge. Besides, many banyan trees had fallen on transformers during the cyclone, damaging supply lines. Exactly after a month, on July 3, electricity for 10.11 lakh consumers from 1,837 villages was restored,” she said. The last village to get the electricity back was Sangwad. Electric poles on a 2.5-km stretch from Thakrodi to Sangwad were damaged. The work of installing 12 poles and one transformer was finished on Sunday.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Puri, Kejriwal discuss projects||Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal met on Monday to discuss ongoing and pending development projects in the Capital, with the Aam Aadmi Party leader terming it a “very fruitful meeting”. Delhi Urban Development Minister Satyendar Jain, who recently recovered from COVID-19, also attended the meeting which was held at Mr. Puri’s office. “Very happy to receive Delhi Chief Minister Shri @ArvindKejriwal Ji & Shri @SatyendarJain ji in my office. We discussed several ongoing & pending projects for development of Delhi & look forward to working together for the welfare of citizens of Delhi [sic],” Mr. Puri tweeted.
04 August 2020||Pune,||State reports 10,221 recoveries; total cases cross 4.5 lakh mark||For the second consecutive day, Maharashtra reported higher recoveries than fresh cases, with 10,221 people being discharged on Monday, taking the total number of discharged till date to 2,87,030. As many as 8,968 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Monday as the State’s total cases reached 4,50,196. With 266 more deaths, the fatality toll rose to 15,842. With the State reporting its second-highest single-day recoveries on Monday, the number of active cases has come down to 1,47,018, with the recovery rate rising to 63.76%, said State Health Department officials. The State had recorded its highest single-day discharge of 10,333 patients on July 28. “Till date, of a total 22,98,723 laboratory samples, 4,41,228 (19.56%) have been tested positive, with nearly 43,000 samples across the State tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stands at 3.52%. Mumbai reported a relatively low surge of 970 cases to take its total case tally to 1,17,406, of whom only 20,528 are active. With 46 more deaths, the city’s death toll has climbed to 6,493. Pune district reported more than 1,700 new cases, and 60 fatalities as its total cases reached 96,669, while its death toll rose to 2,286. As per the district administration, the number of active cases is less than 29,000. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane district reported 10 deaths, taking the death toll to 1,088. As many as 447 new cases pushed the district’s total cases past the 35,000 mark. The Navi Mumbai civic body reported seven fatalities as its death total climbed to 469. With 322 new cases, its total case tally rose to 18,141. After days of reporting single-day spikes of more than 400 cases, the Kalyan-Dombivli civic body reported just 247 new cases on Monday as its total tally reached 23,594.
04 August 2020||Pune,||By Aug. 19, Pune to have 2 more jumbo facilities||Two jumbo facilities to ease the load on the city’s medical infrastructure would come up in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad by August 19, the district administration announced on Monday. Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao said work on the facilities at the College of Engineering Pune (CoEP) grounds and Annasaheb Magar grounds in Pimpri-Chinchwad had started. “The material deployment and manpower recruitment has been completed while the construction of peripheral roads, drainage systems and water facilities will be completed soon,” Mr. Rao said, adding that they would come up by August 19. He said the companies executing these facilities were competent and experienced, with one of them based in Delhi which had completed a 1000-bed mega facility in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The second had helped set-up a facility in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. With an average daily case surge of more than 1,700 in Pune city and 800 in Pimpri-Chinchwad, Mr. Rao said that authorities had been conducting proactive identification drives in areas under both civic bodies. Pune city’s total case tally has gone past 57,000 of which more than 18,000 are active, with nearly 1,400 fatalities reported thus far. Pimpri-Chinchwad’s total tally has exceeded 23,000, with more than 6,000 active cases. The PCMC has reported nearly 400 deaths. Meanwhile, Pune District Collector Naval Kishore Ram refuted suggestions that around 400 suspected Covid-19 deaths in Pune city during July had apparently been ‘unaccounted’ for. Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol had tweeted about this.  “While we are already conducting a thorough inquiry, this seems highly improbable,” clarified Mr. Ram.
04 August 2020||Jalalabad,||29 killed in IS raid on Afghan prison||At least 29 people have been killed in a raid on an Afghan prison claimed by the Islamic State group, officials said Monday, as the country waited to see if a government ceasefire with the Taliban would rupture after its formal expiration. Fighting was still raging at the jail in the eastern city of Jalalabad, where some 1,700 IS and Taliban inmates were being held. The IS’s news outlet Amaq said its fighters were behind the raid, which saw hundreds of inmates escape before many of them were recaptured. IS not part of truce The ongoing attack was Afghanistan’s most violent incident since the Taliban and Afghan security forces held a three-day ceasefire over the Id festival which ended on Sunday. The IS was not part of that truce which Afghan authorities hope will pave the way for peace talks with the Taliban as soon as this week. Under a deal signed by the Taliban and the United States in February, the “intra-Afghan” talks were slated to start in March, but were delayed amid political infighting in Kabul and as an agreed prisoner swap dragged on. Both Kabul and the Taliban have signalled they could be ready to start talks after Id, and the Afghan government on Sunday offered to extend the ceasefire. The biggest hurdle to talks starting is a contentious prisoner swap stipulated under the U.S.-Taliban deal. Under the exchange, Kabul is meant to free around 5,000 Taliban prisoners in return for 1,000 Afghan security personnel held captive by the insurgents. The National Security Council said Sunday that more than 4,900 inmates have been freed, and the Taliban last week said they had already met their side of the commitment. Afghan authorities however have refused to free hundreds of Taliban inmates accused of serious crimes. A gathering of Afghan elders will decide their fate on August 7 in Kabul, President Ashraf Ghani’s spokesman said. In Jalalabad, Nangarhar Governor’s spokesman Attaullah Khogyani said that gunman remained holed up at the prison a day after the raid began. He said 29 people had been killed so far, though the toll was expected to rise. He said that special forces had so far cleared four floors of a five-storey building outside the prison where several attackers had been holed up since Sunday night. Killing of commander The raid came a day after the country’s intelligence agency announced the killing of a top IS commander near Jalalabad. Assadullah Orakzai was involved in several deadly attacks against Afghan security forces, the National Director of Security said on Saturday. Nangarhar province has seen some deadly IS attacks this year including a May 12 suicide bomb that killed 32 mourners at a funeral for a police commander. The IS attacks continue despite government officials claiming last year that the group’s Afghan branch had been completely defeated in Nangarhar. Some local officials have, however, cautioned that elements of the group remained. The province provided IS with its first foothold in the country in 2015.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pune firm gets nod for vaccine trials||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has given approval to the Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune, to conduct Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the Oxford University-Astra Zeneca COVID-19 vaccine (COVISHIELD). “This will hasten the development of the COVID-19 vaccine,” said a senior Health Ministry official on Monday. The Ministry said in a statement that while the country reported over 50,000 new cases in the past 24 hours, the case fatality rate (CFR) continued to be low. Low fatality rate “India currently has a CFR of 2.11%, which is among the lowest in the world. This can be attributed to the well conceived and effectively implemented strategy of ‘test, track and treat’, which has guided the COVID management in the country,” it noted. As per figures released by the Ministry on Monday, the country has seen more than 40,574 patients recovering in 24 hours, which takes the total recoveries to 11,86,203 and the recovery rate to 65.77%. “With improving daily recovery numbers, the gap between the recovered cases and the active cases has increased to more than 6 lakh. Presently, it is 6,06,846. This means the actual active case load is 5,79,357 and all are under medical supervision,” the statement said. The Health Ministry also announced the use of the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN), an innovative technological solution aimed at strengthening immunisation supply chain systems across the country. “This is being implemented under the National Health Mission (NHM), to get real-time information on vaccine stocks and flows, and storage temperatures across all cold chain points in the country. This system has been used with the requisite customization during the COVID pandemic for ensuring continuation of the essential immunisation services and protecting our children and pregnant mothers against vaccine preventable diseases,’’ noted the Ministry release. It stated that eVIN enabled real-time monitoring of stocks and storage temperature of the vaccines kept in multiple locations across the country. “eVIN has reached 32 States and Union Territories (UTs) and will soon be rolled out in the remaining States and UTs of Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Ladakh and Sikkim. At present, 23,507 cold chain points across 585 districts of 22 States and 2 UTs routinely use the eVIN technology. Over 41,420 vaccine cold chain handlers have been introduced to digital record-keeping by training them on eVIN. Nearly 23,900 electronic temperature loggers have been installed on vaccine cold chain equipment for accurate temperature review of vaccines in storage,’’ said the Ministry.
04 August 2020||Geneva,||There may never be a silver bullet for COVID-19: WHO||The World Health Organization warned Monday that there might never be a “silver bullet” for COVID-19, despite the rush to discover effective vaccines. The WHO urged governments and citizens to focus on doing the known basics, such as testing, contact tracing, maintaining physical distancing and wearing a mask in order to suppress the pandemic, which has upended normal life around the globe and triggered a devastating economic crisis. “We all hope to have a number of effective vaccines that can help prevent people from infection,” WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a virtual press conference. “However, there’s no silver bullet at the moment — and there might never be. “For now, stopping outbreaks comes down to the basics of public health and disease control. The virus has killed nearly 6,90,000 people and infected at least 18.1 million since the outbreak emerged in Wuhan in China last December, according to a tally from official sources compiled by AFP. Probing virus’ origins The WHO began pressing China in early May to invite in its experts to help investigate the animal origins of COVID-19. The UN health agency sent an epidemiologist and an animal health specialist to Beijing on July 10 to lay the groundwork for a probe aimed at identifying how the virus entered the human species. Their scoping mission is now complete, said Mr. Tedros. “The WHO advance team that travelled to China has now concluded their mission to lay the groundwork for further joint efforts to identify the virus origins,” he said. “WHO and Chinese experts have drafted the terms of reference for the studies and programme of work for an international team, led by WHO. “The international team will include leading scientists and researchers from China and around the world. “Epidemiological studies will begin in Wuhan to identify the potential source of infection of the early cases. “Evidence and hypotheses generated through this work will lay the ground for further, longer-term studies.”
04 August 2020||London,||N. Irish Nobel winner John Hume dead||John Hume, the Northern Irish politician who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1998 for his pivotal role in ending decades of violence in the British province, has died aged 83, his family announced on Monday. Mr. Hume, the former leader of the mainly Catholic Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP), shared the Nobel with David Trimble of the Ulster Unionist Party after the pair helped forge the 1998 Good Friday peace agreement. It helped to end three decades of bloody strife in Northern Ireland between the largely Catholic nationalist community who want to reunify with Ireland and Protestant unionists who want to remain part of Britain.  A noderate voice Mr. Hume had been suffering from dementia and had been in the care of a nursing home in Londonderry, where he was born. A consistently moderate voice during a conflict that killed almost 3,600 people, he helped lead the cross-community peace process that culminated in the landmark 1998 deal reached by Belfast, Dublin and London. Irish Prime Minister Micheal Martin said it was “impossible to properly express the scale and significance of John Hume’s life”. “He was one of the towering figures of Irish public life of the last century. His vision and tenacity saved this country,” he said. Northern Ireland’s First Minister Arlene Foster, leader of the pro-British Democratic Unionist Party, called Hume “a giant in Irish nationalism”. Born in the Northern Irish city and republican stronghold of Londonderry in 1937, Mr. Hume joined the province’s civil rights movement in the late 1960s as Catholics demanded equality in housing, voting and other issues. As elected representative He was elected to Northern Ireland’s Parliament as an independent lawmaker, becoming a founding member of the SDLP in 1970, before later serving as a member of the European Parliament and then Britain’s House of Commons. As the province’s peace process began to progress in the 1990s with several ceasefires by the Irish Republic Army (IRA), Mr. Hume worked to engage U.S. politicians. “The answer to difference is to respect it,” he summarised in his Nobel acceptance speech in December 1998. “I want to see Ireland as an example to men and women everywhere of what can be achieved by living for ideals, rather than fighting for them, and by viewing each and every person as worthy of respect and honour.”
04 August 2020||Moscow,||Mass production of vaccine in 2021: Russia||Russia said Monday that it aims to launch mass production of a COVID-19 vaccine next month and turn out “several million” doses per month by next year. The country is pushing ahead with several vaccine prototypes and one trialled by the Gamaleya institute in Moscow has reached advanced stages of development and is about to pass state registration, officials said. “We are very much counting on starting mass production in September,” Industry Minister Denis Manturov said in an interview published by state news agency TASS. “We will be able to ensure production volumes of several hundred thousand a month, with an eventual increase to several million by the start of next year,” he said, adding that one developer is preparing production technology at three locations in central Russia. The head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund, which finances the trials, said he expects official registration of the vaccine to be complete “within ten days.” “If this happens in the next ten days, we will be ahead not just of the United States but other countries too, it will be the first registered coronavirus vaccine,” RDIF chief Kirill Dmitriev said in televised remarks. Another vaccine, developed by Siberia-based Vektor lab, is currently undergoing clinical trials and two more will begin human testing within the next two months, Health Minister Mikhail Murashko said on Saturday. Gamaleya’s vaccine is a so-called viral vector vaccine, meaning it employs another virus to carry the DNA encoding the needed immune response into cells. Gamaleya’s vaccine is based on the adenovirus, a similar technology to the vaccine prototype developed by China’s CanSino, currently in the advanced stage of clinical trials.
04 August 2020||Beijing,||U.S. harassing Chinese researchers: Beijing||China on Monday accused the United States of “monitoring, harassing and willfully detaining” Chinese students and researchers in the United States. Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin’s comments follow the denial of a bail request in California for a university researcher accused of lying about her ties to China’s military and governing Communist Party to gain access to the U.S.  Mr. Wang also criticised the Trump administration for imposing sanctions on a major paramilitary organisation in the country’s western Xinjiang region and on two officials for alleged human rights abuses against ethnic and religious minorities. Mr. Wang said China had no intention of helping Juan Tang escape from the United States but did not comment on the charges against her. “For some time, the U.S., with ideological prejudice, keeps monitoring, harassing and willfully detaining Chinese students and researchers, and making presumptions of guilt against Chinese researchers,” Mr. Wang said. “The U.S. actions have seriously violated the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese citizens and severely disrupted the normal cultural and personnel exchanges between China and the U.S., which amounts to outright political persecution,” he said. In denying bail, U.S. Magistrate Judge Deborah Barnes said Ms. Tang, 37, would have reason to leave the country if released. Ms. Tang has been held without bail since July 23 when she was arrested after she left the Chinese Consulate in San Francisco to seek medical care for her asthma.
04 August 2020||Beijing/Hong Kong,||Trump gives Microsoft 45 days to clinch deal||A potential shotgun wedding to Microsoft Corp for TikTok’s U.S. operations provoked an outcry on Chinese social media as well as criticism from a prominent Chinese investor in TikTok owner ByteDance. The U.S. tech giant formally declared its interest on Sunday after President Donald Trump, who has cited national security risks posed by the Chinese-owned short video app, reversed course on a planned ban and gave the two firms 45 days to come to a deal. The proposed acquisition of parts of TikTok, which boasts 100 million U.S. users, would offer Microsoft a rare opportunity to become a major competitor to social media giants such as Facebook Inc and Snap Inc. Microsoft which owns the social media network LinkedIn for professional workers, is also seeking to buy TikTok’s Canadian, Australian and New Zealand interests. Crumbling bilateral ties ByteDance has not publicly confirmed the sale talks. But in an internal letter to staff on Monday seen by Reuters, the company’s founder and CEO Zhang Yiming said the firm had started talks with a tech company it did not identify to clear the way “for us to continue offering the TikTok app in the U.S.” But clinching a deal — potentially worth billions of dollars and a lightning rod for crumbling U.S-China relations — that will satisfy all parties will be a tall order. Mr. Zhang’s letter to staff also said ByteDance did not agree with the stance taken by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), which scrutinizes deals for national security risks, that it must fully divest TikTok'’ U.S. operations. “We disagree with this CFIUS conclusion,” the letter said but added: “...we understand the decision in the current macro environment.” The United States has been “stretching the concept of national security”, presuming that companies are guilty without evidence, China’s Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin told a briefing after being asked about U.S. actions against Chinese software companies.
04 August 2020||Colombo,||‘Smuggler’ cat escapes Sri Lanka’ prison||A cat detained at Sri Lanka’s main prison while allegedly trying to smuggle drugs and cell phone SIM cards has escaped, media reports said on Monday. The feline was detected by jail intelligence officials on Saturday at the high-security Welikada Prison, a police official said. He said nearly 2 g of heroin, two SIM cards and a memory chip were found in a small plastic bag tied around the cat’s neck. But it escaped on Sunday from a prison room where it was kept, the Aruna newspaper said. The prison had reported an increase in incidents of people throwing small packets of drugs, cell phones and phone chargers over the walls in recent weeks. Sri Lanka is battling a major drug problem, with some anti-narcotics detectives also implicated in selling confiscated drugs. Police last week seized an eagle, allegedly used by drug traffickers to distribute narcotics in a suburb of Colombo.
04 August 2020||Beijing,||China suspends treaty with New Zealand||China suspended Hong Kong’s extradition treaty with New Zealand on Monday amid a row with Western nations protesting against a tough new security law that Beijing imposed on the city. New Zealand is the latest to join a string of Western powers — including Canada, Britain, Australia and Germany — that have suspended extradition treaties with Hong Kong since the controversial law was introduced in late June. China has already hit back by suspending Hong Kong’s extradition treaties with Canada, Britain and Australia. “New Zealand’s practices... grossly interfere in China’s internal affairs,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said, announcing Beijing’s decision to suspend any judicial cooperation with Wellington. New Zealand has also tightened restrictions on military and dual-use exports to Hong Kong. Its latest travel advice to Kiwi citizens in the territory said the security law had led to an increased risk of arrest for activities such as protests, with the possibility of being removed to mainland China to face a maximum penalty of life imprisonment. The United States has decided to rescind Hong Kong’s special trading privileges after the new law was enacted.
04 August 2020||Stockholm,||Stockholm, Aug 3, 2020 (AFP) -||The shooting at the weekend of a 12-year-old girl in Stockholm sparked outrage on Monday and reignited a debate around a rise in gang-related violence. According to reports, the girl was not the target in the “drive-by” shooting at a restaurant and the gunmen had been aiming at two members of a criminal gang instead.AFP
04 August 2020||Paris,||Paris, Aug 3, 2020 (AFP) -||Facebook said on Monday it had permanently banned French comedian Dieudonne, a convicted anti-Semite, from its platform and from Instagram for content it said mocked Holocaust victims. It also said some of his posts used “dehumanising terms against Jews”. The comedian had his YouTube channel cut off for similar reasons in June by Google.AFP
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||A year on, Article 370 and Kashmir mythmaking||While the long-standing ideological commitment of the Bharatiya Janata Party to undo Article 370 of the Indian Constitution is why Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) was stripped of its special status as well as Statehood making it a simmering cauldron of discontent, our collective mythmaking about Kashmir is the deeper reason for what the former State has become today. Kashmir has been a favourite site of our national mythmaking; myths that have over the years assumed larger-than-life manifestations in our collective psyche. Kashmir has most things that popular myths are made of: mesmerising beauty, cross-border terror, deep states and their agents, war and heroism. Clearly, myths about Kashmir are not created by the right wing alone but by successive Indian governments over several decades, enthusiastically embellished by a vibrant, popular culture. Demonising Kashmir The most prominent among them is regarding the ills of Articles 370 and 35A of the Indian Constitution. Home Minister Amit Shah’s statements last year on the floor of Parliament that Article 370 was the root cause of terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir is a widely accepted sentiment notwithstanding the fact that there is little material basis to it — neither was Article 370 responsible for terrorism in the Valley nor has its removal ensured a reduction in terrorism. If anything, Article 370 continues to remain very much a part of a solution to the Kashmir conundrum. The constitutional provision is also held responsible for ruining J&K, stalling its development and preventing proper health care and blocking industries. Once again, these arguments lack merit and evidence. J&K, as a matter of fact, has been doing much better than most other Indian States and one of the reasons for this was the land reforms carried out in the State in the early 1950s which was possible precisely because of the presence of Article 370. For sure, the educational and health sectors in J&K should be further improved (as should be in the rest of the country), but the reason for the underperformance of the educational and health sectors in Kashmir is not Article 370. While private enterprises could set up industries in the former State on leased land, as they have over the years, acquisition of land by public sector enterprises from outside the State was never a problem. Private investors do not set up shop in Kashmir due to militancy which is a product of an existing conflict; not because of Articles 370 or 35A. In any case, Articles 370 or 35A did not start the Kashmir conflict; if anything, they played a role in containing it. Funding truths The oft-cited counter-argument is that if J&K is doing better than the other Indian States, it is because of the massive amounts of funds provided by New Delhi. That is the second myth. How subsidised by New Delhi was J&K? Did ‘our’ taxpayer money actually go into sustaining J&K’s relatively better position among the Indian States? Well if it did, it would weaken the argument that ‘Kashmir needed to be developed’. The argument is not that Kashmir did not receive funding from New Delhi. It did, but not massive funds as it is often made out to be. Economist and former State Finance Minister of J&K Haseeb Drabu makes a distinction between funds that went to the J&K government and those that went into economic development in the State. The J&K government’s revenue deficit has traditionally been taken care of by New Delhi: J&K, for historical reasons, has had a bloated bureaucracy in comparison to other States and their salaries and pensions have been financed by the central government. But that does precious little for the State’s economy or the general population. Then there are routine transfers of funds from the Centre to J&K just as transfers take place from New Delhi to other States. Finally, J&K also received funds thanks to its status as a special category State which again is a case with several other Indian States. Put differently, J&K’s better performance in comparison to most other Indian States is at least partly because of Article 370, and its well-being is not necessarily a result of New Delhi’s economic packages. Let us take the third myth about Kashmir, one that is repeated by politicians and scholars alike: ‘Development can defeat militancy and insurgency.’ Notwithstanding the fact that a cash-strapped country such as ours has inherent limitations on how much development assistance it can provide to J&K over other States, the reality may well be that development may not lead to pacification of the conflict in Kashmir. The Kashmir conflict is a function of complex historical grievances, politico-ethnic demands, increasing religious radicalisation, and Pakistan’s unrelenting interference in the Kashmir Valley. It would be simplistic to imagine that such a multi-layered and complex conflict can be resolved by the stroke of a pen effecting a constitutional change or providing an economic package. A cursory reading of the vast literature on conflict resolution would testify to that. The deep impact This overwhelming mythmaking on Kashmir has had unfortunate implications on how we understand and treat Kashmir and Kashmiris. The rare political unity in the rest of the country supporting the August 5 decision, especially on Article 370, was a function of this mythmaking. The popular cultural articulations about Kashmir and Kashmiris in the media, films, music and other cultural representations have further strengthened these myths. That “Kashmir needs to be reunited with the rest of India” has been a powerful claim made by such representations and political articulations: no matter Kashmir was easily India’s most securitised State with various central institutions and agencies undermining not only what was left of Article 370 prior to August last year but also impeding the elected government’s power in the former State. Yet another popular perception about ‘Kashmiris as troublemakers and sympathisers of terror’ has led to a noticeable increase in the mistreatment of Kashmiri Muslims in the rest of the country. How little empathy exists in the country today towards the plight of the Kashmiris (including mainstream politicians) is a direct outcome of such mythmaking. Hard realities This mythmaking about Kashmir has today led us to a situation wherein we have undone the very basis of a potential process of conflict resolution in Kashmir. If indeed Article 370 was a stumbling block in bringing Kashmir closer to the rest of India, a source of extremism and separatism in the Kashmir Valley, and an avenue for Pakistan to gain a foothold in the Valley, has the removal of the special status brought Kashmir closer to India, reduced the sources of extremism and separatism, and undermined Pakistani influence in the Valley? Most indicators of violence in Kashmir have shown an uptick despite the double lockdown that Kashmir is under today. Mainstream Kashmiri politicians today are as unhappy and disgruntled as the separatist politicians and the restive youngsters in South Kashmir. And Pakistan has left no stone unturned to aid and abet violence in the Valley. For Rawalpindi, all bets are off on Kashmir. India’s national interest hardly benefits from such a toxic situation. New Delhi’s Kashmir policy today is caught between a rock and a hard place: there is no indication that the path that it chose in August 2019 would lead to peace and development in the Valley, nor can it revert to pre-2019 August status quo which would be political suicide for the BJP. Happymon Jacob teaches national security at the School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||The conservative challenge to Hindutva||The proposed ceremony to lay the foundation stone for the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya on August 5 has generated three broad responses: euphoria from supporters; outrage from the Left, Ambedkarites and secularists; and strong disapproval on procedural grounds from eminent Hindu saints. While the first two responses were expected, it is dissenting voices emanating from Hindu religious authorities that merit attention. The accusations of the Dharmagurus deal with the emerging process of de-ritualisation of the Hindu religion by Hindutva in the following ways. One, many Hindu Dharmagurus, including a Shankaracharya, believe that August 5 is an inauspicious day for the ceremony. According to them, astrologically, and in consonance with established religious practices, the second day (Dwitiya) of the dark fortnight (Krishnapaksh) of the Indian month of Bhadrapad (July-August) is considered inauspicious. Besides, gods are supposed to be resting during this month and must not be called upon. Despite this, the Bharatiya Janata Party government has decided to go ahead with the ceremony on this date. Two, last year, before the Lok Sabha election, in open disregard of established traditions, the Ardh Kumbh was celebrated as the Kumbh in Prayagraj (Allahabad) with fanfare. Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed the populist act of washing the feet of sanitation workers. While the act got broad political applause, the Dharamagurus were pained to see the Kumbh being celebrated without auspicious sanction by unique astrological combinations. De-ritualising Hinduism These instances signify the growing process of de-ritualisation of the Hindu religion, primarily by the trustees of Hindutva, thereby pitting Hindutva against a section of religious authorities. Hindutva’s response to such criticism has been to invoke the paradigm of subaltern religiosity wherein disregard for the ritual domain is an accepted practice since the Bhakti movement. Doing so not only labels the dissenting Brahmanical religious authorities as obscurantist and ultra-orthodox, but also magnifies Hindutva’s appeal among the subaltern masses, the numerical majority. The popular interplay of religion and politics is not new. Its votaries include Lokmanya Tilak, who started the Ganapati festival for political mobilisation against British rule; M.K. Gandhi, who used religious imagery during the freedom struggle; and Swami Karpatri Maharaj of the Ram Rajya Parishad in independent India. On the global level, political Islam does the same. This has been the position of Liberation theology too. Hindutva seems to follow the above template but transcends it in practice. The issue here is not whether it uses religion in politics or not; rather, it is the status of religion in the political framework of Hindutva. In the case of old Indian votaries at the national level, and political Islamists and liberation theologists at the global level, the status of religion is either superior to or on a par with the political. Nowhere do we find religion to be inferior to the political in these cases. The old votaries invoked religion in political affairs by reinterpreting the sacred texts, but without questioning their sanctity. However, driven by the incentive and appeal of subaltern religiosity, Hindutva pushes the horizon when the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) argues that texts like the Ramcharitmanas and Manusmriti should be edited in the light of subaltern sensibilities. For instance, Amir Chand of Sanskar Bharti, an RSS outfit, stated, “In collaboration with the Ministry of Culture, we are debating the removal of portions from the Manusmriti which are anti-Dalit and anti-women and often quoted in arguments against Hindu scriptures.” Similarly, Balmukund Pandey, the head of Akhil Bharatiya Itihas Sankalan Yojana, another RSS outfit, announced a plan for modifying the Ramayana to weed out verses that are not in sync with the ideal image of Ram. These endeavours circumvent the traditional Hindu framework of multiple interpretations of texts and traditions. For instance, the Bhagavad Gita has undergone radical interpretations at the hands of Bankim Chandra Chatterjee, Tilak, Vivekananda, Gandhi, etc., thus becoming a creative tool to mobilise the masses. However, the sanctity of the text was never sought to be altered; the political game stopped at interpretation. Political Hindutva has no such restraint. A new hierarchy This unique characteristic signifies a new hierarchy between religion and politics. Here, religion is not only relegated to an inferior position but has also been effectively vanquished and used as a handmaid by the political. Therefore, the dominant other of Hindutva is not just the secular, the Left, the Ambedkarites and the assertive religious minorities. In fact, in its populist avatar, Hindutva finds it easier to tame these rivals. These oppositional discourses suit its political project. The real other that contemporary Hindutva shies away from acknowledging, but is perpetually wary of, is internal to the discourse: the Dharmacharyas and their devotees. Hindutva seeks to show them their marginal place in the age of subaltern religiosity. However, in doing so it faces a challenge as it ends up alienating a section of the core support base. Therefore, the real question in the event at Ayodhya is how far Hindutva is willing to up the ante. The brazenness with which it is proceeding with the programme while disregarding ritual objections ironically places it on the same page as the Ambedkarites, who oppose Brahminical ritualism. Yet, Hindutva is taking this bet because this suits its populist appeal. The more it de-ritualises religion, the stronger is its appeal among the subaltern. The logical end of this quest could only be a religion without rituals — a handmaid which would dance to the tune of the political. In that state, the rational approach of political economy would be on a slippery ground as a religio-cultural framework without the restraints of rituals would be malleable enough to find a resonance with the majority. This explains the counter-intuitive moves of Hindutva to disregard the dissent of the conservative Dharmacharyas, whose prominence denies the saffron an exclusive claim to the religious sphere. Without marginalising them, Hindutva would neither vanquish the religious, nor employ it popularly to find resonance with the subaltern and the technocratic youth. The latter two are not religiously conservative in orientation. Though it may sound ironical, at present the most formidable challenge that Hindutva faces is not from the secular forces, but rather from the conservative discourse from within. However, Hindu conservatism is on the retreat. This has been primarily due to the addition of two new constituencies within the fold of populist Hindutva: one, a thicker chunk of lower OBCs and Dalits and, two, a post-globalisation middle class looking for rapid disruptive change. The first constituency was never deeply interested in Hindu conservatism as it wasn’t a beneficiary of it. The second has actually made a generational shift from a conservative base and, in the words of Danish political scientist Michael Bang Petersen, shares the mindset for a “need for chaos”. It seeks disruption while paying lip service to conservatism. Nevertheless, Hindu conservatism is the last bastion that right-wing populism seeks to vanquish effectively. Sajjan Kumar is a political analyst associated with Peoples Pulse
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||A change that hit federalism, inclusion||Ever since Article 370 that broadly defined Jammu and Kashmir’s relationship with the rest of India was upended and a new framework introduced last year, political activity in the erstwhile State has come to a complete halt. In the last one year, the reorganisation of the erstwhile State was defended on the ground that it would lead to greater integration of J&K with the rest of the country. In a democracy, the concept of integration has to be evaluated from a multi-faceted system and lens, which includes the emotional aspect as well. And in that respect, sadly, the effect on the ground of the cataclysmic change of August 5, 2019 has yielded the opposite effect. J&K seems to be stuck in a morass.  First, the continued detention of political prisoners, particularly those who have been legislators and sworn in by the Constitution of India, shows that if democratic rights are not even available to the voices that speak on behalf of the Indian Union — voices that were more loyal than the king — how would ordinary people even think of enjoying them? Incidentally, this change was introduced on August 5, which also happens to be the birth date of arguably the foremost scholar (and activist) on J&K, Balraj Puri; he passed away in 2014. The two core ideas that he consistently advocated were: peace would not ensue in J&K without guaranteeing respect for the democratic rights for its people; to ensure that the most important tool would be a rigorous pursuit of federalism within the State. Both of these are particularly salient in the present context. Key to integration In his best-selling book, Kashmir Towards Insurgency , published in the early 1990s, Balraj Puri presciently wrote that there was a persistent policy of denying Kashmir a right to democracy; one-party rule had been imposed on the State through manipulation of elections; Opposition parties had been prevented from growing, and elementary civil liberties and human rights had been refused to the people. “This refusal to integrate Kashmir within the framework of Indian democracy has proved to be the single greatest block to the process of Kashmir’s emotional and political integration with the rest of India.” He repeatedly argued that the feeling of hopelessness and a threat to identity exacerbated by a political vacuum create a breeding ground for militancy. He emphasised that a prerequisite to emotionally integrate Kashmir with the rest of India was to ensure that the people of the State enjoy the same democratic rights and constitutional protections as the people across the country. Lessons of the last seven decades in J&K are crystal clear. The more democratic rights we give to the people of J&K, the more they feel a part of the Indian Union. The present phase of political dormancy reminds me of the early 1990s when the Kashmir Valley was perpetually under curfew. It was only after the channels of communications with everyone were opened that the strength of India’s democracy was exhibited. It was also realised that respect for human rights should be a key component of the Kashmir policy, as this and upholding national interest go hand in hand. These lessons were learnt the hard way with a lot of sacrifices, of lives, including those of ordinary Kashmiris and security personnel. Asymmetry and federalism The last year should worry the entire country, as the constitutional change was an attack on Indian federalism. The idea that the presence of Article 370 weakened the Indian Union is erroneous and is contrary to a basic understanding of democracy and lessons learnt from the experiments of Indian federalism. J&K’s separate flag and Constitution within the Indian Union represented asymmetry, which is integral to the Indian federal experience. It should be seen in the context of an urge for recognition of identity within the vast ambit of the liberal and accommodative spirit of the Indian Union. There is plenty of evidence to suggest that such asymmetry has strengthened the Indian Union and led to better policy implementation and participation in political processes. In this respect, the multi-regional and ethnic J&K’s quest for autonomy should be seen through the broader lens of a multi-layered appetite for political, economic and social empowerment of all the three regions. J&K remains a microcosm of India’s diversity. J&K’s immense geographical, ethnic and religious diversity should be the source of strength rather than seen or viewed as a liability. On devolution I have always advocated, drawing from Balraj Puri’s life-long advocacy of the same, that the devolution of political power from Centre to J&K should not lead to political hegemony of any one region or political party; rather, it should be accompanied with a devolution of powers within J&K to reflect the former State’s divergent regional and ethnic urges. The institutional reconciliation of differences among these various shades of diversity is one of the prime components for a harmonious solution to the J&K imbroglio. Any devolution should have adequate federal checks and balances as accountability and transparency are at the heart of any successful federal democracy. Overcoming the setback Sadly, the decision, of August, 5, by the Indian Parliament has left everyone dissatisfied in J&K, including the people of Kargil within the separated Ladakh. It has only compounded the divide between J&K and the rest of the country that we, as a political class in J&K, had been assiduously trying to bridge for several decades, and at grave risk to our lives. As we complete a year of this new constitutional reality, the situation in J&K calls for serious introspection from all those who believe in an inclusive and accommodative idea of India. We need multiple bridges including those between J&K and the rest of the country and among the various communities and regions of the former State. In order to build these bridges we will need a greater multi-layered, institutionalised decentralisation and respect for democratic rights for the people of J&K. And in this respect the developments that ensued after August 5, 2019 have run contrary to both. M.Y. Tarigami is CPI(M) Central Committee Member, four-time Member of the J&K Legislative Assembly from Kulgam Constitutency, and President J&K – CITU
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||A big departure from the past||Sri Lanka’s parliamentary election, scheduled for August 5, is unique for three reasons. One, there is no festive atmosphere associated with campaigning due to COVID-19-related safety protocols. On the bright side, the restrictions have meant fewer hate speeches, according to the Centre for Monitoring Election Violence, a Colombo-based non-governmental body. Two, this is perhaps the first time in nearly 70 years that the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) and the United National Party (UNP) are no longer considered the principal forces. The Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP), a four-year-old party headed by Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, has occupied the space vacated by the SLFP. The UNP, which was in power mostly between January 2015 and November 2019, has suffered a split with large sections of the party rallying around the party’s candidate for the 2019 presidential election, Sajith Premadasa, under the banner of the Samagi Jana Balawegaya (United People’s Front). This seems to have given the SLPP an advantage, despite the dissatisfaction among some people over the management of the COVID-19 crisis. Three, importance is being accorded to the economic agenda in the manifestos of the Tamil National Alliance (TNA), led by veteran parliamentarian R. Sampanthan, and the Tamil Makkal Thesiya Koottani (TMTK, Tamil People’s National Alliance), led by former Chief Minister of the Northern Province, C.V. Wigneswaran. There are candidates from other parties in the fray too. In the Northern Province, Fisheries Minister Douglas Devananda, and chief of the Tamil National People’s Front, Gajendrakumar Ponnambalam, are seeking re-entry into Parliament through Jaffna. In the Eastern Province, commander-turned-rebel of the LTTE, Vinayagamoorthi Muraleetharan (Karuna Amman), and former Chief Minister of the Province, Sivanesathurai Chandrakanthan (Pillayan), are trying their luck in Ampara and Batticaloa, respectively. Political empowerment first At stake in the North and the East are 29 seats of the 196 electable berths in the 225 member-strong Parliament. For long, major parties representing Sri Lankan Tamils preferred to focus on political empowerment of the Tamils instead of socio-economic development of the two Provinces, regardless of the impact of the civil war and its aftermath on livelihoods. Despite reports of rampant drug addiction and alcoholism among Tamil youth in the post-war years, they turned a blind eye to the problem. Though included in the 2015 TNA manifesto, economic issues did not figure prominently. Now, in a significant departure from the past, the TNA and the TMTK have dealt with the economic agenda substantively in their manifestos, without diluting the importance of a political settlement to the ethnic issue. The TNA promises creation of an alternative economic order in the region, revival of cooperative societies, access to India through the Palaly airport and the Kankesanthurai harbour, and FDI from the Tamil diaspora and the international community. It has underscored the need for tackling drug and alcohol abuse. Apart from proposing the formation of two policy think-tanks and an action plan on education, the TMTK has stated the need to seek Tamil Nadu’s help in establishing handlooms and technology parks and conducting industrial innovation skill training. Pursuing the economic agenda The TNA and Mr. Wigneswaran, who was with the Alliance till the end of his term in October 2018, have rightly been at the receiving end for their failure on the economic front. When Mr. Wigneswaran was elected Chief Minister of the Northern Province in October 2013, expectations were high that the TNA-led Northern Provincial Council would herald a new beginning. But except for the completion of the first phase of the Palaly airport, renamed the Jaffna International Airport, before the 2019 presidential election, no major project took off in the region. The TNA and Mr. Wigneswaran’s priority was on political settlement, Constitution-making, justice and accountability. And in all these areas, progress was extremely modest. Perhaps, the criticism has forced them to take economic issues seriously. Though the campaign has not seen any major discussion on these issues, all those who get elected as representatives of the Tamils will have to ensure that the development agenda is pursued seriously. After all, the President is, in his own words, willing to be judged by his record on development. It is also up to the representatives to ensure that he honours his words. India too would be interested in participating in major development projects in the region. The Tamil parties should realise that their political bargaining power is tied to the economic progress of the Tamils. Otherwise, the goal of achieving dignity, equality and justice for Tamils will remain elusive. ramakrishnan.t@thehindu.co.in
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Profiteering during a pandemic||Soon after the government imposed a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19, prices of essential items shot up in several places across the country. The sudden demand for masks saw even an ordinary mask being sold at Rs. 150 a piece, though it turned cheaper weeks later when there was mass production. Slowly, as cases grew, reports were published of private hospitals overcharging patients, even after State governments capped COVID-19 treatment charges. In some private hospitals, patients were asked to pay lakhs even before being allotted beds. Even doctors working in these hospitals reported that they thought their patients were being fleeced. Compassion was nowhere to be seen. All that mattered was making money. For instance, after a patient’s family lodged a complaint with the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission that the patient had been overcharged, the Commission directed the private hospital where she had been admitted to refund Rs. 1.4 lakh of the Rs. 1.84 lakh charged for Personal Protection Equipment. The hospital was charging Rs. 7,000 a day for the cost of PPEs used by the doctors against the cap of Rs. 1,000 fixed by the West Bengal government. Not all patients who have been overcharged have been able to file complaints and received refunds, however. The cost of medicines too shot up. In Srinagar, Remdesivir was being sold for as much as Rs. 36,000 against the normal rate of Rs. 6,000. The poor could not afford the medicine and looked to government agencies for help. In some places, those who could afford it purchased more than the required quantity leading to shortage. In Mumbai, seven persons were arrested for selling a vial of injection of Remdesivir at Rs. 30,000 against the actual price of Rs. 5,400. Ambulance owners too chose to make good money in these pandemic times. For transporting patients up to a distance of about 10-15 km, they charged as much as Rs. 30,000 in Mumbai. For going to a hospital just 7 km away, a patient had to spend Rs. 8,000 in Pune. In Kolkata, patients were charged as much as Rs. 8,000 for a distance of 5 km, while in Hyderabad, transportation charges ranged between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 10,000 for a distance up to 10 km. During the lockdown, poor migrants who wanted to go home had to spend large amounts to hire vehicles. Buses operated by private agencies charged exorbitant fares. Most migrants could not afford these rates and had to trudge hundreds and hundreds of kilometres on foot. Many met with accidents and lost their lives in the process. Similar scenes of extortion were witnessed in December 1984 when hundreds of residents around the Union Carbide pesticide plant fled Bhopal to escape inhaling the poisonous gas that had leaked from the unit. Way back in 1897, the British enacted the Epidemic Diseases Act which empowered the government to implement any measures that would prevent the outbreak or spread of any disease. According to the law, anyone disobeying the orders of any public servant can be punished under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. However, this is not enough. Since exploiting the common man in such times has to be sternly dealt with, a provision ought to be incorporated in the Disaster Management Act of 2005 to make overcharging the public a punishable offence. There are several instances of the general public having been subjected to misery and agony in the months following enforcement of the lockdown; I have cited only a few. Denying admission in hospitals, refusing to bury the dead in cemeteries, etc. need to be made punishable offences. The horror stories of this pandemic give us an opportunity to do so.  M.P. Nathanael is Inspector General of Police (Retd), Central Reserve Police Force
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Time to unlock||At least two dozen politicians in Jammu and Kashmir remain in detention, some unnotified, a year after it was deprived of its Statehood and special constitutional status on August 5, 2019. Last week, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president and former Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti’s detention was formally extended by another three months under the J&K Public Safety Act, but several others remain restrained within their homes in Kashmir, which is now a Union Territory under the rule of Delhi. Last week again, the administration flat out denied before the Supreme Court that former Union Minister and Congress leader Saifuddin Soz was under detention, though he has been restrained from moving and speaking freely. He was allowed to visit his ailing sister but denied a meeting with his daughter by the police on Friday. Neither the J&K government nor the Centre has released a list or number of leaders who were detained last year. At least 16 National Conference and eight PDP leaders are under house arrest, according to these parties. Former IAS officer and chief of the J&K People’s Movement Shah Faesal and Awami Ittehad Party leader Engineer Rashid are in detention too. Peoples Conference (PC) chief Sajad Lone was released after 360 days in detention, last week. Two former Chief Ministers, Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah were released in March. The 2019 move of the Bharatiya Janata Party government at the Centre went beyond the strident Hindutva position against the special status of J&K by reorganising it as two Union Territories. The wisdom of the decisions remains an open question, though they refurbished the BJP’s claims of muscular nationalism. The dubious legislative route that the Centre took and the communication restrictions on the population that followed cast a shadow on India’s standing as a constitutional democracy. The judiciary — the J&K High Court and the Supreme Court — has not shown any alacrity to settle the constitutional and legal questions raised before it and in fact, appeared to privilege the Executive’s position in the last one year. Some scholars have linked the continuing Chinese aggression in Ladakh to the change in J&K’s status. The spirit of Indian federalism has been weakened. Mainstream politics in J&K has become impossible with leaders in detention and those released reportedly undertaking to stay away from any public discussion on J&K’s future. This is not a sustainable situation if India wants to protect its global reputation and uphold the faith of its own citizens. There are two steps the Centre can take to start a conversation with the people of J&K — release all political prisoners and restore its Statehood. These will be wise steps towards healing and progress in J&K.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Toxic brew||Once again, the scourge of illicit liquor has struck, this time in Punjab, killing more than 100 people and leaving many crippled. The victims, in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts, were sold hooch that apparently had a large amount of denatured alcohol. The State government, which is responsible for both excise and law and order, has sanctioned financial relief for the affected families, and suspended some policemen and officials in charge of excise enforcement. Wiser after the fact, the police claim that there was an inter-district racket in operation and made several arrests; on the other hand, the kith and kin of those who died say the illicit brew was peddled virtually in the open by small-time vendors, some of whom have now been arrested. There are echoes in the tragedy of last year’s two major incidents involving Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, and Assam, both witnessing large-scale loss of life. Moreover, there have been fatal outcomes during the COVID-19 pandemic, as people desperate for alcohol consumed hand sanitiser as a substitute, most recently in Andhra Pradesh. Almost every year, India’s moonshine market inflicts tremendous destruction in the form of blindness, tissue damage and death, as commercial alcohol becomes expensive for the less affluent, and corrupt bureaucracies allow that void to be filled by illicit liquor vendors who almost invariably use toxic methanol instead of ethanol. Policies that fail to contain illicit alcohol produce long-term health impacts, as people tend to consume brews that have higher concentrations of alcohol, or toxic substances such as methanol. This should be particularly alarming for Punjab, which continues to simultaneously battle significant levels of narcotic drug use. From a medical viewpoint, the availability of licit spirits that contain lower alcohol levels, combined with a sustained public health campaign to wean people away from the drinking habit and to warn them about the effects of contaminants are key interventions. Health communication about harm from alcohol is particularly relevant during the pandemic, since there is evidence of reduced immunity to viruses among those who are chronic alcohol consumers. As the World Health Organization points out, governments should regulate the quality of legal alcoholic drinks, while actively tracing and tracking illicit alcohol. This can be achieved only through cooperation from the community, particularly from women’s groups. Tragically, several States give low priority to revamping the excise administration and policing, paving the way for episodic death and misery. They must show determination to end the flow of toxic brews that kill scores almost every year. The capability of the health system in every district needs to be raised, to reduce the damage from methanol through immediate, simple detoxification therapies.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Welcomed in Peking||The young French rebels who have been flourishing Mao’s red book will not be happy over the warm recognition given to the French Government’s delegate in Peking recently. M. Andre Bettencourt, the Minister for Planning, was received by Mao Tse-tung himself and has reported that he found the leader in better health than he was six years ago. It will be recalled that at that time Mao was in the shadows as a result of the failure of the Great Leap Forward and the subsequent famine and that he has since established his supremacy with the help of the Red Guards and their cultural revolution. M. Bettencourt says, however, that he found China’s leaders “concerned at the possibility of a new war” and that economic decentralisation had been undertaken with this in mind. The French Minister got the impression that the Chinese wanted to forge new links with France. Mr. Chou Enlai has publicly stated that countries like China were menaced by the superpowers who “always bully the small and the weak and contend for world hegemony.” The Chinese feel that, if France continues the foreign policy of General de Gaulle, which they conceive as a policy of independence and neutrality, there would be a basis for co-operation.
04 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Three COVID-19 tests within a week of arrival in the UAE||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) is planning to conduct three COVID-19 tests on every player and support staff member of all eight Indian Premier League (IPL) teams within a week of arriving in the United Arab Emirates for the league’s rescheduled edition starting September 19.  The Hindu has learnt that according to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) — the final draft is set to be shared with the franchises later this week — in addition to a mandatory PCR test “within 96 hours preceding departure”, every player and support staff member will have to get three negative test results during the week-long quarantine in the UAE to be allowed into the bio-secure bubble. “There will be three tests: on the day of arrival, on the third and the sixth day. Once you get the third negative result, only then will an individual be allowed to enter the bubble,” revealed an IPL insider. “After that, everyone in the bubble will be tested every fifth day till the tournament is over.”  The BCCI is planning to make training facilities available to all eight teams for pre-tournament camps in the UAE from August 27. Barring Chennai Super Kings, cricketers from other teams confirmed to The Hindu that they have been instructed to be prepared for departure on August 19 or 20. Only CSK cricketers have been informed “to be ready to leave on August 10”, should the need arise. The date of departure for most teams is in sync with serving the mandatory week-long quarantine before beginning on-field preparations on August 27. It is understood that the SOPs and fixtures will be formally shared with the franchises only after the BCCI receives the Central government’s letter of approval, which is expected “any time”. The operational rules — specifying the training schedule, meticulously prepared by IPL staff in association with the event management partner — will also be sent to all the franchises. “We just hope that there will be no favouritism when it comes to stuff like the number of training sessions under lights allotted to teams,” said a franchise official.
04 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Domestic cricket coaches face uncertain times||State cricket associations will now have to adopt a cautious approach when engaging coaches and support staff who suffer from major ailments or are over the age of 60. This follows the BCCI on Sunday issuing a 100-page document ‘Guidelines for resumption of cricket activities’, which details the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for State associations and the National Cricket Academy (NCA) in the wake of COVID-19. Rahul Dravid, Head of Cricket, NCA, is likely to head the COVID-19 Task Force. “Individuals who are over 60 … support staff, umpires, ground staff, and those … with underlying medical conditions such as diabetes, lung disease, weakened immunity, etc. should be considered vulnerable … All such individuals should be discouraged from participating in camp activities until suitable guidelines [from] the Government,” states the document. This puts a question mark over the participation of renowned coaches such as Chandrakant Pandit (diabetic, Madhya Pradesh), Karsan Ghavri (69 years old, Saurashtra), Arun Lal (65, Bengal) and Dav Whatmore (66, Baroda) in pre-season training. “The apex council later this week will discuss the issue in detail about whether to ask Whatmore to join the camp should we decide to resume,” Baroda CA joint secretary Ajit Lele told The Hindu on Monday. Age-fudging issue The BCCI has offered amnesty for cricketers who voluntarily disclose by September 15 that they have tampered with their birthdate proof. It also announced that it will bar cricketers from age-group tournaments in India if found guilty of age-fudging “either by the State association or BCCI”. “Age fraud is a serious matter and is detrimental to the health of the sport. Many youngsters who are supposed to be playing in a particular age group fail to make it owing to age fraud,” Dravid said in a statement. “With the BCCI taking stern actions to curb this, it is only advisable for the players to come forward and abide by the directives.”
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||Ministry forms five zonal talent hunt committees||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Monday said the government is riding on “mainstay” football to make India a sporting powerhouse and announced the formation of five zonal committees to hunt talent across the country. Rijiju said the initiative, to be funded by the Sports Authority of India under the Khelo India Programme, in partnership with the All India Football Federation, will be the “most aggressive exercise” ever done. The committees will be formed in the next few months. “We will form five talent scouting committees in the next few months, one for each zone — north, south, east, west and northeast — under Khelo India Programme of SAI in partnership with AIFF,” Rijiju said during a virtual programme organised by Football Delhi to mark the 36th birthday of India captain Sunil Chhetri. “We cannot go with the usual approach, we have to go deeper in a professional way. It will be the most aggressive exercise we have ever done. We have to find out talented children below 12 years from every nook and corner of the country.” He said the talent hunt exercise was conceptualised with an aim that India will qualify for the World Cup and Olympics in the next 10-15 years.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Malolan not to travel for CPL||Former Tamil Nadu cricketer Malolan Rangarajan will not travel to take up his assignment as the assistant coach for St. Kitts and Nevis Patriots in the Caribbean Premier League, but will help the team, as a strategic consultant, remotely. Malolan, the head of scouting for Royal Challengers Bangalore, will be busy with the team’s preparations for the IPL to be played in the UAE It is understood, Malolan was to leave towards the end of July and would have had a chance to be in the Caribbean for just a few days once the tournament started. The CPL will be held from August 18 to September 10 while the IPL is scheduled to start from September 19.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,||CSS-Sri Ramachandra to offer courses in sports science||The Centre for Sports Science (CSS) at Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education & Research (SRIHER) has signed an MoU with the Netaji Subhas National Institute of Sports, Patiala for developing and delivering joint academic programs in sports sciences. These six-month certificate courses will be offered as per the UGC guidelines and will feature blended learning with online and face-to-face sessions of learning & assessments. First leg In the first leg, Sports Physiotherapy and Sports Nutrition courses are being launched online, with admission to them now open. The application forms will be available at https://nsnis.org/ and https://www.sriramachandra.edu.in/ from August 3 to 10, with eligible candidates taking the written online exam on August 16. The course commences on August 24. For more details, contact: Dr. K.A. Thiagarajan, associate professor, CSS (94444157440). Mail: drkatn@csstrucoach.in.
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||Naresh for Dronacharya award||It is a very pleasant surprise for former Davis Cup captain Naresh Kumar, who has been nominated for the Dronacharya award under the ‘lifetime’ category. Laying the foundation The 91-year-old Naresh was responsible for laying the foundation for Leander Paes to emerge as a Davis Cup hero during his captaincy till he quit after the semifinals against Australia in Chandigarh, in 1993. He kept guiding Paes till he gained a firm foothold on the world stage. C.V. Nagraj, Vishnu Vardhan and Saketh Myneni’s coach, has also been nominated under the ‘lifetime’ section. With Chandra Bhushan, the coach of the Deaflympics team that delivered a medal in mixed doubles, also among the nominees under the regular category, tennis has three vying for the Dronacharya award. The sport, however, is yet to get a Dronacharya award since its inception in 1985. Another seasoned coach, Nandan Bal, is in line for the Dhyan Chand award, meant for contribution to the sport over the years, along with Olympian Rushmi Chakravarthi. The Arjuna Award nomination list has Asian Games gold medallist Divij Sharan and the country’s No. 1 woman tennis player Ankita Raina, who won the individual medal in the 2018 Asian Games. The Deaflympics medallists Prithvi Sekhar and Jafreen Shaik also have made the list. Shooting has a formidable line up of Manu Bhaker, Saurabh Chaudhary, Abhishek Verma, Elavenil Valarivan, Shahzar Rizvi, Om Prakash Mitharval and Chinki Yadav vying for the Arjuna Award.
04 August 2020||KOLKATA,||CAB hopes curbs are temporary||The Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) on Monday hoped that the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), restricting individuals above 60 years from taking part in training camps, would be a temporary one. Direct impact In Bengal’s context, the SOP will have a direct impact on the participation of elite men’s team head coach Arun Lal (65-year-old) — who guided Bengal to the Ranji Trophy final last season — in camp activities. The CAB hoped that the SOP would remain only for a limited period. For their safety “It is presumed that the restrictions for individuals above a certain age or with underlying medical conditions mentioned in the advisory is of a temporary nature considering the current situation and are taken in the interest of persons beyond a certain age for their safety. “This is because the document clearly states that all such individuals should be discouraged from participating in the camp activities until suitable guidelines are issued by the government,” said CAB president Avishek Dalmiya. “However, this may change in due course of time since in the SOP itself, it is mentioned that the guidelines, may be amended from time to time as may be required depending on the existing COVID-19 situation in the country and the guidelines issued by the government at appropriate times.” Monitor players Dalmiya said the coaches would continue to monitor players via video conferences and “no decision pertaining to change of support staff is being considered at present.”
04 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Badminton greats back Gandhe for Dhyan Chand award||India’s greatest-ever badminton player Prakash Padukone leads some of the sport’s biggest names, including Dinesh Khanna, P. Gopi Chand, Vimal Kumar and world champion P.V. Sindhu, in recommending two-time Asian Games bronze medallist Pradeep Gandhe for the 2020 Dhyan Chand award. In individual letters of appreciation, they cited Gandhe’s “outstanding contribution as a player, coach [and] official”, making the case for why he “truly deserves the award”. London Olympics quarterfinalist P. Kashyap was another to back Gandhe’s name. “In our days, most of the Asian Games and CWG medallists had to apply for the Arjuna Award. Now, it is different, they are mostly automatic choices for the awards. So, in that context, I would be happy if I get some recognition at least now,” said the 68-year-old Gandhe, who takes pride in having been a part of an era when players were self-trained, without access to the support system modern-day competitors enjoy. “Now, BAI [Badminton Association of India] chief Himanta Biswa Sarma is very proactive and player-friendly, backed by members who were mostly ex-players. He is always open to new ideas for promoting the sport, giving a lot of weightage to coaches and expert opinion,” Gandhe told The Hindu . “Definitely, India is a super power in badminton now, thanks to the combined efforts of BAI and the government. And Gopi, as the chief national coach, has a big role in this evolution. He ensured that all the players were ‘made in India’ as none of his trainees were sent abroad for training. “The other reason [for India’s success is] the PBL. I had the fortune of being one of the brains behind it. Like IPL in cricket, in badminton, too, you can see talent emerging from nowhere, even without making a mark on the domestic circuit, [thanks to] rubbing shoulders with the best,” the former India coach said.
04 August 2020||MUMBAI,||‘I may not be going back to India’||Scottish jockey David Allan, who has been riding with great success in India for more than a decade, expressed his concerns about Indian racing in an interview to Racing Post , a British daily on horse racing, on Monday. “It’s not looking good and it doesn’t look like I’ll be going back. I’ve been keeping on top of it and some of the tracks are trying to get going again, but I can’t see where the funding is going to come from,” said Allan. “There are no betting shops, like we have here, and they’re trying to get racing online, but the Government doesn’t seem particularly keen and hasn’t passed anything through,” added Allan. Allan, who has been riding mostly for trainer S. Padmanabhan, has the distinction of winning three Indian Derbies (2011, 2016 and 2017). He has enjoyed great fan-following during his winter spell at racing centres like Mumbai, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Kolkata. Clubs’ finances affected Already facing severe financial issues due to the high Goods and Services Tax of 28% imposed since 2017, the horse racing industry has taken a massive hit for last four months post the COVID-19 outbreak, worsening the situation for race clubs. With many countries in Europe and America having re-started racing, clubs here are waiting for the necessary permissions to resume racing activity.
04 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||‘Managing injuries will be a challenge’||Indian hockey goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh said the biggest challenge for sportspersons post COVID-19 will be the frequent occurrence of injuries and its management. Sreejesh was speaking at a webinar ‘Post COVID Sports Arena’ conducted by State Council of Educational Research & Training (SCERT) here on Monday. The former India captain said the forced long break from high-intensity training, and the pressure to get back to competition quickly, will lead to overtraining and may lead to injuries. “It is the first time, apart from injury-breaks, that I am spending such a long time away from training. We started our camp today (Monday). But I don’t know how my body will react after five months of inactivity. “With the pressure to get back quickly to competition, you train hard and the chances of recurrence of injuries are high. It is something which every sportsperson will have to deal with in the post-COVID scenario.” Sreejesh said it would be a slow process to reach the standards that prevailed before the pandemic for him and the entire Indian team. “We were World No. 4 before the pandemic began. There were no tournaments and the Olympics also was postponed. Now we have to start from scratch. “I think the next competition is in November and we have more than three months to get back to pre-Covid standards. We have kept that as a goal and should work mentally and physically to reach there. The schedule of the Tokyo Olympics will also keep us motivated to reach our peak,” he said. Learn to co-exist Sreejesh said in the changed scenario everyone should learn to co-exist with the pandemic and sportspersons should brace themselves to play in front of empty stadiums. “The pandemic is not over, but live sports like Test cricket, EPL and Serie A were held in controlled environments. Other sports also will soon follow this bio-secure protocol.
04 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Indian women’s team pulls out of World c’ship||India has withdrawn from the women’s world team championship scheduled in Kuala Lumpur from December 15 to 20, citing “lack of preparation, time and match-readiness” of its players, according to a press release from the Squash Rackets Federation of India (SRFI) here on Monday. “Due to uncertainties regarding guidelines for the safe travel of our athletes and staff for national & international tournaments — yet to be obtained from the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports (MYAS) & Sports Authority of India (SAI) — coupled with lack of preparation time & match readiness of athletes, and after consulting our top players, the SRFI has decided to withdraw from the championship,” said Cyrus Poncha, SRFI secretary. Training resumes Meanwhile, practice resumed on Monday at the Indian Squash Academy here for the elite athletes with SOPs as laid out by the TN government and SDATN. Joshna Chinappa, Velavan Senthilkumar, Abhay Singh and a few others trained for nearly one and half hours.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi clubs soon in I-League: Praful Patel||Even as domestic football continues to struggle against uncertainty, AIFF president Praful Patel has indicated that Delhi might soon have representation in the I-League. “Clubs from Delhi will be a reality soon in the Hero I-league and there may be two teams from Delhi. I am personally looking into this,” Patel said during an e-summit organised by Football Delhi on Monday to celebrate Sunil Chhetri’s birthday as Delhi Football Day. The Indian skipper turned 36 on August 3. Honoured “I am really honoured to have my birthday celebrated as Delhi Football Day. It is like a dream, when you start playing, you never dream that your birthday will be made so special and for that I am really thankful to Football Delhi,” Chhetri said during the virtual interaction. “If every talent in the country is identified and nurtured, half the problems of Indian football are solved. It is the best birthday gift I can ask for,” he added. Elite gathering The e-summit saw participation from football and industry experts including sports minister Kiren Rijiju, Praful Patel and AFC general secretary Windsor John.  The talismanic Indian skipper turned 36 on Monday
04 August 2020||Chennai,||New device to the aid of sportspersons||Former Indian cricket team’s strength and conditioning coach Ramji Srinivasan’s Sports Dynamix, in partnership with Vayu Technology, has come out with a wearable, The Equilibrium System, to help sportspersons. The product will collect biomechanical data of sportspersons and, with its artificial intelligence-based technology, is designed to help with performance, injury management and rehabilitation.  “In India, what we are lacking is data collection. This helps in collecting data for multiple sports for various age groups and also making things affordable even for an aspiring athlete and, at the same time, standardising (data collection) depending on the sport, individuals and skills,” said Ramji Srinivasan in an event organised by SportsRuler. The Equilibrium System is also used by the U.S. Military Special Forces and by several athletes across the EPL, NBA, NHL, NFL and U.S. Soccer to optimise performance, mitigate injuries and expedite recovery.
04 August 2020||Coimbatore,||Hopeful of action by end of the year: Venugopal||Four months have gone by without much on-court training for the badminton stars because of COVID-19. But Venugopal Mahalingam, Badminton World Federation’s (BWF) Major Events Manager, feels that the lull is temporary and things would settle down by the end of the year. “We want to keep the tournaments going but we are in a period of uncertainty. However, it’s not a permanent situation,” he said during a TNBA interactive online session, organised by the Coimbatore Badminton Association (CBA) and the Tirupur District Badminton Association (TDBA), on Sunday. He urged coaches and players to use technology to their advantage. “We live in the world of gadgets. So, coaches can make the best use of it to train their wards. Be it individual or group sessions, keep the players occupied.” “Also counsel them. Parents can play a role as well but it’s the coach who understands the players better.” Good break Venugopal expected no dip in player performances whenever the tour comes back. “It’s a good break for the players. But, when they are back on the court, their endurance levels will be tested. I am sure, champions as they are and given their quality, they will throw in 100 per cent.”  TNBA Secretary V.E. Arunachallam, Rajendra Kumar, Senior Coach, Gopichand Badminton Academy, Hyderabad, Swetha Krishnamurthy, CBA Secretary, and Mohan Kumar, the TDBA Secretary, also spoke.
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||Carlsen draws first blood||Having let Ian Nepomniachtchi off the hook once, Magnus Carlsen came hard at the Russian when he got another chance and delivered a crushing blow in a complex opening game of the final of chess24 Legends of Chess on Monday. Nepomniachtchi, who survived several anxious moments before beating Anish Giri 3.5-2.5 in the final set for a 2-1 victory in the semifinal on Sunday, had his chances with white pieces against Carlsen but missed them to lose in 48 moves.   The result: Final: Set One (Game One): Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) lost to Magnus Carlsen (Nor). Semifinal: Set Three: Nepomniachtchi bt Anish Giri (Ned) 3.5-2.5 .
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Good draw for India in Uber, Thomas Cups||India stands a good chance of reaching the quarterfinals of the Thomas Cup and Uber Cup team badminton championships in Aarhus, Denmark, from October 3 to 11. Following the draw made in Kuala Lumpur on Monday, India is in Group C with host Denmark, Germany and Algeria in the Thomas Cup. In the Uber Cup, the Indian women are in Group D in the company of China, France and Germany. Since two from each of the four groups advance to the last eight, India will be the favourite against two lower-ranked teams in its group matches, in both sections.
04 August 2020||MUMBAI,||BCCI invites bids for kit sponsor||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has invited bids for the National team’s official kit sponsor and merchandising partner. Nike, the apparel sponsor, has been the official kit sponsor for the last 14 years. With Nike’s existing deal — worth Rs. 370 crore for four years — set to expire on September 30, it had reportedly sought renewal at a discounted rate owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. The BCCI has, however, followed the convention of inviting bids.  It would be interesting to see whether Nike enters the bidding race or the Indian team kit will have a new logo.  The bid document can be bought online till August 26.
04 August 2020||KOLKATA,||Chawrasia tests COVID positive||Four-time European Tour winner S.S.P. Chawrasia has tested positive for the coronavirus. The 42-year-old city-based golfer, who went through a COVID-19 test prior to leaving to compete in the UK, has confirmed his positive test. Chawrasia, who got the test result on Friday, has been in home quarantine.
04 August 2020||ORLANDO,||Westbrook, Harden boost Rockets||Russell Westbrook (31 points) and James Harden (24) helped Houston Rockets prevail over NBA overall leader Milwaukee Bucks 120-116 on Sunday.  The results: Rockets bt Bucks 120-116; Celtics bt Trail Blazers 128-124; Spurs bt Grizzlies 108-106; Suns bt Mavericks 117-115; Nets bt Wizards 118-110; Magic bt Kings 132-116.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Report on leopard sightings soon||As part of its global tiger census, the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) is set to release a dedicated report on leopard sightings by the month-end. The last formal census on India’s leopards was conducted in 2014 which estimated the cat’s population at between 12,000 and 14,000. They also estimated 8,000 leopards in the vicinity of tiger habitat. While the quadrennial tiger survey is the centre-piece of the WII and environment ministry-coordinated undertaking, the exercise also estimates the population of other animals by relying on camera trap images. This year, nearly 26,838 camera trap locations, across 72,000 sq km of tiger habitat, yielded 34 million images of which 76,651 and 51,777 were of tigers and leopards respectively, the tiger survey, released last week, noted. “We submitted two reports, one for tiger and for leopards. The task was humongous because leopards are also found outside forest areas,” said Qamar Qureshi, senior scientist at the WII and one of the authors of the tiger survey. Methodology Like the previous survey, forest departments in 18 States with tiger reserves conducted the study, dividing protected areas into 15-square-kilometre grids to look for leopard scat and other signs of the animal. Where there were indications of leopards, camera traps were set up and the number of leopard images were recorded. Repeats were excluded. Based on these numbers and spread, the researchers then extrapolated the leopard population. Critics had pointed out that conducting a leopard survey, along with the tiger survey, is problematic as the former is adapted to living on the edge of forests and human habitats, unlike the tiger which is an elusive creature. This had led to gross errors in estimating the true numbers of leopards.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Bhagavata explains creation||The version of creation presented by Maitreya to Vidura in the Bhagavata Purana is according to the word of scriptures which state that Srishti, Stiti and Pralaya are His Sankalpa and keep recurring through time. Since creation always exists in the Lord, at times latent and at times manifest, it is at variance with the theory of evolution, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. The Supreme Lord is the source of all dharma and is the eternal truth, and His swaroopa is of the essence of Sat-Chit-Ananda. Prior to creation, He alone exists and holds within Himself all the subtle bodies of all beings animate and inanimate. He is described as lying on Adisesha, His couch. His eyes are closed as if in deep meditation, having withdrawn from the activities of creation, preservation and dissolution. He is in Yoga Nidra, appearing to be asleep; yet, He is ever awake with His omniscience, omnipotence and omnipresence intact. At the appropriate time at the end of Pralaya, the Lord decides that creation should manifest and then from His Prakriti, the Mahat tatva, the ahamkara, the subtle and gross elements, the senses and their deities and Tamas are all created. Then, by His Will, Brahma is created and also endowed with the ability and jnana to engage in the rest of creation of the world and beings in it Brahma becomes the creator of the plant and animal world, the human species, and of the celestial beings and sages. All the beings in creation including Brahma are subject to the Kala Chakra or cyclic progress of time and have different life spans. Krishna says in the Gita that though Arjuna is to fight the war and kill his opponents, He is only a nimitta karana in the Lord’s grand design. So too, though Brahma is seen as a creator, he is only an instrument of the Lord.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 08:01 IST,||Sudoku - August 4, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Musical musketeers||The composer trio Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy, or SEL as they are popularly called, have always wanted variety in their projects. With a film discography that starts from 1997 and continues till date, variety has been their focus. With Bandish Bandits , created by Amritpal Singh Bindra and directed by Anand Tiwari, they believe that their canvas got larger. In this romantic musical drama, the groovy ‘Chedkhaniyaan’ co-exists with the meditative ‘Viraah’. “Whether it’s a jingle or a film, the process is the same,” says Shankar Mahadevan, over a Zoom call from Mumbai. “But, the canvas with a web-series is bigger, longer and much more detailed. When you compose something for the first episode, you need to keep in mind what’s going to happen in the eighth episode. It’s like doing three feature films at a stretch.”  Bandish Bandits revolves around the stories of a classical musician and a pop star. “Each of the songs is a part of the narrative. Music is its core, so it has a stronger force to it,” says Mendonsa. Working on the 11 tracks and the background score was a process of joining the dots. “The dots are further away, unlike a film. The challenge was to make sure everything sits correctly and balances out. Apart from the songs, there were various other bits of music that we created since the lead characters play musicians.” That is perhaps why the trio is over the top about this digital tryst. “Very rarely does a composer get a project like this, in which you are able to explore so many genres,” adds Shankar, “The music of Bandish Bandits is a representation of Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy.” Bandish Bandits is an album that gets its classical flavours from Pt. Ajoy Chakraborty and  a carefree spirit from Armaan Malik. There is also Shankar Mahadevan. Bandish Bandits, an Amazon Original Series, will stream on Amazon Prime starting today
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||Active cases dip to nearly 10K||As many as 805 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,38,482, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. Of the total cases, 1,24,254 people have recovered and there are 10,207 active cases. Also, 17 more deaths were reported in a single day, taking the total to 4,021. The total number of tests done in the past 24 hours was only 10,133, which is nearly half the average daily of around 20,000 in July. The number of tests in Monday’s bulletin is usually low as it reports the tests done on Sunday, said officials.   The second serological survey, which began on Saturday and currently covers eight districts, will start in the remaining three districts from Tuesday, said officials. Blood samples of random people from across the city are being taken to check how many have developed antibodies against COVID-19. “The survey will start in East, North East and Shahdara districts from Tuesday. Blood samples are being taken in two methods: either teams go to their houses or else they will be called to the nearest testing centre,” a Delhi government official said, adding: “Till now, about 3,500 samples have been collected.” A list is prepared a day in advance of the houses from which samples will be taken or people to be called for testing. “The government plans to complete the survey by August 7 and come out with the result by August 15,” the official added. The result of a similar survey done from June 27-July 5, in which around 22,000 samples were taken, had shown that 23.4% of the population had developed antibodies. Meanwhile, the number of people admitted to COVID-19 hospitals has decreased from 5,892 on July 1 to 2,973 on Monday. In the same period, the number of patients in home isolation has decreased from 16,703 to 5,577. The number of containment zones in the city was 496 on Monday. Ban on hookah The Delhi government on Monday also issued an order banning hookah in all public places, citing that smokers are “likely” to be “more vulnerable” to COVID-19.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Casting directors brought a lot of change in Bollywood’||Back in his home state of Uttar Pradesh, actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui used to apply skin lightening cream, much like the inspector Jatil Yadav he plays in his latest film, Raat Akeli Hai . “It used to be some fake Fair and Lovely,” he recalls, over a video call, a couple of days ahead of the film’s release. That habit allowed Siddiqui to relate to Jatil, even though they had very little in common. “I lived in western U.P., near the Haryana border and this is set in Kanpur, which is far from my home. But I’ve lived in Kanpur for a couple of years and I’ve seen cops like him,” recalls the 46-year-old. “They have a lot of insecurities, but also a certain swag because they landed a good job.” Narrated through the eyes of the policeman, Raat Akeli Hai , is a whodunnit set in a haveli, where the landlord is shot dead on his wedding night. The house full of family, including his much younger bride, are prime suspects. “I have been a huge fan of Alfred Hitchcock’s films and Agatha Christie’s novels… I love thrillers and suspense,” says Honey Trehan, who made his directorial debut with the film. For him, Raat Akeli Hai is more than a crime thriller — it’s about “grey characters” struggling with patriarchy in a hinterland setting. “Jatil believes in patriarchy more than his mother. While this case is just another job he landed, solving it helps him overcome his patriarchy, and that is the larger story I wanted to tell,” says Trehan. Scouting for actors A well-known casting director in Bollywood, Trehan has worked closely with filmmaker Vishal Bhardwaj over the years. “Casting happened to me; I never came to [Mumbai] to become one,” reminisces Trehan. He started his career as an assistant director (AD) to Bhardwaj, and later did casting for his films like Maqbool (2003) and Omkara (2006). “Quite early on, I decided that apart from Vishal, I’m not going to assist anyone else,” he reminisces. “As an AD, survival was tough and I lived hand to mouth. In between Vishal’s films, I used to take up [other casting] jobs. The first time I did casting outside Vishal’s films was for Delhi Belly (2011) and that was appreciated. That helped me survive in this city.” While scouting for actors, Trehan prefers to select personalities that fit a certain character, irrespective of their background in acting. “Them being a trained actor is only a bonus,” he says. “Otherwise I would never have cast Amol Gupte, Gurdas Mann, or Javed Akhtar in Manto (2018), or even Deepak Dobriyal. With Raat Akeli Hai , I was looking for a common man from U.P. and who better than Nawaz?” Finding talent Siddiqui finds the role of a casting director to be an integral aspect of filmmaking, and enables the inclusion of talent from outside the industry. “Honey brought great theatre talent into cinema. Before that, Tigmanshu [Dhulia] brought in new talent with Bandit Queen (1994). People who wouldn’t come to Bombay otherwise were incorporated into the industry and made to believe that they could act in films. Casting directors brought a lot of change,” observes Siddiqui. With the discussion on nepotism and favouritism in the industry finding prominence again with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June, Siddiqui says that he neither identifies as an “outsider nor insider” and prefers to be judged by his work. “Thousands of talented actors who want to work in the industry will be apprehensive of coming here if we vilify the industry so much,” he says. “Parents will not allow their children to work here and we won’t be able to discover new faces,” adds Siddiqui. Level playing field Siddiqui credits streaming platforms as being instrumental in identifying new talent and voices. “In theatres, you fight for the most number of screens, and big films take all the screens,” he explains. “Now, small films and lesser-known actors get an equal platform and visibility. OTT has educated people about cinema.” The actor has immersed himself in world cinema on streaming platforms during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Among several films, he discovered Argentinian crime drama, The Secret in Their Eyes (2009), which won the Academy Award for Best International Feature Film, starring Ricardo Darín, who Siddiqui counts among his favourite actors. “It’s a thriller with a human angle,” he says. “Thrillers which tell you the reason and motive behind the crime inspire me more. More than how, I want to know why they did it.”  Thousands of talented actors will be apprehensive of coming here if we vilify the industry so muchNawazuddin Siddiqui
04 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Cong., SAD engage in war of words as Punjab hooch toll goes up to 108||Punjab Cabinet Ministers and Shiromani Akali Dal leaders on Monday were engaged in a war of words over the hooch tragedy that has claimed 108 lives in the State so far. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Food Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Social Security Minister Aruna Chaudhary issued separate statements hitting out at the Akali leaders for blaming the Amarinder Singh government for the tragedy. Mr. Sodhi said SAD blaming the Amarinder Singh government for the tragedy was nothing but “pot calling the kettle black” as similar incidents had occurred in 2012 and 2016 in Gurdaspur and Batala respectively during their regime. “These tragedies too claimed several lives during the SAD-BJP government. In the Batala case, neither any FIR was registered nor was any action taken against the main accused.” Mr. Sidhu said the Chief Minister has ordered a crackdown on those involved in the spurious liquor trade. Meanwhile, the death toll has gone up to 108, with 82 deaths in Tarn Taran and 13 each in Amritsar and Batala, according to an official statement. SAD leaders said the government has gone into panic mode. Akali spokesperson and former Minister Daljit Singh Cheema said identical statements have been released by four Congress Ministers, which indicates that the Chief Minister and his coterie has become jittery as an inquiry by a sitting Judge of the High Court or the CBI would nail them. “This is why four Ministers have launched a false, baseless and politically motivated counter-attack. SAD would not rest till justice was done to the victims,” he said. The Punjab police have apprehended 12 more persons, including two businessmen, and launched a manhunt for a Ludhiana-based paint business owner, Rajesh Joshi, who had initially supplied the three drums of spurious liquor. DGP Dinkar Gupta said the total number of arrests has gone up to 37, including five kingpins of the illicit liquor mafia.
04 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Rakhis tied to trees in Aravalis||For a few Gurugram residents, Raksha Bandhan morning on Monday started with expressing their love and care for the Aravalis. Using leaf vines, women and children tied symbolic rakhi to the trees and took an oath to protect the forests that are the Millennium City’s lifeline for clean air and water. This group of 20 citizens also participated in a plantation drive organised by the Gurugram Forest Department to reclaim encroached Aravali forest land near Kholi Baba Mandir behind Suncity in Sector 54. “We planted around 40 saplings of native varieties. It has been a great initiative by the Gurugram Forest Department to involve the citizens in this exercise,” stated Puja Ahmed, an active member of the Aravali Bachao Citizens Movement. “I had only read about the monitor lizard in my science book but saw it for the first time in the Aravali forest when we came here for the tree plantation. Along with my brother, I have taken a sacred oath on this rakshabandhan to protect the home of all the reptiles, birds, butterflies and mammals such as leopards, jackals, nilgais, civet cats, porcupines that live here,” said 13-year-old Ayana Chaudhary. Water security The degradation of the Aravalis threatens Gurugram and National Capital Region’s water security. High levels of natural cracks and fissures in the Aravali hills make this mountain range a superior zone for recharging groundwater, which is in the red zone at this point in time as extraction is several folds more than what is put back into the ground.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Puri, Kejriwal discuss ongoing, pending development projects||Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal met on Monday to discuss ongoing and pending development projects in the Capital, with the Aam Aadmi Party leader terming it a “very fruitful meeting”. Delhi Urban Development Minister Satyendar Jain, who recently recovered from COVID-19, also attended the meeting at Mr. Puri’s office. “Very happy to receive Delhi CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal Ji & Shri @SatyendarJain ji in my office. We discussed several ongoing & pending projects for development of Delhi & look forward to working together for the welfare of citizens of Delhi [sic],” Mr. Puri tweeted. ‘Very fruitful meeting’ Mr. Kejriwal also tweeted after the meeting: “Had a very fruitful meeting with Hon'ble Union UD Minister Shri Hardeep Puri Ji. A range of issues related to the development of Delhi were discussed in the meeting [sic].” Delhi government sources said no specific projects were discussed and the meeting focussed on the way forward regarding cooperation between both sides to approach development in the Capital. A source reiterated that the meeting was “very fruitful”. Mr. Puri and Mr. Kejriwal had met after the Delhi Assembly elections in February, after the Aam Aadmi Party’s victory in the polls. Mr. Kejriwal had said that the two had decided to work together for Delhi’s development. Among the issues at the centre of the campaign had been the MoHUA’s PM-UDAY scheme that confers ownership rights to residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in the Capital. In another tweet, Mr. Puri said: “A promise kept. 2,86,143 people have now registered under PM-UDAY Scheme to benefit residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies of Delhi. Work is progressing at brisk pace. 19,830 completed applications have been received & 1040 Conveyance Deeds/Authorization slips have been issued [sic].”
04 August 2020||Chandigarh,||Centre should repeal ordinances: farmers||The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), an umbrella body of over 250 farmer and farmworkers’ organisations, has announced a “Corporates Leave Farming” campaign across the country on August 9 against the Centre’s recent ordinances on agriculture and farmer issues. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the AIKSCC has expressed disappointment at the Centre’s recent announcements on ‘agri reforms package’, which, it claims, will not solve the problems of farmers, instead will exacerbate them. “We want the Central government to repeal the anti-farmer ordinances. All the three ordinances — the Agricultural Produce, Commerce and Trade (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020 and the Essential Commodities Act (Amendment), 2020 — should be repealed immediately. These are anti-farmer and will only result in reduced crop prices for farmers and undermine seed security even further ... food security will be eroded as government intervention is eliminated. These ordinances promote corporate control of the Indian food and farming systems, and will encourage hoarding and black marketing, in addition to exploitation of farmers,” said the letter. ‘One nation one MSP’ Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, BKU (Dakaunda) in Punjab, who is a part of the AIKSCC, said farmers did not want ‘one nation one market,’ they seek ‘one nation one MSP’. “In Punjab, we will hold a motorcycle march in support of our demands on August 9. Ensuring remunerative prices should be made a legal right of every farmer. The Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 should be withdrawn,” said Mr. Singh. “We also want the government to compensate farmers for loss of vegetables, fruits, crops, milk and poultry produce due to hailstorms, unseasonal rains and COVID-19 lockdown in February-June, 2020; to reduce diesel price and protect the land and forest resources of tribals and farmers,” he added.
04 August 2020||Srinagar,||Curfew in Srinagar for two days||The Srinagar administration on Monday declared a curfew on August 4 and 5, the first anniversary of withdrawal of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, as it “feared protests and violence”. “A series of inputs have been received suggesting that separatists and Pakistan-sponsored groups are planning to observe August 5 as Black Day’, therein apprehensions of protests are not ruled out. There are specific inputs about violent protests endangering public life and property,” read an order issued by the District Magistrate, Srinagar. The orders on complete restriction on public movement and a curfew in Srinagar were issued by virtue of powers vested under Section 144. “In view of the restrictions aimed at COVID-19 containment, mass gathering would be detrimental to efforts related to containment as well,” the order added. Only medical emergencies would be exempted as the restrictions would come into force with immediate effect and continue up to August 5, as per the order.  Sudden restrictions The Kashmir Valley saw sudden severe restrictions being imposed on Monday. Officials said it was in the wake of a spike in COVID-19 cases. “Suddenly, there is heightened security and surveillance in the Valley. Not like non discriminatory COVID virus will be more active in the days approaching 5th August so clearly this is being done to ensure that anger and frustration felt by people here remain hidden,” tweeted Iltija Mufti, daughter of Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti.
04 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Imparting education to tribals in their languages won’t be hard||At a time when the new National Education Policy lays emphasis on mother tongue based instructions up to Class 5, Odisha seems to be at an advantage position to make it happen for its diverse tribal communities in the State. The State has been working on multilingual education (MLE) for more than past two decades.  Unique position Odisha occupies a unique position in the tribal map of India for having most diverse tribal communities. The State is home to 62 different tribal communities including 13 particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTGs). These tribes speak 21 languages and 74 dialects. Of the 21 tribal languages, seven has their own scripts. There are total 3,500 tribal language teachers under the MLE programme in the State. “Academy of Tribal Language and Culture in collaborate with Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Research and Training Institute (SCSTRTI) is probably the only institute in entire country which has prepared supplementary readers in 21 tribal languages for Class 1 to 3,” said A. B. Ota, SCSTRTI Director. Besides, the government has come up with lexicons in 21 tribal languages. Tribal children are now able to read supplementary readers — printed stories or folklores written in Odia scripture, but in tribal languages. Supplementary readers are bilingual and pictorial books which are easy to comprehend.  Santhali medium schools Santhali, a widely spoken tribal language in Mayurbhanj and Keonjhar districts which has been included in Eighth Schedule of the Constitution, is medium of instructions in more than 500 schools primary schools. Although it is easy to prescribe local language as medium of instructions up to Class 5, it is very difficult to implement it. “Subject experts should be roped in to prepare text books advised for different classes in local languages,” said Dr. Ota.
04 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Seven Gurugram revenue dept. officials booked for flouting rules||Seven revenue department officials, including a tehsildar, have been booked in Gurugram for allegedly registering documents in “flagrant violation” of rules. The accused were suspended on July 31 and registration of documents in the State have been stopped till August 15. The seven were posted in different tehsils of the district and have been booked under Section 10 of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (HDRUA) Act, 1975, and on charges of cheating under the Indian Penal Code. The FIRs are registered in different police stations at the behest of District Town Planner (Enforcement) R.S. Bhaat. Those booked are tehsildar Bansil Lal and naib tehsildars — Deshraj, Dalbir Singh, Jagdish, Om Prakash, Jai Prakash and Hari Kishan. Om Prakash had recently retired. “The following officials have been found to be guilty of flagrant violations of Section 7A of the HDRUA Act while registering documents as Sub-Registrar and Joint Sub-Registrar in Gurugram. I have been directed to lodge an FIR against the persons... based upon enquiry report of Divisional Commissioner, Gurugram,” said Mr. Bhaat in the FIRs. 1,200 documents The accused officials had registered documents for properties falling under Section 7A of the Act without the mandatory “No Objection Certificates” from the Department of Town and Country Planning and Urban Local Bodies. RTI activist Ramesh Yadav said around 1,200 documents were registered in the district in violation of the law in return for huge sums of money. Mr. Yadav said he had brought the scam to the notice of the Deputy Commissioner through a letter on June 10 and also given a complaint at the Chief Minister Window, a grievance redressal and monitoring system. He alleged that documents for properties falling within the 900-metre radius of the Indian Air Force station in Chauma village were also registered. The registry of properties in the area is banned by the Supreme Court. He also alleged anomalies in the action against the officials in the alleged scam.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Civil defence volunteer arrested for extorting Rs. 5 lakh from businessman||A 37-year-old civil defence volunteer was arrested for allegedly extorting Rs. 5 lakh from a businessman in Alipur, the police said on Monday, adding that he is an accomplice of gangster Jitender Gogi. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Gaurav Sharma said that the accused has been identified as Devender Kumar Verma, a resident of Alipur. The police said that complainant, a grocery store owner, approached the police and stated that on July 29, a customer came and handed him an envelope. The customer said that a person on a motorcycle gave him the envelope. “When the envelope was opened, a letter along with a map was found inside. The sender had demanded Rs. 5 lakh within half an hour at the place mentioned in the map, otherwise he and his family will be killed,” Mr. Sharma said. Recovered items During investigation, CCTV cameras and local intelligence helped identify the accused who was arrested along with a countrymade pistol and live cartridges. During interrogation, he allegedly told the police that he joined civil defence in 2017 and was currently posted at Sector 18 in Rohini in DTC cluster buses. He revealed that he is an accomplice of Gogi and worked as his informer. “He identified the complainant as he is the only male member in his family after his brother and father passed away and he could not have managed help from anyone. The accused wanted to help Gogoi with money and was also provided pistol and cartridges by the gangster,” Mr. Sharma said.
04 August 2020||Guwahati,||Curfew clamped in Assam town after clash||The administration in southern Assam’s Cachar district imposed curfew in the Malugram area of Silchar town after a clash between people from two communities. Trouble broke out on Sunday evening reportedly when some men were putting up posters on the upcoming ceremony for laying the foundation stone of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. “Two groups indulged in pelting stones at each other in the Ghoniwala area under Malugram police outpost. Police and paramilitary security personnel helped bring the situation under control,” Cachar’s Deputy Commissioner Keerthi Jalli said. The curfew, she added, was clamped in view of the possibility of breach of public peace and tranquillity. The district’s Superintendent of Police B.L. Meena said the cause of the group clash was being investigated. “Initial reports say it started as a fight between two boys. No one was injured but an ambulance and two shops were attacked,” he said.  ‘No arrests yet’ “We have not arrested anyone so far and want to ensure no one gives the clash a communal colour. Apart from Cachar, the adjoining Hailakandi and Karimganj districts have also been alerted,” he added. Officials said troops have been deployed in the Malugram area for confidence-building and deterring the criminal elements.
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||CM gives Rs. 1 crore to kin of doctor who died of virus||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday met with the family of 27-year-old Joginder Chaudhary, who recently succumbed to COVID-19, and handed over a cheque of Rs. 1 crore as financial assistance. Dr. Chaudhary was a junior resident and had been working on ad hoc basis at the Delhi government’s Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Medical Hospital and College since October 2019. He worked in the flu clinic and then in its casualty ward until he developed a fever on June 23. He tested positive for the deadly virus on June 27. He fought the infection for nearly one month before succumbing, said the Delhi government. While meeting the family at his residence, Mr. Kejriwal expressed gratitude for Dr. Chaudhary’s sacrifice, adding that the Delhi government would do whatever it can to support the family. “Our Corona Warrior Dr. Joginder Chaudhary, posted in Delhi Government Hospital, served the patients by putting his life at stake. Dr. Chaudhary had passed away recently due to corona infection, today I met his family and handed over a cheque of Rs. 1 crore as financial assistance. Will help the family in every possible way [sic],” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted.
04 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Gehlot seeks PM’s help on locust, virus issues||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in tackling the locust attacks and for ensuring better management of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, which, he said, had reached a decisive phase and needed an effective coordination. In a letter to the Prime Minister, Mr. Gehlot sought declaration of locust attacks as a national disaster in view of the losses caused to kharif crops earlier this year and the threat to the upcoming rabi crops. The Centre also needed to take up coordination with other countries to stop the swarms of locusts at the points of their origin, he said. “Locusts destroyed crops causing a loss of Rs. 1,000 crore to the farmers. Works for controlling the outbreak have been taken up on 3.83 lakh hectares this year, but its impact is likely to be worse than last year,” Mr. Gehlot said, while seeking an urgent action on this front. In another letter, Mr. Gehlot said Mr. Modi had formally communicated with Chief Ministers on June 17 to discuss the steps for controlling the spread of COVID-19. As the indicators of infection and economic scenario of States had changed since then, Mr. Gehlot requested the Prime Minister to hold a videoconference with the Chief Ministers on the pandemic management. On the efforts made in Rajasthan, Mr. Gehlot said the total samples collected till June 17 were 6.37 lakh, which had increased to 15.26 lakh as on August 1. “The recovery rate is 77.29% as on August 1.”
04 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||‘Murdered’ woman turns up at U.P. police station||There is a bizarre twist in the murder case where the body of a newlywed woman was found in a suitcase in Ghaziabad on July 27. The body was identified as that of Varisha, a resident of the Harduaganj area of Aligarh, by her brother Ismail. But on Monday, Varisha turned up at Gandhi Park police station in Aligarh and said she was alive and was in Noida all this while, police said. Ismail had lodged the complaint in Bulandshahr’s Kotwali police station against her husband Aamir Khan and her in-laws accusing them of murder because of the family’s inability to pay dowry. The police had registered an FIR and arrested Aamir and his parents under Prevention of Dowry Act.. Defending the police, Santosh Kumar Singh, Senior Superintendent of Police, Bulandshahr, said, “The body was identified by family members twice. Once in Ghaziabad and second time before the post-mortem in Bulandshahr. However, we still had a doubt so the viscera was preserved and the DNA sample taken as a precautionary measure,” he said. Mr. Singh said the girl who was now claiming to be Varisha told the Aligarh police that she was tortured by her in-laws because of dowry. “She said one day after being beaten by her husband, she escaped to Bhangel area of Noida where she worked before marriage. When the news of her murder spread, she reached Aligarh, met a police constable, and narrated her story. So, we are dropping only Section 304 (culpable homicide amounting to murder) from the FIR against her husband and her in-laws. The rest of the charges will stay.”  ‘Distinct similarity’ The SSP said it was a unique case in his career. “The mother and brother were certain that the body was that of Varisha. There is indeed a distinct similarity between Varisha and the deceased. She was wearing a toe ring. When we told that it is Hindu women who usually sport it, her mother insisted that Varisha used to wear them,” he said.
04 August 2020||New Delhi,||CAIT slams BCCI for sponsor||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) wrote to Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday, decrying the retaining of Chinese firm Vivo as the title sponsor for the Indian Premier League to be held this year. At a time when the Centre has taken various decisions, such as banning Chinese apps and exiting ventures with Chinese companies, the BCCI’s decision ran contrary to the broad policy of the government, the traders’ body said.
04 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sacred Heart Cathedral to reopen today||Sacred Heart Cathedral — one of the oldest churches in the Capital — will reopen its doors to the general public from August 4, over four months after shutting down due to COVID-19. Parish priest Father Lawrence P.R. said that several security measures have been put in place, including limiting the number of devotees during mass, to ensure that people coming to the church remain safe. “Entry is allowed for asymptomatic people only, with separate entry and exit for visitors. No entry for those over 65 years of age or under 10, and other vulnerable groups. Entry will be allowed only if the visitor is wearing a face mask and is ready to undergo thermal scanning and using hand sanitiser before entering the premises. Spitting is not allowed and visitors will have to maintain social distancing while avoiding any physical contact,” he said. Few other churches in Delhi have started allowing visitors and have advised those entering the premises to instal Aarogya Setu app.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Promise to protect||
04 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||677 COVID-19 cases reported in Punjab||Punjab recorded 677 new COVID-19 cases on Monday and reported 19 more deaths taking the toll to 442, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 18,527. The major chunk of new cases, 186 and 118 were reported from Ludhiana and Bathinda districts respectively. The health department said the active cases are 6,203 and 11,882 patients have so far recovered.  654 cases in Haryana In Haryana, 654 new cases were reported on Monday, taking the total tally of cumulative cases to 37,173. The major chunk of new cases, 170 and 106 were reported from Faridabad and Panipat districts respectively.
04 August 2020||August 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Taking no chances||
04 August 2020||Lucknow,||Search on for virus patients who gave false information||About 2,300 people, who tested positive for COVID-19 here, had given false information pertaining to their names, mobile numbers and addresses, a health official said on Monday. While 1,171 people out of those who gave false information have been tracked, a hunt is on for the others. “2,290 people who had undergone COVID-19 tests at various private and government laboratories between July 23 and July 31 had given false names, mobile numbers and addresses. This came to the fore when our department could not contact them.We have informed the police about it,” a senior health official said. These people are not only from Lucknow but other cities also who were tested in the State capital, he said. Lucknow Police Commissioner Sujit Pandey said that police immediately swung into action and “we have tracked 1,171 of these people and informed authorities and integrated COVID-19 command and control room.” “Attempts are on to trace the remaining ones,” Mr. Pandey said, adding that directives have been issued to hospitals and laboratories to verify mobile numbers before taking samples so that they remain under the vigil of the Health department. The State capital had witnessed 8,686 cases till Sunday.
04 August 2020||Lucknow,||820 villages in 15 U.P. districts hit by floods||As many as 820 villages in 15 districts of Uttar Pradesh have been hit by floods and the district administrations have started all-out relief operations, a Minister said on Monday. Of these 820 villages, 173 have lost road connectivity and the district administrations have deployed boats, according to Backward Class Welfare Minister Anil Rajbhar. He said it was due to the swelling waters in the Sarayu and Rapti rivers that led to the situation.
04 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||2 more held in Gurugram for attacking driver||Two more persons, including prime accused Monu, were arrested on Monday in connection with the alleged attack on a truck driver this past week, the Gurugram police said. The driver was attacked after the accused suspected him of transporting beef. Four persons have been accounted for in the case so far. Monu, a dairy owner from Rithoj village in Gurugram, and his accomplice Anesh, from Sohna Ki Dhani, were arrested in Sohna. Monu had hit Lukmaan with a hammer causing serious injuries. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Crime) Preet Pal Sangwan said Monu was a self-styled “gau rakshak” and ran a dairy in Badshahpur village. Anesh also runs a dairy. Mr. Sangwan said seven more accused, who are on the run, were all self-styled “gau rakshaks”. “They suspected Lukmaan of transporting beef and tried to stop him after a brief chase. When he did not stop, they continued chasing him till the time he reached Jama Masjid market,” said Mr. Sangwan.
